Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2014 Life Sciences and Materials Sciences DSM, the Life Sciences and Materials Sciences company Our purpose is to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come. We connect our unique competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences to create solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance. DSM uses its Bright Science to create Brighter Living for people today and for generations to come. Based on a deep understanding of key global trends that are driving societies, markets and customers, DSM creates solutions to some of the world’s biggest challenges, thus adding to both its own and its customers’ success. DSM believes that its continued success will be driven by its ability to create shared value for all stakeholders, now and in the future. It creates sustainable shared value by innovating in ways that allow its customers to provide better People, Planet and Profit solutions − solutions to the challenges facing society, the environment and end-users. In this way, DSM’s customers derive value from being able to offer end-users improved products; society and the planet derive value from the impact of more sustainable, longer-lasting, safer, healthier and more nutritious alternatives; and, as a result, DSM and its shareholders derive value from stronger growth and profitability. Finally, DSM’s employees feel engaged and motivated both through the contribution they make to a better world and the success this creates for the company in which they work. DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Royal DSM is a global science-based company active in health, nutrition and materials. By connecting its unique competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences DSM is driving economic prosperity, environmental progress and social advances to create sustainable value for all stakeholders simultaneously. DSM delivers innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance in global markets such as food and dietary supplements, personal care, feed, medical devices, automotive, paints, electrical and electronics, life protection, alternative energy and bio-based materials. DSM has around 21,000 employees and delivers annual net sales of more than € 9 billion. The company is listed on Euronext Amsterdam. More information can be found at www.dsm.com. © 2015 Royal DSM. All rights reserved. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 www.dsm.com Key data for 2014 Net sales, total DSM Operating profit plus Net profit, total DSM Capital expenditure (cash (x million) depreciation and (x million) based), total DSM amortization, total DSM1 (x million) (x million) € 9,283 € 1,166 € 145 € 628 Cash provided by Core earnings per ordinary Dividend per ordinary ROCE, continuing operating activities, total share, continuing share3 operations DSM operations2 (in %) (x million) € 808 € 2.85 € 1.65 7.8 Workforce Number of nationalities Employee engagement Frequency Index of (at year-end) (at year-end) favorable score recordable injuries (in %) (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 21,351 89 70 0.47 Greenhouse-gas Energy use, total DSM Water use, total DSM ECO+ solutions as % of emissions, total DSM (in petajoules) (in million m3) running business, total (x million tons) DSM 4.2 39 118 49 ECO+ solutions as % of Innovation sales as % of China sales, continuing Sales to High Growth innovation pipeline, total total sales operations Economies as % of total DSM (x USD million) sales 95 18 1,956 43 1 Before exceptional items 2 Before exceptional items and excluding amortization of intangible assets related to purchase accounting 3 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 1 www.dsm.com Table of contents 3 Key data 102 Report by the Supervisory Board 102 Supervisory Board report 4 DSM at a glance 106 Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board 14 Letter from the Chairman 112 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM 18 Report by the Managing Board 18 DSM in motion: driving focused growth 114 Sustainability statements 22 Growth Driver: High Growth Economies 23 Growth Driver: Innovation 116 What still went wrong in 2014 25 Growth Driver: Sustainability 27 Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships 118 Information about the DSM share 28 Stakeholder engagement 40 DSM Code of Business Conduct 120 Consolidated financial statements 43 People in 2014 120 Summary of significant accounting policies 50 Planet in 2014 126 Consolidated statements 57 Profit in 2014 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 62 Review of business in 2014 64 Life Sciences 188 Parent company financial statements 66 Nutrition 189 Notes to the parent company financial statements 72 Materials Sciences 74 Performance Materials 200 Other information 80 Polymer Intermediates 200 Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements 82 Innovation Center 204 Assurance report of the independent auditor 85 Corporate Activities 205 Profit appropriation 86 Pharma Partnerships 206 Special statutory rights 206 Important dates 88 Financial and reporting policy 88 Financial policy 208 DSM figures: five-year summary 89 Reporting policy 212 Explanation of some concepts and ratios 90 Corporate governance and risk management 90 Introduction 216 List of abbreviations 92 Dutch corporate governance code 93 Governance framework 95 Risk management 100 Statements of the Managing Board Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to DSM's future (financial) performance and position. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections of DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements made or implied about the company’s strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial results, cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as well as the impact of future acquisitions, and the company’s financial position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided by specialized agencies or advisors. DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and therefore it should be understood that many factors can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, macro-economic, market and business trends and conditions, (low-cost) competition, legal claims, the company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation, changes in exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation of the company’s strategy, the company’s ability to identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company’s ability to realize planned divestments, savings, restructuring or benefits, the company’s ability to identify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, markets or technologies, economic and/or political changes and other developments in countries and markets in which DSM operates. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the 'Risk Management' chapter. As a result, DSM’s actual future performance, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in such forwardlooking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, unless required by law. The English language version of this document is leading. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 2 www.dsm.com Key data 20141 2013R2 People Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 21,351 23,485 Female/male ratio 27/73 26/74 Total employee benefits costs in € million 1,713 1,822 Frequency Index of recordable injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.47 0.38 Employee engagement favorable score (in %) 70 71 Planet Energy use (in petajoules) 39 41 Water use (in million m3) 118 150 Greenhouse-gas emissions in CO2 equivalents (x million tons) 4.2 4.2 Emission of volatile organic compounds (x 1000 tons) 4.2 4.3 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) discharges (x 1000 tons) 3.9 4.8 ECO+ solutions as % of innovation pipeline3 95 95 ECO+ solutions as % of running business 49 45 Profit (in € million, unless otherwise indicated) Net sales, continuing operations 9,181 8,858 China sales in USD million, continuing operations 1,956 1,693 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization, continuing operations (EBITDA)4 1,168 1,261 Operating profit, continuing operations (EBIT) 4 619 761 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 145 271 Cash provided by operating activities 808 998 Dividend for DSM shareholders 296 297 Capital expenditure, cash-based 628 629 Net debt 2,420 1,841 Shareholders' equity 5,723 5,908 Total assets 12,126 11,899 Capital employed, continuing operations 8,105 7,643 Market capitalization at 31 December5 9,187 10,370 Per ordinary share in € Core earnings, continuing operations 2.85 3.19 Dividend 1.656 1.65 Ratios (%) Sales to high growth economies / net sales 43 41 Innovation sales / net sales 18 17 EBITDA / net sales (continuing operations) 12.7 14.2 Operating working capital / annualized fourth quarter net sales (continuing operations) 20.7 21.2 ROCE (continuing operations) 7.8 10.1 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 29.0 23.2 Equity / total assets 49.0 51.2 Cash provided by operating activities / net sales 8.7 10.6 1 Key data presented relate to total DSM (= continuing operations + discontinued operations), unless explicitly stated otherwise 2 Restated due to retrospective application of amendments to IFRS 10: ‘Consolidated Financial Statements' and IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014 3 For a definition of ECO+ see page 213 4 Before exceptional items 5 Source: Bloomberg 6 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 3 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 4 www.dsm.com www.dsm.com DSM at a glance DSM at a glance ces Sciences en ls Life S Mater ci ia wth Econo ility ns & Partne ro m ion ab tio High ies Innov Susta Acqui ips G at in si rsh Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 5 www.dsm.com Highlights of the year In 2014 the 21,351 employees of DSM have worked hard to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come. Here are some of the highlights of the year. North America: 3,583 employees DSM Bio-based Products & Services started a joint venture in 2012 with POET for clean energy from corn crop residue. It opened Project Liberty, its ﬁrst commercial cellulosic ethanol plant in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA) DSM Biomedical has over in 2014. It produces a cost25 years experience in working competitive fuel that cuts closely with medical device emissions, creates jobs and companies to help increase improves energy security. performance and contribute to lower healthcare costs. DSM Biomedical has achieved attractive EBITDA margins of around 25 percent. Latin America: 1,891 employees In 2014 DSM concluded the integration of its acquisition of Tortuga, the Brazilian market leader in trace minerals for animal nutrition and health with a focus on pasture-raised beef and dairy cattle. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 6 www.dsm.com DSM at a glance Highlights of the year Life Sciences Materials Sciences Innovation Center Pharma Partnerships DSM opened its new center for research and development of high-performance materials in the Netherlands. Over 400 people are employed at the center, which combines important technological skills and expertise for use in applications the world over. Europe: 10,663 employees Asia: 4,974 employees DSM announced its intention to Africa: acquire Aland, one of the leading 73 employees vitamin C producers in China, to further strengthen its position. With Aland, DSM will increase its global footprint in vitamins for human nutrition, animal nutrition and personal care. Oceania: 167 employees DSM inaugurated its new premix plant for human nutrition & health in Vadodara (India). It supplies food, beverage and pharmaceutical manufacturers looking for fortiﬁcation to diﬀerentiate their products from the competition. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 7 www.dsm.com Life Sciences DSM Nutritional Products is one of the world’s DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of leading suppliers of essential nutrients such as vitamins, food enzymes, cultures, yeast extracts, savory ﬂavors carotenoids, nutritional lipids and other ingredients to the and other specialty ingredients for the food and beverage feed, food, pharmaceutical and personal care industries. industries. DSM Food Specialties’ advanced ingredients Among its customers are the world’s largest food and make a considerable contribution to the success of the beverage companies. DSM is uniquely positioned thanks to world’s favorite brands for the dairy, baking, beverages and the combination of its broad portfolio of active ingredients; savory segments. maximum diﬀerentiation through formulation; local presence; a global premix network; and a strong focus on innovation. DSM Nutritional Products consists of the following business units: • Animal Nutrition & Health addresses the nutritional additives segment of the global feed ingredients market. DSM is active in vitamins, feed enzymes, carotenoids, minerals and eubiotics. • Human Nutrition & Health primarily addresses the nutritional ingredients markets, but is also active in coloration and preservation in the global food ingredients market. • Personal Care focuses on the active and performance ingredients such as vitamins, UV-ﬁlters and bio-actives for the skin care, sun care and hair care market segments. DSM’s i-Health business is re ltu committed to improving the lives Aqua of consumers through innovative cu and eﬀective consumer health products including Estroven® sold among others in supermarkets and drugstores across North America. ncers ha Taste en Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 8 www.dsm.com DSM at a glance Highlights of the year Life Sciences Materials Sciences Innovation Center Pharma Partnerships Stevia is a non-artiﬁcial, highintensity sweetener, answering consumer demand for natural sweetness without the calories. DSM’s fermentation-based stevia innovation platform addresses health, sustainability and quality concerns. nd bev Everyone knows the importance of nov r in ation ks a e UV protection from the sun. As one ne in s Fruit d ges of the leading ingredient suppliers Sweet r ra to the cosmetics industry, DSM has e developed ﬁlters that deliver highly eﬀective UV protection for skin and hair. zymes s eer are en nt db lc Bakin Rumin Wine a Perso a na g n ts redients pplements duc ng su ro Dairy Savory Dieta p ry i ducts ggs d d enzyme pro /e fee an s Prem Poultr Anima Culture ix y l s ition utr Infant To educate farmers about n the beneﬁts to the health and growth of animals when adding micronutrients to feed, and to oﬀer access to premix products, DSM has established a network of more than 150 franchisers of small distributors in rural areas, selling to local farmers in China. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 9 www.dsm.com Materials Sciences The Performance Materials cluster consists of DSM • DSM Resins & Functional Materials is a global player Engineering Plastics, DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins & in developing, manufacturing and marketing high-quality Functional Materials. These business groups are active in resins solutions for paints and coatings, composites and technologically sophisticated high-quality products and oﬀer ﬁber-optic coatings. DSM Resins & Functional Materials specialized value propositions. generates value with and for its global customer base through continuous innovation so that they meet • DSM Engineering Plastics is a global player in regulatory needs and respond better to consumer developing, manufacturing and marketing specialty demands for more sustainable materials. plastics used in components for the electrical and electronics, automotive, ﬂexible food packaging and The Polymer Intermediates cluster comprises DSM Fibre consumer goods industries. Intermediates, the global market and technology leader in caprolactam and the leading acrylonitrile supplier in Europe. • DSM Dyneema is the inventor, manufacturer and marketer of Dyneema®, the world’s strongest ﬁberTM. This product, based on ultra high molecular weight polyethylene is produced by means of DSM’s proprietary processes. The Dyneema® brand enjoys very high recognition in the value chains served. DSM develops smart coatings that enable and enhance the capture of solar energy and now has a portfolio of proprietary innovative materials to increase eﬃciency of solar panels. materials tic Fiber o p for solar en gs Coati ergy n Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 10 www.dsm.com DSM at a glance Highlights of the year Life Sciences Materials Sciences Innovation Center Pharma Partnerships With Arnitel® VT, DSM has developed high-performance membranes for outdoor clothing. Containing no perﬂuorinated chemicals, it is waterproof in all circumstances despite being only a few microns thick. It is highly breathable and 100 percent recyclable. Cut-resistant gloves made with es g DSM’s Dyneema® ﬁber are light, an in Memb Packa comfortable and cool to the touch, r g adapting to the body’s heat. It provides 50 times greater cutresistance than alternative materials. vers free produ electronics t gloves co nc ts er tan Displa Halog Consu Cut-res y e m is ods ipment resins go qu ite Leisur e Sailing Comp os e devices coatings e ic nd tiv Electr Paints Autom on o a Nearly half of all paint is based on traditional oil-derived Stanyl® is DSM’s high-performance solvents. Consumers are polyamide 46 used in automotive, increasingly concerned about electronics and other applications. possible health risks of these Even at temperatures above 200˚C solvent-based paints. DSM it keeps its properties, allowing oﬀers an alternative with for instance its use in car engines waterborne coating resins. and phone chargers. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 11 www.dsm.com Innovation Center The DSM Innovation Center serves as an enabler and DSM’s Emerging Business Areas provide strong longaccelerator of innovation within DSM. With its term growth platforms based on the company’s core Emerging Business Areas, the Business Incubator and DSM competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences. Venturing & Licensing, the DSM Innovation The company has three Emerging Business Areas: Center has a general business development role, focusing on areas outside the current scope of the business groups. • DSM Biomedical • DSM Bio-based Products & Services • DSM Advanced Surfaces (solar materials) DSM has designed innovative biomedical materials that enable medical device manufacturers to make more minimally invasive devices. These can speed up recovery, shorten hospital stays and minimize reoperations, lowering health costs and helping people to lead longer, healthier and more active lives. DSM is at the forefront of building a more sustainable, bio-based l ica economy with its clean fuel from Biome corn crop residue and in renewable d chemical building blocks such as bio-based succinic acid. pla nts for solar en roducts & gs dP Knee Bio-bas rvices Coati ergy im n e Se nts Surfaces pla ed Hip Adva im nc pla nts ry system or greenho m ive s sf Coatin es Spine Drug d us i el g Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 12 www.dsm.com DSM at a glance Highlights of the year Life Sciences Materials Sciences Innovation Center Pharma Partnerships Pharma Partnerships DPx Holdings (DPx) is a global leader in contract DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP) is the global development and manufacturing services with customers market leader in beta-lactam active pharmaceutical across the pharmaceutical industry, sales of ingredients (APIs) such as semi-synthetic penicillins (SSPs) around USD 2 billion and more than 8,000 employees and semi-synthetic cephalosporins (SSCs), which represent spread over 24 locations across North America, the biggest class of APIs in anti-infectives. It is also a Europe, Latin America and Australia. leader in other active ingredients such as nystatin and next generation statins. DSP, 50 percent owned by DSM, manufactures nearly all its beta-lactam APIs and the related intermediates using proprietary biotechnology. Since March 2014, DSM owns 49 percent of DPx, a joint venture with JLL Partners that provides pharmaceutical companies a unique breadth of oﬀerings from ﬁnished dosage to active substances with a wide range of ticals technologies. eu Pharma c dosage ed Finis h Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 13 www.dsm.com Letter from the Chairman Dear reader, The year 2014 was characterized by volatile macro-economic Our current strategy of focusing on high growth economies has developments. European economies barely grew and continued continued to pay off with approximately 43 percent of our sales to struggle with their competitiveness. Growth slowed down in coming from these countries in 2014. Although growth in several several emerging or high growth economies. The US showed of these countries slowed down in the year, it is clear that their remarkable resilience and growth, thanks in part to its expanding populations and growing urban middle classes will competitive energy position. Adding to the uncertainty were continue to drive growth in the long term. lower oil prices in the second half of the year, volatility in some of the world’s most important currencies and increasing At DSM, we are well positioned to capture that growth and we geopolitical tensions. On top of these challenges, our world have continued to expand our reach in these countries, not only continued to face unprecedented environmental and social in sales but also in terms of our own organization and members pressures. It is clear that the tried and tested formulas of of our top management. Interestingly, some of the world’s yesterday must make way for newer and more sustainable strongest economic growth in 2014 was seen in the US, DSM’s solutions as a matter of urgency. largest market, where we have expanded significantly in recent years, amongst others through acquisitions and partnerships. In this context, DSM stands significantly transformed and uniquely positioned to demonstrate resilience through the Our focus on innovation resulted in almost 18 percent of our portfolio we have developed over the years. We are able to sales in 2014 coming from newly introduced, higher margin benefit from the contributions our company makes to help products. In addition, we made steady progress in the address the challenges unfolding around us, including climate development of our three Emerging Business Areas: Biomedical, change and access to nutrition. That is not to say that DSM is Bio-based Products & Services and Advanced Surfaces. immune to the repercussions of economic volatility in the short term, as our results of 2014 show. Biomedical now delivers around € 140 million in sales and strong EBITDA margins, with highly innovative products in the fastIn the long term, the megatrends that drive our business are growing global medical devices market. These include more significant than ever before. They are: Global Shifts, which biomedical materials, technologies and capabilities in account for the large-scale demographic changes such as orthopedics, sports medicine, ophthalmology, general surgery population growth, urbanization and increased wealth of the and cardiology. middle class in high growth economies; Climate and Energy, which refers to the rising pressures on our planet, the scarcity of In Bio-based Products & Services, which includes clean energy resources and the need for alternative energy sources; and from corn crop residue, and bio-chemicals (such as bio-succinic Health and Wellness, which points to dietary and nutritional acid), we are proud to have opened the first second-generation concerns and opportunities, as well as the effects that rapidly cellulosic bio-ethanol factory in North America, located in aging populations with greater healthcare and dietary needs are Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA), with our partner POET. Also in other having on our end-markets. parts in the world, including Brazil, we are looking at opportunities. Our revolutionary technology produces a fuel The reported year 2014 was the fourth year of our DSM in made from corn crop residues, which has 85-95 percent lower motion: driving focused growth strategy that has transformed CO2 emissions than conventional gasoline measured over the our company since 2010. Where necessary, we have sought to value chain, and promises to further reduce North America’s sharpen and refine this roadmap to meet the needs of changing reliance on fossil fuels. The plant’s grand opening took place in global circumstances. As we enter the fifth year of September, and was attended by Willem-Alexander, King of the implementation, we will continue to create sustainable value by Netherlands, and the US Secretaries of Agriculture and Energy making progress against the growth drivers of High Growth as well as the Governor of Iowa, among other dignitaries. Economies, Innovation, Sustainability, and Acquisitions & Partnerships. In Advanced Surfaces, our anti-reflective coating KhepriCoat® is making inroads into the solar market, while we are also a first In 2014 we achieved more than € 9 billion sales and an EBITDA mover in ‘light trapping’ film technology, both of which enhance of nearly € 1.2 billion. This is a decrease in EBITDA compared to the yield of solar panels. We believe that these new businesses 2013 of seven percent. This decline was driven by a negative have the potential to create substantial value. currency effect and tough market conditions in Nutrition and caprolactam. The organic growth in 2014 was three percent. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 14 www.dsm.com Letter from the Chairman Sustainability, a key value and area of responsibility for the In Nutrition we are well positioned for the medium and long term, company, has become a strong business driver. ECO+ with an expanded presence across the value chain, operating solutions, which offer our customers more value with less globally with a broad portfolio of products across diverse endenvironmental impact than mainstream alternatives, now markets, driven by strong structural growth drivers. account for close to 50 percent of our sales and 95 percent of our innovation pipeline. We are applying a similar approach with People+, where we are at the forefront of developing a new methodology to measure the impact of a product on people’s lives throughout its entire life-cycle. Today, our ECO+ sales are growing faster than non-ECO+ sales and with higher margins, demonstrating the good growth opportunities that sustainable innovations can offer our company. DSM has an active approach to portfolio management with the aim of reducing volatility and cyclicality and focusing on higher margin businesses. In the second half of 2014, we stated our intention to pursue strategic actions for our caprolactam, acrylonitrile and composite resins businesses, which will enable us to further sharpen our company’s focus. Combined, these businesses account for more than 20 percent of DSM’s sales, but represent a substantially lower proportion of our profit. Our Performance Materials business is continuing to upgrade its product portfolio towards more sustainable and higher-margin Next to pursuing these strategic actions, we are fully focused on products and solutions. Despite currency weaknesses and integrating and reaping the synergies of the value-contributing volatility across a number of sectors, the business saw gradual acquisitions we have made in recent years, while refraining from margin improvements and found new opportunities to leverage large acquisitions for the moment. Since 2010, we have its operations and assets. This resulted in 2014 in an organic allocated more than € 2.8 billion to acquisitions, primarily in growth for the cluster of 2 percent and the EBITDA margin was Nutrition in high growth economies and in North America. just above 12 percent. In Nutrition, the underlying fundamentals remain strong. In the Our joint venture with Sinochem, DSM Sinochem long term, the business is driven by population growth, Pharmaceuticals (DSP), was deconsolidated following new urbanization, rising standards of living and the desire for health accounting rules for joint ventures. DSP improved its and convenience by an increasingly aging population. performance thanks to solid organic growth. We also formed Notwithstanding these drivers, we were confronted with several DPx in partnership with JLL, combining DSM Pharmaceutical headwinds in the year. These included a sluggish Western food Products and Patheon into a leading pharma services company. and beverage market, decreases in the US market for dietary DSM owns 49 percent of this joint venture. We are pleased to supplements containing our ingredients, continued price report that the integration of DPx progressed well and we expect pressures in vitamin E, which is mainly used in our animal the strong value generation of the company to continue next nutrition business, and the negative impact of a strong euro for year. a large part of the year compared to other currencies. To support the integration of our acquisitions we have continued We have developed specific responses to these headwinds, to implement the ONE DSM Culture Agenda in conjunction with which we have communicated to the market. We remain our Leadership Model. This will support our ability to align with focused on operational improvements and working capital the world around us, while creating a common language and a reductions. These actions should enable us to grow our stronger performance culture across our organization. We business, also by protecting and gaining market share in our introduced the initiative in late 2012 and have since rolled it out nutrition business, as we have done in recent years, while across the company, finding different ways of applying its generating quality earnings. In 2014, organic growth for the themes in our everyday work. cluster was 2 percent and the EBITDA margin was just below 20 percent. We held our seventh worldwide Employee Engagement Survey in the year, with over 85 percent of our employees and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 15 www.dsm.com contractors completing the questionnaire, which is considered In March, we announced the retirement of Rolf-Dieter Schwalb an excellent response rate. The Employee Engagement Index, as CFO and member of the Managing Board, who stepped down at 70 percent, is high and comparable to previous years. We will in December but has remained involved with DSM until the move this survey into a two-year cycle in order to have more time completion of this report. I would like to take this opportunity to to follow up on actions, with the next full survey in 2016. thank him for his significant contribution to DSM and his role in the transformation of our company over several years. I am very In Safety and Health, we regret that we cannot report an pleased that Geraldine Matchett has joined us as a member of improvement. The Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries the Managing Board per 1 August 2014 and as our CFO per increased to 0.47, compared to 0.38 in 2013. This is due in part 1 December 2014. During her short time with the company, she to the shift in our portfolio, which has seen newly acquired units has already demonstrated her value for DSM. phased in and more mature units phased out. Safety and Health is of primary importance to us, so we work very hard to bring It is a tribute to the enormous efforts − not only of our employees, newer units up to our standard in the months and years ahead, but of the many people we cooperate with, including coming closer to our goal of having an injury and incident-free shareholders, customers, suppliers, civil society at large and working environment. local communities specifically − that we have so many reasons to be confident about our future. It is to all of them who have We continued to make good progress towards our Inclusion & contributed to DSM’s success that we extend our most sincere Diversity goals by addressing the geographical distribution of thanks and appreciation and with whom we look forward to management and other key functions, looking to achieve a working in the years ahead. representative balance of DSM’s leadership group in gender and nationality. The number of women in executive positions Today we can proudly say that DSM has become a truly global increased from 11 percent to 12 percent in 2014, and we also organization, with significant operations in most regions where saw further growth in non-European executives. A number of there are growth opportunities. We are using innovation to senior appointments in 2014 significantly improved our diversity develop a younger and more sustainable product portfolio, while ratio in top management, which included our first female board unlocking the potential of new platforms that will drive growth member/CFO. and margins in the years ahead. Our emphasis remains on driving performance through operational improvements and Regarding the reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions and ongoing portfolio management for shareholder value creation. improvement in energy efficiencies, we are pleased to report that Our ability to leverage unique opportunities in our businesses for we remain on track to achieve our long-term goals. We are very the benefit of People, Planet and Profit, enables us to deliver on proud that in 2014 we were once again named among the our mission of creating brighter lives for people today and for leaders in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. We are also generations to come. proud that we have continued to receive a great deal of external recognition, including awards, for our achievements in our Feike Sijbesma integrated sustainability approach. Our integrated reporting, CEO/Chairman Managing Board Royal DSM which is based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, also developed in the year with the implementation of feike.sijbesma@dsm.com G4, the fourth generation of sustainability reporting guidelines. We remain committed to aligning our strategy and operations with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We are already taking steps to address the challenging external environment. Our key short-term priority is to take strategic actions regarding non-core businesses and to continue to focus on operational performance of our Nutrition and Performance Materials businesses. This will be complemented by accelerated actions to improve efficiency and reduce costs, specifically in Nutrition and across all functions of the company, including ICT, HR, Finance and Purchasing. In 2015 we will update our company strategy. Among other things we will address our steering of our businesses, functions and regions, and we will define new long-term targets for our core businesses. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 16 www.dsm.com Letter from the Chairman Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 17 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth DSM in motion: driving focused growth will be evaluated in 2015 and an updated strategy and accompanying targets will be In 2014, DSM completed the fourth year of its strategy DSM in announced towards the end of the year. motion: driving focused growth. This strategy has provided the company with a framework to drive sustainable and profitable Strategic focus growth in the company’s core activities. Launched in 2010, it marked the shift from a period of intensive portfolio management In light of current market conditions, DSM’s focus is on improving to a strategy of maximizing this growth as a global leader in the operational performance of its Nutrition and Performance health, nutrition and materials. Materials businesses, while continuing to pursue strategic actions for Polymer Intermediates and Composite Resins. This transformation is strengthened by DSM’s determined efforts to cultivate organic growth across the company, while tapping Since announcing its strategy in 2010, DSM has significantly the synergy potential of acquisitions and partnerships. These expanded its global reach. North America now represents 19 steps have been taken alongside integration efforts and culture percent of sales (2010: 15 percent) and the high growth change initiatives that have made DSM a company with economies account for 43 percent of sales (2010: 32 percent). increased global reach and a stronger presence in high growth The strategy is supported by a stakeholder engagement process economies. Today, the company enjoys greater resilience in the and a risk and issue assessment that enables the company to face of macro-economic challenges and higher quality and determine how it can best help meet the world’s most pressing stability in its earnings. DSM also aims to deliver value creation needs. through its sustainable innovations, new business platforms (Emerging Business Areas, EBAs) and its established Many of the world’s social, environmental and economic pharmaceutical partnerships. challenges stem from its rapidly expanding population, which is expected to reach nine billion by 2050. At the same time, Through its focused strategy and attractive portfolio with more societies are experiencing fundamental demographic changes resilient Nutrition and Performance Materials businesses, DSM as people become older, more urbanized and wealthier. DSM has the right growth profile to create long-term value for its addresses the following three megatrends through its innovative stakeholders and to deliver on its mission of creating brighter and sustainable solutions, and benefits from the increased lives for people today and for generations to come. attention they receive on a global scale. The DSM Managing Board (from left to right): Stefan Doboczky, Dimitri de Vreeze, Feike Sijbesma (Chairman/CEO), Geraldine Matchett (CFO) and Stephan Tanda Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 18 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 access to good quality nutrition is growing in importance. There is also a growing demand for safer and healthier solutions. Strategic progress and aspirations DSM will leverage its unique position in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences to capitalize on the key global megatrends that are more significant than ever. By creating value along the four growth drivers of High Growth Economies, Innovation, Sustainability and Acquisitions & Partnerships, the company maximizes their potential, so that they reinforce each other and generate further business opportunities and synergies. Through its regional organizations, functional excellence groups and shared services, DSM is also able to enhance the performance of its business groups. Global Shifts An accelerated shift of wealth and population growth is Following the rapid expansion of its global portfolio, DSM is now underway, most notably in high growth economies. This is focused on operational performance, organic growth and rapidly creating a more urban, prosperous and connected world, improved profitability. but also one that faces huge resource and cultural challenges. During the current strategy period, DSM has set itself ambitious These changes are greatly influencing global demand, the way targets for accelerated sales growth that are above GDP growth people live and how they interact with each other. Urbanization levels, and for increased profitability. These have been and prosperity are promoting dietary changes and increased formulated based on an assessment of opportunities in each of spending on housing, transport, lifestyles and energy. the growth drivers. Technological change is also having a major impact on societies and their behavior. Financial targets DSM's organic sales growth amounted to 3 percent in 2014 Climate and Energy compared to 2 percent in 2013. Negative foreign exchange The rapid pace of climate change is translating into increased effects and tough market conditions in Nutrition and efforts to reduce fossil fuel dependencies and bring down levels caprolactam resulted in a decline of EBITDA from of greenhouse-gas emissions. This is accelerating the adoption € 1,261 million to € 1,168 million. The EBITDA margin amounted of renewable energy sources and the use of chemicals and to 12.7 percent compared to 14.2 percent in 2013. Return on materials that have less environmental impact. Capital Employed (ROCE) was 7.8 percent compared to 10.1 percent in 2013. These actions will help reduce the use of non-renewable resources and create increased attention for the circular Sales in High Growth Economies reached 43 percent of total economy concept. Efficiency is an important part of this focus, sales in 2014. Innovation sales, which are measured as sales as customers look to create more sustainable value chains from products and applications introduced within the last five through higher yields, less waste and pollution and lower energy years, reached 18 percent of total net sales in 2014. use. There has been steady progress in the three Emerging Business Health and Wellness Areas (EBAs), DSM Biomedical, DSM Bio-based Products & A growing, aging and increasingly urban and more prosperous Services, and DSM Advanced Surfaces. All three areas provide population seeks to improve its well-being and to increase significant value creation potential for DSM. The 2020 aspiration longevity. By contrast, people from the most impoverished areas for these areas is € 1 billion in sales with a high EBITDA margin. of the world face a daily struggle for adequate nutrition. There is a growing focus on health issues, whether in relation to nutrition, medicines or lifestyle improvements, especially in high growth economies. In the West, healthcare costs are rising and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 19 www.dsm.com Targets and aspirations as updated in September 2013 ECO+ solutions account for around 50 percent of its running business in 2015. ECO+ products are those that offer greater Financial targets quantifiable environmental advantages over mainstream Profitability targets 2015 alternatives on the market. In 2014, ECO+ sales accounted for EBITDA margin 14%-15% 49 percent of all sales, which puts the company on track towards ROCE 11%-12% its 2015 aspiration. Sales targets 2015 ECO+ solutions also accounted for 95 percent of the innovation Organic sales growth 5%-7% annually pipeline, which is already above DSM's 2015 aspiration of at China sales towards USD 3 bn least 80 percent. In 2014, approximately 40 percent of ECO+ High growth economies sales about 45% of total sales innovation launches were supported by comparative Life Cycle Innovation sales 20% of total sales Assessments (LCAs). ECO+ sales towards 50% of total sales In 2014, DSM took important steps towards the finalization of its Cluster targets 2015 People+ strategy, which aims to deliver products that have a Nutrition EBITDA margin 20%-23% measurable positive impact on people. DSM is part of a group Sales growth GDP +2% of European industry leaders that announced the publication of Performance Materials EBITDA margin 13%-15% the 'Handbook for Product Social Impact Assessment', which is Sales growth at double GDP the first practical and broadly accepted methodology for assessing a product’s social impact throughout its life cycle. Aspiration regarding Emerging Business Areas for 2020 EBA sales > € 1 bn For the seventh time, DSM held its worldwide Employee Engagement Survey. This survey measures engagement levels, Sustainability aspirations 2011-2015 determining how employees score on a combination of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index following attributes: commitment, pride, advocacy and Top ranking (RobecoSAM Gold Class)1 satisfaction. In 2014, the Employee Engagement Index was ECO+ (innovation) measured at 70 percent (2013: 71). This is in line with the global At least 80% of pipeline is ECO+2 standard of 70 percent. DSM aims to be part of an external ECO+ (running business) benchmark of high performing companies with index scores of From approximately 34% towards 50% over 80 percent favorable. The survey will now be run on a twoEnergy efficiency year cycle that will help DSM focus its efforts on follow-up 20% improvement in 2020, compared to 2008 improvements. Greenhouse-gas emissions 25% reduction (absolute) by 2020, compared to 2008 Organization and culture Employee Engagement Survey DSM has continued to implement its ONE DSM Culture Agenda Towards High Performance Norm3 in 2014, to promote greater cohesion and a stronger company Diversity4 culture. The agenda centers on four themes that are applied Increase percentage of women in executive positions across the company’s daily operations: External Orientation, Increase percentage of BRIC+ nationals in executive positions Accountability for Performance (and learning), Collaboration with People+4 Speed, and Inclusion & Diversity. DSM People LCA People+ framework defined DSM’s business groups are the organization’s primary building 1 This means a total score within 1% of the RobecoSAM sector leader blocks with their strong focus on customers and markets. 2 See page 213 for a definition of ECO+ Infrastructure and other capabilities are provided by the regional 3 The High Performance Norm (over 80% favorable) is the composite of the top 25% employee responses of the selected external benchmark organizations organizations, which also support local innovation in a number 4 See also the chapter People in 2014 on page 43 of countries and represent DSM to external stakeholders. The business groups and regional organizations are supported Sustainability aspirations and optimized through shared services, which aim to provide Sustainability remains a core value for the business as well as a efficient, high-quality services in designated areas, and key growth driver that enables DSM to deliver higher margin functional excellence groups that offer functional expertise and products. DSM is on track with its sustainability target to make implementation capabilities. The corporate staff departments are Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 20 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 responsible for supporting the Managing Board in running the company. Throughout 2014, the regional organizations were given a strong mandate to support R&D and innovation with local applications, bringing DSM closer to its key markets and customers. There is clear board level accountability for regional performance. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 21 www.dsm.com Growth Driver: High Growth Economies In Latin America, DSM has established a solid platform for its Animal Nutrition & Health business, especially in Brazil, From 'reaching out' to being truly global Argentina, Uruguay and Colombia, with good growth in exports. There is now a growing trend towards greater food security that As a key element of its strategy, DSM has successfully favors DSM’s Human Nutrition & Health business in the long transformed its international presence to capture global growth term. The region also presents an exciting opportunity for clean opportunities in High Growth Economies. Due to its strong global energy, which links to DSM's ambition to expand in sustainable presence, DSM’s share of sales in High Growth Economies as technologies. Mexico and Colombia are looking to attract a proportion of total sales has continued to increase significantly investment in renewable energy through public incentives. in recent years. In Russia, the geopolitical tensions and stagnating economy In 2014, sales to High Growth Economies accounted for around have created a difficult business climate. Notwithstanding, 43 percent of total sales, compared to 32 percent at the start of DSM's business in Russia, which accounts for around one the strategic period in 2010. While some of the High Growth percent of total sales, continued to grow in 2014, among others Economies grew below historical averages in 2014, this is not via its joint venture in Tatarstan. This contributed to Russia’s goal considered a structural slowdown for the end-markets relevant of reaching higher self-sufficiency in animal protein production to DSM and its customers. DSM expanded its sales significantly and supply through better animal nutrition. in China and India with double-digit growth rates. Latin America and Eastern Europe showed mid-single-digit growth. As DSM transitions from being a highly European-based enterprise to becoming a truly global company, it is also seeing High Growth Economies will clearly be growth engines for the a dramatic shift in its operations. Over 60 executive positions are world economy in the future with their rapidly expanding urban no longer in the Netherlands but in other parts of the world. populations and increasing domestic consumption. DSM will Furthermore, regional innovation centers have been established continue to actively expand its presence in High Growth in India and China, while at Managing Board level there is clear Economies, including Africa, in the coming years, in the same accountability for regional performance. way its customers are also doing. It will drive growth with locally tailored products and services; and an expanded local presence From 'reaching out' to being truly global Net sales by destination in % in research, innovation, production, and marketing and sales. ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe It is notable that in the past year, the US, a mature economy of ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ India ■ Japan ■ Rest of Asia ■ Rest of the world the developed world, has seen stronger growth than several 2 7 2 7 9 9 High Growth Economies. This too has benefitted DSM because 2 2 2 1 of its strong position in the country. North America is DSM’s 27 15 28 largest market, accounting for 19 percent of total sales. 16 In China, where GDP growth is estimated at around seven 10 6 10 6 percent, policy makers are increasingly focused on sustainable 19 20 growth levels and on domestic consumption. The country’s 2014 2013R leadership appears determined to tackle some of the nation’s most pressing problems such as environmental degradation and corruption. The focus on sustainability, clean energy and food safety and security is favorable for DSM in China and offers good growth opportunities. Sales in China reached USD 2.0 billion compared to USD 1.7 billion in 2013. In India, DSM has seen a fast expansion of its business. It has invested in its Nutrition, Engineering Plastics and Innovation Center businesses locally, and created a Global Service Delivery center. It also recently opened the company's first solar technology demonstration center at its plant in Pune. DSM is now focused on introducing more locally made products for markets in India. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 22 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 Growth Driver: Innovation energy production through smart coatings and surface technologies. From building the machine to doubling the output R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure), At DSM, innovation turns ‘Bright Science’ into ‘Brighter Living’. continuing operations It goes beyond having great ideas, state-of-the-art technology and high-tech laboratories. It is about discovering and x € million 2014 2013R integrating the best, the most sustainable and commercially viable solutions that meet market needs and create profitable Nutrition 206 209 growth and future value. Performance Materials 143 132 Polymer Intermediates 16 17 Innovation sales Innovation Center 82 74 as % of total sales Corporate Activities 28 29 20 18 18 18 Total 475 461 17 16 15 Total as % of net sales 5.2 5.2 Staff employed in R&D activities 2,208 2,240 10 5 Research & Development DSM has established best practices in innovation and manages 0 2010 2011 2012 2013R 2014 its major innovation activities at a platform level. The platforms are selected from specific areas that are known as Science and Innovation themes. These are: Food and Nutrition Security, Health, Sustainable Manufacturing and Energy Security. DSM's target is that by 2015 innovative products and solutions will account for 20 percent of its total sales. Innovation sales are Directed by the team of the Chief Technology Officer, this defined as sales of products and applications that have been structure provides the basis for an effective management of introduced over the last five years. The company is well on track company-wide competence-building programs in Research & to deliver on its target as these products accounted for 18 Development (R&D). It also guides the exploratory activities for percent of total sales in 2014. They have strongly contributed to DSM’s Business Incubator. DSM’s sales and EBITDA growth with margins higher than the average of its running business. In Nutrition, innovation sales The platform-based approach to innovation aims to develop accounted for 17 percent of the total, while in Performance larger initiatives. It also enables the company to improve Materials they accounted for 24 percent. coordination between the various competences, projects and business development activities, and give its efforts greater DSM works to foster and sustain its innovative practices on an focus. ongoing basis. It does this throughout its established businesses in Nutrition and Performance Materials. At the same time, the R&D is instrumental to the realization of DSM’s innovation Innovation Center, with its Emerging Business Areas (EBAs), is strategy, and most of the expenditure in this area is directed focusing on developing new growth platforms outside of the toward business-focused programs. In addition, DSM also has current scope of the company’s business groups. a Corporate Research Program that helps build and strengthen technological competences across the company. One of these is DSM Biomedical, which is achieving attractive EBITDA margins around 25 percent on 2014 sales of € 138 Key technological competence areas are: Materials Sciences; million. Another EBA with significant value potential is DSM BioNutritional Sciences; Process Technology; Biotechnology; based Products & Services, which focuses on clean energy from Chemistry & Catalysis; Materials Chemistry; and Analysis & crop residues as well as bio-chemicals. Its key value drivers are Characterization. These form the scientific basis for the the licensing of intellectual property (IP) and the overarching innovation platforms. commercialization of enzymes and yeast. The business is developed through partnerships. DSM’s third EBA, DSM Advanced Surfaces, aims to accelerate the uptake of solar Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 23 www.dsm.com Collaboration The DSM science network is globally spread, with over 30 laboratories, and consists of approximately 2,200 DSM scientists who cooperate extensively with external R&D institutions. Academic collaboration efforts are normally specific and bilateral, while DSM is also active in broader public-private partnerships that increase its scientific scope, including the Dutch Polymer Institute and the Bio-based Industries Consortium. Open innovation is an important element of DSM's approach to innovation and a business enabler. By combining its own capabilities with the vast pool of ideas, know-how and expertise that are available outside the company, DSM is better able to develop and discover solutions. See also Stakeholder engagement on page 28. Patents DSM filed more than 400 patents in 2014 (2013: >400). Value creation through best practices DSM continued its Excellence in Innovation program in 2014. Established in 2006, this program aims to optimize DSM’s innovation infrastructure by working to improve key innovation behaviors, including leadership and teamwork skills, in order to foster a stronger innovation culture across the business. The company will continue the Excellence in Innovation program in order to maintain its leading position as an innovator and to improve its capabilities. Licensing The company approaches licensing as an effective way of creating shared value with partners. The company’s center of excellence for creating value from intellectual property assists the business groups and EBAs with the initiation and management of collaboration in patents, trademarks and know-how. Licensing is a fundamental aspect of the EBA business models, helping to unlock and enhance their value proposition and increasing the speed with which products can be brought to the market. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 24 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 Growth Driver: Sustainability Sustainability aspirations 2011-2015 Realization 2014 From responsibility to a strong business driver Dow Jones Sustainability Index At the heart of DSM's mission is the core value of sustainability Top ranking (RobecoSAM Gold Class) Gold Class1 and a commitment to helping to create a more sustainable world. ECO+ (innovation) As part of its 2010-2015 strategy DSM in motion: driving focused At least 80% of pipeline is ECO+2 95% growth, the company has taken sustainability to the next level. ECO+ (running business) In addition to fulfilling its responsibilities toward society, it has From approximately 34% towards 50% 49% successfully developed sustainability as a strategic growth Energy efficiency driver. For DSM, achieving sustainability means pursuing 20% improvement in 2020, compared 17% activities that create value in the areas of People, Planet and to 2008 Profit. These must meet the needs of the present generation, Greenhouse-gas emissions without compromising the ability of future generations to meet 25% reduction (absolute) by 2020, 2% reduction3 their own needs. compared to 2008 Employee Engagement Survey Sustainability is a key differentiator and a driver of value in DSM's Towards High Performance Norm4 70% favorable markets. The company is uniquely positioned to create and Diversity5 capture the many opportunities that these challenges present Women in executive positions 12% across its value chains. It is therefore vital that sustainability BRIC+ nationals in executive positions 12% guides the activities of DSM's global business groups, as well as People+5 its operations, strategic actions and decisions. By continuously DSM People LCA On track developing innovative science-based products and solutions that contribute to a brighter future for people everywhere, DSM 1 DSM returned to Silver Class for 2015 2 See page 213 for a definition of ECO+ is also creating a more sustainable and profitable future for itself. 3 Total reduction: in the calculation that accounts for changes in production volume, DSM's GHG emissions decreased by 16% in 2014 compared to 2008 4 The High Performance Norm (over 80% favorable) is the composite of the top 25% ECO+ employee responses of the selected external benchmark organizations 5 See People+ and Inclusion & Diversity in the chapter People in 2014 on page 43 ECO+ is DSM’s program for the development of sustainable, innovative products and solutions with ecological benefits. ECO+ solutions can be found across all of DSM's business Products qualify as ECO+ when their environmental impact is groups with many more under development. They now account lower than competing mainstream products that fulfill the same for 49 percent of total sales. With an average annual growth rate function. When considered over their entire life cycle, ECO+ of around ten percent, ECO+ sales are on track to achieve solutions offer superior performance with a lower eco-footprint. DSM’s target of towards 50 percent of the running business by The ecological benefits can be created at any stage of the 2015. Across DSM's Life Sciences and Materials Sciences product life cycle, from the raw materials through to businesses, ECO+ sales have higher margins compared to manufacturing and potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. non-ECO+ sales. DSM uses comparative Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) and/or expert opinions to determine whether a solution should be An example of an ECO+ product in the Life Sciences business considered ECO+. is MaxiBright®. This enzyme is used to remove cheese coloring components from whey protein, making it suitable for use in Since the start of its ECO+ program, DSM has looked to high-value food and beverage applications. At the same time, harmonize performance metrics in its industries. To this end, the the application of MaxiBright®, compared to competing company has chaired the work of the World Business Council products on the market, uses ten times less hydrogen peroxide, for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) in its initiative for the thereby reducing the carbon footprint of these processes by over chemicals sector in the area of product life cycle metrics. In 80 percent. 2014, in collaboration with nine industry peers, DSM published a key guidance for the consistent application of environmental LCAs. This guidance is an important step for all participants in the value chain and provides clear benefits to consumers. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 25 www.dsm.com In 2014 DSM announced the DSM-Niaga joint venture, in which consumption of just three grams of oat beta-glucan per day can Niaga’s carpet fiber binding technology is combined with DSM’s reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases. OatWell® also has engineered polyester lamination adhesives. This enables the clinically proven health benefits in the areas of blood glucose carpet industry to manufacture mono-material (polyester) carpet control and general gastrointestinal health. At the same time, the systems or duo (polyester-polyamide) systems that are fully oats that are used for OatWell® create benefits for communities recyclable, thereby contributing to a circular economy. in the Nordic countries from where they are sourced, which contributes to local employment and prosperity. Another example of a People+ innovation are synthetic chains used in harbors made of Dyneema® fiber. Synthetic chains made with Dyneema® are much safer and more comfortable to use, as they are up to eight times lighter than steel, feel more comfortable and are 70 times less noisy. Compared to using steel chains, the harbor workers suffer less from back pain and injuries and experience less noise. These features contribute to the well-being of the harbor workers. See also People in 2014 on page 43. People+ People+ is DSM’s program to develop solutions that measurably improve the lives of consumers, employees and communities across the value chains. People+, in combination with ECO+, makes DSM’s ‘Bright Science, Brighter Living’ mission more tangible. In 2014, DSM, together with a group of 12 European industry leaders, launched the 'Handbook for Product Social Impact Assessment'. This is the first practical and broadly accepted methodology for assessing a product’s social impact throughout its life cycle and has been formulated and tested based on input from international standards and consultations with researchers, industry hubs, development organizations and NGOs (nongovernmental organizations). This LCA methodology provides a clear framework through which companies, including DSM, can analyze life-cycle data and calculate the impact products have on human health, development and well-being. People+ enables DSM to identify new levers for innovation, to develop value propositions and engage with partners in the value chain. By concentrating on the impact that its products have on the lives of people involved in making and using the product, the People+ program is an incentive for innovation and research and development across the company. An example of a People+ product is OatWell®, which is made of oat and added to cereals and porridge. Research shows that the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 26 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships From portfolio transformation to growth supply agreements that are material to DSM's business performance. Accelerating growth through acquisitions and partnerships has been a fundamental element of the DSM in motion: driving The combination of DSM Pharmaceutical Products and Patheon focused growth strategy. DSM has successfully invested in DPx Holdings in March has resulted in a leading pharma € 2.8 billion in the acquisition of new businesses since 2010, services company in the Contract Development and creating an unmatched value chain presence in Nutrition, and Manufacturing Organization (CDMO) market. DSM owns 49 radically transforming its portfolio. It has also completed a percent of DPx. The integration has progressed quickly, with number of value-enhancing partnerships. pro-forma sales for the fiscal year ending 31 October 2014 of around € 1.6 billion. All acquisitions and partnerships have been based on stringent strategic and financial criteria that have remained unchanged In July 2014, DSM announced its intention to acquire Aland, a since 2010. The screening process begins with an initial Hong Kong-based company producing vitamin C in China. This selection based on strategic fit, which results in a shortlist to transaction, expected to close in the first half of 2015, will allow which DSM applies financial criteria. A key consideration is that DSM to further strengthen its position in vitamin C. the business or partner must add or improve a market leadership position and create value for DSM in terms of technological and/or market competences. DSM has an active approach to portfolio management that aims to capture opportunities from global megatrends. Over the years, it has made more precise and sharper distinctions between those parts of its portfolio that have the best overall fit for the business. To reduce volatility in the Materials Sciences business and to ensure a better strategic fit, strategic actions are being pursued for Polymer Intermediates (caprolactam and acrylonitrile) and Composite Resins. The company is currently not planning any large acquisitions and is focused on integrating the acquisitions completed in recent years. It will harvest the full synergy potential of these businesses in terms of growth and profitability, and by further enhancing operational performance. Acquisitions since 2010 Acquisitions have been the main vehicle for adding new growth platforms, especially in high growth economies and North America. Considering the largest four businesses acquired − Martek in 2011, Ocean Nutrition Canada in 2012, Fortitech in 2012 and Tortuga in 2013 – DSM’s own estimates show that all have contributed significantly to DSM’s value creation. Ocean Nutrition Canada has not met the initial performance expectations as it has faced unexpected weakness in the US fish oil-based omega-3 dietary supplements market. Acquisitions & Partnerships in 2014 In 2014, DSM formed new partnerships that serve clear strategic objectives, in addition to its regular contractual arrangements with suppliers and customers, which may involve long-term Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 27 www.dsm.com Stakeholder engagement Materiality DSM seeks to address some of the world’s most pressing social, Beyond the economic wealth that corporations help to create, environmental and economic challenges by offering highly they have a responsibility to serve society, listen to their innovative and sustainable solutions. By reaching out to its stakeholders and be accountable for their activities. DSM values stakeholders – customers, investors, employees, companies, its stakeholder engagement and maintains open discussions governments, academia and civil society – DSM engages in an with several parties on the topics related to its business activities ongoing dialogue to exchange thoughts and views. Stakeholder and its role in society. consultations help to deepen the company’s insights into the drivers of its business and the needs of society across different A stakeholder dialogue is a continuous process in order to regions. By working together, DSM and its stakeholders can refresh the material topics as required. Since 2013, when the create shared value and contribute to a more sustainable world. stakeholder engagement process formally began, DSM has continued to assess whether major changes to its materialities In its more than 110 years of existence, DSM has always been are needed. Some stakeholders provided updates on their able to transform itself in response to societal changes, with a priorities in the year. At the same time, DSM kept abreast of focus on innovation and the long-term perspective, societal debates and topics discussed by international business acknowledging stakeholder needs. For this reason, DSM groups and other stakeholders. Research and media analyses focuses on four growth drivers that are important in supporting are also an important part of these efforts. On this basis, DSM and accelerating the transition towards more sustainable assessed whether changes were necessary to its materialities in economic development. 2014. As a large multinational, DSM has many stakeholders from DSM's materiality matrix in 2014 represents the material topics different backgrounds and cultures with a variety of interests. and their positioning as seen by the company’s stakeholders in These may sometimes differ and create dilemmas. It is in the the year. There was no need to update the material topics, interest of the company to find the right balance between although corporate income tax has become a stronger societal business interests and the demands that stakeholders make on concern and therewith a higher priority area for DSM, which it the company. In this chapter, DSM's stakeholder dialogue is the expects will continue in 2015. starting point to explain its focus on the 20 materialities relevant to the company. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 28 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 The 20 issues have been clustered into four categories: Societal third reason is that other players in the value chain (suppliers, Shifts, Eco Limits, Business Enablers and Trust & Accountability. customers) play an increasingly important role in the innovation These are described by category and in relation to their relevance process. The fourth reason is that the demands of society are to People, Planet or Profit. All materialities and their location in such that companies often have no choice but to work together this report are listed below. to address them. DSM is well aware of these developments and is working to find the right balance between open and closed innovation. Materiality Where in this report? 1 Health and wellness page 43, page 66, DSM seeks to continuously improve the quality of its open page 82 innovation practices. The licensing of its know-how and 2 Malnutrition page 36, page 67, expertise is one example of how this is driving new business page 70 models. The company aims to accelerate its venturing and 3 Sustainable value chains page 33, page 55, partnering activities, not only in its key business areas but also page 76 in technology. In this way, it can broaden and further strengthen 4 Bio-based and circular economy page 53, page 83 its technological competence base. 5 Climate change page 51, page 75 6 Water management page 54 Tax 7 Open innovation page 24, page 29, Fair share tax contribution has become a prominent issue as page 84 some multinational companies were subject to criticism by civil 8 Food safety and security page 38, page 66, society, the media and politicians because they have minimized page 76 their tax contributions. The planning of DSM’s tax position is 9 High growth economies page 22 consistent with its business operations, reflects the corporate 10 Resource constraints page 53 strategy and takes into account relevant initiatives, such as the 11 Biodiversity page 55 initiatives of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and 12 Human rights page 40, page 49 Development and other governments' advisory groups in relation 13 Renewable energy and GHG emissions page 51, page 55, to the fair share of taxes. page 84 14 Sustainable animal protein page 29, page 69 DSM’s contribution to society includes the provision of 15 Careers and employment page 46 employment to more than 21,000 people around the world. In 16 Tax page 29, page 88 addition to corporate income taxes, DSM pays many other taxes 17 Advocacy page 30 including payroll taxes and social security contributions on the 18 Social media page 30 wages of its employees, value added taxes, customs duties, 19 Bioethics page 30 property taxes, etc. All these taxes are a significant source of 20 Trade barriers page 30 funding of public services by governmental institutions at several levels worldwide. DSM sees it as its responsibility to contribute to this. Open innovation An important element of DSM's approach to innovation is open A responsible tax approach is essential for DSM's sustainability innovation, which seeks to combine internal and external ideas mission. That is why DSM regularly reviews and publishes its tax and capabilities. By combining DSM's own capabilities with the principles, with specific references to the aspects that are the vast pool of ideas, know-how and expertise that are available subject of current interest and discussions. See DSM's tax outside the company, DSM is better able to develop and principles at www.dsm.com. discover solutions. Sustainable animal protein Open innovation is therefore a business enabler. There are Population growth, combined with urbanization and growing various reasons for this. One is the increased availability and wealth, is resulting in increasing demand for animal protein, mobility of highly educated people. Companies today are aware especially in high growth economies. To meet this demand, that there is a large pool of knowledge available outside their own more food must be produced, while constraints in the use of research laboratories, and that it can be advantageous to tap natural resources such as water and soil must be addressed. into this pool. Another reason is the significant growth of venture capital, which offers large companies the opportunity to have With its product portfolio of vitamins, minerals, carotenoids, their promising ideas and technologies explored by start-ups. A eubiotics and feed enzymes for the global feed industry, DSM is Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 29 www.dsm.com able to provide solutions for many types of species and animal Social media platform farming systems with a view to making them more resource efficient and mitigating their environmental impact. This includes Followers year-end making more efficient use of feed, providing alternatives to 2014 antibiotic growth promoters, improving animal health and welfare with the aid of micronutrients and reducing the environmental Facebook 37,611 impact of animal farming in terms of, for example, greenhouseTwitter 67,046 gas emissions, air quality in stables and land use. See DSM's LinkedIn 61,104 position paper on sustainable animal protein at Weibo 20,801 www.dsm.com. Advocacy In terms of paid media, DSM has focused on increasing The term advocacy refers to the efforts made by companies, engagement and influence by running targeted social media associations or individuals to increase awareness around campaigns on specific themes such as the bio-based and policies or causes. For DSM, advocacy also means increasing circular economy, renewable energy, climate change, product awareness beyond governments and other policy makers. This social impact assessment, malnutrition and hidden hunger. plays an important role in getting topics onto the agendas of (non-)governmental organizations (NGOs). Malnutrition and Social media fosters collaboration and external orientation at stunting are issues in which DSM aims to take a leading role by DSM. Consequently, the company actively supports and bringing them to the attention of a broader audience. The encourages its workforce to join the conversation. To facilitate company actively engages to build greater awareness about the this, at the end of 2014, DSM embarked on a program to help importance of improved nutrition, which is one of its main make its workforce savvy about social media. DSM aims to businesses in both the developing and the developed world. actively manage the level of engagement. Through this active advocacy, DSM has emerged as one of the industry leaders in this area, and it is often consulted by United Trade barriers Nations agencies, governments and NGOs. DSM is aware of trade restrictions worldwide and has systems in place to prevent illegal dealings with sanctioned parties Social media and/or embargoed countries. DSM is impacted by the sanctions DSM considers social media to be an essential instrument for on Russia, particularly in its Performance Materials cluster. Sales stakeholder engagement, reputation management and brand to Russia account for around one percent of total sales. The building. The company uses social media to stimulate a dialogue company is aware of new European legislation to prevent the with its stakeholders and aims to increase the number of key misuse of chemicals for explosive precursors. During 2014, new stakeholders acting as ambassadors for the company. The corporate requirements to ensure trade controls compliance company’s primary focus is on customers, governments, NGOs, have been approved by the Managing Board; these are scientific institutions, local communities, potential employees applicable as from 1 January 2015. and its own employees. DSM tailors its conversations to appeal to specific stakeholder groups and channels. Bioethics Biotechnology is a field of applied biology that involves the use The company interacts with its stakeholders on social media of cells and proteins derived from these cells in bioprocesses for using a strategic combination of owned, earned and paid media. a broad range of applications such as pharmaceuticals, food, The most important owned platforms the company uses include agricultural products, bio-based chemicals and materials, as well corporate, regional and market-focused DSM channels on as fuels. Genetically Modified Micro-organisms (GMMs) are Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, LinkedIn, Google+ and Weibo. organisms with genetic material that has been altered via biotechnological means. DSM’s latest consultations with Earned platforms involve the company publishing editorial stakeholders show that the debate now focuses on the role opinions on relevant and influential sustainability subject areas. GMMs can play in nourishing the world's population by 2050. Opinion leaders may provide platforms or join online Twitter New or unfamiliar technologies like genetic modification often conversations and other public online debates with key raise concerns in society about their possible implications for influencers on relevant societal themes. public health or the environment, and may trigger ethical discussions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 30 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 DSM is aware that consumer acceptance of new technologies support this, DSM is using the Net Promoter Score® (NPS), a cannot be taken for granted, and so it makes safety and other customer interaction cycle that has become the lead concerns a top priority. It engages in an open dialogue on the performance indicator for loyalty and advocacy tracking. NPS benefits and risks with its stakeholders, including the scientific equips the company with the processes, tools, and expertise community, industry, NGOs, governments and the general needed to drive customer centricity across the business and to public. The company adheres to applicable regulations and achieve optimum results. In the chemical industry DSM is a legislation and applies the highest standards. It is transparent frontrunner in using the NPS methodology. The essence of the about its practices and uses science-based safety assessments, NPS methodology is creating a closed loop to continuously thus enabling the competent authorities to assess and approve improve the customer experience. DSM has developed a tailored its use of innovative strain development technologies and the NPS program that is used by all its business groups. resulting GMMs. DSM believes biotechnology can offer unique solutions to global challenges related to a growing and aging In 2014, DSM focused on enhancing the use of NPS as the lead population and the depletion of fossil resources. See DSM's performance indicator of customer centricity in the organization. position paper on biotechnology on www.dsm.com. A full DSM baseline has been developed, with an overall score for DSM of 36 percent, putting it amongst the leading companies Stakeholders in its sector. Furthermore, an e-learning tool was introduced to train all relevant employees on the basics of NPS. DSM is committed to creating value for its broad range of stakeholders by leveraging unique opportunities in Life Sciences A customer sponsorship program was launched linking senior and Materials Sciences for people today and generations to executives to key DSM accounts to ensure commitment and come. It recognizes that in this ever more complex world, support to customer centricity throughout the organization. companies, governments, academia, civil society and Furthermore, DSM revisited its key account management international institutions must work together to solve the big program and took important steps forward in its business global issues of today. These include the question of how to deal development approach with existing customers. This included a with major global demographic changes, and the rise of new selection of customers with whom DSM jointly builds strategic economies and an aging population. They also relate to climate plans for the future. This joint approach resulted in an innovation change and the development of alternative energy, and how to award from DSM's strategic customer Bayer (consumer secure health and well-being by resolving food and nutrition healthcare division) in 2014. DSM also formed a strategic security and water issues. partnership with Merck & Cie to bring folate vitamins to the market. This allowed Merck & Cie to widen its target markets and bring this innovative product to a larger number of people than before. A crucial part of DSM’s customer business development approach is that the company focuses on working with the entire value system, which includes partners within and across its value chains. This way of collaborating is an effective way to drive sustainability and to come up with innovative solutions that benefit business and society. An example of this are the trawls made from Dyneema® which help to reduce the environmental impact of pelagic fishing and were developed in close partnership with fishing companies. DSM is also increasingly focusing on end-users to create more value in its B2B activities. This is leading to a stronger focus on the ‘human’ stories behind the product, rather than its technical Customers properties. This wider relevance creates stronger bonds with DSM embraces true customer centricity in its focus on customers and consumers. excellence in marketing and sales. The company is committed to becoming a part of the top quartile of customer-centric One of DSM’s key performance indicators is the customer companies and therefore has developed a detailed roadmap to complaint rate. In 2014, this rate fell to an all-time low due to continuously improve its marketing and sales capabilities. To DSM's integrated complaint management process, which Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 31 www.dsm.com stimulates relevant continuous improvements in products, such as acquisitions and divestments. In 2014, DSM processes and services for the benefit of customers. participated in investor conferences and interacted with investors in roadshows in Europe, North America and Asia. The An example of this is the handling of a complaint from a Japanese company also organized a capital markets day with a special customer about a small amount of foreign particles in one of focus on updating the markets on its 2015 targets. In 2014, DSM DSM Nutritional Products’ vitamin batches. A technical expert engaged with responsible investors and traditional investors with group conducted an immediate investigation to determine the a keen interest in the company's environmental, social and root cause. The particles appeared through the abrasion of parts governance performance and filled in general and specialized of the equipment in the manufacturing process. At no point were sustainability questionnaires. the customer or the final consumer put at risk. The customer appreciated DSM’s fast and accurate response. All relevant information was made publicly available via press releases and on the DSM Investor Relations website and IR app, Another example is an Indian customer manufacturing coated ensuring that such information was equally and simultaneously packaging films, who filed a complaint about the stability of a provided and accessible to all interested parties. For more batch of resins. A thorough investigation at DSM laboratories in information see www.dsm.com. the Netherlands revealed that the complaint was not related to the resin itself but to the mixing process during the customer’s Governments formulation. A technical expert traveled to India to support the DSM believes that dialogue between business and government customer in resolving the issue. The handling of this complaint authorities is a constructive part of the legislative decisionstrengthened the customer relationship and contributed to the making process. An important goal of that dialogue is to create growth of the business. a reliable regulatory framework and favorable conditions for business activities, thus supporting business success. DSM Employees encourages legislators to promote competitiveness and Every day, DSM's employees work in diverse areas of health, innovation. nutrition and materials, creating value for customers by helping them provide solutions to some of the world’s greatest DSM is committed to acting responsibly and transparently when challenges. DSM encourages people to plan their career paths it comes to sharing its expertise with policymakers and and helps them to keep on developing their skills and knowledge. government authorities in all markets. The company is registered It requires people who find different ways to add value and in the European Commission's voluntary register of lobbyists. It contribute. engages with policymakers worldwide on various topics, including nutrition, energy and industrial biotechnology. It also On 22 April, various DSM locations hosted the first DSM Earth supports public-private collaboration as an essential part of its Day event to encourage employee action and awareness on engagement. This engagement involves both (semi-) sustainability topics. With nearly 5,000 commitments to governmental organizations as well as NGOs. See also Publicsustainability made by employees at more than 80 sites and Private Partnerships on page 36. online, supported by senior management, Earth Day was a great success for employee engagement and awareness on Civil society environmental challenges. A company cannot be successful in a society that fails, which means that working together with other organizations can be a Since 2008, DSM has been measuring employee engagement step towards finding solutions to societal challenges. DSM has each year. This Employee Engagement Survey helps DSM to engaged with various NGOs during the year on topics like manage and develop its human capital and stimulate growth malnutrition and stunting, food security, renewable energy, biothrough people. The survey is an important external benchmark based solutions and the role of business in society. In November, to establish if DSM continues to be among high performing Kumi Naidoo, Executive Director at Greenpeace International, companies that are attractive for talented people and are able to was invited by Feike Sijbesma to talk to DSM employees in the keep employees energized and inspired. For a full description of Netherlands. the survey and the index see People in 2014 on page 46. Science Institutes Investors DSM works closely with the academic sector. It has longDSM actively engages with investors and financial analysts. It standing relationships with many academic institutions while does this by organizing conference calls following the publication others are project-based. Partners in nutrition science research of quarterly results and announcements of major transactions include: the Swiss Federal Research Institute ETH (Zurich, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 32 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 Switzerland); the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine Sourcing Awards and Supplier Innovation Awards to recognize (London, UK); the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public its cross-functional purchasing teams. Of the eight finalists, five Health, Baltimore (Maryland, USA); the University of California of the projects showed clear sustainability benefits. (California, USA); North-West University (Potchefstroom, South Africa); and Wageningen University and Research Centre Externally, DSM was active in industry collaboration. In 2014, the (Wageningen, Netherlands). company joined the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, which becomes operational in 2015, with the aim of acquiring Through the public-private partnership with the Dutch Polymer broader knowledge of, and insight into its supplier base. The TfS Institute (DPI), DSM works together with more than 50 science initiative was founded in 2011 by the Chief Procurement Officers institutes worldwide, among which Delft University of of six multinational chemical companies. The purpose of the Technology (Netherlands), ESCPE-Lyon (France), Imperial initiative is to develop and implement a global assessment and College London (UK), Japan Advanced Institute of Science and audit program to assess and improve sustainability practices Technology (Nomi, Japan) and Max-Planck Institute for Polymer within the supply chains of the chemical industry. Forschung (Mainz, Germany). Founded in 1997, this partnership is between polymer producing and processing industries and DSM was also a member of a group of companies organizing knowledge institutes involved in polymer research. the International Supply Management Congress in Amsterdam, (Netherlands). The congress focused on sustainability in supply DSM is also actively involved with the Bio-based Industries chains. In 2014, DSM contributed to the theme of 'partnerships Consortium, which has partnerships with Aalborg University in the supply chain' in a keynote by Managing Board member (Copenhagen, Denmark), Karlsruhe Institute for Technology Stephan Tanda. Around 750 participants from a wide range of (Germany) and Chalmers University of Technology (Gotenburg, companies and NGOs joined the conference. Sweden). DSM is a member of the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil Suppliers (RSPO), and has made a public commitment to being With more than 40,000 suppliers, DSM looks to support efficient transparent about how much palm oil is being used by the engagement efforts. Following its inception in 2006, the DSM company, and to increase its use of Certified Sustainable Palm Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP) has been implemented via Oil. In the last two years, GreenPalm certificates under the 'Book an annual plan that is approved by the DSM Purchasing & Claim' scheme were used to cover almost all of the material Leadership Team. Progress towards targets is shared on a purchased at DSM Nutritional Products. DSM aims to progress monthly basis within the purchasing community and quarterly to full RSPO mass balanced certification. reports are shared with the Managing Board. The program consists of two main parts: compliance and supplier solutions. Supplier compliance In 2014, DSM continued with its three-step approach for its SSP To further improve the maturity level of the SSP, it has been compliance program: Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC); important to benchmark against the practices of industry peers. questionnaires for self-assessment; and supplier audits. DSM In 2014, an assessment of DSM’s maturity level on supplier focuses on the performance of 1,200 so-called critical suppliers. sustainability was made on four dimensions: Strategy/Plan; Critical suppliers are defined by each business group, taking into Supply Risk & Opportunity; People, Infrastructure & consideration both business risks and sustainability risks. Measurements; and Processes. The maturity assessment was Included in that definition are suppliers who are providing DSM used as a tool to assess where DSM is, and to define the with critical components; are located in potentially high risk ambition level for the SSP. countries; are non-substitutable or high volume suppliers; or have potential for creating shared value in the areas of innovation Standard sustainability trainings are run every year and have and sustainability. been incorporated into the overall purchasing training curriculum. In 2014, 156 colleagues were trained. This means In the year, 94 percent of spend was covered by the SCoC. The that by the end of the year, over 90 percent of the purchasing outcomes of self-assessments and audits continued to provide community had been trained. Customized training and input for the improvement programs agreed to and followed up workshops for business group purchasing teams are also with suppliers. Another focus for 2014 was the integration of organized to facilitate specific topics. The training not only sustainability compliance into the standard Supply Risk illustrates why sustainability matters for DSM, but also provides Management approach and the new supplier onboarding ideas and practical tools on how to make sustainability an process. In the new spend management system for indirect integral part of daily work. DSM also established the Strategic sourcing, sustainability assessments became a mandatory step Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 33 www.dsm.com when onboarding new suppliers. This gives a clear message that non-governmental organization specialized in sustainability DSM wants to do business with suppliers that share similar audits. In May 2014, phase I of the project closed successfully. sustainability values. Each € 1,000 investment from DSM triggered initiatives that brought in approximately € 8,000 in efficiency improvements at With the adoption of TfS, DSM will move from its current selfthe suppliers' side. assessment and audit practices, to standardize and simplify the inspection of its suppliers. This will be made possible by the In July 2014, the roll-out of the Triple P project continued with sharing of supplier sustainability assessments and audit data for phase II. During the year, senior and experienced sustainability, a common pool of suppliers through the TfS framework. productivity and external human rights experts organized Resources can be employed more effectively to initiate workshops and offered rounds of in-house technical support to continuous improvements of sustainability standards in DSM’s factories interested in making genuine environmental, social and global supply chains, while the increased transparency on economic improvements. On-site baseline assessments and sustainability standards will provide a sound basis for business final evaluations were carried out to measure potential impact decisions. and progress in performance. The project helped to identify and create benefits related to DSM's ECO+ and People+ programs Solutions at suppliers’ facilities. The project supported suppliers to benefit DSM Purchasing engages in a proactive dialogue with suppliers from energy efficiency improvements and footprint reductions to create joint value and to engage in areas related to ECO+ and (ECO+), Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) improvements, People+, as part of the supplier solutions projects. and communication between employees and management (People+). In the context of its Purchasing Vision ’Beyond Savings', DSM has made steady progress in connecting supplier solutions to Special trainings were offered to the staff of the six participating customer needs. Each business within DSM has to focus on Chinese suppliers to improve awareness on energy-efficiency those specific elements and challenges that need to be practices and in SHE management. In addition, DSM helped addressed in order to create sustainable business. DSM suppliers include sustainability considerations and criteria in their Purchasing aligns as much as possible with the relevant topics own supply chain management, providing them with the in the DSM materiality matrix: Sustainable value chains; Bioknowledge and tools to set up their own supplier sustainability based and circular economy; Resource constraints; and Human programs. rights. In the supplier sustainability plan 2015, DSM Purchasing will also address KPIs related to the relevant topics in the ECO+ supplier solutions materiality matrix. DSM continued to engage in conversations with suppliers on initiatives and solutions projects that have environmental Supplier sustainability program benefits. A significant number of initiatives are currently running in, amongst others, packaging, logistics, recycling materials, and 2014 2013 2012 carbon footprint reduction. Spend coverage SCoC 94% 95% 93% In 2014, 27 Supplier Projects were carried out in the area of Sustainability audits 42 40 40 ECO+. The Renewable Energy Movement (REMove) project Quality audits1 294 299 looked into DSM’s energy portfolio with the aim of increasing the LCA/Supplier solution 30 31 22 company’s use of renewable energy. Impact is expected to be projects achieved via larger country projects and site-specific projects. 1 Reporting on a corporate level started in 2013 The solar field at the Belvidere (New Jersey, USA) plant was one such project that demonstrated significant ECO+ and economic benefits. This project was in response to the Energy Master Plan China Triple P project of the State of New Jersey, which has set itself the goal of having In 2013, DSM initiated the ‘China Triple P Supplier Engagement 20 percent of the energy used in the state coming from and Capability Building’ project. It aimed to use the People, renewable sources by the year 2025. The project entailed the Planet and Profit (Triple P) approach to engage suppliers in a construction of a six Megawatt peak solar field on DSM property, more committed business collaboration and jointly create a more consisting of 19,954 solar panels, all coated with DSM’s antisustainable supply chain in China. DSM Purchasing launched reflective coating KhepriCoat®. This coating increases the this project through its partnership with Solidaridad, a global energy output of each panel by up to four percent. The field will Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 34 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 deliver approximately 30-40 percent of DSM Belvidere’s Collaboration with peers electricity needs at peak sunshine, and provide over five percent of the plant’s total power demand on an annual basis. The solar Collaboration is an important characteristic of sustainable field is built, owned and run by partners, from whom DSM development. Working together with NGOs, governments, purchases the renewable energy generated. DSM anticipates suppliers and customers to find solutions for societal needs and cost savings of more than € 250,000 annually in transmission environmental challenges is a well-established practice. In 2014, and distribution charges. DSM also collaborated with like-minded peers from other sectors, not necessarily suppliers or customers, to create social DSM is also actively looking into reducing its footprint in and environmental measuring and performance standards. scope 3 greenhouse-gas emissions (see page 51). The CO2 Together with cross-sector companies and business emission reduction initiative by the DSM Physical Distribution organizations, DSM has been an advocate on urgent themes like (PD) team looks into supplier footprints in road and marine climate change, nutrition and the pricing of externalities. transportation as well as packaging to explore opportunities for improvement. The project is a continuation of the Green Tender World Economic Forum (WEF) initiative that began in 2012, with the goal of steering supplier DSM expanded its collaboration with the World Economic Forum selection to achieve a 20 percent reduction in emissions to a strategic partnership. As a strategic partner, DSM is involved associated with logistics and packaging. So far, over 23 percent in both the chemicals and the consumer industries as well as a of global PD spend has been covered by Green Tender. The number of other initiatives, including the New Vision on cumulative CO2 emission reduction, compared to 2010, has Agriculture platform. At the Annual Meeting of the World already reached ten percent. Economic Forum in Davos in 2014, DSM sponsored the UN World Food Programme tent, and organized events and People+ supplier solutions discussions on hunger, malnutrition and climate change. It was DSM actively engages suppliers to improve their practices in the also represented at various regional meetings, including the People+ area by building supplier capabilities. The main focus of Annual Meeting of the New Champions in Tianjin (China). People+ in the supply chain is on working conditions and safety improvements. These elements are, for instance, an integral part of the China Triple P project. In addition, the initiative ‘Picking up the gauntlet’, which started in 2013, targets training in and the enforcement of DSM's Life Saving Rules and safety regulations on DSM sites – not just for suppliers, but also for contractors and sub-contractors. The goal of the project is to move from a passive approach (such as the enforcement of safety standards via contracting) towards a more proactive approach, so that only people with the right safety knowledge and attitudes can enter DSM sites. This active approach includes making safety performance an integral part of supplier qualification and selection; collecting and auditing track records on a continuous basis; getting commitments from suppliers to do the same with their sub-suppliers; and executing extensive know-how and best practice sharing workshops. In another case, the DSM Physical Distribution team looked for CE100 alternative logistics solutions to ship ammonia sulfate for DSM DSM supports and embraces the concept of the circular Fibre Intermediates in China. They decided to use bulk shipment economy, where products and systems are designed in such a to replace old manual ways of shipping packaged material. The way that they can be returned and the materials recycled, reuse of machines instead of manual labor to deliver and unload used or remanufactured. A circular economy is also about a shift approximately 450,000 bags on an annual basis has led to a from fossil fuels to the use of cleaner energy, the eradication of reduced risk of SHE accidents. This resulted in better working waste and the role of biodiversity as a characteristic of resilient conditions, improved efficiency and reductions of up to 60 and productive systems. DSM is a member of the Ellen percent on packaging and logistics costs. MacArthur Foundation CE100, a group of companies working together to create solutions for the circular economy. DSM’s Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 35 www.dsm.com CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Feike Sijbesma is a sector. The benefits for the business and potential customer member of the steering committee of Project Mainstream, an engagement are also being explored by the team. initiative of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation and WEF aimed at accelerating cross-sector engagement for a circular economy. Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC) The DSGC brings together a group of large Dutch multinational World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) enterprises: AkzoNobel, DSM, Friesland Campina, KLM, Philips, DSM is a member of the WBCSD and is involved in the Shell and Unilever. They are recognized for their leading role in Action2020 project, a platform for business to contribute sustainable business development and seek to develop solutions to environmental and social challenges. DSM has a innovative strategies, business models and products that leading role in Action2020 on the topics of sustainable lifestyle, overcome societal challenges. In December, the DSGC safe and sustainable materials and social impact. published its third report, which focused on innovations that bring a sustainable economy closer. DSM contributed with its Leaders for Nature anti-reflective coating KhepriCoat® and rice fortification. KLM DSM supports the movement towards greater transparency also showcased its lightweight air cargo nets made with DSM's through valuing environmental and social impacts. In 2014, DSM Dyneema® fiber. signed the Green Deal with the Dutch Government, which is a collaboration on transparency of natural and social capital. An Public-private partnerships initiative of the nature conservation organization IUCN Netherlands, MVO Nederland and True Price, its purpose is to As a leading micronutrient provider, DSM develops innovative share and develop knowledge on valuing natural and social solutions for improved nutrition. In order for these solutions to capital in 2014 and 2015. In line with this commitment, the DSM have the broadest outreach, DSM works with partner Leaders for Nature team (a group of young professionals at DSM) organizations that have a direct reach to beneficiaries. DSM’s has been exploring the valuation of sustainability at a product nutrition partnerships focus on the following objectives: wider level over the past two years. In 2014, they extended their study base of scientific evidence and endorsement; increased market to valuing social impacts, with a product from the nutrition for nutrition products; and improved employee engagement. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 36 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 Organization Partnership activities United Nations World Food Programme The DSM–United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) partnership ‘Improving Nutrition, Improving Lives’ aims to improve the nutritional value of the food that the WFP distributes to its most vulnerable beneficiaries. The partnership reaches over 20 million people and delivers improved nutrition. DSM and WFP jointly advocate an increase in awareness and funding to help eradicate malnutrition. UNICEF DSM and UNICEF collaborated to support micronutrient programs in two subSaharan African countries. The achievements during the first year of the partnership included an evaluation of a market-based model for micronutrient powders in Madagascar and support for the development of a public-sector model for the same purpose in Nigeria. GAIN (Global Alliance for Improved GAIN supports public-private partnerships that help to increase access to missing Nutrition) nutrients that are necessary for people, communities and economies to be stronger and healthier. DSM collaborates with GAIN on several multi-stakeholder projects in Kenya and Ethiopia under the Amsterdam Initiative against Malnutrition. DSM Managing Board member Stephan Tanda is a member of GAIN's Partnership Council. Partners in Food Solutions Partners in Food Solutions is a non-profit organization that links the technical and business expertise of volunteer employees from General Mills, Cargill, DSM and Bühler to small food processors and millers in the developing world. DSM contributes management time, technical assistance and volunteers to this multistakeholder partnership. Sight and Life Through its continued support of the non-profit humanitarian nutrition think tank Sight and Life, DSM is helping to improve the world’s knowledge, understanding and awareness of hidden hunger. A key focus of its work is in the field of implementation science and leadership capacity development. SUN (Scaling Up Nutrition) Business DSM’s CEO Feike Sijbesma co-chairs the Advisory Group of the SUN Business Network Network. The 107 participating companies are asked to map their competences and indicate where and how they can support global projects and actions to end malnutrition and stop hidden hunger. World Vision International The DSM-World Vision International (WVI) partnership aims to contribute to the reduction of the 165 million children under five across the globe who are stunted. The partners launched a flagship project ‘Millers’ Pride’ that assists millers in Dar es Salaam (Tanzania). Vitamin Angels Vitamin Angels helps at-risk populations in need: mainly pregnant women, new mothers, and children under five. Together with DSM, it helps them to gain access to vitamins and minerals by providing contributions of vitamin A capsules and multi-vitamin premix for chewable tablets. Zero Hunger Challenge Initiative At the United Nations Zero Hunger event in September, DSM reconfirmed its commitment to help in the global fight against malnutrition and hunger. The UN Secretary-General encouraged all partners of the initiative to turn the vision of an end to hunger into reality. Every Woman, Every Child commitment Multiple micronutrient supplements (MMS) have a major impact on maternal and child health and are critical to breaking the cycle of malnutrition and poverty. DSM piloted MMS distribution during the annual Maternal Newborn and Child Health Week in Nigeria. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 37 www.dsm.com Philanthropy and sponsorships Bush, the daughter of former US President George W. Bush, to address nutritional challenges facing the population of the US. DSM supports causes and initiatives that relate to its mission of The partnership specifically focuses on Newark (New Jersey, using bright science to create brighter living. It does so by USA). The issue of malnutrition, a recognized challenge in the providing products, expertise and funding. In 2014, DSM developing world, also exists in the US where a majority of the donated more than € 3 million to a range of initiatives. DSM population is vitamin and mineral deficient. These deficiencies makes no political donations, as outlined in its Code of Business have long-term consequences with physical and cognitive Conduct. See www.dsm.com. under-development, and lifestyle diseases, which increase healthcare costs, lower productivity and create issues of health DSM China and economic equity. As a global partner of the WFP, DSM China has been taking part in the Walk the World fundraising event since 2007. With a theme Global Compact of ‘Hunger is Solvable: Bright Experience’, the event in In 2007, DSM signed up to the United Nations Global Compact, September attracted more than 2,000 DSM employees and their joining thousands of companies from all regions of the world as families, as well as partners from 14 sites in 10 Chinese cities. well as international labor and civil society organizations to The money collected at the event was donated to the WFP’s advance ten universal principles in the areas of human rights, School Feeding Programmes worldwide and the China labor, the environment and anti-corruption. DSM’s Code of Foundation for Poverty Alleviation. The latter will use the money Business Conduct, its sustainability and SHE policies, and its for the school meal program it conducts in poor areas of China. Supplier Sustainability Program are the foundations on which The approximately € 11,000 collected will provide 45,000 school DSM applies the standards of the Global Compact. These meals. activities are monitored and reported (see table below). This Integrated Annual Report 2014 is also DSM’s annual DSM North America Communication on Progress (COP) submitted to the UN Global DSM’s North American organization partnered with Global Compact Office. Health Corps (GHC), an organization co-founded by Barbara Principles of the UN Global Compact1 DSM Code of Business Conduct and relevant page(s) in the Integrated Annual Report 2014 Principle 1 Support of human rights page 34, page 40, page 49 Principle 2 Exclusion of human rights violation page 40, page 49 Principle 3 Observance of the right to freedom of association page 40, page 49 Principle 4 Abolition of all forms of forced labor page 40, page 49 Principle 5 Abolition of child labor page 40, page 49 Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination page 40, page 42, page 46, page 48 Principle 7 Precautionary environmental protection page 50 to page 56 Principle 8 Specific commitment to environmental protection page 50 to page 56 Principle 9 Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies page 23 to page 26, page 50 to page 56, page 62 to page 84 Principle 10 Measures to fight corruption page 41, page 42, page 49, page 95, page 99 1 In 2014 DSM once again renewed its commitment to the UN Global Compact's CEO Water Mandate; see Planet in 2014 on page 54 External recognition received from non-governmental and trade organizations, customers, suppliers and the academic world in 2014. People at DSM are proud when DSM's sustainability and innovation efforts, either as a company or individual products Innovation and solutions, are recognized by the outside world. Here follow DSM’s advanced cellulosic yeast product was named the some of the awards and other forms of recognition that DSM ‘Breakthrough Technology of the Year’ at Green Power’s Sustainable Bio Awards, presented during the World Bio Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 38 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 Markets 2014 Conference in March. The award recognizes a Company in the Netherlands. This is the first time a B2B “technology that resets the goal for bio-based production”. company has received this recognition. According to the jury DSM’s advanced cellulosic yeast product recently achieved “DSM has successfully transformed itself from a chemical giant successful scale-up in an industrial production-sized trial at to a specialized multinational that translates technology into DONG Energy’s Inbicon demonstration plant in Kalundborg value propositions in the areas of health, nutrition and materials”. (Denmark). In June, DSM received the 2014 Europe Frost & Sullivan Award At Frost & Sullivan's Best Practices Awards Banquet in May, for Customer Value Leadership for its work in enhancing value DSM's Maxipro HSP, a unique protease able to extract valuable for Tier 1 suppliers of passenger car steering systems, by protein from existing animal by-products, was recognized with establishing a new benchmark in weight reduction. an Innovation of the Year award by the organizers. This is the second such award given recently to Maxipro HSP. Social media DSM was presented with the EVMI Dutch Food Top 100’s Social In November, DSM received the Society of Plastics Engineers Media Award in May. DSM was praised for its consistency Automotive Division Innovation Award in recognition of the across all channels, the integration with its websites, the use of numerous environmental and economic advantages of the new local channels and responsiveness. crankshaft cover in Volkswagen Group diesel engines manufactured with DSM’s bio-based polymer, EcoPaXX®. In late November, at the ITMA Future Materials Awards, DSM's Dyneema® was recognized with three awards based on its Dyneema® Force Multiplier Technology platform; Best Innovation – Industrial Textiles, Most Innovative Large Company and Launch of the Year. Sustainability In February, DSM’s novel composite system for making wind turbine blades based on the company's Beyone™ styrene-free, cobalt-free and 40 percent bio-based resin, was announced as the winner of the Sustainability category of the JEC Europe 2014 Innovation Awards. As well as being more environmentally friendly, the new composite system offers simple processing, superior strength and improved fatigue resistance. It is currently being evaluated by Siemens Wind Power for its next generation wind turbine blades. DSM was recognized in October with a Singapore Sustainability Award in the prestigious Sustainable Business category. The award showcases the most innovative and impactful sustainable practices and green solutions among organizations in the country. DSM Singapore has been recognized for efforts in creating shared value for customers, employees, society and shareholders. In December, DSM Engineering Plastics India won the CII-ITC Sustainability Award 2014 by the CII-ITC Centre for Excellence for Sustainable Development in India, recognizing and honoring innovative initiatives in the field of sustainability. Marketing and sales In early 2014, DSM was presented with the Netherlands Institute of Marketing’s (NIMA) Marketing Award 2013 for best Marketing Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 39 www.dsm.com DSM Code of Business Conduct Business principles The DSM Code of Business Conduct ('the Code'), as introduced and rolled out from 2010, contains the company’s business principles across the three dimensions of People (11 principles), Planet (5 principles), and Profit (15 principles). These principles translate DSM’s mission and core value − sustainability − into daily practice across its business operations. All DSM employees are expected to act in accordance with the Code, and the Managing Board holds DSM’s unit management accountable for compliance with the Code. The Code is available to employees in 17 languages and the full text of the Code can be found on the company's website www.dsm.com. Umbrella function human rights-related policies and procedures are brought together. See also Human Rights on page 49. The Code serves as an umbrella for several other DSM regulations, which are often supported by e-learning programs Planet: The basic course on Responsible Care addresses the to train relevant people within the company. Depending on the elements of the Responsible Care Program: Safety, Health, subject, this concerns all employees or selected employees that Environment, Product Stewardship, Security and Sustainability. have a specific role in the organization. These regulations are in Because of the importance of the Responsible Care principles three dimensions: for all functions and roles within the company, this course is mandatory for all DSM employees, as well as for selected People: To support DSM’s ambition to create an incident-free contractor employees. and injury-free workplace, the Life Saving Rules specify the 12 most important rules that must be followed to prevent serious Profit: DSM uses the e-learning trainings Global Trade Controls and/or fatal incidents. and Global Competition Law Principles and Practices. Compliance with these subjects is structurally embedded in In 2014 the Human Rights project was initiated to further DSM’s systems and processes. elaborate the business principles on diversity and nondiscrimination, forced labor and child labor, fair remuneration As part of the global trade controls compliance process, DSM and standards of business partners. Its first aim is to develop an master data is screened to check customers and suppliers overarching Human Rights Policy for DSM, in which existing against embargoes and lists of sanctioned parties. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 40 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 The DSM Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy and Dilemmas Compliance Manual, which was developed in 2013, has been communicated to targeted employees in commercial and Living the Code can sometimes result in dilemmas that do not business roles in 2014. It is supported by a classroom training have a quick or clear answer. To prepare for these cases and an ABC e-learning, which was launched in 2014. Dilemma Workshops are held, using the UN Global Compact Dilemma Game as a tool. The workshops build on DSM’s In 2014, DSM rolled-out a new comprehensive Security company culture, which is based on openness, fairness and e-learning, covering all key security topics relevant to DSM’s trust. The aim is to create an open-minded atmosphere in which business, including DSM’s seven Key Security Behaviors. This dilemmas can be discussed among employees and/or training replaces the previously used 'For Your Eyes Only' management. These discussions are used to calibrate 'what is training. To complete the e-learning, participants are required to right' and 'what is wrong' in order to continuously improve read and sign-off on the DSM Code of Conduct for Information business integrity in daily operations. In 2014, a Dilemma App Security. For locations that do not have access to e-learning was developed, which is currently being piloted. facilities, a classroom version of the training is available. Consequence management DSM also has rules in place on the holding of and execution of transactions in DSM financial instruments and certain other DSM applies zero-tolerance consequence management to financial instruments related to trading in DSM shares, and if violations of the Code. Most Code incidents are reported to, and applicable, other company shares and related financial dealt with by, local line management. If reporting to line instruments, which apply to all relevant DSM employees, management is not considered possible, the whistleblower including the members of the Managing Board and the procedure (DSM Alert) is used. Complaints received by DSM Supervisory Board. Alert are dealt with via the DSM Alert Officer. In all cases, consequence management practices are in place (e.g. official Training and awareness warning, temporary suspension, dismissal) to support compliance with the Code. DSM employees must refresh their training on the Code every two years. The implementation of this training program The DSM Alert Officer reports to the CEO and is invited to report proceeded well in 2014: at year-end more than 90 percent of all independently to the Supervisory Board once a year. As of 2014, DSM employees had completed (or refreshed) their training, people who are not DSM employees but wish to raise a concern excluding employees of some of the newly acquired businesses. regarding a violation of the Code can also contact the DSM Alert The training program is also offered by the business units to Officer via www.dsm.com. In 2014, two external reports of selected contractor employees as well as to employees in DSM's potential violations were received. joint ventures. The table on the next page gives an overview of all reported Code The implementation of the ABC program also proceeded well. of Business Conduct violations, with a breakdown per Triple P Employees belonging to the ABC target group have been dimension and per region. Proven serious violations of the Code identified and invited to complete the ABC e-learning. Of this can result in dismissal. In line with this policy, 62 employees were target group, 71 percent completed the training within the first dismissed in 2014, as a result of breaches of the Code or other half year after the roll-out. legal or local company regulations. In addition, 76 cases were reported that have led to other kinds of consequence Those employees who are most exposed to competition laws management (official warning or suspension). Overall, this is a must complete an annual statement to confirm their compliance significant increase compared to 2013, which can be explained with the rules set forth in the DSM Competition Law Compliance by increased awareness of the Code, particularly in the Americas Manual. In this statement they confirm that they are not aware and the Asia-Pacific region. As a result, the reporting of violations of any violation of competition laws by DSM. Alleged breaches has also improved. The decrease in the number of employees in are reported to and discussed with DSM Legal Affairs. In 2014, Europe in 2014 explains the decrease of cases in Europe & no breaches were reported and DSM was not subject to any Africa. investigation by competition authorities related to potential anticompetitive behavior. People: Most of the cases in the People dimension are related to violations of the Life Saving Rules or inappropriate behavior. The first category is most often directly reported to and resolved by operational line management. The second category is more Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 41 www.dsm.com often dealt with by the DSM Alert Officer. One of the lessons Planet: There were only a few violations of the Code in the Planet learned is that the growing globalization of DSM's workforce dimension. Investigations of serious environmental incidents demands more attention be given to cultural differences. This have shown that hardly any of these occurred due to seriously subject has been discussed in the Code Review Team, and the negligent or irresponsible behavior by employees. More details corporate ownership of this subject has been assigned to the on serious environmental incidents are provided in the chapter DSM North America regional president. What still went wrong in 2014 on page 116. Therefore, in 2014, DSM introduced an additional online training Profit: In the Profit dimension most cases are related to module to further emphasize the importance of the cultural, unauthorized absence from work, inappropriate behavior in diversity and non-discrimination aspects of the Code. This relation to commission payments, and fraud or theft. module focused on effective employee relations, communications, and non-discriminatory practices in the workplace. Code of Business Conduct 2014 2013 Training and awareness e-learning: % of targeted employees trained General Code of Business Conduct 91% 93% Profit Anti-Bribery and Corruption (introduced 2014) 71% DSM Competition Law: % of targeted employees signed-off DSM Competition Law Compliance annual statement 100% 100% Violations of the Code: Number of dismissals/other consequence management Triple P breakdown People 32/64 26/66 Planet 3/2 0/1 Profit 27/10 7/9 Regional breakdown Europe & Africa 10/38 14/49 Americas 30/26 15/24 Asia-Pacific 22/12 4/3 Total 62/76 33/76 Alert cases (whistleblower procedure): Number substantiated/not substantiated/under investigation Triple P breakdown People 6/11/1 4/15/0 Planet Profit 0/1/4 2/4/0 Regional breakdown Europe & Africa 2/5/1 2/4/0 Americas 2/5/2 2/7/0 Asia-Pacific 2/2/2 2/8/0 Total 6/12/5 6/19/0 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 42 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 People in 2014 DSM encourages its people to develop and build their careers The Frequency Index measures Lost Workday Cases, Restricted by broadening their skills and knowledge. It seeks to attract Workday Cases, Medical Treatment Cases and/or fatalities. For people who can add value and contribute in different ways. Most a full description of the Index see the Explanation of some importantly, DSM wants original thinkers and doers who can concepts and ratios on page 212. The Frequency Index of Lost stretch and move the company forward, in line with the Workday Cases for DSM employees was 0.15 (2013: 0.14). organizational needs. This means employees are encouraged to do everything they can to nurture and realize their bright ideas, in a working environment that promotes health, personal initiative, an entrepreneurial mindset and inspirational leadership. With 89 nationalities, more than 200 sites and offices in over 50 countries, it is important to create a shared culture that embraces differences. DSM aims to grow collaboration to harness the power of its global workforce. DSM's human resources strategy contributes to the development of inspiring and collaborative leaders. It creates an engaged and competitive workforce and fosters an inclusive environment in which people trust and respect one another, and where they encourage each other to achieve sustainable and focused business growth. The approach is supported by the ONE DSM Culture Agenda, which is explained further below in this chapter. DSM aims to become more international, in order to bring its To a large extent, the result in 2014 can be explained by the shift business closer to its key markets and customers and make it in DSM's portfolio of reporting units in 2014. Units from DSM stronger. To this end, it seeks to stimulate inclusion, diversity and Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and DSM Pharmaceutical Products innovation. It also combines a strong regional infrastructure with were phased out and newly acquired units were phased into the clear Managing Board-level accountability for regional statistics. Although the newly acquired units have improved their performance. The company’s human resources strategy safety records, they are not yet at the level of those sites that supports DSM's internationalization goals. have belonged to DSM for a longer time; it takes longer than just a few months for DSM's rigorous worldwide approach to Safety, This chapter outlines the general internal elements of DSM's Health and Environment (SHE) to be completely assimilated and people approach, which is embodied in the company's safety for the full effect to be seen. This shift has therefore had a and health and human resources policies, as well as the external significant impact. Of the total of 138 recordables, 56 (40 components contained in its People+ strategy and policies on percent) are in units that have been with DSM for less than four human rights. The performance elements of this strategy are years. These units account for 17 percent of all working hours. included in the Sustainability statements section of this report. See also Growth Driver: Sustainability on page 25 and No fatalities occurred in the year, which means that DSM has Stakeholder engagement on page 28. been fatality-free for three years in a row. Nevertheless, the incidents that did occur and the severity of their consequences Safety and health remain a cause for concern for the company. It is DSM's goal to Occupational safety have an injury and incident-free working environment. The DSM has been free of fatal accidents for several years, and has company has set itself the target of reducing the Frequency made steady progress in this area. However, improvements in Index of Recordable Injuries by 50 percent or more by the year safety performance did not continue in 2014. The Frequency 2020 compared to 2010. DSM aims for an index score that is Index of Recordable Injuries for 2013 was 0.38 and in 2014 it less than or equal to 0.25 by 2020, compared to the 0.57 was 0.47. achieved in 2010. A further goal is that by 2020 the number of serious safety incidents will be at least 65 percent lower than in 2010, when there were 15 such incidents. In 2014 there were Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 43 www.dsm.com seven such incidents reported. The weaker SHE performance in For this reason, DSM pays special attention to the safety of 2014 increases DSM's focus on achieving this target. contractors when they work for DSM. The company strives for long-term partnerships with its contractors as it sees this as the The focus on preventing serious accidents and any potential foundation for good SHE performance. Contractors should be fatalities that was renewed with the introduction of DSM's Life well informed about rules to be followed and adequately trained, Saving Rules, has resulted in a significant improvement in safety which is only possible when contractors and DSM employees performance in recent years. To create an even stronger focus work closely together over a long period. See also What still went on preventing incidents that can result in severe injury, the wrong in 2014 on page 116. Serious Injury and Fatalities (SIF) concept was introduced in 2014. This concept utilizes a decision tree approach to identify SHE integration of new sites all incidents and near misses with the potential for severe injury, In recent years, DSM has acquired a number of new companies so that improvement efforts can be concentrated on the with sites located in different countries. It is a high priority for the prevention of such incidents. After the pilot phase in 2014, the company that they implement the worldwide DSM approach to concept is expected to be fully rolled out in 2015. SHE as quickly as possible, as part of the integration process. A total of 31 new sites were added to DSM as a result of The incidents that still occurred and the results of the audits done acquisitions in 2012 and 2013, in North America (12), Asia (8), by the Corporate Operational Audit (COA) department South America (5), Europe (4) and the rest of the world (2). All demonstrated that the introduction of the mandatory 'lockoutthese sites are required to meet DSM SHE requirements. In tagout' and 'confined space entry' procedures were successful. 2014, the sites that were acquired in 2012 finalized the These practices improved the already existing requirements and integration program and were audited by COA, as the final step led to a renewed focus on the flawless execution of these in the integration process. ‘higher-hazard’ activities. Process safety A third mandatory practice on ‘permit-to-work systems’ detailing DSM follows the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) was developed in 2014 and will be implemented in 2015. This guidance in defining which incidents qualify as Process Safety new practice focuses on improving the existing work permit Incidents (PSI). The total number of Process Safety Incidents requirements within DSM by fostering better cooperation reported in 2014 was 118 (2013: 144). between DSM and contractors in the execution of work. This is in line with the initiative to improve contractor safety that was Translated into a Frequency Index, PSIs totaled 0.40 in the year reported last year. Furthermore, the initiative to introduce an (2013: 0.46), compared to a targeted reduction to 0.34 in 2015 improved Last Minute Risk Assessment (LMRA) methodology at and 0.17 in 2020. These represent improvements of 50 and 75 the Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) site will be introduced at all percent respectively, compared to a PSI Frequency Index of 0.68 DSM sites in 2015. The LMRA is the final check to see whether in 2010. a job is safe to start and everybody knows what to do. Also in 2014, traces of asbestos were found at the DSM site in Delft (Netherlands). DSM has asbestos control protocols in place for each of the buildings concerned and conducts regular asbestos measurements. The asbestos traces were discovered in a number of rooms, which were immediately vacated and subject to air sampling. No asbestos was detected in the air samples taken and a multidisciplinary task force was set up to relocate the employees involved. Contractors The number of contractor incidents showed the same trend as the incidents involving DSM employees. Contractors that work at DSM are between two and three times more likely to suffer a work-related accident than DSM employees. Almost half the fatalities that have occurred at DSM over the past 13 years have As a result of improvement actions in operations, design and involved contractors. This can partly be explained by the fact that maintenance, the number of Process Safety Incidents has contractors sometimes carry out more hazardous activities. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 44 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 started to come down consistently. Several business groups are Comparing the results in three DSM regions shows that the already performing ahead of the 2015 target. The focus for 2015 stress risk in Asia is significantly higher (73 percent) than in will be to ensure the continuous improvement of the units that Europe (43 percent) and in the US (58 percent). Another high risk are already performing well and to further leverage actions in in Asia is lack of exercise (67 percent). In North America, results businesses where improved performance cannot be reflect concerns about weight and obesity (46 percent). On the demonstrated yet. positive side, employees are willing to take action to improve their health. It is therefore important to continue generating such A strategic review of process safety was conducted in 2014 to results so that management can work on action plans to create support DSM's ambitions in this area. The result will be a broad a healthier work environment and help employees make and renewed program of activities for the years to come improvements. In 2015, some groups will be participating for the regarding the key elements of process safety management: second time, which will give insights into progress. competence management, requirements and standards, and performance monitoring. Results of Vitality@DSM up to 2014 have continued to demonstrate a positive trend. The total rise in productivity that SHE leadership development resulted, based on self-reported changes in lifestyle health risk DSM continuously focuses on the development of leadership factors (alcohol consumption, eating habits, lack of exercise, skills in SHE. In 2014, in addition to the dedicated SHE smoking, stress and obesity) reached more than USD 1 million leadership training programs, a global SHE Conference 'Living for around 600 employees in Europe, North America and Asia. our legacy, the journey continues' was organized for DSM's leadership development. The conference drew attendance from Occupational health cases a very diverse group of more than 140 DSM colleagues from all In 2014, a total of 11 (2013: 6) occupational health cases were over the world. Speakers included peers, customers and leading reported. speakers in the areas of leadership, collaboration and health, as well as a member of the DSM Managing Board. The main themes ONE DSM Culture Agenda on the agenda were: Incident and Injury-free DSM; health and human performance solutions; and planet ambitions and The ONE DSM Culture Agenda was designed in conjunction with initiatives. DSM’s Leadership Model, and aims to support the company’s strategic alignment with the needs of an ever-changing world. It Employee health management seeks to create a common language across the organization, DSM provides healthy working conditions for its employees. This building greater cohesion and enhancing DSM’s culture. ranges from controlling workplace risks (prevention) to health Through its implementation, DSM aims to become a high promotion activities. For example, dedicated training programs performance organization and achieve its business objectives. were organized in China to ensure sufficient competence in industrial hygiene and ergonomics. Furthermore, health-related Introduced to executives in late 2012 and to the larger employee impacts due to social and demographic trends (e.g. aging base in 2013, the focus in 2014 was on fostering different ways workforce) are specifically addressed in the Health module of of working by applying its four themes across the company’s DSM's SHE Leadership programs. daily operations. Influenced by the results of the Employee Engagement Survey in 2013, the 2014 approach sought to DSM aims to foster a sustainable culture of health among its address three main audience segments: employees. Vitality@DSM is a global health management program that provides employees with insights into their own Line managers and their ability to role model and champion lifestyle profile and explains the consequences of unhealthy newly expected behaviors around External Orientation, lifestyle habits. It also stimulates them to take responsibility for Accountability for Performance, Collaboration with Speed, changing their habits. and Inclusion & Diversity; Employees and their ability to embed the four themes into daily Over the years, some 10,700 employees have participated in the operations, thereby making the new behaviors their own; and Vitality@DSM program. Last year, DSM boosted the program Growing the Circles of Thoughts through highly active and through its DSM Health network initiative. In 2014 alone, more enthusiastic communities to create a bottom-up drive and than 1,000 employees participated in Asia and Europe. energy around the four themes. Employee self-reported figures show that stress is still the largest Among the highlights in 2014 was the growth of the Circles of lifestyle risk factor (49 percent) among DSM employees. Thoughts, which went from 50 to nearly 900 members. These Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 45 www.dsm.com regionally organized groups initiated a number of thoughtInclusion & Diversity provoking and creative activities that led to a further embracing Fostering an inclusive culture that embraces of the themes, as well as quarterly conversations with managers. differences is consistent with DSM’s corporate This resulted in more visible role modeling, coaching and values and helps it create the high-performance guidance for their teams in the adoption of the four themes. It organization it requires as a truly global company. also enabled employees to see the benefits of working A more balanced DSM leadership group in terms of gender and differently, and celebrating the champions among them. nationality is part of these efforts and will improve decisionmaking processes and the implementation of its strategy. Frequent references to the four themes in daily communications across all regions, and in the initiatives owned and led by the DSM Employee Engagement Survey regions and business groups, encouraged their adoption, even while more remains to be done. This was particularly true for An engaged workforce is critical for DSM to realize its ambitions. DSM’s Inclusion & Diversity efforts. In 2015, DSM will continue The DSM Employee Engagement Survey is an effective tool for to emphasize the segmented approach to the three audiences, understanding the requirements of employees. Its goal is to transferring further ownership to regions and business groups, create a company in which employees feel proud to work, and and focusing also on an increased empowerment of the Circles where they feel they can excel. of Thoughts. In 2014, DSM held its seventh worldwide Employee Engagement ONE DSM Culture Agenda themes Survey. A total of 17,684 employees, including 408 contractor External Orientation employees, completed the questionnaire, which was distributed DSM recognizes that in order to execute its growth online and on paper in 18 languages to all DSM employees. This strategy and adapt to changing customer and represents a very high response rate of 85 percent. industry requirements, its employees must be aligned with the realities of a rapidly changing The main element in the survey is the measurement of DSM’s world. This means not just anticipating customer needs to drive Employee Engagement Index, which is the percentage of marketing, sales and innovation priorities, but also being better employees scoring favorably on a combination of the four able to track, learn and compete across all functions. External attributes: commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction. Orientation also helps to broaden DSM’s networks and engage with stakeholder groups. The Employee Engagement Index measured in 2014 was 70 percent (2013: 71 percent). This is in line with the overall global Accountability for Performance (and learning) norm of 70 percent. For the highest performing companies DSM expects its employees to set themselves around the globe, the benchmark number is 81 percent. This is ambitious targets and to deliver on these. the league DSM aspires to be part of. The neutral responses Accountability for Performance (and learning) is came to 21 percent. about people taking responsibility for their actions and for the performance of their teams. It also means recognizing DSM has conducted its Employee Engagement Survey each and celebrating successes, while viewing problems and year since 2007 and will continue to use it to guide its ONE DSM mistakes as individual and collective learning opportunities. Culture Agenda to become a high performing company. DSM will move this survey into a two-year cycle with a full survey in Collaboration with Speed one year and a pulse survey the next so that it has more time to In an ever more connected world, collaboration has follow up on results and actions, with the next full survey in 2016. become an important competitive advantage. DSM The shortened survey to be held in 2015 requires less time from encourages employees to actively (co-)create, and respondents and is easier to manage and follow up on. The pulse to share and build on the ideas, information, survey will be set up as a short questionnaire for all employees knowledge and expertise of their colleagues and the outside to have the opportunity to express their opinions. At the same world. By fostering collaboration, DSM taps the true potential of time, all business groups will have insights into the engagement its global workforce and promotes faster decision-making and progress. execution. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 46 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 Talent management The DSM Leadership Model plays an important part in the DSM Leadership Model recruitment process. It gives the organization a guideline for the The DSM Leadership Model specifies the characteristics profile it strives to hire and retain, through competency-based expected from leaders now and in the future in a simple, interviewing techniques that increase objectivity and understandable and compelling way. It provides a common effectiveness. To this end, a practical guide for interviewing and vision and language regarding the leadership that DSM requires selection has been introduced that is based on this model. to succeed. The model sets out the expectation for leaders to be role models and developers of a sustainable and successful Mentoring organization for the future. It is the basis for high quality processes to hire people, grow and develop talent and build Regional mentoring programs have been rolled out in the US, high-performing teams. Asia and the Netherlands. The programs include a matching process, and provide training for both mentors and mentees. A regional intranet environment was created for each program, providing practical support and guidance. Programs included events and were followed up with evaluations for both parties. The US has implemented the longest running program. The Asia Connect program started in 2012 and the overall satisfaction rate in 2014 was 88 percent. In the Netherlands, 2014 was a pilot year. Based on its success, follow-up programs will take place in 2015 for all three regions. Participants Regional Mentoring Programs Mentees Mentors US 139 113 In 2014, DSM made significant progress on the implementation Asia 140 39 of the model. By the end of 2014 almost 90 percent of the Netherlands,1 30 15 executive population had participated in DSM Leadership Model awareness workshops around the globe, which resulted in very 1 Pilot started in 2014 positive evaluations. The Leadership Model is now embedded in executive recruitment, appointments and promotions, and the Executive Leadership Programs. In addition, in 2014, all Organizational learning executives were assessed in their annual Performance and Development Review on the five Leadership elements, with a To fulfill its mission of creating brighter lives for people today and clear focus on strengths and development areas. The executive generations to come, DSM nurtures a culture of continuous leadership assessments and 360° feedback tool have also been learning, discovery and improvement. It also strongly believes in developed and are being implemented. the need to invest in the knowledge, skills and experience of its people to ensure their long-term employability. Evaluations performed in 2014 show that the model supports a common vision regarding the type of leadership that DSM Learning and development is key for the high-performance requires. It was embraced by DSM executives as a common culture that DSM requires in order to achieve its strategic language and a lens for talent discussions and decisions. objectives, and gives people the chance to build their capabilities, develop their careers and reach their full DSM decided to roll out the Leadership Model further across the professional potential. It is also vital for strengthening the talent organization in 2014 to all managers and employees in senior pipeline and for developing inspiring and collaborative leaders of management roles. For this enlarged target group, DSM will use the future. the Leadership Model as a development framework. A group of over 100 internal facilitators were trained across the globe to At DSM, learning goes beyond the classroom. The most valuable support the workshops for this roll-out. lessons are often learned by employees on the job, from other colleagues or from mentors and coaches. Learning together Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 47 www.dsm.com allows DSM to create communities across the breadth of the The current composition of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke organization, bringing people together, fostering collaboration DSM N.V. is in line with Dutch legislation. Of the seven members, and promoting an inclusive working environment in which three are female and four are male. Moreover, in the Supervisory everyone’s contribution is recognized, valued and rewarded. Board of DSM Nederland B.V., a subsidiary of Koninklijke DSM N.V., one third of the members is female. The DSM Learning Architecture consists of four program clusters: executive programs, management programs, Gender balance will continue to require attention going forward. functional programs and e-learning programs. These are In addition to recruiting female executives from external talent designed and delivered in close collaboration with leading pools, DSM also focuses on developing female executives from international business schools and global training providers its internal pool of candidates, and engages in various activities (IMD, Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, Babson that foster new ways of working and changes in mindsets. College, Erasmus University Rotterdam) and are supported by a diverse internal faculty, primarily consisting of DSM’s top The expansion of the executive population from DSM's high management. growth regions equally demands continued attention. The number of BRIC+ nationals in executive positions as a In 2014, DSM saw a further roll-out across the globe of its Bright percentage of the total number of executive positions increased Talent Program, specifically designed for DSM’s high and top from 10 to 12 percent in 2014. This is consistent with DSM's aim potentials, as well as a number of key workshops geared to reflect the world in which it operates. towards the implementation of the DSM Leadership Model and ONE DSM Culture Agenda. The number of North American executives decreased by 1 percent to 13 percent. The number of 'other nationals' in the In addition, in order to better serve regional learning and executive population amounted to 26 percent, and the number development needs, and in line with DSM's geographical of Dutch executives decreased from 50 percent to 49 percent footprint, four new distinctive regional Centers of Excellent of the executive population in 2014. See also Sustainability Learning and Development were established: Europe, Asia, statements on page 114. North America and Latin America. DSM's Inclusion efforts are reflected in an improving Inclusion Program portfolio Index, which has continued to increase year on year, reaching 70 percent in 2014 (2013: 69 percent). The consistent Available Available development of this index suggests that sustained progress is programs programs being made in creating and maintaining inclusive environments 2014 2013 across the company. Executive programs 11 10 Going forward, DSM continues to address the geographical Management programs 66 64 distribution of executives and other key functions, with a keen Functional programs 60 58 eye on gender and nationality balance, as these remain, at this e-Learning programs 14 14 stage, the key diversity aspects to foster. Total 151 146 To accelerate progress, new targets have been set for 2015 and 2016. In these two years, DSM aspires to an incremental growth of between two and four percent for both gender and underInclusion & Diversity represented nationalities. The introduction of an Inclusion & Diversity program will provide the necessary support for the In order to better reflect the company's footprint, DSM continues business and service groups to accomplish this. See also to engage in a targeted Inclusion & Diversity strategy. Sustainability statements on page 114. As for Diversity, the immediate focus is to increase the number The role of the DSM Inclusion & Diversity Council, chaired by of women and under-represented nationalities in DSM's DSM’s CEO Feike Sijbesma, is to facilitate Inclusion & Diversity executive positions. The number of female executives increased at DSM and to support all DSM businesses in creating a from 11 percent in 2013 to 12 percent in 2014. In 2014, four sustainable inclusive environment, in which diversity is fully women were appointed to the DSM Leadership Team. embraced. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 48 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 People outside DSM developing a comprehensive human rights policy with the support of an external human rights expert. The policy will form DSM is committed to improving people’s lives through its the basis for embedding the responsibility to respect human products and its partnerships. It is important, for instance, that rights in all business functions. Furthermore, it underlines DSM’s the private sector plays a crucial role in addressing the problem commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen and of malnutrition and hidden hunger in both the developed and the provides stakeholders with more transparency to assess DSM’s developing world through new business models and nutritious human rights performance. Together with 20 other food and food supplements, tailored to the specific needs of multinationals, DSM also contributed to a WBCSD issue brief on particular population groups. a series of barriers and solutions to operationalizing the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. These DSM’s People+ program is an example of how DSM strives to principles aim at authoritative global standards on the respective have a positive social impact. The four dimensions of People+ roles of businesses and governments in helping to ensure that focus on people outside DSM: companies respect human rights in their own operations and through their business relationships. Health Condition assesses how a particular product contributes to maintaining, improving and regenerating people’s health. For example, vitamin D is vital to bone health and muscle strength, and can reduce the risk of fractures linked to osteoporosis. An example of Comfort & Well-being could be a product that smoothens the skin or reduces perspiration. Working Conditions are applicable to DSM's own employees, and also to the employees of the companies in its supply chain. Community Development determines whether a product contributes to local prosperity, within the boundaries of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and Compliance Manual. Helping to improve education, creating jobs and purchasing locally are examples of community benefits that are measured as part of a People+ product assessment. See also People+ on page 26. Human rights Respecting human rights is fundamental to all of DSM’s activities, and the company has a longstanding commitment to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. DSM is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and recognizes the OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Furthermore, DSM supports the United Nations Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (the Ruggie Framework), as well as the work-related rights defined by the ILO (International Labour Organisation) and recognizes the International Labour Standards. In countries or businesses where employees have third-party representation via a works council or collective bargaining, DSM respects these relationships and works with these third parties in a respectful manner. In support of DSM’s codes of conduct and its commitment to the international treaties and guidelines related to business behavior and human rights, DSM has found it necessary to begin Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 49 www.dsm.com Planet in 2014 All of DSM's environmental targets, except for greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions, are efficiency targets in which performance is DSM recognizes the environmental impact of its business related to production volumes. The target for GHG emissions is operations and is committed to taking comprehensive measures an absolute target for DSM’s direct CO2 and N2O emissions and to protect the planet for future generations. Within the Planet other gases, as well as for indirect CO2 emissions. The base year dimension of its Triple P (People, Planet and Profit) approach, for this target, and for the overall energy target, is 2008. The DSM delivers activities, solutions and innovations that improve divested units DSM Agro, DSM Melamine, DSM Elastomers, the environmental footprint of its business and that of its external Citrique Belge and DSM Special Products were excluded from stakeholders in the value chains. This chapter describes the this 2008 base year, but the impact of all other acquisitions and material environmental issues and themes that have been divestments is reflected in the total GHG emissions (scopes 1 identified through DSM's stakeholder consultation, as well as and 2) reported by DSM. other topics DSM considers to be relevant and important in this area. In 2014, DSM adapted its methodology for consolidating performance data to include the performance of newly acquired This chapter addresses the following topics: Climate Change; units. The new methodology also includes the performance of Bio-based and Circular Economy, and Sustainable Value units divested during the target period. All improvements and Chains. These headings are consistent with the top three deteriorations of deconsolidated units, such as DSM environmental materialities identified by the stakeholder Pharmaceutical Products (DPP) and DSM Sinochem engagement process. The DSM materiality matrix on page 28 Pharmaceuticals (DSP), are also taken into account for as long shows the ranking of all 20 material issues. as they have been part of DSM. Targets DSM has compared the results of this new methodology to the result of the previous one used, by applying a parallel process in In the framework of its corporate strategy, DSM has defined 2013 and in the first half of 2014. This has shown a significant long-term sustainability aspirations, which include targets to difference in two target areas. The first of these is landfilling of improve the eco-efficiency of its operations. These targets are non-hazardous waste, in which the new methodology accounts translated into plans and activities within a corporate multi-year for the improvements made at the newly acquired site in plan. The plan provides the necessary guidance to each of the Kingstree (South Carolina, USA). The second area is volatile business groups. organic compound (VOC) emissions, where improvements in Laiwu (China) also led to a better performance. The eco-efficiency targets for the period 2010-2015 are based on the ambition that by the end of 2015, all DSM sites in the The new methodology also reduced the difference between the world must meet minimum standards applied within the progress on relative targets and absolute totals as shown in the European Union or the US, via the use of Best Available Sustainability Statements on page 114. The performance on all Techniques. All new plants and major plant modifications must other targets was not significantly impacted by the introduction meet these requirements from the start, while existing plants of the new methodology. For more information on the new have until the end of 2015 to comply. methodology see www.dsm.com. Key environmental indicators, total DSM 2014 2013R Energy use in petajoules (PJ) 39.1 41.1 Greenhouse-gas emissions in CO2 equivalents (x million tons) 4.2 4.2 Emission of volatile organic compounds (VOC) (x 1000 tons) 4.2 4.3 Emission of NOx (x 1000 tons) 1.5 1.6 Emission of SO2 (x 1000 tons) 0.08 0.07 Chemical Oxygen Demand discharges to surface waters (x 1000 tons) 3.9 4.8 Water use (x million m3) 118 150 Landfilling non-hazardous waste (x 1000 tons) 18.2 22.7 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 50 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 Progress made in 2014 towards environmental reduction targets % Reduction realized Target compared to reference year1 2014 2010-2015 2008-2020 Climate change Energy efficiency 17% 20% Greenhouse gases 2%2 25% Emissions to air VOC 36% 40% SO2 90% 70% NOx 42% 30% Discharges to water COD 20% 20% Water availability and use Total water consumption (3)% 1 15% Landfilling non-hazardous Waste waste 51% 15% 1 Numbers between brackets represent a negative number, i.e. a deterioration in performance 2 In the calculation that accounts for changes in production volume, DSM's GHG emissions decrease by 16% in 2014 compared to 2008 DSM publishes detailed information on the environmental to enable the necessary shift in the purchased energy mix performance of all its production sites on www.dsm.com. towards more renewable energy. Climate change In 2014, DSM's energy efficiency performance reached 17 percent and total energy consumption decreased from DSM’s approach to addressing climate change involves 41.1 to 39.1 PJ. The main improvements took place at the DSM quantifying and tracking GHG emissions, as well as monitoring Fibre Intermediates plant in Nanjing (China), where the second its energy consumption. Where possible, projects are initiated caprolactam line is far more energy efficient than the first, leading that benefit the environment, and also have other positive to significant improvements in overall efficiency. Other structural consequences, such as internal cost savings. improvements were also achieved, for example, at DSM Dyneema in Greenville (North Carolina, USA) where there were Energy cost savings of € 340,000. Improvements were also made at DSM acknowledges that the world must urgently shift its energy DSM Nutritional Products in Kingstree, although these were mix from fossil-based fuels towards renewable energy, while relatively minor. Energy efficiency was stable at other locations, continuing to secure its energy supply. The company aims to be due to stable production volumes. See also DSM’s energy a front-runner in combatting global warming and resource perspective on www.dsm.com. depletion. To this end, it seeks to develop and promote products and solutions that help reduce GHG emissions and energy usage Greenhouse-gas emissions across its value chain. There is scientific consensus that certain gases (e.g. carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide) have contributed significantly to The company's current strategy includes a long-term target to anthropogenic climate change. These gases, which are emitted increase energy efficiency by 20 percent by 2020 compared to during the course of a wide range of human activities, magnify 2008. To determine energy efficiency, DSM measures its energy the planet's natural greenhouse effect and cause the consumption in relation to the production volume of each atmosphere to retain more heat than it otherwise would. This in production site. In 2013, DSM published a paper outlining its turn results in a series of wide-ranging and inter-linked changes perspective on renewable energy, and in 2014 it announced its to the earth's climate, some of which have negative support for strengthening energy, GHG and renewable energy consequences for human health and well-being. targets across the European Union. According to the latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on DSM has also undertaken an advocacy role to cooperate with Climate Change (IPCC) in 2014, a reduction of the cumulative energy suppliers, co-leaders in industry and regulatory bodies, total of GHG emissions could avert an increase in average Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 51 www.dsm.com surface temperatures of between 2 and 4 degrees Celsius by the company has complied with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s end of the 21st century. standards for measuring and reporting GHG emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3). Crucially, DSM has an internal target to achieve a 25 Reducing GHG emissions is therefore an imperative for all percent reduction in GHG emissions by 2020, compared to its organizations and individuals, including DSM. Since 2008, the 2008 emission levels. GHG emissions scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions scope 3 In 2014, DSM emitted a total of 4.2 million tons of CO2 The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain Standard equivalents, which is a reduction of two percent compared to its defines scope 3 emissions as ‘all other indirect emissions that emissions in 2008 (the total reduction target is 25 percent). The occur in a company’s value chain’. DSM regards reporting on main change to DSM's performance in 2013 was related to the scope 3 emissions as an essential complement to reporting on deconsolidation of DPP. However, this reduction was offset by scope 1 and 2 emissions. Taken together, they fully reflect all the mechanical issues in the N2O abatement system at DSM Fibre GHG emissions associated with its business activities. For more Intermediates in Nanjing (China), which caused an increase in information about the methodologies applied see N2O emissions. Other changes were the result of developments www.dsm.com. in energy consumption. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 52 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 DSM strives to improve the quality of its scope 3 reporting on an Bio-based and circular economy ongoing basis. This includes periodically updating applied emission factors and collecting more accurate and specific data A circular economy is an economic system in which resources where possible. Inevitably, the calculation of DSM’s scope 3 in the value cycle can be used and re-used again and again. This emissions is partly based on estimates and assumptions. In requires a different way of thinking compared to linear value keeping with the chemicals sector guidelines of the World chains. For example, resource use, production and end-of-life Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), DSM waste management would all be taken into account in the prioritizes reporting on 11 scope 3 categories that are relevant product design stage. and applicable to DSM's business, and for which data are available. DSM's performance in 2014 is illustrated In a bio-based economy, production relies on the use of natural in the table above. inputs, as is the case with renewable energy, biofuels and biobased chemicals. By ensuring the renewability of raw materials, Purchased goods and services accounted for DSM’s highest a bio-based economy makes a circular economy possible. scope 3 emissions in 2014, but declined by nine percent Another element of a circular economy is the use of safer compared to 2013. Although DSM strives to achieve a sustained ingredients. DSM is committed to promoting these reduction of its carbon footprint, for example through the DSM developments. Supplier Sustainability Program, the decline in this category cannot be attributed to specific initiatives at this stage. See also DSM's Supplier Sustainability Program on page 33. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 53 www.dsm.com Renewable energy and raw materials DSM supports the development of innovative, sustainable and DSM supports UN CEO Water Mandate renewable energy solutions. This includes DSM’s collaboration with POET to produce cellulosic bio-ethanol at a new plant in the Water availability is a worldwide concern. Many areas in US. POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels began production in 2014. the world are increasingly facing water scarcity, water Also in the year, DSM opened its first Solar Technology pollution and water damages by natural disasters. A more Demonstration Center to validate and showcase its solar sustainable management of water is therefore a must in our technology innovations, at a manufacturing site in Pune (India). society. Individual and collective actions are necessary to The site is partly powered by the renewable energy this mitigate adverse effects on water quality and availability in demonstration center generates. the regions and businesses where we operate. DSM truly values initiatives like the United Nations Global Compact In 2014, approximately 11 percent of DSM’s total spend on raw CEO Water Mandate and its principles. The topic of water materials related to renewable raw materials. This represents an and sustainable water management has our continued full increase compared to 2013, which is in line with the DSM attention. portfolio changes. The decline in crude oil prices during the second half of the year also limited the growth of spending on Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board petrochemicals. Another reason for the increase in renewable raw materials DSM’s global water use is divided into surface water, purchased was the growth in Reverdia, DSM’s joint venture with groundwater and potable (tap) water. In 2014, total water Roquette Frères, that aims to develop bio-based products, consumption decreased to 118 million m3, compared to 150 specifically bio-succinic acid. This partnership is consistent with million m3 in 2013. As the reduction was largely caused by the DSM’s sustainability objectives and is expected to further deconsolidation of DPP, this did not have an effect on the target contribute to the company’s ambitions in the future. A further performance. increase in the proportion of renewable raw materials used is expected in the coming years. See also DSM's position paper Performance against water consumption efficiency targets is on sustainable biomass at www.dsm.com. currently minus three percent, while the target is 15 percent. This performance is mainly determined by the DSM Nutritional Water and waste water Products plants in Grenzach (Germany) and Lalden DSM’s water policy is to minimize the adverse effects that its (Switzerland), which traditionally have high levels of surface water operations may have on the quality and quantity of available consumption, part of which is used as 'once-through cooling'. water in the regions where it operates. DSM carries out water Relatively high water temperature has led to an increase in risk assessments at its sites in order to mitigate environmental, surface water consumption at these plants. Further increases in societal, operational, regulatory, reputational and financial risks, water consumption occurred because of incidental leakages and and promotes similar initiatives across the supply chains in which higher production rates at other plants. it operates. Water risk assessments give DSM a clear overview of its impact on water scarcity and pollution at a local level. At the same time, reductions in water consumption occurred at Projects based on the results of the water risk assessments are several plants throughout the organization. At DSM in Tongxiang included within business group roadmaps for sustainable water (China), all use of surface water for cooling was replaced by the management. use of a cooling tower in which water is reused. More than half of DSM's plants saw stable or improved water efficiencies due DSM has been a signatory to the UN CEO Water Mandate since to water pipe repairs, revisions to plant water systems or water 2009. In addition, it has voluntarily reported its water policy and awareness projects. performance via the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2011. A significant part of DSM’s total water use is for 'once-through cooling' (approximately 85 percent), particularly at sites located next to large rivers. Local authorities at these sites have confirmed that any effects are within accepted levels. DSM’s water pollution reduction programs aim to reduce total water pollution, mainly through reductions in Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). In 2014, DSM reached its target of 20 percent Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 54 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 improvement on the discharge of COD. A major contribution was biodiversity and contribute to its preservation wherever possible. from DSM Fibre Intermediates in Augusta (Georgia, USA) and The company does this by: from DSM Nutritional Products in Kingstree. building awareness about natural capital, biodiversity and Waste ecosystems; DSM is working to decrease its waste output. Its performance assessing and monitoring DSM’s impact on protected areas against targets for reducing landfilling of non-hazardous waste within its vicinity; benefited from the application of the new consolidation developing impact assessments with stakeholders; and methodology. This is because the methodology includes the developing measures that help mitigate this impact. performance of plants that were acquired after the reference year (2010), most notably DSM Nutritional Products in Kingstree. Each year, DSM identifies and monitors the protected areas in Since the acquisition, most of the waste from the plant in the vicinity of its sites and the impact that it has on them. Some Kingstree that was previously sent to landfill, is gradually being 52 percent of DSM's sites have been identified as being located recovered and used for soil improvements and other in or adjacent to high biodiversity value areas. In all cases, DSM applications. In Kingstree, this resulted in an estimated € 40,000 production sites are operating within applicable limits, as defined in cost savings. by local authorities. At DSM Nutritional Products in Dalry (UK), the landfilling of nonTogether with three other business partners in the Dutch branch hazardous waste was reduced through the diversion of waste of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), into land restoration projects, which led to savings of DSM is working on the design of a future biodiversity-friendly approximately € 81,000. There were also positive outcomes at business estate. DNP sites in Vietnam and the US, and DSM Resins & Functional Materials in the Netherlands. Although several other sites Sustainable value chains reported temporary increases in the amount of waste landfilled, the target of decreasing waste by 15 percent in 2015 was met Measuring, reporting and managing scope 3 GHG emissions is in 2014 with a 51 percent reduction. at the heart of DSM's efforts to create and support sustainable value chains. The company adopts a multi-faceted approach to Other emissions to air sustainable value chains. DSM's other major complementary Targets for emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) have initiatives are discussed in more detail below. also benefited from the new consolidation methodology. The 35 percent reduction was largely due to improvements at DSM in DSM is convinced that true sustainability can only occur when Laiwu, where there were several operational improvements. A all parts of the value chain work together towards the same further reduction is expected in 2015 when the abatement goals. DSM works to make this a reality through continuous system becomes operational. improvements. It engages in an ongoing dialogue with suppliers, customers, NGOs and industry peers who also seek to increase Other notable improvements included DSM Fibre Intermediates the sustainability of the value chains in which they operate. DSM in Nanjing, partly due to the start-up of a new waste gas requires its suppliers to meet its sustainability standards and incinerator, and at DSM Nutritional Products in Kingstree and minimize their eco-footprints. It also encourages them to focus Dalry. In Dalry, these improvements led to cost savings of on providing solutions that enable all downstream players, from € 75,000. Other changes were mainly due to changes in customers to end-users, to improve their eco-footprints as well. production levels and the product portfolio. ECO+ program The performance against reduction targets on emissions of The measurable benefits of ECO+ include lower requirements in NOx was stable, at around 40 percent. The performance on natural resources, such as water or minerals (including metals), SO2 emissions was also stable at slightly above 90 percent. Both the reduction or valorization of waste, shelf-life preservation, targets were already achieved in previous years. See also the yield improvement, energy saving, bio-based solutions, weight Sustainability Statements on page 114. reduction, raw material efficiency, and the removal of hazardous substances from the life cycle. ECO+ products help to provide Biodiversity solutions that benefit society at large by responding to major Biodiversity is the term given to the variety of life on earth. societal issues such as climate change, resource constraints and Biodiversity and healthy ecosystems are key conditions for a scarcity, water management and biodiversity. sustainable world. DSM aims to help prevent the degradation of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 55 www.dsm.com Avoided emissions have tailor-made product stewardship programs for all products With a strong contribution from DSM, the WBCSD and ICCA or product clusters; a clearer definition of the role of DSM (International Council of Chemical Associations) published new employees in product safety management; the distribution of guidelines on reporting on avoided emissions for companies in responsibilities across all levels of the organization; and the chemicals sector in 2013. According to the guidelines, methodologies to be applied in the risk characterization in a avoided emissions are defined as the difference between the life product's life cycle, in alignment with DSM's ECO+ and cycle emissions from the solution of the reporting company, and People+ programs. the comparable solution (i.e. a conventional product or market average). DSM supports the guidelines and is starting to To challenge the selection of potentially toxic raw materials and implement them across the business in order to credibly capture end products, every business group within DSM has a program the effects of its products in the value chain. Applicable DSM in place to list its own potentially toxic substances on a DSM products and solutions for which avoided emissions may be Priority Substances List and to review their use. evaluated include advanced surfaces for solar panels, cellulosic bio-ethanol and enzymes. REACH DSM does not produce substances of very high concern DSM actively steers its product development along its strategy according to REACH, the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization of avoided emissions. DSM Coating Resins innovation efforts are and Restriction of Chemical substances criteria. It also does not focused on the reduction of VOC emissions by replacing solventallow the production and use of substances of high concern, borne systems with waterborne, UV or powder solutions. unless it can be demonstrated that there are no feasible Avoiding solvent usage reduces the CO2 equivalent emission by alternatives. DSM's ultimate goal is to phase out potentially toxic 50 percent. Other examples are a new, space-efficient compounds from its portfolio. packaging for Dyneema®UD, currently in final testing, which promises to reduce transportation-related emissions by up to DSM constructively cooperates with national European 40 percent; and Brewers Clarex enzymes, which, when used in authorities during the REACH evaluation processes. The next beer production, result in avoided emissions of eight percent per registration deadline is in 2018, and DSM is actively integrating hectoliter of beer. REACH into its daily operations. REACH registration implies greater complexity and higher costs for DSM. Safer alternatives As an aspiring leader in safer products policies, DSM is UN Globally Harmonized System committed to bringing more sustainable alternatives to the DSM continuously monitors developments in the UN Globally market, in place of chemicals of high concern. These actions are Harmonized System (GHS) and related national regulations on proactive and go beyond legal requirements. They are focused classification and labeling, and takes necessary actions to on substances that are expected to become reclassified or that ensure implementation. Products have been re-labeled and are less preferred by consumers because of their perceived safety data sheets revised according to new requirements. health and safety risks. Experience shows that the substitution National and regional deadlines are implemented as part of this of substances of high concern can be complex, still, a number process. of projects have been initiated and are at varying stages of development. In 2014, revisions to the GHS for China and Europe were successfully implemented before the legal due dates. The rollDSM's efforts to adopt safer alternatives have been recognized out of GHS for the US is proceeding well and according to plan. by its peers and external organizations, such as ChemSec. Product stewardship Since 2013, DSM has operated a Product Safety Network (PSN). This network provides direction and internal alignment in the areas of mandatory and voluntary industry initiatives for sound chemical management. In 2014, the PSN governance and communication plan was reviewed to strengthen its advisory role for global policymaking in product safety-related issues. DSM's updated SHE requirements describe several elements for product stewardship in more detail, including the requirement to Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 56 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 Profit in 2014 Financial results Within the Profit dimension of DSM’s Triple P approach, DSM delivers a sustainable financial return. This ensures business continuity and allows the company to grow, while at the same time providing a good financial return to its shareholders. This chapter reports DSM’s financial performance and provides an overview of the key financial metrics of the company. Income statement x € million 2014 2013R1 Net sales continuing operations 9,181 8,858 Operating profit before depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,168 1,261 Operating profit before exceptional items 619 761 Net finance costs (118) (137) Income tax expense (89) (110) Share of the profit of associates 7 (17) Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 9 2 Net profit continuing operations before exceptional items 428 499 Net profit from discontinued operations before exceptional items (2) 9 Net result from exceptional items, continuing operations (311) (77) Net result from exceptional items, discontinued operations 30 (160) Total net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 145 271 ROCE, continuing operations (in %) 7.8 10.1 EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations (in %) 12.7 14.2 1 DSM applied the new standards IFRS 10 'Consolidated Financial Statements' and IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' for the first time in 2014. Due to the abolishment of proportionate consolidation for joint ventures DSM's financial position has changed. These changes are notably related to the joint venture DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals Limited and POETDSM Advanced Biofuels. See page 158 for more information about joint ventures. Net sales Net sales by business segment, continuing operations in % At € 9,181 million, net sales from continuing operations in 2014 were four percent higher than in 2013 when they reached ■ Nutrition ■ Performance Materials € 8,858 million. Volume development accounted for a ■ Polymer Intermediates ■ Innovation Center ■ Corporate Activities five percent increase in net sales. On average, selling prices 22 22 were two percent lower than in 2013. Exchange rate fluctuations 18 19 had on balance no impact, while acquisitions contributed one percent. 47 47 30 31 2014 2013R Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 57 www.dsm.com Operating profit was recognized upon classification of the business as an asset Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional held for sale at the end of 2013. items decreased by € 142 million (19 percent), from € 761 million in 2013 to € 619 million in 2014. Net sales by origin, continuing operations in % Operating profit from continuing operations before depreciation ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe and amortization (before exceptional items) decreased ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ Other by € 93 million (seven percent), from € 1,261 million in 2013 6 4 to € 1,168 million in 2014. The EBITDA margin (operating profit 13 12 before depreciation and amortization as a percentage of net 33 6 33 sales) decreased to just below 13 percent. 7 19 EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations in 2014 16 in % 1 1 24 25 2014 2013R 25 20 19.6 Net sales by destination, continuing operations 15 in % 12.3 10 ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ India ■ Japan 5 4.8 ■ Rest of Asia ■ Rest of the world 2 7 2 7 9 9 0 2 2 Nutrition Performance Polymer 2 1 Materials Intermediates 27 15 28 16 Net profit 10 6 10 6 Net profit from continuing operations attributable to 19 20 shareholders DSM (before exceptional items) decreased by 2014 2013R € 71 million to € 428 million. Expressed per ordinary share, net earnings from continuing operations before exceptional items declined from € 2.84 in 2013 to € 2.42 in 2014. Net sales by end-use market, continuing operations in % Net finance costs decreased by € 19 million compared to the ■ Health and nutrition ■ Metal/building and construction ■ Automotive/transport ■ Textiles ■ Agriculture ■ Electrical/electronics previous year to a level of € 118 million. This was mainly the ■ Packaging ■ Other consequence of positive hedge results. The effective tax rate 10 11 (before exceptional items) of 18 percent in 2014 was in line with 7 7 the effective tax rate in 2013. 6 6 2 49 2 49 Total net profit for the full year came to € 145 million compared 10 10 to € 271 million in 2013. This was mainly caused by a lower 9 8 operating profit in 2014, and higher exceptional items due to the 7 7 impairment of the caprolactam business. 2014 2013R Exceptional items Total exceptional items from consolidated companies for the full year amounted to a loss of € 334 million (€ 252 million after tax) including € 291 million impairment of the caprolactam business, € 59 million restructuring costs, € 12 million acquisition-related and other costs as well as a reversal of € 28 million on the loss of the contribution of DSM Pharmaceutical Products to DPx that Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 58 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 Cash flow At € 808 million, cash provided by operating activities (total DSM) was nine percent of net sales. Cash flow statement x € million 2014 2013R Cash, cash equivalents and current investments at 1 January 789 1,108 Current investments at 1 January 19 19 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 770 1,089 Operating activities: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization 1,166 1,312 Changes in working capital (74) (83) Income tax (82) (63) Other changes (202) (168) Cash flow provided by operating activities 808 998 Investing activities: Capital expenditure1 (653) (649) Acquisitions (7) (509) Sale of subsidiaries 78 72 Disposals 15 6 Change in current investments 14 24 Interest received 108 83 Other (70) (84) Cash from / used in investing activities (515) (1,057) Financing activities Dividend (175) (160) Interest paid (302) (200) Repurchase of shares (189) (73) Proceeds from reissued shares 26 145 Change in commercial paper 250 (150) Other cash from / used in financing activities (29) 180 Cash used in financing activities (419) (258) Effect of exchange differences 25 (2) Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 669 770 Current investments at 31 December 6 19 Cash, cash equivalents and current investments at 31 December 675 789 1 An amount of € 25 million included in capital expenditure was funded by customers (2013: € 20 million) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 59 www.dsm.com Balance sheet The balance sheet total (total assets) reached € 12.1 billion at year-end (2013: € 11.9 billion). Equity decreased by € 160 million compared to the position at the end of 2013. This decrease was due to the net profit for the year, the net exchange differences and the proceeds from reissued shares, which were more than offset by the dividend, the repurchase of shares and the net actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations. Equity as a percentage of total assets declined from 51 percent at the end of 2013 to 49 percent at the end of 2014. Compared to year-end 2013, net debt increased by € 579 million to € 2,420 million. The gearing was 29 percent at year-end. Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounted to € 616 million in 2014 and was above the level of amortization and depreciation. The operating working capital (continuing operations before reclassification to 'held for sale') was € 125 million higher than in the previous year and came to 20.7 percent of annualized fourth quarter net sales (2013: 21.2 percent). Cash and cash equivalents, including current investments, declined by € 114 million and came to € 675 million. Capital employed per business segment at Equity at 31 December 31 December 2014, continuing operations x € billion as a % of balance sheet total 5.1 5 60 53 54 50 51 50 49 4 40 3 30 2 1.9 20 1 0.5 10 0.4 0.2 0 0 Nutrition Performance Polymer Innovation Corporate 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Materials Intermediates Center Activities Balance sheet profile 2014 2013R x € million in % x € million in % Intangible assets 2,867 24 2,690 23 Property, plant and equipment 3,673 30 3,611 30 Other non-current assets 1,319 11 811 7 Cash and cash equivalents 669 6 770 6 Other current assets 3,598 29 4,017 34 Total assets 12,126 100 11,899 100 Equity 5,936 49 6,096 51 Provisions 147 1 162 1 Other non-current liabilities 2,562 21 2,501 21 Other current liabilities 3,481 29 3,140 27 Total liabilities 12,126 100 11,899 100 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 60 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement DSM Code of Business Conduct People in 2014 Planet in 2014 Profit in 2014 Outlook Macro-economic uncertainty and low consumer confidence continue to impact market dynamics. DSM assumes low growth in Europe, continued economic resilience and growth in the US and a slowdown of growth in some of the high growth economies. The volatility in currencies with the weakening of the Euro against the US Dollar and the strengthening of the Swiss franc against the Euro could have an impact on DSM’s 2015 results. Based on current rates and the 2015 hedge effects, the overall impact of currencies on EBITDA in 2015 would be roughly neutral. Spot prices in vitamin E have declined significantly in the second half of 2014. Assuming the January 2015 prices persist, the negative impact on DSM’s 2015 EBITDA will be around € 80 million. DSM is addressing the current challenging external environment by continuing its focus on operational performance and commitment to enhancing profitability. The running programs will be complemented by accelerated actions to improve efficiencies and reduce costs, specifically in Nutrition and across all functions in the company. In addition, in 2015 further focus will be given to improve operating working capital management. Taking the above into account, DSM aims to deliver an EBITDA in 2015 that is slightly ahead of the result of 2014. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 61 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 In 2014 DSM's activities were grouped into four clusters: Nutrition, Performance Materials, Polymer Intermediates and Innovation Center. In addition, DSM reports separately on Corporate Activities. Results presented in this section (and elsewhere in the management report) are before exceptional items. Net sales Operating profit (EBIT) x € million 2014 2013R x € million 2014 2013R Nutrition 4,335 4,205 Nutrition 596 680 Performance Materials 2,792 2,729 Performance Materials 193 180 Polymer Intermediates 1,727 1,579 Polymer Intermediates 24 71 Innovation Center 154 150 Innovation Center (45) (43) Corporate Activities 173 195 Corporate Activities (149) (127) Total continuing operations 9,181 8,858 Total continuing operations 619 761 Discontinued operations 102 571 Discontinued operations (2) 12 Total DSM 9,283 9,429 Total DSM 617 773 EBITDA Capital employed at 31 December x € million 2014 2013R x € million 2014 2013R Nutrition 850 914 Nutrition 5,034 4,496 Performance Materials 343 319 Performance Materials 1,928 1,902 Polymer Intermediates 83 113 Polymer Intermediates 419 570 Innovation Center (18) (9) Innovation Center 523 469 Corporate Activities (90) (76) Corporate Activities 201 206 Total continuing operations 1,168 1,261 Total continuing operations 8,105 7,643 Discontinued operations (2) 51 Discontinued operations 417 Total DSM 1,166 1,312 Total DSM 8,105 8,060 EBITDA / net sales ROCE in % 2014 2013R in % 2014 2013R Nutrition 19.6 21.7 Nutrition 12.5 15.5 Performance Materials 12.3 11.7 Performance Materials 10.1 9.2 Polymer Intermediates 4.8 7.2 Polymer Intermediates 4.8 14.0 Total continuing operations 12.7 14.2 Total continuing operations 7.8 10.1 Discontinued operations (2.0) 8.9 Discontinued operations 2.5 Total DSM 12.6 13.9 Total DSM 7.8 9.6 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 62 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships Capital expenditure Workforce at 31 December x € million 2014 2013R headcount 2014 2013R Nutrition 330 255 Nutrition 10,857 10,548 Performance Materials 77 56 Performance Materials 5,115 5,126 Polymer Intermediates 117 235 Polymer Intermediates 1,423 1,456 Innovation Center 27 20 Innovation Center 675 659 Corporate Activities 62 87 Corporate Activities 3,281 3,204 Total continuing operations 613 653 Total continuing operations 21,351 20,993 Discontinued operations 3 41 Discontinued operations 2,492 Total, accounting based 616 694 Total DSM 21,351 23,485 Non-cash items 37 (45) Customer funding (25) (20) Total, cash based 628 629 R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure) x € million as % of net sales 2014 2013R 2014 2013R Nutrition 206 209 4.8 5.0 Performance Materials 143 132 5.1 4.8 Polymer Intermediates 16 17 0.9 1.1 Innovation Center 82 74 53.2 49.3 Corporate Activities 28 29 16.2 14.9 Total continuing operations 475 461 5.2 5.2 Discontinued operations 8 45 7.8 7.9 Total DSM 483 506 5.2 5.4 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 63 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 64 www.dsm.com www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships Life Sciences nov ts r in ation duc ne ro Dairy s Sweet e p ncers d enzyme nt s ha an s Taste Culture Rumin en a s are eer pplements lc db su Perso Wine a Dieta na ry n nd bev ggs ks a e ltu re in /e Fruit d ges Aqua ra Poultr cu r y zymes redients d ition en ng fee utr Bakin Savory Anima Infant g i l n Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 65 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014: Nutrition Continued value Net sales growth € 4,335 m EBITDA for the cluster declined 7 percent in 2014, despite strong x € million 2014 2013R volume growth in Animal Nutrition & Health. The decline was due to the impact of negative currency effects, lower volumes in Net sales: Human Nutrition & Health and lower vitamin E prices. DSM Nutritional Products: Animal Nutrition & Health 2,084 1,935 DSM responded to the decline in the US dietary supplement Human Nutrition & Health 1,626 1,690 market by supporting science-based industry coalitions that Personal Care 152 152 promote essential vitamins and omega-3 supplements through 3,862 3,777 dedicated communications initiatives in the US. It worked closely DSM Food Specialties 473 428 with retailers to grow the category, and continued to see good growth in dietary supplements markets outside the US. Total 4,335 4,205 The company took a number of actions to drive further Organic sales growth (in %) 2 2 improvements in operational performance. It further improved its Operating profit 596 680 cost position, enhancing the competitiveness of its vitamins, and Operating profit plus depreciation upgraded and improved its cost position in nutritional lipids. In and amortization (EBITDA) 850 914 addition to its share in the DSM Profit Improvement Program Capital expenditure 330 255 (PIP), Nutrition is running cost-saving projects totaling Capital employed at 31 December 5,034 4,496 € 50 million, which will be partly reinvested into external open ROCE (in %) 12.5 15.5 innovations and local, front-line support systems. EBITDA as % of net sales 19.6 21.7 R&D expenditure 206 209 The business supported its customers with innovations and used scientific expertise to increase differentiation in forms, Workforce at 31 December tailor-made products, solutions and premixes, while supporting (headcount) 10,857 10,548 the growth of its i-Health consumer health and wellness business. The company’s product and end-market diversification acted as a strong natural hedge, providing Business significant resilience in these difficult market conditions. The Nutrition cluster comprises DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Nutritional Products DSM Food Specialties. These businesses serve the animal feed, food and beverage, pharmaceutical, infant nutrition, dietary DSM Nutritional Products is organized around three marketsupplement and personal care industries. With a global and facing entities: Animal Nutrition & Health, Human Nutrition & highly diversified portfolio of products, services and endHealth and Personal Care. In 2014, DSM Nutritional Products markets, and a unique position across the feed and food value posted sales of € 3,862 million compared to € 3,777 million in chains, DSM applies its capabilities to the benefit of customers 2013. and other stakeholders. Trends Total sales for 2014 of the Nutrition cluster came to € 4,335 million, compared to € 4,205 million in 2013. Organic The fundamental growth drivers in nutrition and health remained sales growth remained stable at 2 percent and EBITDA was intact, despite the challenging macro-economic conditions in € 850 million. 2014. A steadily growing urban population in high growth economies with rising standards of living are driving increased consumption of fish, meat, poultry and dairy products. As the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 66 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships average age increases, concerns about health and the 2015. The UN World Food Programme feeds and nourishes an environment also drive demand for healthier processed foods. average of 90 million people in over 80 countries every year. See The need for convenience and safe, processed food has never Public-Private Partnerships on page 36. been higher, which matches DSM’s ability to deliver tailor-made local applications and blends. Global megatrends are also fuelling demand for health, wellness and convenience products such as dietary supplements, and healthier choices in food and beverages, as well as infant nutrition products. At the same time, growing awareness about malnutrition in both the developing and the developed world is prompting regulatory actions aimed to encourage the consumption of healthy, balanced diets and, where needed, fortified foods and supplements. Quality, safety and sustainability are also issues of rising public concern that are leading to greater attention from health authorities. They prefer producers to work with suppliers that, like DSM, are rigorous in their application of science and have state-of-the-art quality assurance systems. Another important differentiator for DSM is environmental sustainability, most notably in countries where there are low-cost producers. In the period ahead, DSM expects customers to demand deeper insights and customized solutions. DSM's nutrition business is well positioned for growth and will continue to increase its focus on high growth economies where the business will increase its development of products tailored to local consumer preferences and market and channel structures. Sustainability Sustainability is an important growth driver for DSM, as demand increases for market solutions that are more efficient and have distinctive environmental advantages. DSM has undertaken environmental assessments of its products, including vitamins C, B2 and B6. By lowering the environmental impact of its production processes, DSM has reduced its ecological footprint and that of its end-products. One of the greatest challenges for society is the alleviation of malnutrition. As an industry pioneer, DSM helps to address malnutrition by advancing the world's understanding of the intricate relationships between nutrition and health and by assisting customers to improve the nutritional content of their products through product development and improved food production processes. DSM has been a proud partner of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), the largest provider of food aid to the world’s hungry, since 2007, and has extended this partnership until Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 67 www.dsm.com In the field of ingredients, DSM is increasingly recognized as a activities and distribution channels. As a global producer, it thought leader in the areas of nutrition and health. Thought delivers a broad portfolio of high quality and competitive actives leadership enables it to engage in discussions on nutrition while offering maximum differentiation through industry and guidelines, policies and practices with high-level decision segment specific formulations. As a local solutions provider, it is makers and authorities around the world. It also helps the focused on customer-driven solutions and segment-specific business to build institutional knowledge and create confidence products. among its customers and other stakeholders. DSM has the broadest portfolio of nutritional ingredients in Sustainable animal protein production is of major importance for diversified end-markets and benefits from an unparalleled the world and therefore for the feed and food value chains. The presence across the value chain. It has also developed high greater demand for safer, more efficient, healthier and more levels of customer intimacy in its markets around the world. sustainable animal protein production, combined with a rising scarcity of resources, is requiring efficient feed conversion By managing the interdependencies between active ingredients, processes and a reduction of undesirable waste components. formulations, premixes and macro blends tailored for specific DSM offers solutions to meet this demand and helps to make applications, DSM drives innovation and ensures value delivery industrial farming systems more sustainable with a lower impact to customers and consumers. on the environment. In recent years, DSM has grown to become one of the strongest Strategy industry players by expanding and strengthening its value chain presence wherever there are growth opportunities. Its footprint DSM Nutritional Products has a unique business model that aims of operations now comprises more than 60 countries, including to capture opportunities arising from global megatrends by a large number of high growth economies, where it has combining global production capabilities in active ingredients unparalleled customer access, the deepest and broadest and formulations with customized local formulations, premix product portfolio, and new skills and capabilities. With its uniquely integrated business model and strong global networks and services through nutritional science and position, DSM has become a front-runner in quality and advocacy; and maintaining its investments in state-of-the-art innovation, regulatory and technical expertise, sustainability, and quality management. customer and consumer understanding. It is continuously innovating and upgrading its delivery systems through Acquisitions have been the main vehicle for adding new growth application and formulation technologies; expanding premix platforms, especially in high growth economies and North Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 68 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships America. Considering the largest four businesses acquired − and continue to generate strong growth in nutritional solutions. Martek in 2011, Ocean Nutrition Canada in 2012, Fortitech in DSM also brought multiple innovations to the market, which 2012 and Tortuga in 2013 – DSM’s own estimates show that all further cemented its position as a leading provider of value to its have contributed significantly to DSM’s value creation. Ocean customers. Nutrition Canada has not met the initial performance expectations as it has faced unexpected weakness in the US fish Acquired in 2013, the Tortuga business has continued to oil-based omega-3 dietary supplements market. perform well and has enabled DSM to deliver greater value to its Brazilian dairy and beef customers through the implementation In each case, the integration process has progressed of new nutritional programs. In the year, DSM also invested successfully and synergies are being delivered according to plan. significantly in new application facilities in China. The new China In the period ahead, DSM's focus will be on completing the animal nutrition center will support the development of tailored integration of its newest companies and reaping the benefits of solutions to meet the needs of the fast growing poultry and swine these in terms of growth, synergies and costs. markets. Further investments were also made in the premix business in the rest of Asia. Animal Nutrition & Health Highlights 2014 Good sales growth with limited impact from diseases Significant price erosion in vitamin E, particularly in second half of the year Opening of new animal nutrition research center in China The Animal Nutrition & Health (ANH) business achieved sales of € 2,084 million in 2014 compared to € 1,935 million in 2013. This business holds a unique global position in the markets for poultry, swine, aquaculture and ruminants. In all these species, DSM is a full value-chain player, providing active ingredients, delivery systems, and nutritional and premix solutions globally and at a local level. Its focus is on the nutritional ingredients and additives segments of these markets. Significant price pressure occurred in vitamin E especially in the second half of the year, while numerous other vitamins achieved stronger prices and some suffered shortages. There was also a continued drive for improved efficiency in animal production and greater producer profitability, which led to increased demand for specialty nutritional solutions. Despite ongoing challenges in the macro-economic environment, the megatrends of population growth and rising living standards have continued to drive the business in 2014, leading to overall increases in demand and higher prices for meat and dairy products. Although markets continued to be highly competitive, the breadth of DSM’s portfolio, coupled with its nutritional knowledge, has enabled it to bolster its customer relationships Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 69 www.dsm.com Human Nutrition & Health DSM has also focused on its premix business model as a core growth driver, by delivering the highest-quality customized capabilities in the industry through the global Fortitech Premixes Highlights 2014 network. With 14 sites in total, the newest of which was inaugurated in 2014 in India, DSM is well positioned to help its Challenging end-markets customers reduce operational complexity and accelerate new Steps taken to improve operational performance product launches. DSM’s integrated global premix business is Opening new premix plant in India now recognized by customers as the leader in human nutrition premixes. Personal Care The Human Nutrition & Health (HNH) business reported 2014 Sales in Personal Care reached € 152 million in 2014, equal to sales of € 1,626 million compared to € 1,690 million in 2013. 2013. This business largely addresses the nutritional ingredients part The business is driven by global megatrends, local consumer of the food and beverage and dietary supplements market, with beauty regime insights and uncovering growth opportunities in an additional focus on infant nutrition and aroma ingredients. Its emerging markets. It offers considerable long-term opportunities fundamental drivers are the link between nutrition and health, for DSM to innovate for accelerated growth. supported by a number of global megatrends. In 2014, Personal Care saw growth in the skin care actives, Some market headwinds impacted the performance in 2014, specialty UV-filters, and hair polymers business segments. It also including ongoing weakness in both multivitamin and fish oilperformed strongly in Asian and Latin American markets with based omega-3 markets for dietary supplements in the US. The double-digit growth that offset weaker sales of the non-specialty momentum for these dietary supplements outside the US UV-filters in the mature North American market. The year saw continued to be positive. DSM’s consumer business i-Health the launch of a portfolio of sensory modifiers, which received a again showed strong growth. Western food & beverage markets positive and rapid market acceptance. remained sluggish; low consumer spending continued to weigh on the growth in various end-markets. Food and beverage sales DSM Food Specialties in Asia continued to develop well. DSM took steps to improve its operational performance, and to Highlights 2014 protect and strengthen its market share. It supported Western global and regional ‘A-label’ customers by introducing new Strong organic growth driven by enzymes health and nutrition claims for their products, and by accelerating Progress made on fermentative stevia sweetener innovations. In high growth economies, it tapped into the innovation platform increased need for good quality and safely processed Strengthened enzymes joint venture reinforces presence ingredients. In July DSM announced the intention to acquire in China Aland (HK) Holding Limited (‘Aland’), a Hong Kong-based company producing vitamin C in China. In infant nutrition, the effect of the false botulism scare in China In 2014, sales for DSM Food Specialties amounted to € 473 and South-East Asian markets has generally resulted in strict million, compared to € 428 million in 2013. regulation and higher requirements. In dietary supplements, the momentum outside the US was positive for vitamins and fish oilDSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of food based omega-3. Demand for DSM's US based i-Health enzymes, cultures, yeast extracts, flavors and health ingredients consumer brands remained robust and international sales efforts and other specialties for many of the leading global and local were launched. In North America, the multivitamin and fish oildairy, baking, beverages and savory food brands. Its advanced based omega-3 market experienced decreased consumer ingredients help customers differentiate their products to demand. DSM is leading the North American omega-3 industry consumers in terms of taste, texture, appearance and health and coalition and participating in a multivitamins coalition to promote wellness, while helping to optimize production processes and credible science and demonstrate the value of the dietary raw material and energy use. supplements category to society. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 70 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships In Enzymes, it focuses on the food and beverage industry where Following the full consolidation of DSM’s investment in Andre it helps customers innovate products and production processes. Pectin, the China-based hydrocolloids growth platform was In Savoury Ingredients, DSM applies yeast and enzyme created. The unit combines Andre Pectin with the previously technology to capture a unique position in the market with a acquired gellan gum assets. portfolio of yeast extracts and process flavors for authentic, intense, natural tasting savory foods. In Cultures, the business' The food industry is increasingly looking for sustainable and unique cultures and enzymes toolkit for the dairy industry helps higher value-added products that are healthier, better tasting manufacturers create the desired texture, surface and flavor and more appealing to consumers. Producers are also looking characteristics for their products while increasing yields from to improve production processes and save costs. Specialty food their milk. ingredients represent approximately two percent of the cost of a final product, but can have a significant, direct impact on the During the year, DSM Food Specialties finalized its integration of end-product and efficiency of the production process. the acquired Cargill cultures and enzymes business and closed its production facility in Logan (Utah, USA). It launched a new The use of food enzymes is expected to grow further in the years generation of lactase, Maxilact® LGi and also launched ahead as food manufacturers look for cost savings and more ® Maxiren XDS. The business made good progress in the sustainable and more efficient production processes. The development of its fermentative stevia sweetener platform and market for cultures and probiotics is also expected to continue strengthened its presence in China with a dedicated local growing, driven by health trends and the growing consumption business organization and the opening of a new blending facility of fermented milk products. At the same time, the market for in Yixing (China). Construction work began on the new innovation savory ingredients is expanding alongside a rising demand for center in Delft (Netherlands), which is expected to be completed authentic ingredients and products with reduced salt content. in late 2015. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 71 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 72 www.dsm.com www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships Materials Sciences devices coatings ic nd Electr Paints on a t gloves e tan tiv es an Cut-res Autom Memb is o r electronics vers g er co in Displa Packa Consu g m y produ for solar en free c gs nBlade ts Coati ergy Halog n s e materials ods ipment resins tic go qu ite Fiber o e Leisur Comp p e Sailing os Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 73 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014: Performance Materials Growing via innovative Net sales sustainable solutions € 2,792 m three business groups contributed to this growth, mainly due to x € million 2014 2013R higher volumes and a continued cost control. Net sales: Throughout 2014, the cluster expanded its presence and DSM Engineering Plastics 1,324 1,261 leadership positions in selected segments of the global market DSM Dyneema 264 252 for advanced performance materials. The cluster is well DSM Resins & Functional positioned in terms of ECO+ innovation sales at 96 percent and Materials 1,204 1,216 ECO+ sales from running business at 59 percent. The cluster delivered increased volumes and gradual margin improvements Total 2,792 2,729 across all business groups. It achieved this despite ongoing adverse macro-economic conditions in the European building Organic sales growth (in %) 2 3 and construction sectors, and the negative impact of the Operating profit 193 180 weakness in the caprolactam market, through backward Operating profit plus depreciation integration, on DSM Engineering Plastics. and amortization (EBITDA) 343 319 Capital expenditure 77 56 The cluster benefited from its investments and sales in high Capital employed at 31 December 1,928 1,902 growth economies, which now account for 38 percent of total ROCE (in %) 10.1 9.2 sales. China and India were significant contributors to its growth EBITDA as % of net sales 12.3 11.7 in 2014, while the business also reaped the benefits of the R&D expenditure 143 132 recovery in the US, where all areas of the market grew for the third year in succession. Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 5,115 5,126 With the continuous upgrade of its portfolio, the cluster is well positioned for growth and cash generation by further leveraging its higher added-value businesses. It has strengthened its global Business position as a leading provider of sustainable innovations, meeting end-market demands for greater energy efficiency and This cluster comprises DSM Engineering Plastics, DSM improved environmental performance. Dyneema and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. DSM Engineering Plastics is a global player in specialty plastics. These Trends materials are used in components for the electrical & electronics, automotive, flexible food packaging and consumer goods Performance Materials’ markets are increasingly driven by industries. DSM Dyneema is the global manufacturer of concerns over resource scarcity and climate change. Customers Dyneema®, the world’s strongest fiber™. DSM Resins & in virtually every market are demanding products that help to Functional Materials is a global player in innovative high-quality reduce energy consumption and harmful emissions, both within resins solutions for paints and coatings, composite materials and their operations and across the value chain. DSM addresses optical fiber coatings. The cluster has a global presence, with these needs through innovative materials that are lighter than significant sales originating in high growth economies. metals and other conventional materials. These include high performance plastics, solvent-free waterborne resins, bio-based In 2014, sales in the Performance Materials cluster increased and renewable plastics and resins, and other new applications. to € 2,792 million compared to € 2,729 million in 2013, with organic growth of 2 percent. Total EBITDA for the full year The use of hazardous substances is another area of growing increased to € 343 million, compared to € 319 million in 2013. All concern for consumers and regulators, leading to demands for safer alternatives. DSM Engineering Plastics and DSM Resins & Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 74 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships Functional Materials address these concerns by offering DSM inaugurated a Solar Technologies Demonstration Center products and solutions that eliminate or reduce the use of at the DSM Engineering Plastics facility in Pune, India. The center substances such as halogens, styrene, volatile organic will showcase DSM innovations in solar technology, and use the compounds (VOC) or cobalt. solar energy generated to meet 25 percent of the site's electricity needs. The business groups manufacture technologically sophisticated high-quality products that address key megatrends driving Strategy DSM's end-markets. They meet the needs of customers across a range of sectors through innovative and sustainable value Performance Materials is applying a differentiated strategy based propositions. on its positions in various market segments. This strategy aims to accelerate, strengthen or restructure its businesses and will Sustainability enable it to further upgrade its portfolio in the years ahead. DSM is creating innovative solutions that make a positive The cluster is leveraging its existing infrastructure to accelerate difference to people’s lives and reduce the environmental growth in highly innovative markets in order to fully benefit from footprint. In Performance Materials, sustainability is a significant megatrends. It is also strengthening the business by combining driver of new business and innovations. sustainable innovation sales growth with margin optimization and cost control programs. At the same time, DSM is pursuing This is leading to the development of new applications that strategic actions for its Composite Resins business. address key sustainability challenges. The cluster has shifted its materials portfolio towards a higher added-value mix by Although not part of the cluster, DSM's Emerging Business introducing innovative and more sustainable solutions, some Areas (EBAs) represent promising long-term growth platforms examples of which are described in the business group sections also related to Performance Materials, such as DSM Biomedical below. and DSM Advanced Surfaces. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 75 www.dsm.com DSM Engineering Plastics collaboration of local experts with local, regional and global customers. Highlights 2014 In the automotive sector, manufacturers are looking to reduce vehicle fuel consumption and emissions by reducing weight and Good sales development, particularly in the specialty friction, and through alternative propulsion technologies such as segment electric and hybrid. They are also seeking to meet regulations on Improved margins and successful Profit Improvement end-of-time vehicles, while reducing vehicle footprints by using Program bio-based or recycled materials and improving safety and New materials center opened in the Netherlands comfort. DSM offers solutions so that customers can meet these requirements. It provides a broad portfolio of more sustainable and advanced products that can reduce weight and friction, allow reductions in footprint and enable innovations further Sales for DSM Engineering Plastics in 2014 came to € 1,324 downstream. million compared to € 1,261 million in 2013. The business group delivered a strong underlying performance in its specialty business, along with effective cost controls. These achievements were partly offset by negative currency effects and lower upstream results in the polyamide 6 value chain. DSM Engineering Plastics targets four key industries: automotive, electrical and electronics, flexible food packaging and consumer goods. In each of these, it aims to create shared value by providing high performance materials and solutions to help lower footprints over the life cycle, eliminate the use of substances of concern, use recycled content or offer improved recyclability, and use content that is entirely or partly bio-based. The markets for engineering plastics increasingly demand sustainable and innovative solutions that make people’s lives safer, easier and healthier, while addressing climate change, ingredient safety and food waste. DSM Engineering Plastics has a focused portfolio with global leadership positions in many of its products. DSM Engineering Plastics has a strong position in semicrystalline engineering plastics, high-performance polyamides, polyamide 6 and thermoplastic copolyester. All innovations in DSM Engineering Plastics launched in 2014 were classified as ECO+, providing quantifiable environmental advantages to its customers. With its global headquarters and management based in Singapore, DSM Engineering Plastics is well positioned to respond to the requirements of its customers in the fast-growing Asian market, which are expected to account for the majority of its growth in the period ahead. The business has production and R&D facilities in the Netherlands, the US, Japan, China, Taiwan, India, Belgium and Russia. These centers house a wide range of highly specialized equipment for material and application testing and support the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 76 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships In 2014, DSM launched the next generation of Diablo highDSM Dyneema temperature resistant polyamides. The new grades are part of both DSM’s Stanyl® polyamide 46 and Akulon® PA6 and PA66 portfolios, and are aimed at applications in automotive engine Highlights 2014 compartments where temperatures can reach as high as 260°C. DSM's EcoPaXX®, the 70 percent bio-based engineering Steady sales growth in existing segments and through plastic, was selected by Dytech for Ferrari and Maserati fuel new applications vapor separators. The company gained share in the European Improved operational efficiencies and cost controls automotive market despite sluggish conditions, due to its early More than 90 percent ECO+ products in running stage collaboration with customers. business In the electrical and electronics industry, manufacturers increasingly seek solutions that address the growing problem of e-waste and offer improvements related to functionality, DSM Dyneema reported sales of € 264 million in 2014 compared miniaturization and productivity. DSM addresses this need to € 252 million in 2013. The business grew steadily in its existing through its unique portfolio of high-performance, halogen-free segments during the year and increased its attention on new flame-retardant materials with high flow, allowing lead-free applications to create a broader and more resilient business soldering, thinner connectors and sockets and by offering a base. DSM Dyneema successfully added new applications by halogen-free alternative for consumer electronics cables. leveraging its technical innovations and brand into new fields. It also realized operational efficiency gains and achieved cost Demand for DSM's high performance polyamides from top controls. electronics companies for use in their latest generation of memory connectors has grown in 2014. The introduction of new DSM Dyneema maintained its focus on existing licensee and key products such as Stanyl® ForTii™ supported market growth in customer relationships, with careful targeting of new products to electrical and electronics, especially in Asia. increase loyalty. The DSM Dyneema business also undertook a number of measures to enhance its product line through a In the flexible food packaging industry, with growing demands combination of new grade introductions, elimination of underfor solutions that help reduce food waste, DSM’s leadership in performing grades and targeted price increases. polyamide 6 for film and specialty packaging is enabling customers to improve productivity, while better protecting food In the year, DSM Dyneema finalized two large environmental and extending its shelf life. footprint studies, which indicate that over 90 percent of its products are ECO+. In consumer goods, where there is a growing requirement for more sustainable performance and improved functionality, DSM The Dyneema® brand is licensed to selected customers for use Engineering Plastics is moving towards a full range of innovative across a wide and ever-increasing range of applications such as products with reduced content of substances of concern, medical sutures, commercial fishing and aquaculture nets, increased bio-based content, increased recyclability and/or ropes, slings, vehicle and personal ballistic protection, radomes reduced environmental impact. and high-performance fabrics in apparel and cut-resistant gloves. The construction of a new materials center in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) was completed in 2014. This facility brings the In all cases, the benefits of high strength, comfort and safety, marketing and business teams together with scientists in the combined with low weight, make Dyneema® a key contributor development center, to enable co-creativity and improve to customer and licensee products. Customer products made response and service to customers in the materials field. with Dyneema® are inherently more sustainable than the materials they replace. They weigh less, use less material, need less energy to process and deploy in their final application, and have longer lifetimes. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 77 www.dsm.com DSM Resins & Functional Materials DSM Coating Resins DSM Coating Resins seeks to grow the market for sustainable coating solutions with resins that are raw materials for three Highlights 2014 types of coatings: water-based coatings, powder coatings and UV-curable coatings. These resins are used in a wide range of Good sales growth through ECO+ sales and new coating applications, such as architectural, industrial wood, introductions flooring, graphic arts, can, coil and powder coating applications. Continued attention to operational efficiency Joint venture DSM-Niaga focused on sustainable carpet In China, new standards and legislation were introduced in 2014 technology, to create and re-create carpets from waste with a focus on improved air quality. DSM anticipated this development and actively participated in the establishment of the Waterborne China Platform, which has resulted in significant progress being made in the conversion from solvent-borne to DSM Resins & Functional Materials reported 2014 sales waterborne coatings. of € 1,204 million compared to € 1,216 million in the previous year. The market launch of a powder coating technology, enabling fast curing at low temperatures, took this segment beyond the typical In 2014, DSM Resins & Functional Materials focused on metal substrates market and allowed for application of this replacing non-sustainable products with sustainable solutions, technology on heat-sensitive substrates. This will enable it to in close cooperation with its partners in the value chain. This expand its portfolio of Uralac® applications to a wider range of resulted in a higher growth rate of ECO+ sales versus substrates. non-ECO+ sales. The business also further embedded a culture of continuous improvement, including attention for operational efficiency. This business group is active across a broad range of resins and functional materials through its various business units. In the coatings industry, DSM is a global leader in the development and production of water-based coating resins and powder coating resins that offer distinct sustainability advantages. DSM is also an emerging player in the market for UV-curable coating resins through its joint venture with AGI Corporation of Taiwan. In the functional materials area, DSM is a leading developer of formulated coatings designed to address the growing demand for more sustainable, environmentally friendly materials. It has a global leadership position in optical fiber coatings. In the additive manufacturing industry, DSM offers the most efficient and effective prototyping technologies available, supporting the industry to design and bring new products to market with an increased speed. For the composite resins market, DSM provides resins solutions for lightweight composites used in trucks and trains, bridges, building façades, trenchless pipe renovation and wind-turbine blades. Innovations in all areas aim to create superior performance in existing application areas, and enlarge the market for sustainable technologies. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 78 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships DSM Coating Resins measures the carbon footprint of its DSM Composite Resins innovations to validate its qualities and has conducted multiple Market conditions remained challenging in 2014, with some LCAs. The data acquired by these studies help to foster positive signs in the second half. While transportation, marine, cooperation across the value chain. An example of this is the and construction markets were operating at lower levels, LCA study on the carbon footprint of coated cans; the new infrastructure (bridges, relining) and industrial are showing Bisphenol A-free resins have a significantly lower environmental improvements. At the same time, markets in China continued to footprint. grow, but at lower levels than before. The business is also setting a new standard in sustainable paint DSM Composite Resins worked to increase competitiveness by resins with the introduction of Decovery®. These resins are reducing operating costs and de-bottlenecking its processes. It based on novel plant-based building blocks, combining reduced collaborated closely with partners to speed up innovations. reliance on fossil fuels with a safer indoor air quality environment, opening a new era of high performance sustainable paint DSM is pursuing strategic actions for the Composite Resins production with a reduced environmental impact. business. In December, DSM announced that it had reached an agreement for the sale of Euroresins to Cathay Investments. The DSM announced a joint venture with Niaga, a Netherlandscompany also announced an agreement to sell its solvent-borne based provider of sustainable solutions for the carpet industry. coating business Synres to Standard Investment. DSM-Niaga will further develop and commercialize sustainable technology for recyclable carpets. Based on proprietary and complementary technologies, the venture will enable the industry to create and re-create carpets from waste in order to close the carpet materials loop. DSM Functional Materials In the telecommunications market, DSM’s UV-curable optical fiber materials set the standard for fiber protection and identification worldwide, helping ensure greater signal reliability and field performance within fiber-optic networks as bandwidth demand surges worldwide. DeSolite® Supercoatings, a broad portfolio of optical fiber coatings, help network owners attain higher levels of reliability and performance. DSM announced the next generation of DeSolite® Supercoatings, taking performance to a new level with excellent fiber strengths and enhanced processing robustness. DSM is actively protecting and, where needed, will defend its IP position. In additive manufacturing (3D printing), DSM has introduced several innovative products to key markets in this field such as medical, dental, aerospace and automotive. The business introduced Somos®Precise, a new material for 3D printing designed to create parts and patterns for high temperature applications requiring exceptional detail resolution. Another introduction was Somos®PerFORM, the latest composite material for 3D printing, helping users to achieve maximum accuracy and detail with a reduced processing time. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 79 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014: Polymer Intermediates Leading by Net sales technology € 1,727 m DSM Fibre Intermediates x € million 2014 2013R Highlights 2014 Net sales: DSM Fibre Intermediates 1,727 1,579 The new second line at DNCC contributed to higher sales Continued efforts to improve performance and maximize Total 1,727 1,579 margins Higher sales at acrylonitrile Organic sales growth (in %) 9 Operating profit 24 71 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 83 113 Caprolactam Capital expenditure 117 235 Caprolactam is the raw material for polyamide 6 (PA6), also Capital employed at 31 December 419 570 known as nylon 6. The applications of PA6 are very diverse, ROCE (in %) 4.8 14.0 covering many end-markets, from carpets and textiles to car EBITDA as % of net sales 4.8 7.2 parts, electrical devices and packaging film. R&D expenditure 16 17 DSM Fibre Intermediates is a major supplier to the merchant Workforce at 31 December caprolactam market. A major part of all caprolactam produced (headcount) 1,423 1,456 globally is made using DSM’s proprietary technology, which it actively licenses. Business The business has established a strong caprolactam position thanks to its local production facilities, reinforced by its strong The Polymer Intermediates cluster comprises DSM Fibre partnership with customers in the downstream PA6 industries. Intermediates, the global market and technology leader in caprolactam and the leading acrylonitrile supplier in Europe. Its The effect of the huge increase of Chinese caprolactam capacity head office is in Shanghai (China). was noticeable. The abundant supply leads to low margins and strong competition, which resulted in several producers halting In 2014, DSM Fibre Intermediates posted sales of production temporarily or permanently in 2014. € 1,727 million, compared to € 1,579 million in 2013. EBITDA decreased compared to 2013 given lower caprolactam margins Through most of the year, benzene, caprolactam’s principle raw and lower license income, despite higher volumes and lower material, has seen high price volatility, which impacted margins. costs. The addition of the new second caprolactam line at DNCC increased capacity and contributed to innovation by applying the The construction of DSM's next generation ammonium sulfate latest energy-saving technologies. Acrylonitrile delivered a good plant in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) is on schedule to start performance. production in 2015. The new facility will lead to energy savings and lower caprolactam production costs. There was a continued focus on cost control and performance throughout the cluster, including profit improvement activities. DSM expects its caprolactam business to maintain its global leadership position thanks to its focus on high growth In the period ahead, DSM will continue to pursue portfolio economies, sustainability and technological innovation, and an enhancement via strategic actions in Polymer Intermediates. unwavering commitment to its customers. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 80 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships Acrylonitrile DSM Fibre Intermediates is the leading supplier in the European merchant acrylonitrile market. Net acrylonitrile sales were higher than the previous year due to stable production and increasing sales volumes. DSM is further strengthening the position of its acrylonitrile business as the dedicated supplier in the European contract market. Acrylonitrile is a raw material for acrylic fibers, plastics, rubber, water treatment chemicals and a wide range of specialty products. It is a key ingredient for bright, fashionable acrylic textile and carpet fibers and for materials such as acrylonitrilebutadiene-styrene and styrene-acrylonitrile that are used for automotive components, electronic devices, toys and sports equipment. The application of acrylonitrile across a wide range of valuable specialty products like carbon fibers, water treatment additives and detergents is rapidly growing. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 81 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014: Innovation Center Connecting bright Net sales science to brighter living € 154 m DSM Biomedical; x € million 2014 2013R DSM Bio-based Products & Services; and DSM Advanced Surfaces. Net sales 154 150 DSM aspires to achieve € 1 billion in sales by 2020 in its Organic sales growth (in %) 3 16 combined Emerging Business Areas. Operating profit (45) (43) Operating profit plus depreciation DSM Biomedical and amortization (EBITDA) (18) (9) Capital expenditure 27 20 DSM Biomedical is a leading development partner, trusted by Capital employed at 31 December 523 469 the medical industry to shape the future of biomaterials and R&D expenditure 82 74 regenerative medical devices that improve and brighten patients’ lives throughout the world. From its facilities in the US and the Workforce at 31 December Netherlands, it has provided medical device materials (headcount) 675 659 development and manufacturing to medical device companies for over 25 years. These products address key trends in medicine, from treating an aging population to caring for more DSM Innovation Center active lifestyles − meeting the need for safer, less invasive procedures that are also more cost-effective. Since 2006, the DSM Innovation Center helps to facilitate the company’s strategic transition to become an intrinsically By using its wide range of state-of-the-art capabilities, DSM is innovative organization. It serves as an enabler and accelerator able to develop and produce innovative materials, as well as of sustainable innovation within DSM. With its Emerging components, sub-assemblies and full medical devices for its Business Areas (EBAs) and the Business Incubator, the customers. Its broad portfolio of biomedical materials, Innovation Center plays a fundamental business development technologies and capabilities includes biomedical polyurethanes role, focusing on areas outside the current scope of the business and polyethylenes, resorbable polymers, ceramics, collagens, groups. The Innovation Center also includes DSM Venturing & extracellular matrices, silicone hydrogels, device coatings, and Licensing. drug delivery platforms. These products are used in applications in some of the most attractive high growth markets, including Sales increased by three percent to € 154 million. EBITDA orthopedics, sports medicine, ophthalmology, general surgery declined due to intensified innovation programs. DSM and cardiology. Biomedical performed well. DSM Advanced Surfaces made good progress, albeit from a low base. The main focus of DSM The global market for medical devices is estimated to be worth Bio-based Products & Services was on starting up the around € 150 billion and is growing at an annual rate of between POET-DSM plant in Iowa. approximately four and five percent. Of this amount, between € 1 2 billion is accessible to DSM Biomedical. Demand is rising Emerging Business Areas for cost-effective devices that improve the lives of patients and offset rising expenditure in healthcare. This long-term trend gives DSM’s Emerging Business Areas provide strong long-term the global biomedical market excellent growth prospects for the growth platforms in highly promising end-markets that are based period ahead. on the company’s core competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences. The company has three Emerging Business DSM Biomedical aims to be a strong partner to its medical device Areas: customers as its broad portfolio of technologies can meet multiple needs. Its scalable business is positioned better than Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 82 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships ever to capitalize on the growth opportunities that the medical processes corn crop residues to produce cellulosic bio-ethanol device market will offer. through a bioconversion process using enzymatic hydrolysis followed by fermentation. Good progress was also made in R&D DSM’s ambition is to be a leading development partner that is on conversion technologies (including yeast and enzymes) and trusted by the medical industry to shape the future of microbial oils, which led to an increase in the cost effectiveness biomaterials and regenerative medical devices. Continuous of DSM technologies in various applications. growth in DSM Biomedical’s existing businesses, venturing and incubating new technologies and solutions, as well as Due to ongoing lack of clarity on the direction that the debate on acquisitions will contribute to this. the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) in the US will take, willingness to discuss license commitments for the construction In the year, DSM announced that its first in-house medical of additional cellulosic bio-ethanol capacity has decreased coating service plant was ready for commercial production. It considerably in this country. The recent decision by the US also expanded its Dyneema Purity® fiber portfolio with the Environmental Protection Agency not to finalize the 2014 RFS release of Dyneema Purity® Radiopaque fiber and delivered a ruling has not alleviated that situation. In response, POET-DSM six-month study with the University Medical Center Utrecht into is actively looking for licensing opportunities in other regions, the use of this material in fiber-based heart valves. including Latin America, South-East Asia and Europe. The business expanded its biomedical business in the year with the launch of its cellular therapy development services. It also made progress in partnerships in new devices and clinical trials, while the DSM-DuPont joint venture, Actamax, announced positive results from its first clinical trials for its novel sprayable adhesion barrier device. DSM Bio-based Products & Services DSM’s competences in industrial biotechnology are at the core of its strategic focus on Life Sciences and Materials Sciences. As the world moves away from its dependencies on fossil resources and towards a more sustainable economy that is based on bio-renewable feedstocks, there are significant opportunities in advanced biofuels such as cellulosic bioethanol, and in renewable building blocks like bio-based succinic acid. DSM Bio-based Products & Services is pioneering advances in biomass conversion and seeks to demonstrate the commercial viability of sustainable, renewable technologies in collaboration with strategic partners in the value chain. The development and supply of high-value knowledge, ingredients and expertise in the field of bio-conversion technology are critical success factors. DSM’s strategy is to license its technology and expertise to biobased entrepreneurs, enabling them to convert biomass in a commercially viable and sustainable way. Cellulosic bio-ethanol (POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels)1 September saw the grand opening of project LIBERTY, the commercial-scale plant of the POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels joint venture (50/50) in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA). This production facility for cellulosic bio-ethanol has a capacity of up to approximately 25 million gallons (~90 million liters) per year. It 1 DSM's interest in the net result is reported as part of Associates as of 2014 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 83 www.dsm.com POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels intends to replicate and license In October, the business announced a partnership with Beneq, the technology worldwide. the Finnish supplier of production and research equipment for thin-film Atomic Layer Deposition and aerosol coatings. It also POET-DSM entered into a three-year participation in the Solliance CIGS Research program that focuses on developing new solutions for x € million (100%) 2014 2013R solar modules. DSM will contribute its expertise in the field of textured surfaces (light trapping technology). In the year, a multiNet sales 1 functional project team focused on delivering an outdoor durable UV-curable resin. This production process applies the required Operating profit (8) texture on a flexible film and an application process for retrofitting Operating profit plus depreciation onto PV panels. It is estimated that the attainable market for light and amortization (EBITDA) (8) trapping technology will be worth approximately € 1-3 billion by Capital employed at 31 December 251 146 2020. Looking ahead, DSM Advanced Surfaces will leverage its Bio-succinic acid (Reverdia)2 expertise in materials science to build a portfolio of ventures in Reverdia – the joint venture between DSM and Roquette Frères innovative materials and technologies that support the − operates its Biosuccinium™ plant in Cassano (Italy), and aims development and commercialization of more efficient PV to license its BiosucciniumTM technology to third parties. This modules. creates a clear advantage for companies that want to integrate bio-succinic acid production into their business offering, DSM Business Incubator enabling competitive production of bio-based materials. The DSM Business Incubator explores business opportunities in DSM Advanced Surfaces adjacent areas and future markets for DSM, with a strong link to DSM’s technologies and competence base. Platforms are DSM Advanced Surfaces aims to accelerate the uptake and created within the scope of securing food, health and energy effectiveness of solar energy by focusing on the development requirements of society, in close collaboration with industry and commercialization of technologies and materials solutions partners and existing and potential customers. DSM’s Business that increase the efficiency of solar modules, reducing the cost Incubator has been instrumental in feeding the pipeline with of the energy produced. opportunities that address customer needs. In 2014, the business delivered double digit growth, which DSM Venturing & Licensing underpins the appeal of its anti-reflective coating product KhepriCoat® applied to solar panel cover glass in the solar DSM Venturing & Licensing invests in early to late stage photovoltaic (PV) industry. Increased production was possible innovative companies in areas strategically relevant to DSM’s due to the opening of the dedicated manufacturing plant in current and future businesses. In 2014, it continued to Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) in 2013. It is estimated that the total implement its strategy to focus on Human Nutritional Health, attainable market for KhepriCoat® will amount to between Biomedical, Solar and incubators. In 2014, three new direct and € 250-300 million by 2020. four follow-on investments were made. DSM Venturing & Licensing ended its participation in six companies in 2014. In September, DSM Advanced Surfaces inaugurated its Solar Technologies Demonstration Center at the DSM Engineering In the year, DSM invested in Isobionics B.V., an emerging Plastics facility in Pune, India. This state-of-the-art solar company active in developing, producing and selling a range of technology center has been built to demonstrate and showcase natural products for the Flavor & Fragrance and Agrochemical the performance of DSM's innovations in solar technology and market. This was followed by an investment in Zeavision will also reduce the plant’s CO2 footprint by using the renewable Holdings Inc., maker of the EyePromise® brand of eye health energy generated by the center to help power the site. DSM also supplements. ZeaVision pioneered the use of Zeaxanthin, a inaugurated a solar plant using PV panels coated with natural antioxidant and photo-protectant, for eye health. KhepriCoat® at its facility in Belvidere (New Jersey, USA) in the year, helping to meet the site’s energy needs with locally produced renewable energy. 2 DSM's interest in the net result is reported as part of Associates as of 2014 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 84 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships Corporate Activities Any consolidated activities and businesses that are outside the four reporting clusters are reported as Corporate Activities. These comprise operating and service activities, as well as a number of costs that cannot be allocated to the clusters. This segment normally has a negative operating result. Corporate Activities includes various holding companies and corporate overheads. The most significant cost elements are corporate departments and the share-based compensation for the company. x € million 2014 2013R Net sales 173 195 Operating profit (149) (127) Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) (90) (76) Capital expenditure 62 87 R&D expenditure 28 29 Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 3,281 3,204 Sitech Services Sitech Services provides manufacturing services, park services and Safety, Health & Environment services for the Chemelot industrial site in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands). DSM Insurances The company retains a limited part of its material damage and business interruption and product liability risks via DSM’s captive insurance company. In 2014, the total retained damages were € 25 million, of which € 15 million related to the fire at DSM Nutritional Products, Sisseln (Switzerland). Corporate Research The total costs of the Corporate Research Program have been reported under Corporate Activities since 2011. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 85 www.dsm.com Pharma Partnerships DSM’s former Pharma cluster now consists of DSM’s interests DPx Holdings in DPx Holdings (49 percent), formed by combining DSM Pharmaceutical Products and Patheon Inc., a leading provider DPx Holdings was formed in 2014 as part of a USD 2.6 billion of contract development and manufacturing organization transaction between JLL Partners and DSM. DPx is positioned (CDMO) services, pharmaceutical products and other to add scale, new value chain capabilities and technologies, as formulated products for various industries; and DSM's 50 well as to expand its end-to-end service offerings as a percent share in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, market leader comprehensive solution provider to the pharmaceutical industry. in beta-lactam anti-infectives. Born from the shared vision between Patheon and DSM With the formation of DPx Holdings in 2014, DSM concluded its Pharmaceutical Products (DPP), DPx’s strategy is built upon the strategic objective of Leveraging partnerships for growth for its collective reputations of quality, innovation, customer service Pharma cluster. and operational excellence. These same core commitments are at the center of each of the business units, which operate under As of 2014 the Pharma cluster is no longer included in DSM’s the Patheon, DPx Fine Chemicals and Banner Life EBITDA, and DSM reports on its investments in the related Sciences brand names. The integration has progressed quickly. ventures as associates in accordance with the equity method. DPx successfully acquired Gallus BioPharmaceuticals in 2014, a leading contract manufacturing company specializing in biologics, to expand its biologics activities. This has further strengthened DPx’ integrated service offering, which supports the entire product development cycle, from preclinical phases through to launch and commercial supply, to companies involved in biologics, emerging pharma and generics, as well as to large pharma players. From closing until the end of fiscal year 2014 (ending 31 October), DPx Holdings realized net sales of € 984 million with an EBITDA before exceptional items of € 177 million. Operating profit amounted to € 92 million. Pro-forma sales for the fiscal year 2014 were around € 1.6 billion. DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP) is a global leader in generic anti-infective molecules. DSP develops, produces and sells raw materials, intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) as well as finished dosage. It is at the forefront of technological and process developments for anti-infectives and cholesterol-lowering molecules, using environmentallyfriendly production technologies based on biotechnology. As a 50/50 joint venture between DSM and Sinochem, DSP is a market leader in enzymatic beta-lactam APIs, with nearly 500 patented innovations in this field. It is also a B2B provider of generic drug products. Full backward integration and control of its supply chain with the advantage of using its own high-quality Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 86 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2014 Life Sciences Nutrition Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Pharma Partnerships APIs delivers unique quality and performance in the finished dosage formulation and sets DSP apart from its competition. Sustainability is a key driver in DSP's antibiotics business. Nearly all of DSP’s high-quality APIs are manufactured using enzymatic processes, which allow the production of APIs with a much lower CO2 footprint versus comparable chemically manufactured products, including DSP’s PureActivesTM range of sustainable antibiotics. DSP actively promotes the sustainable and responsible use of antibiotics throughout the value chain. DSP’s performance in the year was further supported by solid growth at its Yushu (China) 6-APA plant. DSP expanded its API portfolio by the construction of a multiproduct plant in Toansa (India). The facility will help to meet the increasing demand for DSP’s high-quality products in cardiovascular while also driving further expansion of its portfolio in defined therapeutic segments. To begin with, production of atorvastatin started in the second half of 2014, using DSP’s proprietary enzymatic (bio)technology route. Atorvastatin is currently the most prescribed drug globally for cardiovascular applications and one of the top selling drugs worldwide. DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals x € million (100%) 2014 2013R Net sales 399 368 Operating profit 9 (2) Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 23 21 Capital employed at 31 December 322 330 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 87 www.dsm.com Financial and reporting policy Financial policy transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, CHF, JPY and GBP. The risks arising from As a basis for and contribution to effective risk management and currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when to ensure that the company is able to pursue its strategies, even appropriate. during periods of economic downturn, DSM retains a strong balance sheet and limits its financial risks. The most important acquisition criteria are strategic fit and financial condition. A business or partner should add value to The current strategy, DSM in motion: driving focused growth, DSM in terms of technological and/or market competences. has ambitious strategic and financial targets that are outlined on Acquired companies are in principle required to contribute to page 18. DSM aims to maintain its Single A long-term credit DSM's cash earnings per share from the very beginning and to rating. earnings per share from year two. In addition, they are required to meet the company's profitability, sustainability and growth Most of DSM's external funding needs are financed through requirements. There are, however, exceptions to this rule. For long-term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the terms instance, such requirements may not be appropriate in the case and conditions of outstanding bonds and financing of small innovative growth acquisitions, although the arrangements. DSM aims to spread the maturity profile of sustainability requirement will be upheld at all times. outstanding bonds in order to have adequate financial flexibility. DSM's policy in the various sub-disciplines of the finance DSM has a commercial paper program of € 1,500 million that is function is strongly oriented toward solidity, reliability and available and two committed credit facilities totaling € 1,000 protection of cash flows. The finance function plays an important million, consisting of € 500 million until September 2018 and role in business steering. € 500 million until March 2019, including an extension option, which can bring the final maturity to 2020. Tax policy An important element of DSM’s financial policy is the allocation DSM is transparent towards all tax authorities and collaborates of cash flow. DSM primarily allocates cash flow to investments with them to determine the amount of tax due. DSM aimed at strengthening its business positions and to dividend acknowledges that its obligation is to contribute the amount of payments to its shareholders. The cash flow is further used for tax owed to authorities and to apply tax practices that comply Acquisitions & Partnerships that strengthen DSM's with the letter as well as the spirit of the tax laws and regulations competences and market positions in Life Sciences and in the markets where the company operates. Its tax reporting is Materials Sciences, supported by the other three strategic fully compliant with all applicable rules and regulations. DSM’s growth drivers: High Growth Economies, Innovation and Managing Board is responsible for securing the tax principles Sustainability. under the supervision of the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. The planning of DSM’s tax position is consistent with the Should the occasion arise, the company may choose to return normal course of its business operations, reflects the corporate cash to shareholders if excess cash is available over a longer strategy and is consistent with international best practice period to such an extent that the above-mentioned cash flow guidelines, such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational priorities can be satisfied without affecting the credit rating. Enterprises. For calculating transfer prices, the arm’s length principle is always applied. The level of DSM’s effective tax rate DSM aims to provide a stable, and preferably rising, dividend. as a percentage of pre-tax profit reflects the geographic spread of the results over the years, also as a result of acquisitions and In order to avoid dilution of earnings per share as a result of the divestments, and of the application of tax regimes in countries exercise of management and employee options as well as the where DSM operates. award of restricted shares, DSM buys back shares insofar as this is desirable and feasible. In 2014 3,733,055 shares were repurchased (1,266,945 shares were repurchased in 2013). It is DSM’s policy to hedge 100 percent of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of trade receivables and payables. In addition, operating companies may – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 88 www.dsm.com Financial and reporting policy Financial policy Reporting policy Reporting policy following the first full year after acquisition, because these companies’ reporting procedures first have to be aligned with Reporting policy and justification of choices made those of DSM. In the case of divestments, safety data are In the sustainability information in this Integrated Annual Report, consolidated until the moment of divestment. For 2014, the DSM explains its vision and policy with respect to sustainable safety data relating to DPP has been included up until the business and reports on its activities in this field during 2014. In moment of closing. addition to presenting developments and data for the three categories of People, Planet and Profit, DSM also reports on its Quality of data sustainability strategy, its stakeholder engagement activities, The data for the DSM sites are based on these sites’ own and the organization of sustainability at DSM. Furthermore, DSM measurements and calculations, which are based on definitions, discusses the global trends that drive its strategy. It is DSM’s methods and procedures established at corporate level. The policy to proactively canvas the views of its employees on issues year-on-year comparability of the data can be affected by of material importance to the company. changes in the portfolio as well as by improvements made in the measurement and recording systems at the various sites. Global Reporting Initiative Whenever impact is relevant, it is stated in the report. Details for DSM bases its sustainability reporting on best practice the individual sites are published on www.dsm.com, together standards and international guidelines. Most important are the with an explanation of the definitions used. guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For this report, the company used the GRI G4 guidelines, launched in 2013. A Planet methodology detailed overview of how DSM reports according to the G4 Environmental indicators are evaluated and established on a comprehensive indicators, including a reference to relevant yearly basis by the experts and process owners involved. Data sections in this report, is provided on www.dsm.com. DSM does on these indicators are collected on a yearly basis, while an not apply the framework of the International Integrated Reporting additional mid-year measurement is done for the most relevant Council. indicators and reporting units. The methodology and calculations can be found on www.dsm.com. The site managers Selection of topics of reporting units are responsible for the quality of the data. Data The topics covered in this report were selected on the basis of are collected based on measurements in the production input from stakeholders and the materiality analysis, GRI processes, information from external parties (e.g. on waste and guidelines and DSM’s own management systems and their external energy) and estimates based on expert knowledge. relevance and impact for DSM and its various stakeholders. See Reporting units have direct insight into their performance also Stakeholder engagement on page 28. On the basis of the compared to previous years and are required to provide principle of materiality, DSM distinguishes between topics justifications for deviations above the threshold. For most whose importance warrants publication in this Integrated Annual parameters the threshold is set at ten percent. Report (relevant to both DSM and its stakeholders), and topics whose importance warrants publication on the company website People methodology only (topics important to either DSM or its stakeholders). DSM People and HR data are collected per business group and reports on its external recognition in the chapter on Stakeholder consolidated at corporate level. engagement. DSM also reports separately on its progress in implementing the principles of the UN Global Compact. See ECO+ page 38. All financial ECO+ data are collected from the relevant financial and innovation systems by the controllers of the business groups Scope and the Innovation Center. All assessments of ECO+ involve The People, Planet and ECO+ data in this report cover all entities internal LCA experts. The data are internally validated with the that belong to the consolidation scope of the consolidated Corporate Sustainability department and consolidated in DSM financial statements. Offices and R&D facilities are excluded from ECO+ key performance indicators. Planet reporting. Acquisitions and divestments The HR data (People) for newly acquired companies are reported from the first full month after the acquisition date. The Safety, Health (People), Environment (Planet) and ECO+ data for newly acquired companies are reported at the latest in the year Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 89 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction1 DSM has a number of functional and regional organizations to support the Managing Board and the business groups. IntraKoninklijke DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by group product supplies and the services of a number of shared shares listed on Euronext Amsterdam, with a Managing Board service departments and research departments are contracted and an independent Supervisory Board. Members of the by the business groups on an arm's length basis. Managing Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed (and, if necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of Shareholders. Managing Board The Managing Board consists of three or more members, to be The Managing Board is responsible for the company's strategy, determined by the Supervisory Board. The current composition its portfolio policy, the deployment of human and capital of the Managing Board can be found in the chapter Supervisory resources, the company’s risk management system, the Board and Managing Board on page 112. Since 2005, company's financial performance and its performance in the members of the Managing Board have been appointed for a area of sustainability. period of four years. The Supervisory Board supervises the policy pursued by the The members of the Managing Board are collectively responsible Managing Board, the Managing Board's performance of its for the management of the company. Notwithstanding their managerial duties and the company's general course of affairs, collective responsibility within the Managing Board, certain tasks taking the interests of all the company's stakeholders into and responsibilities for business clusters and functional areas as account. The annual financial statements are approved by the well as regional responsibilities have been assigned to individual Supervisory Board and then submitted for adoption to the members. This distribution of tasks is published on the DSM Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, accompanied by an website. explanation by the Supervisory Board of how it carried out its supervisory duties during the year concerned. The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is determined by the Supervisory Board based on the The company is governed by Dutch law and by its Articles of remuneration policy approved by the General Meeting of Association, which can be consulted on the DSM website Shareholders. The remuneration policy for the Managing Board (www.dsm.com). The General Meeting of Shareholders decides can be found in the Supervisory Board report on page 106 on an amendment to the Articles of Association by an absolute under Remuneration policy. majority of the votes cast. A decision to amend the Articles of Association may only be taken at the proposal of the Managing The functioning of and decision making within the Managing Board, subject to approval of the Supervisory Board. Board are governed by the Regulations of the Managing Board, which are in accordance with the Dutch corporate governance DSM fully informs its stakeholders about its corporate objectives, code and can be found on the DSM website. the way the company is managed and the company's performance. Its aim in doing so is to pursue an open dialogue In 2014 the Managing Board had 46 formal meetings. In ten with its shareholders and other stakeholders. meetings a member was excused due to another commitment. In two meetings two members were excused. In all cases, DSM has a decentralized organizational structure built around members who were unable to attend provided their input to the business groups that are empowered to carry out all short-term meeting in advance in writing. and long-term business functions. At the operational level, the business groups are the primary organizational and Supervisory Board entrepreneurial building blocks. The business groups are The Supervisory Board consists of at least five members. The grouped into clusters. Business groups within a cluster report to current composition of the Supervisory Board can be found in one and the same member of the Managing Board. The clusters the chapter Supervisory Board and Managing Board on page are the main organizational entities for external strategic and 112. Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed for a financial reporting. This structure ensures a flexible, efficient and period of four years with a maximum of three four-year terms. fast response to market changes. 1 This chapter contains, among other things, the information regarding corporate governance as referred to in Section 2 of the Dutch governmental decree of 23 December 2004 establishing further instructions concerning the content of the annual report (Besluit van 23 december 2004 tot vaststelling van nadere voorschriften omtrent de inhoud van het jaarverslag, Staatsblad [Bulletin of Acts and Decrees] 2004, 747) as amended in April 2009 (Staatsblad 2009, 154) and December 2009 (Staatsblad 2009, 545) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 90 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board All current members of the Supervisory Board are independent issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or exclusion in accordance with the Best Practice provisions of the Dutch of pre-emptive rights of shareholders and repurchase or corporate governance code. The remuneration of the members cancellation of shares; of the Supervisory Board is determined by the General Meeting amendments to the Articles of Association; and of Shareholders. The functioning of and decision making within decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a significant the Supervisory Board are governed by the Regulations of the change in the identity or character of DSM or its business. Supervisory Board, which are in accordance with the Dutch corporate governance code and can be found on the DSM The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is held within six website. months of the end of the financial year in order to discuss and, if applicable, approve the annual report, the annual accounts, In line with the Dutch corporate governance code the any appointments of members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board has established from among its members an Supervisory Board and any of the other topics mentioned above. Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, a Remuneration Committee, and a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee. The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and, if necessary, other General Meetings of Shareholders are called by the The task of these committees is to prepare the decision making Managing Board or the Supervisory Board. The agenda and of the Supervisory Board. The functioning and tasks of these explanatory notes are published on the DSM website. committees are governed by charters that have been drawn up in line with the Dutch corporate governance code and can be According to the Articles of Association, shareholders who, found on the DSM website. individually or jointly, represent at least one percent (1 percent) of the issued capital have the right to request to the Managing Diversity Board or the Supervisory Board that items be placed on the Since 1 January 2013 Dutch legislation requires that a large agenda. Such requests need to be received in writing by the company, when nominating or appointing members of the chairman of the Managing Board or the Supervisory Board at Managing Board or Supervisory Board, should strive to achieve least 60 days before the date of the Annual General Meeting of a balanced composition of these Boards in terms of gender, to Shareholders. the effect that at least 30 percent of the positions are held by women and at least 30 percent by men. The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders was held on 7 May 2014. The agenda was to a large extent similar to that of previous The current composition of the Supervisory Board is in line with years. Additional topics were the re-appointment of Rolf-Dieter this legislation. Of the seven members, three are female and four Schwalb as member of the Managing Board for the period of are male. 19 October up to and including 30 November 2014, the appointment of Geraldine Matchett as member of the Managing The appointment of Geraldine Matchett by the General Meeting Board as per 1 August 2014, the re-appointments of Rob Routs of Shareholders on 7 May 2014 as member of the Managing and Tom de Swaan as members of the Supervisory Board and Board as per 1 August 2014 is an important step towards the the appointment of KPMG Accountants N.V. as the independent aspired composition of the Managing Board in terms of gender auditor for Koninklijke DSM N.V. for an initial three-year term that balance. covers the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. Further details can be found on the DSM website. General Meeting of Shareholders The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders relate Article 10 of Directive 2004/25 to: With regard to the information referred to in the Resolution of article 10 of the EC Directive pertaining to a takeover bid which the appointment, suspension and dismissal of members of the is required to be provided according to Dutch law, the following Managing Board and the Supervisory Board; can be reported: approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board; approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board; Information on major shareholdings can be found below the adoption of the annual financial statements and (Distribution of shares). declaration of dividends; There are no special statutory rights attached to the shares of release from liability of the members of the Managing Board the company. and the Supervisory Board; Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 91 www.dsm.com There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the company’s Blackrock, Inc. shares. When convening a General Meeting of Shareholders, Third Point LLC (indirect interest) the Managing Board is entitled to determine a registration date in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil Repurchase of own shares Code. The company may acquire paid-up own shares by virtue of a The applicable provisions regarding the appointment and decision of the Managing Board, provided that the par value of dismissal of members of the Managing Board and the the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no more than one Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles of tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision is subject to the Association are set forth above. approval of the Supervisory Board. In the Annual General The powers of the Managing Board regarding the issue and Meeting of Shareholders of 7 May 2014 the Managing Board repurchase of shares in the company can be found in the was authorized to acquire own shares for a period of 18 months sections Issue of shares and Repurchase of own shares from said date. On 27 February 2014 DSM announced its below. intention to repurchase 2,500,000 ordinary shares for the Other information can be found in the notes to the purpose of covering the company’s commitments under existing consolidated financial statements (16 Equity, 20 Borrowings, management and employee option plans, the second phase of 28 Share-based compensation) and in the chapters a program announced in September 2013 to repurchase Information on the DSM share and Other information. 5,000,000 ordinary shares. Under this program a total of 5,000,000 shares were repurchased for a combined Issue of shares consideration of € 262.5 million. The program was successfully The issue of shares takes place by a decision of the Managing finalized on 19 May 2014. Board. The decision is subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. The scope of this power of the Managing Board shall be Dutch corporate governance code determined by a resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders and shall relate to at most all unissued shares of DSM supports the Dutch corporate governance code adopted the authorized capital, as applicable now or at any time in the in 2003 and amended in 2008, which can be found on future. In the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of 7 May www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl. 2014 this power was extended up to and including 7 November 2015, on the understanding that this authorization of the DSM confirms that it applies all of the code’s 113 Best Practices. Managing Board is limited to a number of ordinary shares with a nominal value amounting to ten percent of the issued capital at With respect to the appointment of members of the Managing the time of issue, and to an additional ten percent of the issued Board for a period of at most four years (Best Practice II.1.1) it capital at the time of issue if the issue takes place within the should be noted that DSM has adhered to this Best Practice context of a merger or acquisition within the scope of DSM's since the introduction of the corporate governance code in 2004. strategy as published on the DSM website. The issue price will be determined by the Managing Board and shall as much as Since DSM respects agreements made before the introduction possible be calculated on the basis of the trading prices of of said code, the current chairman of the Managing Board will ordinary shares on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange. remain appointed for an indefinite period. Distribution of shares With respect to the Dutch corporate governance code it should Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act be noted that any substantial change in the corporate shareholdings of three percent or more in any Dutch company governance structure of the company and in the company's must be disclosed to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial compliance with the code shall be submitted to the General Markets (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM the Meeting of Shareholders for discussion under a separate agenda following shareholders had disclosed that they have a direct or item. indirect (potential) interest between three percent and ten percent in DSM’s total share capital on 1 January 2015: All documents related to the implementation at DSM of the Dutch corporate governance code can be found in the Governance ASR Nederland B.V. section of the DSM website (www.dsm.com). Rabobank Nederland Participatie B.V. Delta Lloyd N.V. Capital Research and Management Company and Capital Group International Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 92 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Governance framework things that it adheres to the DSM Code of Business Conduct and applicable corporate policies and requirements. Business groups are the main building blocks of DSM’s The Management Framework for the corporate level further organization; they have integral long-term and short-term provides a description of the most important (decision making) business responsibility and have at their disposal all functions processes, responsibilities and 'rules of the game' at the that are crucial to their business success. The business groups Managing Board, functional and regional levels and includes within a specific cluster report to one and the same member of the governance relations with the next-higher levels the Managing Board. This Board member manages the (Supervisory Board and shareholders) and the operational coherence of operations and the leveraging of resources within units. In particular, the framework defines the roles of the cluster and is accountable for the overall performance of the corporate staff departments, functional excellence cluster within limits defined by the collective responsibility of the departments and shared service departments as follows: total Managing Board for the management of the company. The Corporate Staff departments: small, high level groups, clusters are the main entities for external strategic and financial supporting the Managing Board and reporting directly to a reporting. In order to ensure sufficient independence with regard Managing Board member (in most cases the CEO/ to financial management, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) has Chairman of the Managing Board or the CFO); no business groups reporting to her. Functional Excellence departments: groups in which expert capabilities in selected functions are concentrated and The following figure depicts DSM's overall governance which are steered by Functional Excellence Advisory framework and the most important governance elements and Boards, chaired by a Managing Board member; the Director regulations at each level. of a Functional Excellence department reports to a Managing Board member; and Shared Service departments: groups in which selected service functions are leveraged and which are steered by Shared Service Boards, chaired by a business group director. The director of a Shared Service department reports to a Managing Board member, who is also a member of that Shared Service Board. The company’s strategic direction and objectives are set in a Corporate Strategy Dialogue, which is held every five years. In 2010 such a Corporate Strategy Dialogue was held, resulting in the current strategy DSM in motion: driving focused growth. As part of this strategy, the regional functions have been further strengthened, especially in the high growth economies. Regional management reports directly to a Managing Board member. The operational units conduct their business within the parameters of the Management Framework for operational units. This implies among other things that they: Note: all internal regulations apply in addition to applicable national and international laws and regulations. In cases where internal regulations are incompatible with comply with the DSM Code of Business Conduct; national or international laws and regulations, the latter prevail establish the strategy and objectives of their business according to the Business Strategy Dialogue, aligned with the For the sake of clarity, a short summary of the main aspects of Corporate Strategy Dialogue, in which process various the framework at Managing Board / corporate level and scenarios and related risk profiles are investigated; operational level is given here: implement risk management actions according to an Annual Risk Management Plan and in line with corporate policies and The Managing Board adheres to the Regulations of the multi-year plans in several functional areas; Managing Board. comply with the Corporate Requirements and Directives; and The Managing Board works according to the Management monitor the effectiveness of the risk management and internal Framework for the corporate level. This implies among other control system and regularly discuss the findings with the Managing Board. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 93 www.dsm.com On average once every three years, the operational units are Private Partnerships, who reports directly to Feike Sijbesma, the audited by Corporate Operational Audit (COA). The director of Chairman of the Managing Board. The aim of the corporate COA reports to the Chairman of the Managing Board and has sustainability network is to support the business in achieving its access to the external auditor and the Chairman of the Audit sustainability aspirations. Committee of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the director of COA acts as the compliance officer with regard to inside DSM also has a dedicated Corporate Operations & Responsible information and is the chairman of the DSM Alert Committee, Care department, which, among other areas, is responsible for which is responsible for the DSM whistleblower policy, systems all corporate issues related to Safety, Health and Environment and processes. (SHE). The Vice President Corporate Operations & Responsible Care reports directly to Managing Board member Stefan In the Fraud Committee, relevant corporate functions participate Doboczky. under the chairmanship of the CFO. The objective of the committee is to ensure structural follow-up of fraud cases with External Sustainability Advisory Board the aim of reducing fraud risks. DSM’s Sustainability Advisory Board has been set up as a sparring partner for the Managing Board and high-level Sustainability Governance Framework executives in the company. It supports DSM in deepening its Managing Board understanding of stakeholder needs and strategic issues such Being both a core value and a business driver for the company, as the bio-based economy and malnutrition, sharpening its Sustainability falls under the responsibility of the Managing focus, conducting advocacy efforts and handling dilemmas. The Board, with CEO Feike Sijbesma as the primary point of contact. board comprises a diverse international group of thought leaders Other members of the Managing Board also chair sustainability on key sustainability topics. The company's external areas and initiatives. Mr. Sijbesma furthermore oversees the Sustainability Advisory Board met twice in 2014: once in the Inclusion & Diversity strategy. Managing Board member Stephan Netherlands and once in Brazil, where they discussed subjects Tanda is the primary point of contact for DSM’s partnership with such as DSM's energy approach, sustainable animal protein and the World Food Programme and other sustainability issues in business solutions for societal needs together with the Managing relation to nutrition. Managing Board member Stefan Doboczky Board and the Supervisory Board. is responsible for Safety, Health and Environment. Global network Supervisory Board An internal network of corporate staff members and business DSM’s Supervisory Board also recognizes sustainability as a managers dedicated to sustainability, known as Sustainability strategic value driver for the company and has appointed its own Champions, support line management in all business and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee to oversee progress functional groups and at the DSM Innovation Center. At the same against targets and report on the embedding of sustainability time, SHE managers provide support at business group level. across the organization. For more details see the Supervisory Board report on page 104. The DSM SHE Council, which includes all business group SHE managers, is instrumental in sharing experiences and developing At a corporate level, sustainability is organized across a network practices and communications on SHE issues. DSM has set up of senior executives and employees. They are supported by the internal regional sustainability networks in China, India and Latin Corporate Sustainability department, which is under the America. responsibility of the Vice President Sustainability and PublicBright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 94 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Sustainability Advisory Board Member Background Amir Dossal (m) Chairman of the Global Partnerships Forum, a platform for innovation and entrepreneurship through multi-stakeholder partnerships. From 1999 to 2010, he was executive director, United Nations Office for Partnerships in New York. Nationality: British. Paul Gilding (m) Independent writer and corporate advisor on sustainability. Fellow at University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL). In 2011 he published his book “The Great Disruption”. In the 1990s, he was executive director of Greenpeace International. Nationality: Australian. Pamela Hartigan (f) Director of the Skoll Centre for Social Entrepreneurship at Saïd Business School in Oxford, Associate Professor at Columbia Business School and founding partner of Volans Ventures. Nationality: American. David King (m) Special representative for climate change of the current UK coalition government. From 2008 to 2012, he served as the founding director of the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford. Nationality: British. Ye Qi (m) Cheung Kong professor of Environmental Policy and director of Brooking-Tsinghua Center for Public Policy at Tsinghua University in Beijing. Before he joined Tsinghua, he taught at Beijing Normal University, and the University of California at Berkeley. Nationality: American. Josette Sheeran (f) President and CEO of Asia Society. She has also served as vice chairman of the World Economic Forum. From 2007 to 2012, Sheeran was executive director of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP). Nationality: American. Risk management together with a description of the identified risks is available on the company’s website. These descriptions are to be considered The Managing Board is responsible for risk management in the an integral part of this Integrated Annual Report. company and, supported by the Corporate Risk Office, has designed and implemented a risk management system and a The functioning of the system in 2014 risk management organization. The system and the organization are documented in the DSM risk management policy, the DSM The important events in risk management in 2014 are reported Code of Business Conduct, DSM policies in several functional below. This section is structured according to the elements of areas and the DSM Corporate Requirements and Directives. The the COSO-ERM risk management framework. aim of the system is to ensure that the extent to which the company’s strategic and operational objectives are being Internal environment for risk management achieved is understood, that the company’s reporting is reliable Values and business principles are an important element of the and that the company complies with relevant laws and internal environment for risk management. Directly related to its regulations. mission to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come, DSM has chosen sustainability as its core value. The DSM risk management system is based on the COSO-ERM framework. It has been designed to achieve maximum DSM's business principles, which are defined in the DSM Code integration of the risk management process in the normal of Business Conduct, are based on this core value. The DSM business processes. It provides for risk assessment tools, Code of Business Conduct, which is available on controls for risks that commonly occur in the company and www.dsm.com, describes principles in the areas of People monitoring and reporting procedures and systems. The internal (social and humanitarian standards), Planet (environmental controls for the goods and money flows have been ‘built into’ principles) and Profit (principles regarding fair and ethical business processes, and tools have been developed to support business practices). In 2014, the mandatory biennial e-learning their implementation and to monitor their effectiveness in course on the Code of Business Conduct was completed by operation. In this way, a high level of internal control is achieved more than 90 percent of all eligible employees. Newly acquired efficiently. businesses in Latin America will be trained in 2015. Classroom training is ongoing for a limited group of employees who do not Upon the publication of this Integrated Annual Report, a full have access to e-mail. A DSM Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy description of DSM’s risk management system and process and Compliance Manual and the corresponding e-learning tool Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 95 www.dsm.com are deployed company-wide to specific target groups in the of corporate staff departments and shared service departments, various units. internal risk and incident reports and risk information from external sources, the Managing Board, supported by the Another important factor determining the internal environment Corporate Risk Office, identified the risks that are relevant in for risk management is the risk appetite. This risk appetite cannot relation to the achievement of the targets of the strategy DSM in be captured in one figure or formula, but varies per category of motion: driving focused growth. Board members individually risks. The Managing Board has reviewed the company’s desired identified and assessed risks, and during a Managing Board risk appetite. The main characteristics can be described as session they reached consensus on these risks and related risk follows: appetites. They identified any necessary responses to be made in addition to the mitigating actions already in place in order to To fulfill its strategic intent, DSM is prepared to accept bring the risks within the defined risk appetite. considerable risks in for example its drive to develop its people and organizational base into a competitive advantage, its The preliminary outcomes of the CRA were reported to and innovation programs and its expansion to high growth discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board in economies, and in that same context the company also the meeting of 8 December 2014. These 'top-down' outcomes accepts risks in developing sustainability as a business driver. were compared with the risks and incidents as reported 'bottomOf course these risks will always be limited by defined hurdle up' by the operational units in their Letters of Representation and criteria and rigorous implementation programs. with findings from internal and external audits. The final risk In risk areas such as intellectual property protection, profile was reported to and discussed with the Audit Committee acquisitions and joint ventures, production-process reliability, of the Supervisory Board on 9 February 2015. It is the basis for business continuity, reputation and product liability the the main risks and responses as reported on the following pages. company is cautious to conservative. With regard to safety, health and environment, reporting The company’s top risks integrity and internal and external non-compliance the The CRA identifies the likelihood and impacts of events that company is risk averse. could jeopardize the achievement of the targets for 2015 set in the DSM in motion: driving focused growth strategy. This risk appetite gives guidance for the responses to the risks identified in the Corporate Risk Assessment (CRA). For specific The table on the next page shows the most important risks for units, the risk appetite may deviate from the overall company DSM not achieving its targets and the remedial actions to profile and management in business units are encouraged and mitigate them. facilitated to discuss risk appetite with their teams. Following the CRA in 2014, 'Exposure to merchant market for Objectives and risk identification, assessment and response caprolactam' no longer qualifies as a 'top risk' as this risk has In line with the mandatory risk management process, business meanwhile materialized. This business is not expected to meet groups that updated their strategy in 2014 performed a business the financial returns DSM is looking for and is also strategically risk assessment to identify and assess the implementation risks no longer interesting for DSM. DSM has therefore decided to of the chosen strategy and agree on responses. At mid-year and pursue strategic actions for Polymer Intermediates, the cluster at year-end, all units reviewed and reported their risks and that includes caprolactam and acrylonitrile. incidents as part of the twice-yearly reporting process, in which risks are reported in terms of exposure (impact multiplied by In addition, 'Risks related to high growth economies' no longer probability). Additionally, risk assessments were performed by a qualify as a 'top risk' either, because DSM has further detailed number of corporate staff units and regions, on major projects its country and region-specific strategies. The current and as part of the compliance programs of new acquisitions. economic slowdown in the high growth economies is not likely to be structural. More power and freedom has been given to the In 2014, the Managing Board updated the CRA. Based on the regional organizations to achieve their strategic goals, which results of the CRA conducted in 2013, input from the directors mitigates this risk. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 96 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board The top risks and related mitigating actions Description of risks Mitigating actions Market environment In 2014, DSM experienced challenging market conditions in DSM is leading the development of an omega-3 and human nutrition with limited growth and some price pressure. multivitamin coalition in the US to promote the intake of these There is a risk that market recovery will be slow or that markets essential nutrients, whereas for Vitamin E amongst others, new will even deteriorate. forms and products are being introduced, and strong science Increased competition in vitamins has led to reduced prices in is being leveraged to move customers to increased inclusion 2014, especially in Vitamin E, which accounted for around levels. eight percent of Nutrition sales in 2014. For Performance Materials, sustainable innovation is being Performance Materials end-markets still experience low combined with margin optimization programs. growth in some geographies. Risks for 2015 are that endBoth Nutrition and Performance Materials are to fully markets remain subdued or even deteriorate. implement running restructuring programs, including operational costs reductions to improve competitiveness. Global financial and economic developments A further economic downturn and a higher impact of currency DSM will proceed with its profit protection plans as well as with volatilities could have a significant detrimental effect on the the execution of its hedging policy. Regional changes in tax achievement of DSM’s targets. Furthermore, changing tax regimes will be closely monitored. regimes may also impact the realization of DSM’s targets. In 2014 the negative impact of foreign currency movements on net sales versus the previous year was not significant (2013: minus two percent). People, organization and culture The implementation of the business strategy is supported by Continued attention will be given to the implementation of organizational measures to enhance regional and functional stronger regional and functional talent management and career effectiveness. However, the organization may lack the human development. Focus and priority setting will secure proper resources in terms of quantity and quality to execute all project execution and implementation. At the same time, DSM programs and projects. will continue its ONE DSM Culture Agenda. Strategic actions Successful execution of strategic actions in Polymer DSM will explore all options to achieve these strategic actions Intermediates and Composite Resins (in total reflecting and in the meantime continue to improve the operational ~20 percent of DSM’s net sales in 2014) is dependent on the performance of these businesses through cost improvement development of these businesses and third-party interest. programs. Operational excellence DSM may not meet top quartile performance in certain Continued focus will be placed on improving all operational functional areas. processes, sharing best practices across functions, and benchmarking operational efficiency and costs, both internally as well as externally. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 97 www.dsm.com Other important risks increasing tension between the growing sophistication of cybercrime and widespread use of (mobile) IT and social In addition to the top risks, the most recent risk assessment and media. Technology improvements (identity management) have reports show the following risks as being the most important: been implemented to further mitigate this risk. Business Continuity risks Acquisitions & Partnerships Major disruptions, especially in the supply chain, in This risk has been reduced significantly by realizing several key manufacturing and in the ICT environment, remain a low strategic acquisitions. The risk on Acquisitions & Partnerships likelihood but possibly high impact risk. DSM recognizes these shifted from finding sufficient additional value-adding risks and has implemented contingency measures like acquisitions to getting the recent acquisitions effectively insurances for the most important scenarios. integrated. The company has developed good practices and Product liability risks structured processes to mitigate this, whereas quarterly To reduce product liability risks, product risk evaluations have tracking of the progress of the various integration programs is been carried out, contractual and quality procedures have also securing the targets set. Partnerships and joint ventures been updated and insurance policies have been reviewed. are kept at arms’ length via contracts based on specific joint Unexpected effects of or undetected flaws in DSM's products venture requirements; qualified board members have to or services may, however, still cause considerable product mitigate joint venture risks. liability exposures. Innovation The Emerging Business Areas are developing well. The focus For the management of all these categories of risks, strategies, and concentration of efforts, as well as the reinforcement of controls and/or mitigating measures have been put in place as the talent base, ensure that DSM capitalizes on talent. The part of DSM’s risk management practices. These nevertheless current outlook is that DSM has achieved good progress to involve uncertainties that may lead to the actual results differing realize the innovation ambitions as set in its strategy. At the from those projected. There may also be risks that the company same time DSM further invests in strengthening its innovation has not yet fully assessed and that are currently classified as skills and competences as well as its innovation portfolio. ‘minor’ but that could have a material impact on the company's ICT complexity performance at a later stage. The company's risk management High ICT complexity (especially against the background of the and internal control system has been designed to identify and large number of acquisitions in recent years) may hamper respond to these developments on time, but 100 percent DSM's competitive advantage. Simplifying and leveraging assurance can never be achieved. operations will mitigate this risk. Raw material and energy: price and availability risks Emerging risks DSM implements various policies to avoid supply chain Identified emerging risks are climate change, energy scarcity and disruptions (e.g. multiple supplier strategy) and decrease price water shortage. DSM is aware of these emerging risks and volatility (e.g. commodity hedging). Nevertheless, the actively monitoring them to anticipate possible mitigating increasing complexity and interdependence of worldwide actions. supply streams as well as increasing (perceived) pressure on the availability of resources may lead to price fluctuations and Control activities availability issues, influencing DSM’s profitability. The Supplier Each business group, major region and relevant staff or Relationship program, aiming to obtain a number of strategic operational service unit has an Audit Committee which, under customer of choice positions, is another way to jointly optimize the direction of the director of the group or unit, sets up annual the value chains DSM is involved in. risk management plans, monitors their implementation and Intellectual property (IP) risks and Security (including reviews risk management issues on a regular basis. During the information security) year under review, major risk management events, such as The policy of accelerated growth through speeding up business risk assessments, audits and the occurrence of control innovation and expansion in high growth economies holds the failures or weaknesses, were discussed with the responsible risk of increased exposure in the IP area. Measures will Managing Board member. continue to be taken to contain these risks, but these may not always be completely effective in mitigating IP risks. In the area Commonly occurring risks are mitigated through the of the security of production assets, continued focus is given implementation of the Corporate Requirements and process to monitoring and implementation of key security behaviors to controls in the business processes. The operational units prevent a possible incident of data fraud/theft, given the regularly test compliance with these requirements and the effectiveness of the controls. Deviations from Corporate Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 98 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Requirements are only allowed temporarily, if sufficient At the end of the second quarter, the operational units were alternative controls are in place and after approval by the asked to provide an update of their material risks and incidents responsible Managing Board member. A limited number of over the first half of 2014 and the status of the mitigation of the waivers have been granted. risks reported over 2013, and to specify any material risks or uncertainties for the rest of the year. By raising the materiality Information and communication level of risk impact in consultation with the external auditor, A continuous effort is being made to inform employees about the simplification facilitated focus on top risks and improved DSM risk management system and train them in its use. A attention for progress of mitigating actions. The consolidated specific regional risk assessment was performed in Russia in overview of these risks, incidents and mitigation measures was 2014. Employee webinars were held and dilemma discussions the basis for the risk section and the statements of the Managing were started in order to increase general awareness of risk Board as provided with the first-half year figures in accordance management. with the requirements of the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act. Monitoring and reporting Information on the functioning of the system was collected on a Enhancements to the risk management system continuous basis. Business groups tracked compliance with During 2014, the enhanced focus on risk controls in the safety Corporate Requirements and the follow-up of actions arising area (Life Saving Rules) was continued. New and enhanced from risk assessments. They conducted assessments on the controls were introduced in the field of Anti-Bribery and effectiveness of their internal controls and reported and Corruption via a policy, compliance manual and e-learning for a investigated incidents. Independent audits on the effectiveness dedicated target audience. The Corporate Requirements were of risk management implementation were executed by the improved in purchase to pay, sourcing, communication and Corporate Operational Audit department according to a program trade controls. For joint ventures the governance and risk agreed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. The management approach was reviewed and updated in line with Corporate Operational Audit department has further DSM's interest in those partnerships. strengthened its way of working by starting to implement a new method of more risk-based auditing. Information coming in via Strategic developments within DSM were supported by risk the DSM Alert whistleblowing channel was also used as a source management actions as follows: for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management system. Any critical findings were addressed immediately. High Growth Economies: Enhancement of regional risk management capabilities with a focus in 2014 on Russia and By signing an affidavit, the business group controllers confirmed, China. among other things, that the quarterly financial statements had Innovation: Improved risk assessment practices, including been produced according to the internal accounting rules and Monte Carlo business simulations and value engineering reporting procedures. The implementation of a financial shared workshops and external orientation, were applied to scenario services center in line with DSM's strategy to leverage operations planning and the balancing of risks as well as opportunities. has created a need for more explicit Continuous Control Sustainability: Further implementation of the control Monitoring (CCM) to support the units' statements. CCM for this framework for ECO+ solutions, implementation of actions scope has been successfully implemented. By simplifying the defined in the sustainability risk assessment and enhancing of authorization design and supported by advanced technology the implementation of a framework for People+. DSM was able to support the business in reducing its internal Acquisitions & Partnerships: Creation of best practices for controls risks in standard goods and money-flow processes (risk) management in the integration and operation of significantly. acquisitions and joint ventures. Enhancement of regional risk management capabilities in high growth economies (China) Based on developments within and external to the company, as and in North America, where many newly acquired businesses well as findings from the various risk assessments, audits and are being integrated. monitoring and reporting efforts, the Corporate Risk Office drew up a consolidated risk report, including recommendations for further improvement of the risk management system. These recommendations were integrated into an update of the Corporate Risk Management Plan 2011-2015. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 99 www.dsm.com Statements of the Managing Board On the basis of the above and in accordance with best practice II.1.5 of the Dutch corporate governance code of December 2008, and Article 5:25c of the Financial Markets Supervision Act, the Managing Board confirms that internal controls over financial reporting provide a reasonable level of assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies, and confirms that these controls functioned properly in the year under review and that there are no indications that they will not continue to do so. The financial statements fairly represent the company's financial condition and the results of the company’s operations and provide the required disclosures. It should be noted that the above does not imply that these systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the realization of operational and strategic business objectives, or that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud and non-compliances with legislation, rules and regulations. In view of all of the above, the Managing Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company, and the management report includes a fair review of the position at the balance sheet date and the development and performance of the business during the financial year together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the company faces. Heerlen, 2 March 2015 The Managing Board Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Geraldine Matchett, CFO Stefan Doboczky Stephan Tanda Dimitri de Vreeze Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 100 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 101 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Board became more diverse in terms of gender with the appointment of Geraldine Matchett as Board Member and CFO. Introduction The Supervisory Board is in charge of supervising and advising For detailed background information on all Managing Board the Managing Board in setting and achieving the company’s members see the DSM website under Corporate Governance objectives, strategy, policies and succession planning. In 2014 and page 113 of this report. an important part of its activities was focused on operational performance and strategy; refining the business portfolio Meetings and business topics assumptions as well as preparing the new corporate strategy In 2014 the Supervisory Board had six meetings and one update to be discussed and approved in 2015. conference call with the Managing Board. On two occasions, a member was excused due to other commitments. In addition to Furthermore, the Supervisory Board was closely involved in the standard agenda items for the meetings, such as the reviewing the corporate risk assessment carried out in the year, development of the financials and the running business discussing the Top 5 risks identified from a strategic, business performance, the Boards had in-depth discussions on and operational point of view as reported in the Integrated Annual operational performance and the progress of the execution of Report. DSM’s strategy, as well as the preparation for an update of DSM’s overall strategy to be discussed and approved in 2015. In DSM's two-tier corporate structure under Dutch law, the Apart from its meetings with the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board is a separate body operating fully Supervisory Board and its Committees also regularly had independently of the Managing Board. Members of the meetings without the presence of the Managing Board or CEO. Supervisory Board and the Managing Board are (re-)appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders. For the Nutrition cluster discussions were focused on organic growth and improving performance, among other things against Composition of the Supervisory Board the backdrop of a slowdown in some human nutrition endThe composition of the DSM Supervisory Board is diverse in markets and pricing pressure in several product segments gender (four male, three female), nationality (four Dutch, one (notably in Vitamin E). Swiss and two American), background, knowledge and experience. The Board's current members are Rob Routs (chair), Discussions on the Materials Sciences clusters remained Ewald Kist (deputy chair), Pierre Hochuli, Tom de Swaan, Pauline focused on efficiencies, ongoing cost control, improving van der Meer Mohr, Victoria Haynes and Eileen Kennedy. For performance by upgrading the Performance Materials cluster’s detailed information on their background, see the DSM website portfolio and reducing exposure to the volatility of the Polymer under Corporate Governance and page 112 of this report. The Intermediates markets. Regarding Innovation, discussions were targeted profile of the Supervisory Board is reflected in its particularly focused on the innovation pipeline and on the regulations, which are published on the DSM website under Emerging Business Areas (EBAs) with topics including the Corporate Governance. The Supervisory Board has four opening of the cellulosic bio-ethanol plant (a joint venture committees to cover four key areas in greater detail: auditing, between DSM and POET) in the US and the inauguration of the nominations (of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board), solar technology demonstration center in India. remuneration (of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board) and corporate social responsibility. Sustainability discussions were focused on People and Planet targets; safety, health and environment; and inclusion and More information on these four committees is given below. The diversity received particular attention. It was established that charters of the committees are published on the DSM website progress made was in line with aspirations. under Corporate Governance. As High Growth Economies are also an important business Composition of the Managing Board growth driver for DSM, one of the Supervisory Board meetings The Managing Board is diverse in nationality (two Dutch, two was held in Sao Paolo (Brazil) and included extensive site visits. Austrian and one member being a Swiss, British and French During these visits the Supervisory Board was informed about citizen), background, knowledge and experience, and provides the progress made in Brazil in the area of both Life Sciences and a good foundation to support all clusters and business groups Materials Sciences. The visits included locations in Campinas in achieving their targets and so contributing to the company and Mairinque, where the Supervisory Board was updated on strategy aimed at driving focused growth. In 2014 the Managing the business of acquired companies Fortitech (global leader in food ingredient blends, acquired in 2012) and Tortuga (Brazilian Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 102 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board market leader in organic trace minerals for animal nutrition and work carried out by the external auditor for the company was health, acquired in 2013) and on progress made in integrating performed in line with the conditions and instructions approved these businesses in the Nutrition cluster. In addition a visit was by the Supervisory Board on the recommendation of the Audit made to Aurora Alimentos, a local customer of DSM. Committee and after consultation with the Managing Board. For work that is not within the scope of the audit of the consolidated Financials and auditing financial statements individual assignments require pre-approval The Audit Committee met three times in 2014 and in addition from the Audit Committee prior to execution. Fees and had four conference calls to discuss financial developments and conditions of the external auditor for audit and non-audit work interim results. On two occasions a member was excused. Tom were approved by the Audit Committee. de Swaan (chair), Pierre Hochuli and Victoria Haynes are the members of the Audit Committee. All Supervisory Board Discussions were held with EY about the financial statements for members have a standing invitation to attend Audit Committee 2014. As part of the planning process, key audit matters dealing meetings, which they do on a regular basis. In addition to the with, among others, the valuation of goodwill, the possible Supervisory Board member, the external auditor and the CFO impairment of the caprolactam business, the partnering of the and CEO participated in these meetings and, whenever relevant, DSM Pharmaceutical Products business, and the managers responsible for corporate control, internal audit, risk implementation of new accounting standards affecting the management and compliance were invited to explain accounting treatment of several affiliated companies, were developments in their areas to the Audit Committee. The explained and shared with the Audit Committee. highlights and the minutes of all meetings were shared with the full Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice and The Report by the Managing Board and the financial statements recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the full for 2014 were submitted by the Managing Board to the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board, in accordance with the provisions of Article 30 of the Articles of Association, and subsequently approved by The committee had in-depth discussions on the financials, the the Supervisory Board in its meeting on 10 February 2015. The financing and guarantee plan, the capital expenditure plan, the financial statements were audited by EY, who issued an dividend proposals, financial statements, accounting policy unqualified opinion (see the Independent Auditor's Report on the changes, internal risk management and control systems, Financial Statements of this report). The Supervisory Board potential risks (including safety, health and environment and established that the external auditor was independent of DSM. security risks), compliance with recommendations and observations made by internal and external auditors, and the role In accordance with new legislation in the Netherlands as well as and functioning of the operational audit department, including European legislation with regard to the independence of auditors the endorsement of its proposed audit plan. As part of the (mandatory audit firm rotation), KPMG was appointed at the corporate risk assessment, the main risks of low organic growth, Annual General Meeting of 2014 as the new external auditor for price deterioration, insufficient progress in capturing innovation DSM as of 2015, for an initial period of three years. value, economic and financial volatility, and the mitigation of those risks, were extensively discussed. Financial statements 2014 The Supervisory Board will submit the 2014 financial statements The committee also discussed and evaluated cases submitted to the 2015 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, and will under DSM’s whistleblower policy (DSM Alert), and mitigating propose that the shareholders adopt them and release the actions to prevent recurrence. Managing Board from all liability in respect of its managerial activities and release the Supervisory Board from all liability in The Audit Committee discussed as well the transition plan for the respect of its supervision of the Managing Board. The profit handover from EY to KPMG, who will take over the external audit appropriation as proposed by the Managing Board and work as of January 2015, and monitored progress. approved by the Supervisory Board is presented in the Profit appropriation section of the 2014 Integrated Annual Report. The In addition to the audit work, the external auditor of the company Supervisory Board wishes to express its sincere appreciation for (EY) carried out non-audit work, to the extent allowed under the results achieved and would like to thank the employees and applicable legislation (including new legislation in the the Managing Board for their efforts. Netherlands) and regulations and the internal procedures of the company. Important areas where non-audit services were Board nominations provided by EY related to tax compliance work for certain foreign In 2014 nomination discussions were focused on succession subsidiaries and expatriate tax services. All audit and non-audit planning. The Nomination Committee discussed the proposed Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 103 www.dsm.com appointment of Geraldine Matchett as successor to Rolf-Dieter of this committee are Pauline van der Meer Mohr (chair), Pierre Schwalb; her appointment as a member of the Managing Board Hochuli and Eileen Kennedy. The Chair of the Supervisory Board, and CFO was approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders who has a standing invitation, participated in all meetings. In the in 2014. The Committee furthermore extensively discussed the first meeting there was extensive discussion on the Sustainability succession planning of the entire Managing and Supervisory Information to be included in the Integrated Annual Report Board. As part of the planning process, the nomination for reincluding the auditors’ findings, partly in the presence of the appointment of Stephan Tanda and Stefan Doboczky, whose external auditor. terms as Managing Board member expire in 2015, was discussed. In addition, the nomination for re-appointment of The second meeting focused on the follow-up of the Pauline van der Meer Mohr was addressed as her term as implementation of the corporate strategy and the progress made Supervisory Board member also expires in 2015. As Pauline van with the implementation of sustainability aspirations set by the der Meer Mohr is a member of the Nomination Committee, this company as part of its strategy. Details of the progress can be discussion was held in her absence. Other members of the found on page 25 of this Integrated Annual Report. In addition, Nomination Committee are Rob Routs (chair) and Ewald Kist. DSM's safety performance, an important focus area for the Feike Sijbesma and Peter Vrijsen, Executive Vice President of the company, was discussed in the CSR Committee meeting. The Corporate Human Resources department, were also involved in recommendations and minutes of both meetings were shared these discussions. and discussed with the entire Supervisory Board during its meetings with the Managing Board. The committee's view that Taking into account the Supervisory Board profile, as laid down DSM is doing well when it comes to sustainability is supported in the Supervisory Board regulations, the Nomination Committee by the fact that the company has been named among the leaders continued discussions on the overall composition of the in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for several years in Supervisory Board. The Committee met four times in 2014; all a row. The CSR Committee as well as the other members of the members attended all meetings. Recommendations and Supervisory Board also participated in one of the meetings of minutes of all Nomination Committee meetings were shared with DSM’s external Sustainability Advisory Board, which acts as an the entire Supervisory Board. external sounding board and meets with DSM's top management twice a year. Board remuneration The Remuneration Committee had three meetings and one In view of the Board's supervision of sustainability issues relevant conference call in 2014. One member was excused from the to the company, the sections 'DSM in motion: driving focused conference call. Ewald Kist (chair), Rob Routs and Tom de growth', 'Growth driver: Sustainability', 'Stakeholder Swaan are members of this committee. Discussions were Engagement', 'People in 2014' and 'Planet in 2014' (the focused on the performance and the related remuneration of the Sustainability Information) in the Integrated Annual Report 2014 members of the Managing Board and executives of DSM. Feike were reviewed and subsequently discussed by the entire Sijbesma and Peter Vrijsen were also involved in these Supervisory Board in its meeting of 10 February 2015, based on discussions. Recommendations and minutes of the the advice of its CSR Committee. With the Independent Remuneration Committee meetings were shared with the full Assurance Report on the Sustainability Information by EY on Supervisory Board and used to determine the final remuneration page 204 of this Integrated Annual Report taken into of the members of the Managing Board. consideration, the full Supervisory Board approved the reporting in these sections. The Sustainability Information is in compliance Within the context of the Committee discussions, the subject of with the G4 sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Supervisory Board members holding shares in DSM was Reporting Initiative and the internal reporting criteria of DSM, also discussed. Although not common practice in the which are included in this Integrated Annual Report. Netherlands and based on the understanding that a decision to hold shares in DSM is fully left to the individual Supervisory Board Supervisory Board meetings and performance evaluation members, DSM would support the idea of Supervisory Board As in previous years, an extensive Board evaluation was carried members having a shareholding in the company (e.g. equivalent out in 2014 on the basis of written questionnaires and interviews to their annual fee) to emphasize their confidence in the strategy with each of the Supervisory Board members. of DSM. The review assessed the collective performance of the Board Corporate Social Responsibility and its Committees and the performance of the Chairman. The The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee met twice overall feedback from the self-evaluation was that the Board is in 2014; all members participated in these meetings. Members operating well and discussions are very open and constructive. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 104 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Key areas of strategy, business performance and risk management are well covered; in the coming year more attention will be given to talent management, the implementation of the Code of Business Conduct and the impact of sustainability targets. This outcome was presented and discussed in the December meeting of the Supervisory Board. The Board established that all of its members are committed to allocating sufficient time and attention to the Board's duties of supervising and advising the DSM Managing Board. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 105 www.dsm.com Remuneration policy for the Managing General Meeting of Shareholders of 3 May 2013 approved a Board and the Supervisory Board number of changes which were aimed at: This chapter outlines the remuneration policy as approved by the aligning the remuneration policy even more with long-term Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Details of actual stakeholder interests, in line with DSM's stated philosophy of remuneration in 2014 can be found in the Consolidated Financial creating long-term value for all stakeholders; Statements on page 192. updating the policy in line with the most recent prevalent market practices and benchmarks for executive and board Remuneration policy compensation; and The objective of DSM’s remuneration policy is to attract, further strengthening pay for multi-dimensional, peoplemotivate and retain qualified and expert individuals that the planet-profit driven performance within DSM. company needs in order to achieve its strategic and operational objectives, whilst acknowledging the societal context around The approved adjustments did not change the overall remuneration and recognizing the interests of DSM's remuneration model for the Managing Board. This model is stakeholders. The following elements are taken into based on providing fair compensation approaching the median, consideration: and consists of a base salary and a well-balanced mix of ShortTerm and Long-Term Incentives. Both the Short-Term Incentive The remuneration policy reflects a balance between the (STI) and the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) consist of two equal interests of DSM’s main stakeholders as well as a balance parts, one of which is linked to financial targets and the other to between the company’s short-term and long-term strategy. sustainability and in addition – for STI only – individual targets. As a result, the structure of the remuneration package for the Managing Board is designed to balance short-term Full details of the adjustments can be found in the 2013 operational performance with the medium and long-term Integrated Annual Report, however the adjustments can be objective of creating sustainable value within the company, summarized as follows: while taking into account the interests of its stakeholders. DSM strives for a high performance in the field of sustainability and Strengthened the link between the Short-Term Incentive (STI) aims to maintain a good balance between economic gain, and long-term value creation with the introduction of an STI respect for people and concern for the environment in line with Deferral and Share Matching Plan requiring Managing Board the DSM values and business principles as reflected in the members to invest a proportion of their actual STI payment DSM Code of Business Conduct. earned in a given year in DSM shares, which shares the To ensure that highly skilled and qualified senior executives company can match upon achievement of certain long-term can be attracted and retained, DSM aims for a total (LTI) performance conditions at the end of a three-year period. remuneration level that is comparable to levels provided by As a result, the annual STI outcome has partly been converted other (Dutch and European) multinational companies that are into a long-term (risk taking) performance plan. similar to DSM in terms of size and complexity. Established as the main sustainability parameters in the STI The remuneration policies for the members of the Managing the introduction of ECO+ products, Safety Performance and Board and for other senior executives of DSM are aligned. Employee Engagement, in addition to individual targets. The In designing and setting the levels of remuneration for the financial measures in the STI (EBITDA, gross free cash flow, Managing Board, the Supervisory Board also takes into organic net sales growth) remain unchanged. The financial account the relevant statutory provisions and provisions of the measures amount to 50 percent of total STI and the nonDutch corporate governance code, societal and market trends financial (sustainability and individual) measures also to 50 and the interests of stakeholders. percent. DSM’s policy is to offer the Managing Board a total direct Added a new provision to the policy, stating that no STI payout compensation approaching the median of the labor-market will occur (regardless of the performance on all other peer group. measures) if the company’s financial performance is below a certain threshold. This threshold is to be determined annually No adjustments to remuneration policy by the Supervisory Board. for the Managing Board in 2014 Introduced Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) as a second financial measure to the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) in addition There were no adjustments to DSM’s remuneration policy in to total shareholder return (TSR), as well as introducing a 2014. The policy was last adjusted in 2013, when the Annual second long-term sustainability measure to the LTI, namely Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 106 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Energy Efficiency Improvement, in addition to the greenhouseagainst the peer group in Q4 2014, the results of which are the gas emissions reduction measure already in place. Each subject of study by the Remuneration Committee. measure counts for 25 percent. Aligned the Managing Board remuneration policy with current Total Direct Compensation (TDC) market practices by (1) moving to a new relative TSR vesting The total direct compensation of the Managing Board consists schedule that is based on relative ranking within the TSR peer of the following components: group, and (2) increasing transparency by adopting the face value method to calculate the number of yearly LTI (I) Base salary performance shares (100 percent of base salary at on target (II) Variable income and 150 percent in the case of excellent performance), rather Performance-related Short-Term Incentive (STI) than the discounted fair value method previously used. With Performance-related Long-Term Incentive (LTI) the introduction of the face value method, the actual number of shares granted has been kept at a similar level as before. In addition to this total direct compensation, the members of the Introduced minimum shareholding guidelines for Managing Managing Board participate in the Dutch pension scheme for Board members: a shareholding equivalent to three times the DSM employees in the Netherlands and are entitled to other base salary in the case of the CEO and a shareholding benefits, such as a company car and representation allowance. equivalent to one time the base salary for the other Managing Board members. These shareholdings can be built up over five Value in percent of Total Direct Compensation (on target): years. Labor-market peer group A: Base Salary 50% In order to be able to recruit the right caliber of people for the B: Variable income (STI + LTI)1 50% Managing Board and to secure long-term retention of the current Board members, DSM will take external reference data into Total Direct Compensation (TDC) 100% account in determining adequate remuneration levels. For this purpose, a specific labor-market peer group has been defined 1 LTI at discounted fair value which consists of a number of Dutch and European companies that are more or less comparable to DSM in terms of size, international scope and business portfolio. The Supervisory Base salary Board regularly reviews the peer group to ensure that its On joining the Board, the Managing Board members receive a composition is still appropriate. base salary that is comparable with the median of the labormarket peer group. Base salary levels are reviewed based on a The labor-market peer group currently consists of the following three-year remuneration benchmark. Adjustment of the base eleven companies: salary is at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. In addition, the company will, when appropriate, apply a yearly increase to the base salary based on the ‘general increase’ (market Aegon Nutreco movement) for DSM executives in the Netherlands. AkzoNobel Solvay Clariant Syngenta Variable income Heineken TNT Express The variable income part of remuneration consists of the ShortKPN Wolters Kluwer Term and Long-Term Incentives. The distribution between LANXESS Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives for (on target) performance aims to achieve a proper balance between shortterm result and long-term value creation. The parameters relating As part of its remuneration policy DSM will benchmark its to the various elements of the variable income part of the remuneration package against the packages offered by the remuneration are established and where necessary adjusted by labor-market peer group once every three years, potentially and at the discretion of the Supervisory Board, taking into leading to adjustments. In addition, the company may apply a account the general rules and principles of the remuneration yearly increase to the base salary based on the ‘general policy itself. increase’ (market movement) for DSM executives in the Netherlands. The remuneration policy was last benchmarked Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 107 www.dsm.com Distribution of variable income (on target): Target areas On-target pay-out (% of base salary) A: Short-Term Incentive (STI) 50% Financial targets B: Long-Term Incentive (LTI)1 50% EBITDA before exceptional items 10.0 Gross free cash flow 7.5 Total variable income as % of base salary 100% Organic net sales growth 1 7.5 1 LTI at discounted fair value Total 25.0 1 Excluding currency fluctuations, divestments and acquisitions Short-Term Incentive (STI) Managing Board members are eligible to participate in a ShortTerm Incentive (STI) scheme. The scheme is designed to reward The three financial-target-related Short-Term Incentive elements short-term operational performance with the long-term objective can be derived from the financial statements. of creating sustainable value, taking into account the interests of all stakeholders. Short-Term Incentive (STI) linked to sustainability and individual targets The Short-Term Incentive opportunity amounts to 50 percent of The part of the STI that is linked to non-financial targets (25 the annual base salary for on-target performance (100 percent percent of base salary at on-target) relates to shared in the case of excellent performance). Half of the STI opportunity sustainability as well as to individual targets. On a regular basis, (i.e. 25 percent of base salary at on-target performance) is following proper evaluation, further refinement/adaptations of related to financial targets, the other half to sustainability and performance measures in the area of sustainability and their individual targets. weight take place. As from 2013 the following shared measures linked to Target areas Total Shared Individual sustainability are applicable for the STI: Financial 25% 25% 0% ECO+: percentage of successful product launches that meet Sustainability and ECO+ criteria. individual 25% 15% 10% Employee Engagement Index: related to the High Performance Norm in industry. Total 50% 40% 10% Safety Performance (newly introduced in 2013). The STI measures on sustainability are defined as follows: Short-Term Incentive (STI) linked to financial targets The part of the STI that is linked to shared financial targets (25 ECO+ solutions percent of base salary at on-target) consists of elements related ECO+ solutions are products and services that, when to the company's operational performance, being EBITDA considered over their whole life cycle, offer a clearly lower ecobefore exceptional items, gross free cash flow and (organic) net footprint compared to the mainstream solutions they compete sales growth, reflecting short-term financial results. The with. These ecological benefits can be created at any stage of weighting given to the separate financial elements in the STI is the product life cycle − from raw material through as follows: EBITDA 10 percent, gross free cash flow 7.5 percent manufacturing and use to potential re-use and end-of-life and organic net sales growth 7.5 percent of annual base salary disposal. ECO+ solutions, in short, create more value with less for on-target performance. environmental impact. Employee Engagement Index An Employee Engagement Survey is conducted annually, focusing on a combination of perceptions that have a consistent impact on behavior and create a sense of ownership. Research has consistently shown that the four key elements (satisfaction, commitment, pride and advocacy) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 108 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board define engagement and link engagement to business members. Vesting of these shares is conditional on the performance metrics. DSM will move this survey into a twoachievement of certain predetermined performance targets at year cycle. From 2015, a shorter pulse survey will be held, with the end of a three-year period. the next full survey to be held in 2016. Safety Performance Since 2013, four performance measures are applicable in equal Defined as Frequency Index (FI) for recordable injuries. measure for the calculation of the vesting of LTI performance shares: In addition to shared sustainability targets (15 percent), a limited number of individual non-financial targets (10 percent) will apply. Comparable Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance versus a peer group Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction over volumeTarget area On-target pay-out related revenue (% of base salary) Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) Non-financial targets Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) Sustainability 15 Individual 10 Up to and including the 2012 grant, only TSR performance and GHGE were applicable, which will remain the case for the 2014 Total 25 realization of the 2011 grant and also (mutatis mutandis) for the 2015 LTI realization (2012 grant). The targets are determined each year by the Supervisory Board, The LTI performance targets can be defined as follows: based on historical performance, the operational and strategic outlook of the company in the short term and expectations of Total Shareholder Return (TSR) the company’s management and stakeholders, among other This is used to compare the performance of different things. The targets contribute to the realization of the objective companies’ stocks and shares over time. It combines share of long-term value creation. price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to shareholders. The relative TSR position reflects the market The company does not disclose the actual targets, as they perception of overall performance relative to a reference qualify as commercially sensitive information. However, full group. transparency will be given on target areas and definitions. Target Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) setting and realization are audited by external auditors. This is the operating profit as a percentage of weighted average capital employed. Mandatory and voluntary deferral of STI Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction One of the adjustments approved by shareholders in 2013 The definition of greenhouse-gases (GHG) according to the related to the introduction of the STI Deferral and Share Matching Kyoto Protocol includes carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, Plan. Under the Plan, a mandatory and a voluntary proportion of nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons the STI amount earned in a year is deferred into DSM shares with and perfluorocarbons. The scope for calculation of GHGE a three-year vesting period. This is linked to a one-for-one reduction is as follows: matching award on the total deferred amount under the condition that predefined performance targets and measures are (I) DSM’s direct emissions (on site or from DSM assets) met at the end of the three-year vesting period. The performance mainly comprise CO2 and N2O (scope 1). measures are equivalent to the measures under the Long-Term (II) DSM’s indirect emissions (emissions created on behalf Incentive (LTI) Plan. The Deferral and Share Matching Plan thus of DSM in the generation of electricity or the delivery of provides an additional link between Managing Board energy via hot water or steam) relate to electricity from remuneration and long-term sustainable value creation. It first the grid. DSM relies on local suppliers (scope 2). came into effect in 2014 with the STI pay-out over 2013 performance. Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) This is the reduction of the amount of energy that is used per Long-Term Incentives (LTI) unit of product (known as energy efficiency) on a three-year The Managing Board members will be eligible to receive rolling average basis. performance-related shares. Under the performance share plan, shares will conditionally be granted to Managing Board Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 109 www.dsm.com In determining the number of shares to be conditionally granted, ROCE and EEI as a performance measure the Supervisory Board from the 2014 grant onwards takes into ROCE and EEI, too, each count for the vesting of 25 percent of account the face value of the DSM share instead of the the performance shares. discounted fair value. This is in line with best practice and provides total transparency to shareholders. The policy for the Performance Incentive Zones value of the Long-Term Incentive is set as from 2014 at 100 Up to and including the 2012 LTI grant, the number of shares percent of base salary when on target and 150 percent in the that become unconditional after three years ('vesting') is case of excellent performance. The number of conditionally determined on the basis of two equally weighted factors: DSM's granted shares is set by dividing the policy level at maximum performance relative to the average TSR performance of the (150 percent of base salary as from 2014) by a share price at the peer group and DSM's GHGE reduction over volume-related beginning of the year of the conditional grant. The annual grant revenue. As from the 2013 grant (vesting in 2016) the vesting will level will fluctuate as a consequence of this mechanism. With the be based on four measures as outlined above. introduction of the face value method, the actual number of shares granted has been kept at a similar level as when calculated on the basis of the discounted fair value method. TSR vesting scheme GHGE vesting scheme Rank % of DSM GHGE reduction % of Granting date shares that over volume-related shares As of 2014 the grant date of the conditional performance shares vest revenue in % points that vest will be the last working day of March. 1 100 5.27 100 TSR as a performance measure 2 97 4.68 89 DSM’s TSR performance is compared to the average TSR 3 93 4.09 78 performance of a set of predefined peer companies. 4 87 3.50 67 5 80 2.91 56 6 67 2.32 45 The TSR peer group consisted of the following companies: 7 50 1.73 34 8 33 <1.73 0 AkzoNobel EMS Chemie Holding 9-13 0 Arkema Kerry BASF LANXESS Christian Hansen Lonza Group ROCE and EEI targets and vesting schemes are not being Clariant Novozymes disclosed given their business-sensitive nature. DuPont Solvay The retention period for performance shares expires five years after the three-year vesting period or at termination of The TSR peer group reflects the relevant market in which DSM employment if this occurs earlier. The final TSR performance of competes for shareholder preference. It includes sector-specific DSM versus its peers will be determined and validated by a bank competitors that the Supervisory Board considers to be suitable and audited by the external auditor at the end of the vesting benchmarks for DSM. period. The peer group is verified by the Supervisory Board each year Pensions based on market circumstances (such as mergers and The members of the Managing Board are participants in the acquisitions) that determine the appropriateness of the Dutch pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM composition of the performance peer group. No changes were Nederland (PDN). PDN operates similar pension plans for various made to the TSR peer group for 2014. As of 2015 onwards EMS DSM companies. The pension scheme for the Managing Board Chemie Holding will be replaced by Croda International Plc. is equal to the pension scheme for the employees of DSM Executive Services B.V. and DSM employees in the Netherlands. GHGE reduction as a performance measure GHGE reduction over volume-related revenues in percentage Contractual arrangements points (over a three-year period) is used as a basis for the vesting Term of employment of 25 percent of the performance shares (versus 50 percent for Managing Board members appointed prior to 1 January 2013 the 2011 & 2012 LTI grant vesting). are engaged on the basis of an employment agreement for an Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 110 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board indefinite period of time. Recently appointed Managing Board companies. Part of this new legislation was already covered in members are engaged on the basis of a Management Services comparable rules of the Dutch corporate governance code and Agreement with a four-year term, to be extended at consequently already included in the employment contracts of reappointment. the members of the Managing Board. This regards in particular the possibility (1) to revise a bonus/incentive prior to payment, if Term of appointment unaltered payment of the bonus/incentive would be Members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January unreasonable and unfair, and (2) to claw back a bonus/incentive, 2005 are appointed for an indefinite period of time. Managing if payment took place on the basis of incorrect information on Board members appointed after 1 January 2005 are appointed the fulfilment of the bonus/incentive targets or the conditions for for a period of four years, after which they are eligible for payment of the bonus/incentive. In addition, it is enacted that in reappointment by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. the case of a change-of-control event a related increase in value of the securities that have been granted to a board member as Notice period part of his/her remuneration will be deducted from the Termination of employment by a member of the Managing Board remuneration to be paid to the board member at the time of is subject to three months’ notice (six months in case of a selling these securities or when his/her board membership ends. Management Services Agreement). A notice period of six months will for legal reasons be applicable in case of termination Share ownership by the company. The Supervisory Board will encourage the Managing Board to hold shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the Severance arrangement strategy and the company. There are no specific contractual exit arrangements for members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January 2005. As of 2013 minimum shareholding guidelines for the members Should a situation arise in which a severance payment is of the Managing Board are applicable, equivalent to three times appropriate for such a Board member, the Remuneration the base salary in the case of the CEO and one time the base Committee will recommend the terms and conditions. The salary for the other MB members. These shareholdings can be Supervisory Board will decide upon this, taking into account built up over five years. usual practices for these types of situations, as well as applicable laws and corporate governance requirements. Loans DSM does not provide any loans to members of the Managing Members of the Managing Board appointed after 1 January Board. 2005 are covered by a severance provision in accordance with the Dutch corporate governance code. Scenario analysis The amended Dutch corporate governance code requires that Claw-back / change-of-control the Supervisory Board ‘shall analyze possible outcomes of the As of January 2014 new legislation has entered into force variable income components and the effect on Managing Board regarding the revision and claw-back of bonuses and profit remuneration’. Within DSM this analysis is conducted at least sharing arrangements of board members of Dutch listed every three years. Heerlen, 2 March 2015 The Supervisory Board Rob Routs, Chairman Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman Victoria Haynes Pierre Hochuli Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr Tom de Swaan Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 111 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM Supervisory Board Rob Routs (1946, m), chairman Ewald Kist (1944, m), deputy First appointed: 2010. End of current term: 2018. chairman Position: retired; last position held: executive First appointed: 2004. End of current term: 2016. director Downstream and member Board of Position: retired; last position held: chairman Royal Dutch Shell plc. Nationality: Dutch. Managing Board of the ING Group. Nationality: Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions chairman Supervisory Board of Aegon N.V., held: member Supervisory Boards of Royal member Supervisory Board of Royal KPN N.V. Philips Electronics N.V., Stage Entertainment and (until April 2014), member Board of Directors of Moody’s Investor Services. Aecom Technology Corporation, ATCO Group Ltd. and A.P. Moeller-Maersk Group. Victoria Haynes (1947, f) Pierre Hochuli (1947, m) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2016. First appointed: 2005. End of current term: 2017. Position: retired; last position held: President and Position: retired; last position held: chairman CEO Research Triangle Institute International. Board of Directors of Devgen N.V. Nationality: Nationality: American. Supervisory directorships/ Swiss. Supervisory directorships/other positions other positions held: member Board of Directors held: none. of PPG, Nucor and, as of 2013, Axiall. Eileen Kennedy (1947, f) Pauline van der Meer Mohr (1960, f) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2016. First appointed: 2011. End of current term: 2015. Position: Professor Nutrition Friedman School of Position: President Executive Board of Erasmus Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University in University Rotterdam. Nationality: Dutch. Boston (USA). Nationality: American. Supervisory Supervisory directorships/other positions held: directorships/other positions held: Dean Nutrition member Supervisory Board of ASML N.V., chair Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy Board of the Fulbright Center, director at Tufts University in Boston (USA), Global Hollandsche Maatschappij van Wetenschappen, Executive Director International Life Sciences member Economic Development Board of Institute, Washington D.C. (USA), Deputy Under Rotterdam, chair Supervisory Board Rotterdam Secretary for Research, Education and School of Management (until December 2014), Economics at the US Department of Agriculture. member Board Concertgebouw Fonds (as of January 2015) and chair Supervisory Board Nederlands Danstheater (as of March 2015). Tom de Swaan (1946, m) First appointed: 2006. End of current term: 2018. Position: retired; last position held: member Managing Board and Chief Financial Officer / Chief Risk Officer ABN AMRO. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: non-executive director Board of GlaxoSmithKline plc, chairman Board of Zurich Insurance Group, chairman Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Bankiers, chairman Board of Trustees of Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital and chairman Advisory Board Rotterdam School of Management. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 112 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM Managing Board Feike Sijbesma (1959, m), CEO/ chairman Position: CEO/chairman Managing Board since May 2007; member Managing Board since July 2000. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: member Supervisory Board De Nederlandsche Bank N.V. (Dutch Central Bank), member Supervisory Board (Non-Executive Director) Unilever N.V. and PLC., board member CEFIC (European Chemical Industry Council), member CEO Council Chinese Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries. e-mail: feike.sijbesma@dsm.com Geraldine Matchett (1972, f), CFO Stefan Doboczky (1967, m) Position: member Managing Board since August Position: member Managing Board since May 2014 and CFO since December 2014. End of 2011. End of current term: 2015. current term: 2018. Nationality: Austrian. Nationality: British, French, Swiss. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Supervisory directorships/other positions held: none. none. e-mail: stefan.doboczky@dsm.com e-mail: geraldine.matchett@dsm.com Stephan Tanda (1965, m) Dimitri de Vreeze (1967, m) Position: member Managing Board since May Position: member Managing Board since 2007. End of current term: 2015. September 2013. End of current term: 2017. Nationality: Austrian. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Supervisory directorships/other positions held: board member and chairman Industrial Biotech board member “Fonds voor de Section, EuropaBio (European Biotechnology topsport” (NOC*NSF; Dutch Olympic Committee Industry Association), board member Fund for top sport) and member Advisory Board scienceindustries (Swiss association for the ECP (Electronic Commerce Platform chemical, pharmaceutical and biotech Netherlands). industries), board member BIO (US e-mail: dimitri.vreeze-de@dsm.com Biotechnology Industry Organization), board member FoodDrinkEurope (European Food and Drink Industry Association). e-mail: stephan.tanda@dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 113 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Sustainability statements People 2014 2013R 2012 2011 2010 Total workforce 21,351 23,485 23,498 22,224 21,911 % by age category <26 years 6 6 6 6 6 26-35 years 25 24 24 24 23 36-45 years 29 30 30 31 32 46-55 years 28 28 28 28 28 >55 12 12 12 11 11 % non-Dutch Executives 51 50 47 42 39 Management 64 65 63 58 59 Other 77 78 76 75 71 % female Executives 12 11 10 10 9 Management 24 23 23 21 21 Other 28 27 27 27 26 % executive hires Non-Dutch 88 75 58 70 67 Female 25 23 8 20 25 % new hires by region Netherlands 11 10 12 20 21 Rest of Europe 19 23 21 21 27 North America 26 26 23 18 16 China 18 16 22 23 20 Rest of Asia-Pacific 18 19 18 10 11 Rest of world 8 6 4 8 4 Total number new hires (excluding acquisitions) 1,997 1,834 2,073 2,341 1,978 Outflow of employees Voluntary resignations 1,011 1,043 1,094 849 665 Dismissed 411 224 507 438 259 Reorganization 221 408 323 134 501 Retirements 167 259 225 303 283 Deceased 11 34 22 6 18 Total outflow (excluding divestments) 1,821 1,968 2,171 1,730 1,726 Divestments 2,479 78 18 1,763 1,297 Voluntary resignations (% total workforce) 4.7 4.4 4.7 3.8 3.0 Total resignations (% total workforce) 8.5 8.4 9.2 7.8 7.9 Training in hours per employee 25 25 24 28 25 Net sales per employee (x € 1,000) 409 401 399 410 405 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 114 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Sustainability statements − Planet 2014 2013R 2012 2011 2010 ECO+ sales Innovation pipeline in % 95 95 80 94 89 Running business in % 49 45 43 41 40 Energy and greenhouse gases Energy consumption1 39.1 41.1 40.6 44.6 44.6 Energy efficiency in %2 17 163 15 13 12 Greenhouse-gas emissions in CO2 equivalents (x million tons) 4.2 4.2 4.3 4.6 4.6 Emissions to air Volatile Organic Compounds (x 1000 tons) 4.2 4.3 3.5 4.3 6.7 Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) (x 1000 tons) 1.5 1.6 1.7 2.2 2.7 Sulfur Oxide (SO2) (x 1000 tons)4 0.08 0.07 0.13 0.48 1.36 Discharges to water and landfill Chemical Oxygen Demand discharges to surface waters (x 1000 tons)5 3.9 4.8 5.5 7.0 7.8 (Landfilling) Non-hazardous waste (x 1000 tons) 18.2 22.7 29.9 23.9 21.8 Water use Water use (x million m3) 118 150 149 154 144 Raw materials Renewable raw materials (%) 10.8 9.9 8.7 8 7 Fines (in € ) 62,500 62,300 45,100 70,500 671,600 Non-monetary sanctions 4 4 6 12 8 Environmental incidents 297 261 316 300 336 Environmental complaints 56 42 34 23 27 1 Total energy consumption in 2013 has been restated because of corrections made for the DSM Fibre Intermediates plant in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands). 2 Energy efficiency general: All energy efficiency figures for 2010-2014 have been recalculated based on the new consolidation method. For more information see www.dsm.com. 3 Energy efficiency 2013R: Energy efficiency for 2013 has not been restated for the deconsolidation of DSP. 4 Total SO2 emissions in 2012 and 2013 have been restated because of corrections made for the DSM plant in Tongxiang (China). 5 Total Chemical Oxygen Demand discharge in 2013 has been restated because of corrections made for the plants of DSM Dyneema in Heerlen (Netherlands) and DSM Nutritional Products in Leon (Spain). DSM bases its sustainability reporting on best practice standards and international guidelines. Most important are the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For this report, the company used the GRI G4 guidelines, launched in 2013. A detailed overview of how DSM reports according to the G4 comprehensive indicators, including a reference to relevant sections in this report, is provided on www.dsm.com. DSM does not apply the framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 115 www.dsm.com What still went wrong in 2014 Although DSM strives to improve its performance in all areas of one of the hoisting slings had not been properly removed and its operations, sometimes things can still go wrong. was still connected to it. Lost workday case. At DSM Fibre Intermediates in the Netherlands (SittardThis chapter summarizes the most important incidents in 2014, Geleen), a near miss occurred when a steam boiler could have across the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. exploded due to a potentially explosive mixture that had inadvertently entered it. DSM endeavors to remedy the outcome of unwanted incidents At DSM Food Specialties in the US (Germantown), a near miss and prevent them from recurring. To this end, it investigates the occurred when an operator was about to enter a blender root causes of any occurrence and take steps to communicate without having taken appropriate measures to do so safely. appropriate measures. He was stopped in time. At DSM Food Specialties in France (Seclin), an operator Where necessary, DSM applies consequence management to suffered a deep cut to his right index finger and damaged the individual employees based on its Code of Business Conduct tendon shaft while manually handling an empty container (see page 40). DSM does not disclose any personal details in without wearing gloves. Lost workday case. cases involving individuals. At DSM Nutritional Products in Brazil (Fortitech, Campinas), a near miss occurred when an operator fell 2.85 meters, but was In line with its reporting policy on safety, health and environment, not injured. He had been cleaning an area above the ceiling of DSM includes some serious near misses within this overview. a recently constructed sample room. He stepped on the These are incidents that did not result in injury, illness or damage, weakest part of the ceiling (made from plaster), which gave but had the potential to do so, and are therefore used as a way and caused him to fall through. learning opportunity. At DSM Fibre Intermediates in the Netherlands (SittardGeleen), a near miss occurred when a contractor employee People from a scaffolding company could have fallen five meters when the section of grating floor he was walking on suddenly At DSM Nutritional products in the US (Fortitech, collapsed. The contractor was able to hold on to nearby Schenectady, New York), a contractor employee injured his piping. right arm/elbow when he became stuck between a forklift At DSM Fibre Intermediates in the US (Augusta, Georgia), two truck and a pallet. This was due to a misunderstanding operators narrowly escaped injury when a furnace they were between the forklift truck driver and the contractor. Lost starting up via a local control panel suddenly exploded. The workday case. force of the explosion blew one side of the furnace away in the At DSM Engineering Plastics in the Netherlands (Sittardopposite direction of the location in which the operators were Geleen), a contractor employee was injured during the standing. construction of a new building. The contractor stepped on a At DSM Nutritional Products in Brazil, a contractor employee wooden plate that was covering a hole. The plate broke, was on his way to visit a customer when a bus, coming from causing the man to fall about four meters through the hole. the opposite direction, hit his car. The contractor was injured, Lost workday case. but the accident could have been much worse. At DSM Nutritional products in Singapore (Fortitech), Several people in various regions were dismissed as a result a contractor employee dislocated his shoulder and elbow of violations to the Life Saving Rules or inappropriate behavior. when he fell from a ladder. He lost his balance while using both hands to pull cables through a pipe. Lost workday case. Planet At DSM Food Specialties in France (La Ferte), an employee lost the top of one finger when it became caught in the door At DSM Dyneema in the Netherlands (Heerlen), about of a machine. This required medical treatment. 140 m3 of soil was discovered that appeared to be polluted At DSM Nutritional products in Switzerland (Sisseln), an with organic solvents and had to be removed. This pollution, employee suffered second-degree burns to his neck and which was caused by historical spills, was found during shoulders from hot water. An installation made from glass preparation work for the construction of a new building. suddenly broke and sprayed hot water on the employee who At DSM Nutritional Products in the US (Belvidere, New Jersey), was working nearby. Lost workday case. a process change led to higher concentration of product which At DSM Food Specialties in the Netherlands (Delft), a triggered foaming, resulting in a spill. contractor fractured his ankle and cut his head when he fell At DSM Nutritional Products in Canada (Mulgrave), a broken from a load. The load unexpectedly began to move because sewer line caused fish oil to spill into the waste water treatment Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 116 www.dsm.com What still went wrong in 2014 system. The broken lines were repaired. A remediation plan, developed in close cooperation with local authorities, is in place. Profit At DSM Nutritional products in Switzerland (Sisseln), production was interrupted due to a fire in the utilities buildings that damaged the electrical power supply for part of the site. The insurance coverage limited the financial impact for DSM to € 16 million. At DSM Food Specialties in the Netherlands (Delft), a delay occurred in the startup of a new drying tower, which resulted in additional project, tolling and transportation costs. At DSM Fibre Intermediates in the US (Augusta, Georgia), the plant had to be shut down for three weeks due to the unusually harsh winter. This caused a loss of steam supply, boilers to trip and the freezing of product in processes throughout the site. At DSM Fibre Intermediates in the Netherlands (SittardGeleen), and at the DSM Food Specialties plant in France (Seclin), operational issues caused production losses. These included two leakages, a broken agitator and a broken fermenter. At DSM Nanjing Chemical Company (Jiangsu, China), a shortage in the supply of critical raw materials caused lower production volumes. Since the beginning of 2014, DSM has been made aware of several incidents of identity theft in which the DSM name and logo were used by third parties to fraudulently order products and services on behalf of DSM. DSM is cooperating with the aggrieved suppliers who were mostly unknown to DSM, to prevent such incidents in the future. There was no financial loss for DSM. Several people in various regions were dismissed due to unauthorized absences from work, inappropriate behavior and fraud or theft. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 117 www.dsm.com Information about the DSM share Shares and listings Ordinary shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam, the Netherlands (Stock code 00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options on ordinary DSM shares are traded on the European Option Exchange in Amsterdam, Netherlands (Euronext.liffe). In the US a sponsored unlisted American Depositary Receipts (ADR) program is offered by Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas (Cusip 780249108), with four ADRs representing the value of one ordinary DSM share. Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million cumulative preference shares A (cumprefs A) are in issue, which are not listed on the stock exchange; these have been placed with institutional investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting rights as ordinary shares, as their nominal value of € 1.50 per share is equal to the nominal value of the ordinary shares. Transfer of the cumprefs A requires the approval of the Managing Board, unless the shareholder is obliged to transfer his shares to a previous shareholder by virtue of the law. The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2014 was 172,605,434. All shares in issue are fully paid. On 31 December 2014 the company had 173,536,815 ordinary shares outstanding. Development of the number of ordinary DSM shares 2014 2013 Issued Repurchased Outstanding Outstanding Balance at 1 January 181,425,000 7,461,588 173,963,412 168,684,088 Changes: Reissue of shares in connection with exercise of option rights (725,210) 725,210 4,300,163 Repurchase of shares 3,733,055 (3,733,055) (1,266,945) Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,581,248) 2,581,248 2,246,106 Balance at 31 December 181,425,000 7,888,185 173,536,815 173,963,412 DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (€ per ordinary share): Highest closing price 57.97 59.75 Lowest closing price 44.44 43.93 At 31 December 50.64 57.16 Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)1 9,187 10,370 1 Source: Bloomberg Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 118 www.dsm.com Information about the DSM share Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding in % (excl. cumprefs A) 2014 2013 North America 32 26 Netherlands 20 21 United Kingdom 12 18 France 8 9 Switzerland 7 5 Germany 5 7 Asia-Pacific 4 5 Other countries 12 9 Trading volume DSM shares 2014 x million shares as reported by Euronext Amsterdam 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December Dividend Dividend per ordinary share in € 2014 dividend subject to approval by Annual General Meeting of Shareholders DSM’s dividend policy is to provide a stable and preferably rising dividend. DSM proposes to maintain the dividend at € 1.65 per 2 ordinary share. This will be proposed to the Annual General 1.65 1.65 Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 30 April 2015. An interim 1.45 1.50 1.35 dividend of € 0.55 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2014, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.10 per ordinary 1 share. The dividend will be payable in cash or in the form of ordinary shares at the option of the shareholder. Dividend in cash will be paid after deduction of 15 percent Dutch dividend withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is 5 May 2015. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 119 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting recognized separately from goodwill. Identifiable assets acquired policies and the liabilities assumed are measured at acquisition date fair value. For each business combination, DSM elects whether it Basis of preparation measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value DSM’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards assets. (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The accounting policies applied by DSM comply with IFRS and the Segmentation pronouncements of the International Financial Reporting Segment information is presented in respect to the group’s Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) effective at 31 December 2014. operating segments about which separate financial information is available that is regularly evaluated by the chief operating Consolidation decision maker. DSM has determined that Nutrition, The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial Performance Materials, Polymer Intermediates and the statements of Royal DSM and its subsidiaries (together ‘DSM’ Innovation Center represent reportable segments in addition to or ‘group’). As a parent DSM is exposed, or has right to, the Corporate Activities. The Managing Board decides how to variable returns from its involvement with its subsidiaries and has allocate resources and assesses the performance of the the ability to affect the returns through its power over the clusters. Cluster performance is reported and reviewed down to subsidiary. The financial data of subsidiaries are fully the level of EBITDA before exceptional items. The clusters are consolidated. Non-controlling interests in the group’s equity and organized in accordance with the type of products produced and profit and loss are stated separately. A joint arrangement is an the nature of the markets served. The same accounting policies entity in which DSM holds an interest and which is jointly that are applied for the consolidated financial statements of DSM controlled by DSM and one or more other venturers under a are also applied for the operating segments. Prices for contractual arrangement. A joint arrangement can either be a transactions between segments are determined on an arm’s joint venture where DSM and the other partner(s) have rights to length basis except for supplies of caprolactam from DSM the net assets of the arrangement or a joint operation where DSM Polymer Intermediates to DSM Engineering Plastics against cash and the partner(s) have rights to the assets, and obligations for costs. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items the liabilities to the arrangement. For joint ventures the directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can investment in the net assets is recognized and accounted for in reasonably and consistently be allocated. Selected information accordance with the equity method. For a joint operation assets, on a country and regional basis is provided in addition to the liabilities, revenues and expenses are recognized in the financial information about operating segments. statements of DSM in accordance with the contractual entitlement or obligations of DSM. Foreign currency translation The presentation currency of the group is the euro. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the acquisition date until the date on which DSM ceases to have control. From the acquisition Each entity of the group records transactions and balance sheet date onwards, all intra-group balances and transactions and items in its functional currency. Transactions denominated in a unrealized profits or losses from intra-group transactions are currency other than the functional currency are recorded at the eliminated, with one exception: unrealized losses are not spot exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. eliminated if there is evidence of an impairment of the asset Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other transferred. In such cases an impairment of the asset is than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the recognized. closing rates. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of these transactions and from the translation of monetary items Business combinations are recognized in the income statement. Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate Non-monetary assets denominated in a currency other than the of the consideration transferred, including liabilities incurred, functional currency continue to be translated against the rate at measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any initial recognition and will not result in exchange differences. non-controlling interest in the acquiree. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed. On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries that do not have the euro as their functional currency are translated into euro As of the acquisition date identifiable, assets acquired, liabilities at the closing rate. The income statements of these entities are assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree are translated into euro at the average rates for the relevant period. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 120 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Goodwill paid on acquisition is recorded in the functional the asset can be reliably measured. Development expenditure is currency of the acquired entity. Exchange differences arising amortized over the asset’s useful life. from the translation of the net investment in entities with a functional currency other than the euro are recorded in Other Property, plant and equipment comprehensive income. The same applies to exchange Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less differences arising from borrowings and other financial depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis and less any instruments in so far as they hedge the currency risk related to impairment losses. Interest during construction is capitalized. the net investment. On disposal of an entity with a functional Expenditures relating to major scheduled turnarounds are currency other than the euro, the cumulative exchange capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next differences relating to the translation of the net investment are turnaround. recognized in profit or loss. Property, plant and equipment are systematically depreciated Distinction between current and non-current over their estimated useful lives. The estimated remaining lives An asset (liability) is classified as current when it is expected to of assets are reviewed every year, taking account of commercial be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance sheet and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and date. tear. The initially assumed expected useful lives are in principle as follows: for buildings 10-50 years; for plant and machinery Intangible assets 5-15 years; for other equipment 4-10 years. Land is not Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over depreciated. DSM’s share in the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition of joint ventures arise from the continued use or the sale of the asset. Any gain or associates is included in the carrying amount of these entities. or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is recorded in profit Goodwill recognized as an intangible asset is not amortized but or loss. tested for impairment annually and when there are indications that the carrying amount may exceed the recoverable amount. Leases A gain or loss on the disposal of an entity includes the carrying Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalized at inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and payments. All other leases are operating leases. subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives, which vary from 4 to 20 years. Lease payments for finance leases are apportioned to finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a Acquired licenses, patents and application software are carried constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. at historical cost less straight-line amortization and less any Finance charges are included in interest costs. Capitalized impairment losses. The expected useful lives vary from 4 to 15 leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated years. Costs of software maintenance are expensed when useful life of the asset or the lease term. Operating lease incurred. Capital expenditure that is directly related to the payments are recognized as an expense over the lease term. development of application software is recognized as an intangible asset and amortized over its estimated useful life Associates and joint ventures (5-8 years). An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant influence but no control, usually evidenced by a shareholding Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development that entitles DSM to between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met and A joint venture is an entity where DSM has joint control and is if it is demonstrated that it is technically feasible to complete the entitled to the net assets and liabilities. Investments in associates asset; that the entity intends to complete the asset; that the entity and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method, which is able to sell the asset; that the asset is capable of generating involves recognition in the income statement of DSM’s share of future economic benefits; that adequate resources are available the associate’s and/or joint venture's profit or loss for the year to complete the asset; and that the expenditure attributable to determined in accordance with the accounting policies of DSM. DSM’s interest in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 121 www.dsm.com its share in the net assets of the associate together with goodwill of the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss paid on acquisition, less any impairment loss. was recognized. When DSM’s share in the loss of an associate exceeds the All financial assets are reviewed for impairment. If there is carrying amount of the associate and/or joint venture, including objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more any other receivables, the carrying amount is reduced to zero. events after initial recognition, an impairment loss is recognized No further losses are recognized, unless DSM has responsibility in profit or loss. Impairment losses for goodwill and other for obligations relating to the associate or joint venture. participations are never reversed. Other financial assets Inventories Other financial assets comprise other participations, other Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable receivables and other deferred items. value. The first in, first out (FIFO) method of valuation is used unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a different Other participations comprise equity interests in entities in which cost formula, in which case the weighted average cost method DSM has no significant influence; they are accounted for as is used. The cost of intermediates and finished goods includes available-for-sale securities. These other participations are directly attributable costs and related production overhead measured against fair value, with changes in fair value being expenses. Net realizable value is determined as the estimated recognized in Other comprehensive income (Fair value reserve). selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the A significant or prolonged decline of the fair value of an equity estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs interest below cost represents an impairment, which is necessary to make the sale. Products whose manufacturing cost recognized in profit or loss. On disposal, the cumulative fair value cannot be calculated because of joint cost components are adjustments of the related other participations are released from stated at net realizable value after deduction of a margin for equity and included in the income statement. If a reliable fair selling and distribution efforts. value cannot be established, the other participations are recognized at cost. The proceeds from these other participations Current receivables and the gain or loss upon their disposal are recognized in profit Current receivables are measured at amortized cost, which or loss. generally corresponds to nominal value, less an adjustment for bad debts. Loans and long-term receivables are measured at fair value upon initial recognition and subsequently at amortized cost, if Current investments necessary after deduction for impairment. The proceeds from Deposits held at call with banks with a remaining maturity these assets and the gain or loss upon their disposal are between 3 and 12 months are classified as current investments. recognized in profit or loss. They are measured at amortized cost. Impairment of assets Cash and cash equivalents When there are indications that the carrying amount of a nonCash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and in hand current asset (an intangible asset or an item of property, plant and deposits held at call with banks with a maturity of less than and equipment) may exceed the estimated recoverable amount three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are included in (the higher of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the current liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents are measured at possible existence of an impairment loss is investigated. If an nominal value. asset does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale to which the asset belongs. In assessing the value in use, the Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and liabilities estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value relating to an activity that is to be sold) are classified as ‘held for using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market interest sale’ if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally rates and the risks specific to the asset. through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use. The reclassification takes place when the assets are available for When the recoverable amount of a non-current asset is less than immediate sale and the sale is highly probable. These conditions its carrying amount, the carrying amount is impaired to its are usually met as from the date on which a letter of intent or recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognized in agreement to sell is ready for signing. Non-current assets held profit or loss. An impairment loss is reversed when there has for sale and disposal groups are measured at the lower of been a change in estimate that is relevant for the determination carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 122 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. For Revenue recognition transparency, non-current assets and disposal groups that will Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when significant be contributed to joint ventures are reported separately from risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. Net other assets and liabilities held for sale. sales represent the invoice value less estimated rebates and cash discounts, and excluding indirect taxes. Discontinued operations Discontinued operations comprise those activities that were Royalty income is recognized in Other operating income or in Net disposed of during the period or which were classified as held sales on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of for sale at the end of the period, and represent a separate major the relevant agreements. Royalty income is reported in Net sales line of business or geographical area that can be clearly when licensing-out technologies is part of the ordinary and distinguished for operational and financial reporting purposes. recurring activities of a business. Income that relates to the sale or out-licensing of technologies or technological expertise is Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity recognized in profit or loss as of the effective date of the DSM’s ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares are respective agreement if all rights relating to the technologies and classified as Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity. The price paid for all obligations resulting from them have been transferred under repurchased DSM shares (treasury shares) is deducted from the contract terms. However, if rights to the technologies Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity until the shares are cancelled continue to exist or obligations resulting from them have yet to or reissued. Dividend to be distributed to holders of cumulative be fulfilled, the payments received are deferred accordingly. preference shares is recognized as a liability when the Interest income is recognized on a time-proportion basis using Supervisory Board approves the proposal for profit distribution. the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognized Dividend to be distributed to holders of ordinary shares is when the right to receive payment is established. recognized as a liability when the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders approves the profit appropriation. Government grants Government grants are recognized at their fair value if there is Provisions reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all Provisions are recognized when all of the following conditions related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are are met: 1) there is a present legal or constructive obligation as recognized as income over the periods necessary to match the a result of past events; 2) it is probable that a transfer of grant on a systematic basis to the cost that it is intended to economic benefits will settle the obligation; and 3) a reliable compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair value is estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. initially recognized as deferred income in Other non-current liabilities and then released to profit or loss over the expected The probable amount required to settle long-term obligations is useful life of the relevant asset. discounted if the effect of discounting is material. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the Share-based compensation passage of time is recognized as interest costs. The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options on the date on which the options are Borrowings granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value of the proceeds model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price received, net of transaction costs. Subsequently, borrowings are of the DSM share. The costs of these options are recognized in stated at amortized cost using the effective interest method. profit or loss (Employee benefits costs) during the vesting period, Amortized cost is calculated taking into account any discount or together with a corresponding increase in Equity in the case of premium. Interest expenses are recorded in profit or loss. equitysettled options or Other non-current liabilities in the case of cash-settled options (Share Appreciation Rights). No expense Where the interest rate risk relating to a long-term borrowing is is recognized for options that do not ultimately vest, except for hedged through a fair value hedge, and the hedge is effective, options where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, the carrying amount of the long-term loan is adjusted for which are treated as vesting, irrespective of whether or not the changes in fair value of the interest component of the hedge. market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are met. Other current liabilities Other current liabilities are measured at amortized cost, which Performance shares and restricted share units (matching shares) generally corresponds to the nominal value. are granted free of charge and vest after three years on the achievement of previously determined targets. The cost of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 123 www.dsm.com performance shares and restricted share units is measured by Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income reference to the fair value of the DSM shares on the date on for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, which the performance shares and restricted share units were and any adjustment to tax payable in respect to previous years. granted and is recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefits Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the costs) during the vesting period, together with a corresponding expected tax consequences of temporary differences between increase in equity. the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their tax base. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates Emission rights that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance DSM is subject to legislation encouraging reductions in sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred greenhouse-gas emissions and has been awarded emission tax assets are realized or the deferred tax liabilities are settled. rights (principally CO2 emission rights) in a number of Deferred tax assets, including assets arising from losses carried jurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting delivery forward, are recognized to the extent that it is probable that obligations and are recognized at cost (usually zero). Revenue is future taxable profits will be available against which the recognized when surplus emission rights are sold to third parties. deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses can be When actual emissions exceed the emission rights available to utilized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are stated at nominal DSM, a provision is recognized for the expected additional costs. value. Exceptional items Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary Exceptional items relate to material non-recurring items of differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial income and expense arising from circumstances such as: recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in write-downs of inventories to net realizable value or of subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in property, plant and equipment to recoverable amount, as well the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax as reversals of such write-downs liabilities are offset and presented net when there is a legally acquisition costs incurred and integration costs in the first year enforceable right to offset, and the assets and liabilities relate to after a business combination income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. non-recurring inventory value adjustments related to business combinations Financial derivatives restructurings of the activities of an entity The group uses financial derivatives such as foreign currency costs related to refinancing existing loans forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks releases of provisions associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. disposals of property, plant and equipment Financial derivatives are initially recognized in the balance sheet disposals of joint ventures, associates or other financial assets at fair value and subsequently measured at their fair value on book results on discontinued operations each balance sheet date. Changes in fair value are recognized onerous contracts in profit or loss unless cash flow hedge accounting or net litigation settlements investment hedge accounting is applied. To provide a better understanding of the underlying results of the Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated and period, exceptional items are reported separately if the qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other aggregate amount of the event or project exceeds € 10 million. comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that the From 2015 onwards all acquisition and integration costs incurred hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset or in the first year from the acquisition date will be included in liability the cumulative gain or loss is transferred from the Exceptional items and the € 10 million threshold will no longer be Hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount of the applied for these costs. The reason for this change is the fact hedged item if it is a non-financial asset or liability. If the hedged that DSM has entered into a new phase in its acquisition strategy item is a financial asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is with a focus on integration and targeted smaller (add-on) transferred to profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of financial acquisitions. derivatives designated and qualifying as net investment hedges are recognized in Other comprehensive income to the extent that Income tax expense the hedge is effective and the change in fair value is caused by Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement changes in currency exchange rates. Accumulated gains and except to the extent that it relates to an item recognized directly losses are released from Other comprehensive income and are in Other comprehensive income or Shareholders’ equity. included in profit or loss when the net investment is disposed of. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 124 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated and IFRS 11, 'Joint Arrangements', removed the option to apply qualifying as fair value hedges are immediately recognized in the proportionate consolidation for joint ventures and mandates the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of use of the equity method for jointly controlled entities that meet the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk. the new definition of a joint venture. The introduction of this new standard significantly changed DSM’s financial position and Pensions and other post-employment benefits reported performance because the equity method replaced DSM has both defined contribution plans and defined benefit proportionate consolidation for joint ventures. Information on plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, obligations are joint ventures that are affected is provided in note 10: Interests limited to the payment of contributions, which are recognized as in associates and joint ventures. The standard was applied Employee benefits costs. In the case of defined benefit plans, retrospectively. the aggregate of the value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets for each plan is recognized as a net IFRS 12, 'Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities', provides defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit obligations are disclosure requirements with respect to interests in subsidiaries, determined using the projected unit credit method. Plan assets joint arrangements, associates and structured entities. It is the are recognized at fair value. If the fair value of plan assets complement of the two new standards discussed in the exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligation, a net preceding paragraphs and has been applied for the first time in asset is only recognized to the extent that the asset is available 2014. for refunds to the employer or for reductions in future contributions to the plan. Defined benefit pension costs consist No new or amended standards were adopted early and of three elements: service costs, net interest, and applied in 2014. remeasurements. Service costs are part of Employee benefits costs and consist of current service costs, past service costs Effect of forthcoming accounting standards not yet applied and results of plan settlements. Net interest is part of Other The following new standards are not yet being applied by DSM. financial income and expense and is determined on the basis of the value of the net defined benefit asset or liability at the start of IFRS 14, 'Regulatory Deferral Accounts', establishes the year, and on the interest on high quality corporate bonds. requirements for accounting by entities that are subject to rate Remeasurements are actuarial gains and losses, the return (or regulation. The new standard is effective for annual reporting interest cost) on net plan assets (or liabilities) excluding amounts periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 but will not impact included in net interest and changes in the effect of the asset DSM, since none of the DSM reporting entities operate in a ceiling. These remeasurements are recognized in Other market that is subject to rate regulation. comprehensive income as they occur and are not recycled through profit or loss at a later stage. IFRS 15, 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers', establishes a new five step approach to revenue recognition that applies to Effect of new accounting standards all entities. The new standard is effective for annual reporting The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and IFRIC periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. The impact of this have issued new standards, amendments to existing standards new standard on DSM’s financial position and performance is and interpretations, some of which are not yet effective or have currently being investigated. not yet been endorsed by the European Union. Those that are relevant for DSM are discussed below. DSM has introduced The new IFRIC interpretations are not expected to have a standards and interpretations that became effective in 2014. material effect on the consolidated financial statements. The following new or amended standards were applied for the first time in 2014. IFRS 10, 'Consolidated Financial Statements', establishes a single control model that applies to all entities, including special purpose entities. DSM has determined which entities meet the new criteria for control and therefore have to be consolidated. The new standard did not have a material impact on DSM’s financial position or performance. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 125 www.dsm.com Consolidated statements Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 x € million Notes Continuing operations Discontinued Total Before Exceptional Total operations exceptional items items (note 6) Net sales 4 9,181 9,181 102 9,283 Cost of sales 4 (6,778) (292) (7,070) (95) (7,165) Gross margin 2,403 (292) 2,111 7 2,118 Marketing and sales (1,016) (1,016) (5) (1,021) Research and development (322) (322) (1) (323) General and administrative (476) (40) (516) (3) (519) Other operating income 69 10 79 35 114 Other operating expense (39) (34) (73) (6) (79) 4 (1,784) (64) (1,848) 20 (1,828) Operating profit 619 (356) 263 27 290 Interest costs 5 (125) (7) (132) (132) Other financial income and expense 5 7 7 7 Profit before income tax expense 501 (363) 138 27 165 Income tax expense 7 (89) 81 (8) 1 (7) Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 7 (66) (59) (59) Profit for the year 419 (348) 71 28 99 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of 30 30 (30) Total 419 (318) 101 (2)1 99 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 18 (9) (37) (46) (46) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 428 (281) 147 (2) 145 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 428 (281) 147 (2) 145 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 418 (281) 137 (2) 135 Earnings per share (in € ) 17 Basic 0.62 0.78 Diluted 0.62 0.78 1 Excluding exceptional items Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 126 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 20131 x € million Notes Continuing operations Discontinued Total Before Exceptional Total operations exceptional items items (note 6) Net sales 4 8,858 8,858 571 9,429 Cost of sales 4 (6,400) (17) (6,417) (510) (6,927) Gross margin 2,458 (17) 2,441 61 2,502 Marketing and sales (975) (975) (24) (999) Research and development (340) (18) (358) (162) (520) General and administrative (442) (75) (517) (22) (539) Other operating income 92 15 107 12 119 Other operating expense (32) (40) (72) (15) (87) 4 (1,697) (118) (1,815) (211) (2,026) Operating profit 761 (135) 626 (150) 476 Interest costs 5 (122) (122) (122) Other financial income and expense 5 (15) (7) (22) (22) Profit before income tax expense 624 (142) 482 (150) 332 Income tax expense 7 (110) 33 (77) 1 (76) Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures (17) 32 15 (2) 13 Profit for the year 497 (77) 420 (151) 269 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of (160) (160) 160 Total 497 (237) 260 92 269 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 18 (2) (2) (2) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 499 (237) 262 9 271 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 499 (237) 262 9 271 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 489 (237) 252 9 261 Earnings per share (in € ) 17 Basic 2.39 1.52 Diluted 2.38 1.51 1 Restated due to retrospective application of IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014 2 Excluding exceptional items Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 127 www.dsm.com Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in € million 2014 2013R1 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans (176) 21 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations relating to the non-controlling interests 28 (4) Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Change for the year 278 (241) Reclassification adjustment to the income statement related to discontinued operations 16 Fair value reserve Change for the year 4 9 Reclassification adjustment to the income statement Hedging reserve Change for the year (174) 69 Reclassification adjustment to the income statement (9) (28) Reclassification adjustment to the shares in subsidiaries 2 (10) Other comprehensive income, before tax (47) (168) Income tax expense 56 (17) Other comprehensive income, net of tax 9 (185) Profit for the year 99 269 Total comprehensive income 108 84 Of which: Attributable to non-controlling interests (18) (6) Attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 126 90 1 Restated due to retrospective application of IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 128 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December x € million Notes 2014 2013R1 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 8 2,867 2,690 Property, plant and equipment 9 3,673 3,611 Deferred tax assets 7 427 364 Associates and joint ventures 10 762 295 Other financial assets 11 130 152 7,859 7,112 Current assets Inventories 12 1,739 1,638 Trade receivables 13 1,570 1,477 Other current receivables 13 199 120 Financial derivatives 24 47 126 Current investments 14 6 19 Cash and cash equivalents 15 669 770 4,230 4,150 Assets held for sale 2 37 637 4,267 4,787 Total 12,126 11,899 Equity and liabilities Equity 16 Shareholders' equity 5,723 5,908 Non-controlling interests 18 213 188 5,936 6,096 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 7 365 375 Employee benefits liabilities 25 479 326 Provisions 19 105 97 Borrowings 20 1,637 1,725 Other non-current liabilities 21 81 75 2,667 2,598 Current liabilities Employee benefits liabilities 25 45 34 Provisions 19 42 65 Borrowings 20 1,143 841 Financial derivatives 24 362 190 Trade payables 22 1,361 1,272 Other current liabilities 22 554 573 3,507 2,975 Liabilities held for sale 2 16 230 3,523 3,205 Total 12,126 11,899 1 Restated due to retrospective application of IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 129 www.dsm.com Consolidated statement of changes in equity (note 16) x € million Share Share Treasury Other Retained earnings Total NonTotal capital premium shares reserves Actuarial Other controlling equity gains and interests losses Balance at 1 January 20131 338 489 (479) 235 (2) 5,293 5,874 166 6,040 Dividend (271) (271) (5) (276) Options / performance shares granted 20 20 20 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled (24) 24 Proceeds from reissued shares 258 10 268 268 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries 33 33 Repurchase of shares (73) (73) (73) Total comprehensive income (196) 15 271 90 (6) 84 Balance at 31 December 20131 338 489 (294) 35 13 5,327 5,908 188 6,096 Dividend (301) (301) (6) (307) Options / performance shares granted 19 19 19 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled (11) 11 Proceeds from reissued shares 134 26 160 160 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries 49 49 Repurchase of shares (189) (189) (189) Other 7 (7) Total comprehensive income 123 (142) 145 126 (18) 108 Balance at 31 December 2014 338 489 (349) 166 (122) 5,201 5,723 213 5,936 1 Restated due to retrospective application of IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 130 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated cash flow statement (note 27) x € million 2014 2013R1 Operating activities Profit for the year 99 269 Share of the profit of associates 59 (13) Income tax 7 76 Profit before income tax expense 165 332 Net finance costs 118 144 Exceptional items 334 297 Operating profit 6172 773 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 549 539 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,166 1,312 Adjustments for: (Gain) or loss from disposals (3) (18) Restructuring and other costs (29) (53) Acquisition related in EBITDA (1) Change in provisions (49) (78) Defined benefit plans (30) (22) (112) (171) Income tax received 7 24 Income tax paid (89) (87) Settlement intercompany hedges (122) 1 Other 32 2 Changes, excluding working capital (284) (231) Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 882 1,081 Changes in operating working capital: Inventories (8) (90) Trade receivables (31) (1) Trade payables 2 25 (37) (66) Changes in other working capital (37) (17) Changes in working capital (74) (83) Cash provided by operating activities 808 998 1 Restated due to retrospective application of IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014 2 This consists of the operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items (€ 619 million) and discontinued operations (-€ 2 million; see also Assets and liabilities held for sale in note 2 Change in the scope of the consolidation) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 131 www.dsm.com Consolidated cash flow statement (note 27) continued x € million 2014 2013R1 Cash provided by operating activities 808 998 Investing activities Capital expenditure for:2 Intangible assets (97) (83) Property, plant and equipment (556) (566) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 4 Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (7) (509) Cash from net investment hedge (30) Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries and businesses 78 72 Change in fixed-term deposits 14 24 Interest received 108 83 Other financial assets: Capital payments and acquisitions (35) (58) Change in loans granted (35) 4 Proceeds from disposals 2 2 Cash used in investing activities (515) (1,057) Financing activities Capital payments from/to non-controlling interests 4 36 Loans taken up 532 364 Repayment of loans (534) (149) Change in debt to credit institutions (10) (71) Cash facility associates (21) Repayment / issue of commercial paper 250 (150) Dividend paid (175) (160) Interest paid (302) (200) Proceeds from reissued shares 26 145 Repurchase of shares (189) (73) Cash used in / from financing activities (419) (258) Change in cash and cash equivalents (126) (317) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 770 1,089 Exchange differences relating to cash held 25 (2) Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 669 770 1 Restated due to retrospective application of IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014 2 An amount of € 25 million included in capital expenditure was funded by customers (2013: € 20 million) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 132 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 1 General information Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. In conformity with article 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, a condensed income statement is included in the separate financial statements of the parent company. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce for Limburg (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company’s website. The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The policies that management considers to be the most important to the presentation of the financial condition and results of operations are discussed in the relevant notes. The same holds for the issues that require management judgments or estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary from forecasts and that estimates routinely require adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements relate to the categorization of certain items as 'exceptional', the identification of cash generating units and the classification of activities as 'held for sale' and 'discontinued operations'. Key assumptions and estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non-current assets (notes 8 and 9), the establishment of provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits (note 25), the recognition and measurement of income taxes (note 7) and the determination of fair values for financial instruments (note 24) and for share-based compensation (note 28). Furthermore impairment testing requires judgments by management, amongst others with respect to the determination of Cash Generating Units, growth rates and discounts rates to apply (note 6 and 8). Estimates are based on historical quoted market prices, experience and assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. Exchange rates The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated statements are listed below for the most important currencies. 1 euro = Exchange rate at balance sheet date Average exchange rate 2014 2013 2014 2013 US dollar 1.22 1.38 1.33 1.33 Swiss franc 1.20 1.23 1.21 1.23 Pound sterling 0.78 0.84 0.81 0.85 Brazilian real 3.24 3.22 3.12 2.87 Chinese renminbi 7.44 8.40 8.16 8.23 Presentation of consolidated income statement DSM presents expenses in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the presentation of gross margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the industry. The composition of the costs allocated to the individual functions is explained below. Cost of sales encompasses all manufacturing costs (including raw materials, employee benefits, and depreciation and amortization) related to goods and services captured in net sales. They are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, or weighted average cost. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 133 www.dsm.com Marketing and sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are directly related to the sale of goods, but that are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g. freight). Research and development consists of: research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding; development, which is defined as the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the start of commercial production or use. General and administrative relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the company as well as the representation of DSM as a whole in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business support activities of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas. Application of new accounting standards DSM adopted IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ in 2014. The new standard establishes a single control model that applies to all entities, including special purpose entities. DSM has determined which entities meet the new criteria for control and therefore have to be consolidated. This assessment confirmed that the entities that were consolidated in earlier years also met the new definition for control and that there were no additional entities that required consolidation in view of the new definition. Furthermore, DSM does not have structured entities. The retrospective application of IFRS 11, ‘Joint Arrangements’, removed the option to apply proportionate consolidation for joint ventures and mandated the use of the equity method for jointly controlled entities that meet the new definition of a joint venture. Among others DSM has joint control in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP) , a company that develops, manufactures and sells generic anti-infective molecules, based in Hong Kong (China) and in POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels , a company producing cellulosic bio-ethanol from corn crop residue, based in Sioux Falls (South Dakota, USA). These joint ventures cannot distribute profits without consent from the non-DSM shareholder. Relations with these joint ventures and their strategic importance are discussed in more detail in the sections Pharma Partnerships and Innovation Center in the Report by the Managing Board. Both meet the conditions of a joint venture under IFRS 11 and are accounted for using the equity method. The transition was applied retrospectively and the comparative information for the preceding period was restated and marked with “R” in these financial statements. The effect of applying IFRS 11 on the financial position of DSM at the beginning of 2013 is as follows: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 134 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Restated consolidated balance sheet at 1 January 2013 x € million 31 December 2012 in Impact IFRS 10 111 1 January 2013 IAR 2013 Restated Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 2,793 (39) 2,754 Property, plant and equipment 3,811 (128) 3,683 Deferred tax assets 340 (8) 332 Associates and joint ventures 40 210 250 Other financial assets 141 (26) 115 7,125 9 7,134 Current assets Inventories 1,803 (35) 1,768 Trade receivables 1,569 (45) 1,524 Other receivables 230 (5) 225 Financial derivatives 62 62 Current investments 12 7 19 Cash and cash equivalents 1,121 (32) 1,089 4,797 (110) 4,687 Assets held for sale 44 44 4,841 (110) 4,731 Total 11,966 (101) 11,865 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders' equity 5,874 5,874 Non-controlling interests 168 (2) 166 6,042 (2) 6,040 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 236 (1) 235 Employee benefits liabilities 388 388 Provisions 125 125 Borrowings 1,922 (12) 1,910 Other non-current liabilities 94 (3) 91 2,765 (16) 2,749 Current liabilities Employee benefits liabilities 42 42 Provisions 81 81 Borrowings 642 (19) 623 Financial derivatives 299 299 Trade payables 1,453 (52) 1,401 Other current liabilities 628 (12) 616 3,145 (83) 3,062 Liabilities held for sale 14 14 3,159 (83) 3,076 Total 11,966 (101) 11,865 1 DSM applied the new standards IFRS 10 'Consolidated Financial Statements' and IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' for the first time in 2014. Due to the abolishment of proportionate consolidation for joint ventures DSM's financial position has changed. These changes are notably related to the joint venture DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals Limited and POETDSM Advanced Biofuels. See page 158 for more information about joint ventures. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 135 www.dsm.com 2 Change in the scope of the consolidation Acquisitions 2014 In January 2014 DSM obtained control of Yantai Andre Pectin co., Ltd. a China-based manufacturer of apple and citrus pectin, a key food hydrocolloid providing texture, as well as pectin-related food products. Andre Pectin is the only significant pectin manufacturer in Asia with premier access to the world’s fastest growing specialty food ingredients market. DSM already owned 29% of the shares of Andre Pectin together with call options to buy out the other shareholders and obtained control by placing a DSM management team in the company. From January 2014 onwards the financial statements of Andre Pectin have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the Nutrition segment. The acquisition strengthens and complements DSM’s position as a pectin manufacturer in Asia with access to the global food ingredients markets. In accordance with IFRS 3 the purchase price of Andre Pectin had to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill amounted to € 1 million. The non-controlling interest in Andre Pectin was measured at the proportionate share of the value of net identifiable assets acquired and amounted to € 45 million at the acquisition date. At the acquisition date the fair value of the interest in Andre Pectin was not materially different from the carrying amount. The acquisition of Andre Pectin contributed € 36 million to net sales and € 7 million to EBITDA in 2014. Andre Pectin-related exceptional items amounted to € 3 million before tax (see note 6 Exceptional items). Up to one year from the acquisition date the initial accounting for business combinations needs to be adjusted to reflect additional information that has been received about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date and would have affected the measurement of amounts recognized as of that date. As a result of such adjustments the values of assets and liabilities recognized may change in the one year period from the acquisition date which resulted in some adjustments to the opening balance sheet of Tortuga. The Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) of Andre Pectin was finalized in the course of the year. The impact of all acquisitions made in 2014, including adjustments to the initial accounting for Tortuga on DSM’s consolidated balance sheet, at the date of acquisition, is summarized in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 136 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2014 Andre Pectin Tortuga (final PPA)2 Total Book Fair Book Fair Change in Fair value value value value total fair value value Assets Intangible assets 3 29 1 92 (2) 27 Property, plant and equipment 33 36 80 107 36 Other non-current assets 9 9 12 7 (5) 4 Inventories 11 12 34 45 12 Receivables 12 12 94 96 2 14 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 3 2 (1) 2 Total assets 71 101 224 349 (6) 95 Non-controlling interests 27 45 45 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 5 12 26 (1) 4 Current liabilities 33 33 130 131 1 34 Total non-controlling interests and liabilities 60 83 142 157 83 Net assets 11 18 82 192 (6) 12 Acquisition price (in cash) 350 Value of associate contributed 19 19 Consideration 19 350 19 Goodwill 1 158 6 7 Goodwill available for tax purposes (included in the above) 152 Acquisition costs recognized in exceptional items1 2 2 1 3 Contingent liabilities included in fair value 1 Included in General and administrative: Other costs 2 In 2014 the final Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) of Tortuga was performed, which has led to the above changes in the fair value, compared to the draft PPA 2013 On 5 April 2013 DSM obtained control of Tortuga Companhia Zootécnica Agrária Z.A. (Tortuga) by acquiring 100% of the shares in an all cash transaction. From that date onwards the financial statements of Tortuga have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the Nutrition segment. The acquisition will strengthen and complement DSM’s position in nutritional supplements for animal nutrition. Tortuga is a Brazilian company with a leading position in nutritional supplements with a focus on pasture-raised beef and dairy cattle. Tortuga has annual sales of approximately € 385 million and employs about 1,050 people. In accordance with IFRS 3 the purchase price of Tortuga needs to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill paid for the acquisition of Tortuga amounted to € 152 million. The goodwill primarily resulted from buyer-specific synergies due to DSM’s unique value chain proposition in animal nutrition and from the skills and knowledge of the workforce. On 1 July 2013 DSM obtained control of Unitech Industries Limited (Unitech), by acquiring 100% of the shares in an all cash transaction. From that date onwards the financial statements of Unitech have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 137 www.dsm.com Nutrition segment. Unitech, based in Auckland (New Zealand), was founded in 1970 and focuses primarily on the manufacture and sale of micronutrient premixes and macronutrient blends for the rapidly growing Asian human nutrition and health markets. The acquisition of Unitech helps DSM to expand its value chain presence, geographical reach and customer base in Asia. Unitech has annual sales of approximately € 30 million and employs about 100 people. In accordance with IFRS 3 the purchase price of Unitech must be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill paid for the acquisition of Unitech amounted to € 16 million. The goodwill primarily resulted from buyer specific synergies due to DSM’s broad portfolio of micronutrients, science-based expertise, and customer relationships with multinational and regional infant nutrition and food customers. Up to one year from the acquisition date the initial accounting for business combinations needs to be adjusted to reflect additional information that has been received about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date and would have affected the measurement of amounts recognized as of that date. As a result of such adjustments the values of assets and liabilities recognized may change in the one year period from the acquisition date. On 18 December 2012 DSM obtained control of Fortitech, Inc. In 2013 the purchase price allocation for Fortitech was completed. The value of assets and liabilities was adjusted to fair value and the final goodwill was established at € 265 million. The impact of all acquisitions made in 2013, including adjustments to the initial accounting for Fortitech, on DSM's consolidated balance sheet, at the date of acquisition, is summarized in the following table: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 138 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2013 Tortuga Unitech Fortitech (final PPA)1 Other acquisitions Total Fair Change Book Fair Book Fair Book value in fair Book Fair Fair value value value value value total value value value value Assets Intangible assets 1 94 11 1 201 200 2 15 320 Property, plant and equipment 80 107 2 3 53 59 6 1 116 Other non-current assets 12 12 6 6 2 26 26 40 Inventories 34 45 4 4 37 40 2 51 Receivables 94 94 4 4 28 28 (1) 1 98 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 1 1 8 8 4 Total assets 224 355 11 23 133 342 209 29 42 629 Non-controlling interests Liabilities Non-current liabilities 12 27 3 7 84 79 1 2 111 Current liabilities 130 130 7 7 48 49 (10) 1 2 129 Total non-controlling interests and liabilities 142 157 7 10 55 133 69 2 4 240 Net assets 82 198 4 13 78 209 140 27 38 389 Acquisition price (in cash) 350 29 474 42 421 Acquisition price (payable) (1) 4 3 Consideration 350 29 474 (1) 46 424 Goodwill 152 16 265 (141) 8 35 Goodwill available for tax purposes (included in the above) 152 152 Acquisition costs recognized in exceptional items2 1 1 1 2 4 Contingent liabilities included in fair value 1 Due to the fact that Fortitech was acquired just before the end of the year in 2012, the unadjusted balance sheet of Fortitech in accordance with local GAAP was consolidated at the end of 2012. Sales and profit or loss between the acquisition date and the end of 2012 were immaterial. In 2013 the Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) for Fortitech was performed and fair values were allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities. The required changes are presented in the table above. These changes resulted in a € 141 million reduction in goodwill, which was the net effect of additions to other intangible assets for an amount of € 200 million, to property plant and equipment for € 6 million, to other assets for € 3 million and to deferred tax liabilities for € 79 million, and a reduction in current liabilities of € 11 million. These changes were recognized at the beginning of 2013 and the closing balance sheet of 2012 was not restated because the changes were deemed not material. 2 Included in General and administrative: Other costs. The acquisition of Tortuga contributed € 242 million to net sales in 2013. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2013, additional net sales would have been approximately € 325 million. The acquisition contributed € 42 million to EBITDA; this would have been approximately € 55 million if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2013. Tortuga-related exceptional items amounted to € 17 million before tax (see note 6: Exceptional items). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 139 www.dsm.com The acquisition of Unitech contributed € 13 million to net sales in 2013. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2013, additional net sales would have been approximately € 26 million. The acquisition did not yet contribute to EBITDA; this would have been approximately € 2 million if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2013. Unitech related exceptional items amounted to € 1 million before tax (see note 6: Exceptional items). Other acquisitions comprised the Bayer vitamin premix business in China and the Philippines and SolarExcel (Netherlands). Together, the acquisitions in 2013 contributed € 255 million to net sales. If all acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2013, additional net sales would have been approximately € 351 million. The acquisitions in 2013 contributed € 42 million to EBITDA; this would have been approximately € 62 million if they had all occurred on 1 January 2013. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 140 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Disposals 2014 JLL Partners and DSM completed the transaction announced in November 2013 combining DSM Pharmaceutical Products and Patheon Inc. into a new privately held company, named DPx, in which DSM holds a 49% share. From 11 March 2014 onwards DSM Pharmaceutical Products, which was classified held for sale at the end of 2013, is no longer consolidated by DSM. The 49% investment in DPx is reported as an associate and accounted in accordance with the equity method. The result on the contribution of DSM Pharmaceutical Products (DPP) to DPx recognized in 2014 amounted to a loss of € 124 million which is specified in the table on page 142. This is lower than the estimated loss that was recognized upon classification of the business as asset held for sale at the end of 2013. The difference of € 28 million was mainly attributable to lower tax costs than earlier estimated. The impact of the deconsolidation of these activities on the DSM consolidated financial statements is presented in the following table: x € million DPP Other Total Assets Intangible assets (30) (30) Property, plant and equipment (300) (300) Other non-current assets (35) (35) Inventories (205) (205) Receivables (94) (94) Cash and cash equivalents (7) (7) Total assets (671) (671) Liabilities Provisions (44) (44) Non-current liabilities (26) (26) Current liabilities (152) (152) Total liabilities (222) (222) Net assets (449) (449) Consideration (net of selling costs, translation differences and net debt) 477 4 481 Book result 2014 28 4 32 Income tax 2 (1) 1 Net book result 30 3 33 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 141 www.dsm.com DPx The impact of the business that has been disposed on the cash flow statement is presented in the following table: x € million Total Net assets 2014 2013R Book value DPP assets and liabilities 449 Release related items in Other 16 Net cash provided by / used in comprehensive income Operating activities (12) 33 Subtotal net assets upon divestment 465 Investing activities 69 247 Financing activities (8) 11 Impairment upon held for sale classification 152 Net change in cash and cash 49 291 in 2013 equivalents Total net assets 617 Consideration / fair value 505 Transaction costs in 2014 (9) Liability for demolition costs (3) Consideration net of costs 493 Total book loss (124) Of which: Goodwill impaired in 2013 (152) (exceptional item) Book profit 2014 (exceptional item) 28 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 142 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2013 In the first quarter of 2013 DSM completed the sale of DSM's share in DEXPlastomers V.o.F. to Borealis for € 55 million on a cash and debt-free basis. Furthermore the Euroresins business in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Poland and the Baltic states was sold. In view of the limited importance of the activities they are not presented as discontinued operations. These activities were reported under Corporate Activities and DSM Resins & Functional Materials prior to disposal. The impact of the deconsolidation of these activities on the DSM consolidated financial statements is presented in the following table: DEX Compact Euroresins Other Total Plastomers Solution East x € million Technology Assets Intangible assets (8) (8) Property, plant and equipment (7) (7) Other non-current assets (3) (3) Inventories (26) (2) (28) Receivables (8) (2) (10) Cash and cash equivalents (4) (2) (6) Total assets (45) (9) (8) (62) Non-controlling interests (4) (4) Liabilities Provisions (1) (1) Non-current liabilities Current liabilities (13) (5) (18) Total non-controlling interests and liabilities (13) (10) (23) Net assets (32) 1 (8) (39) Consideration (net of selling costs, translation differences and net debt) 55 5 8 11 79 Book result 23 5 9 3 40 Income tax Net book result 23 5 9 3 40 Deconsolidation and other changes In 2014 there were no material deconsolidations or material changes in the percentage of ownership of subsidiaries (same as in 2013). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 143 www.dsm.com Assets and liabilities held for sale The impact of the business that has been reclassified as held for sale on the income statement (before exceptional items), is 2014 presented in the following table: In view of the agreements reached regarding the sale of the remaining Euroresins business and DSM Synres, these businesses were reclassified as held for sale. Before 2014 2013R reclassification these activities were reported in the segment Performance Materials. In view of the limited size and importance Net sales 125 121 of these activities they were not presented as discontinued Cost of sales 106 103 operations. Gross margin 19 18 Marketing and sales 14 15 Euroresins Synres Total Research and development x € million West General and administrative 1 2 Assets Other operating income and Intangible assets (2) (2) expense 1 (1) Property, plant and 16 16 equipment (11) (11) Other non-current assets (1) (1) Operating profit 3 2 Inventories (6) (5) (11) Receivables (15) (7) (22) EBITDA 5 4 Cash and cash equivalents Total assets (24) (23) (47)1 2013 Liabilities In view of the contribution of DSM Pharmaceutical Products Provisions (DPP) to a new entity that is majority owned by private equity Non-current liabilities company JLL Partners, the related assets and liabilities of the Current liabilities (8) (8) (16) business were classified as held for sale. DPP constituted a Total liabilities (8) (8) (16) major line of business for DSM and was therefore presented as a discontinued operation upon held for sale classification. After Net assets (16) (15) (31) completion of the transaction that took place in the first half of 2014, DSM accounted for its interest in the new entity in Fair value 16 10 26 accordance with the equity method. Upon reclassification, the Transaction costs (2) (3) (5) business was valued at fair value less costs to sell. This Fair value less costs to represented the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit sell 14 7 21 and was the basis for the determination of the book loss on the transaction which was charged against the Catalytica goodwill Impairment of intangible that was reported in discontinued operations. After impairment, assets and property, the remaining value of the Catalytica goodwill was € 7 million. The plant and equipment (2) (8) (10) fair value was based on the price that was agreed between DSM and JLL Partners in an arm's length transactions that was 1 Assets held for sale in the balance sheet amount to € 37 million, which includes the publicly announced on 19 November 2013. impairment of € 10 million Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 144 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The impact of the reclassification of these activities on the DSM consolidated financial statements in 2013 is presented in the following table: x € million DPP Assets Intangible assets (177) Property, plant and equipment (297) Other non-current assets (34) Inventories (196) Receivables (85) Cash and cash equivalents Total assets (789)1 Liabilities Provisions (8) Non-current liabilities (55) Current liabilities (167) Total liabilities (230) Net assets (559) Fair value 412 Transaction costs (5) Fair value less costs to sell 407 Impairment of intangible assets (against goodwill Catalytica) in 2013 (152) Final price adjustment in 2014 via exceptional items 28 Total book loss (124) 1 Assets held for sale in the balance sheet amount to € 637 million, which includes the impairment of intangible assets of € 152 million Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 145 www.dsm.com 3 Segment information Business segments1 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal Nutrition PerformPolymer InnoCorpo2 EliminaTotal tinued tions 2014 ance Intermevation rate tions operaMaterials diates Center Activities tions Financial performance Net sales 4,335 2,792 1,727 154 173 9,181 102 9,283 Supplies to other clusters 92 8 410 3 (512) 1 4 (5) Supplies 4,427 2,800 2,137 157 173 (512) 9,182 106 (5) 9,283 EBITDA 850 343 83 (18) (90) 1,168 (2) 1,166 Operating profit 596 193 24 (45) (149) 619 (2) 617 Exceptional items (23) 4 (296) (41) (356) 29 (327) Operating profit including exceptional items 573 197 (272) (45) (190) 263 27 290 Depreciation and amortization 242 139 58 27 55 521 521 Impairments 12 11 1 4 28 28 Impairments in exceptional items 1 (1) 291 3 294 3 297 Additions to provisions 29 1 22 52 3 55 Share of the profit of associates (1) 2 (2) (10) (48) (59) (59) R&D costs3 103 105 11 70 33 322 1 323 Wages, salaries and social security costs 818 329 80 67 265 1,559 38 1,597 Financial position Total assets 6,200 2,045 1,022 750 2,109 12,126 12,126 Total liabilities 1,541 630 534 68 3,417 6,190 6,190 Capital employed at year-end 5,034 1,928 419 523 201 8,105 8,105 Capital expenditure 330 77 117 27 62 613 3 616 Share in equity of associates 1 6 10 118 482 617 617 EBITDA / net sales (in %) 19.6 12.3 4.8 12.7 (2.0) 12.6 Workforce Average in fte 11,067 5,093 1,428 697 3,103 21,388 410 21,798 Year-end (headcount) 10,857 5,115 1,423 675 3,281 21,351 21,351 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the Review of business in the Report by the Managing Board. Supplies from DSM Polymer Intermediates to DSM Engineering Plastics were executed at cost. Transfers between other segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. 2 Corporate Activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation. 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D cost included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 146 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Business segments1 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal Nutrition PerformPolymer InnoCorpo2 EliminaTotal tinued tions 2013R ance Intermevation rate tions operaMaterials diates Center Activities tions Financial performance Net sales 4,205 2,729 1,579 150 195 8,858 571 9,429 Supplies to other clusters 96 22 450 3 (561) 10 23 (33) Supplies 4,301 2,751 2,029 153 195 (561) 8,868 594 (33) 9,429 EBITDA 914 319 113 (9) (76) 1,261 51 1,312 Operating profit 680 180 71 (43) (127) 761 12 773 Exceptional items (71) (23) (10) 1 (32) (135) (162) (297) Operating profit including exceptional items 609 157 61 (42) (159) 626 (150) 476 Depreciation and amortization 231 135 38 34 50 488 38 526 Impairments 3 4 4 1 12 1 13 Impairments in exceptional items 22 22 150 172 Additions to provisions 23 17 5 2 47 30 77 Share of the profit of associates 3 (7) (13) (17) (2) (19) R&D costs3 133 100 10 65 32 340 10 350 Wages, salaries and social security costs 742 317 73 64 327 1,523 175 1,698 Financial position Total assets 5,544 1,972 1,082 635 2,029 11,262 637 11,899 Total liabilities 1,359 584 497 62 3,071 5,573 230 5,803 Capital employed at year-end 4,496 1,902 570 469 206 7,643 417 8,060 Capital expenditure 255 56 235 20 87 653 41 694 Share in equity of associates 1 6 9 86 145 247 247 EBITDA / net sales (in %) 21.7 11.7 7.2 14.2 8.9 13.9 Workforce Average in fte 10,376 5,074 1,450 592 3,120 20,612 2,462 23,074 Year-end (headcount) 10,548 5,126 1,456 659 3,204 20,993 2,492 23,485 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the Review of business in the Report by the Managing Board. Supplies from DSM Polymer Intermediates to DSM Engineering Plastics were executed at cost. Transfers between other segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. 2 Corporate Activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation. 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 147 www.dsm.com Geographical information Continuing operations The Rest of Eastern North Latin China India Japan Rest of Rest of Total 2013R NetherWestern Europe America America Asia the lands Europe world Net sales by origin In € million 2,897 2,245 121 1,688 541 1,013 37 35 238 43 8,858 In % 33 25 1 19 6 12 3 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 652 2,414 518 1,765 902 1,275 129 215 778 210 8,858 In % 7 28 6 20 10 15 1 2 9 2 100 Workforce at year-end 5,383 5,028 388 3,679 1,759 3,084 406 151 878 237 20,993 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 232 137 2 77 12 177 3 1 10 2 653 Carrying amount 1,645 1,203 36 2,167 346 710 12 20 138 24 6,301 Total assets (total DSM) 3,494 2,540 114 3,186 755 1,247 53 85 328 97 11,899 2014 Net sales by origin In € million 2,988 2,233 122 1,483 675 1,237 54 72 253 64 9,181 In % 33 24 1 16 7 13 1 1 3 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 659 2,440 548 1,741 973 1,472 153 204 782 209 9,181 In % 7 27 6 19 10 16 2 2 9 2 100 Workforce at year-end 5,304 4,951 408 3,583 1,891 3,489 478 141 866 240 21,351 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 262 134 2 119 19 63 6 6 2 613 Carrying amount 1,628 1,223 31 2,335 353 766 18 20 144 22 6,540 Total assets (total DSM) 3,709 2,110 113 3,323 820 1,458 70 88 359 76 12,126 DSM has no single external customer that represents 10% or more of revenues and therefore information about major customers is not provided. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 148 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 4 Net sales and costs Depreciation, amortization and impairments Net sales 2014 2013R 2014 2013R Continuing operations before exceptional items Continuing operations before Amortization of intangible assets 139 150 exceptional items Depreciation of property, plant Goods sold 8,849 8,505 and equipment 382 338 Services rendered 302 320 Impairment losses 28 12 Royalties from ordinary activities 30 33 Total 549 500 Total 9,181 8,858 The increase in depreciation is mainly due to investments in Total costs recent years that have been put into operation. In 2014 total operating costs of continuing operations before Other operating income exceptional items amounted to € 8.6 billion, € 0.5 billion higher than in 2013, when these costs stood at € 8.1 billion. Total operating costs in 2014 included Cost of sales to an amount of 2014 2013R € 6.8 billion (2013: € 6.4 billion); gross margin as % of net sales stood at 26% (2013: 28%). Continuing operations before exceptional items Employee benefits costs Release of provisions 6 15 Gain on sale of assets and activities 3 18 2014 2013R Gain on scrap, waste material, emission rights, royalties and Continuing operations before licenses sold 25 29 exceptional items Insurance benefits 3 11 Wages and salaries 1,349 1,301 Claims 3 Social security costs 191 199 Earn-out payments Pension costs (see also note 25) 114 115 Sundry 29 19 Share-based compensation (see also note 28) 19 23 Total 69 92 Total 1,673 1,638 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 149 www.dsm.com Other operating expense 6 Exceptional items 2014 2013R 2014 2013R Continuing operations before Cost of sales: exceptional items Impairments of property, plant Additions to provisions 11 2 and equipment and business Loss from the disposal or closure activities (291) (1) of assets and activities 1 Other costs (1) (15) Exchange differences 6 (292) (16) Costs of financial instruments 3 Research and development: Earn-out payments Impairment of intangible assets (170) Damages 13 13 Other costs Sundry 11 11 (170) General and administrative: Total 39 32 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (4) (1) 5 Net finance costs Other costs (36) (78) (40) (79) Other operating income: 2014 2013R Release of provisions 10 18 Book gain on disposals 28 Continuing operations before Other income 5 exceptional items 38 23 Interest costs Other operating expense: Interest expense 122 117 Additions to provisions (33) (55) Interest relating to defined benefit Other costs plans 12 13 (33) (55) Capitalized interest during construction (10) (9) Operating profit (327) (297) Interest charge on discounted Other financial income and provisions 1 1 expense (7) (7) Total 125 122 Total, before income tax expense (334) (304) Other financial income and Income tax expense 82 35 expense Share of the profit of associates/ Interest income (13) (3) joint ventures (66) 32 Exchange differences (1) 5 Result from other securities 9 9 Net result from exceptional Sundry (2) 4 items (318) (237) Total (7) 15 Net finance costs 118 137 In 2014 the interest rate applied in the capitalization of interest during construction was 5% (2013: 5%). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 150 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2014 the business which is expected to be below 1% and the related revenue projections. The projections exclude restructuring The exceptional items in 2014 are listed below: effects. This resulted in a non-cash impairment charge of € 291 million reported as exceptional item. The impairment charge was The impairment of Property, plant and equipment and allocated to long-term assets of the CGU on the basis of the business activities within Cost of sales relates to the book values of these assets, which resulted in the amount being impairment of the caprolactam business of Polymer allocated to property, plant and equipment. The estimated preIntermediates. tax cash flows were discounted to their present value using a Other costs within Cost of sales relate to the inventory step up pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of 9%. of Andre Pectin. See also note 2, Change in the scope of consolidation. Furthermore € 66 million of exceptional items after tax relating to The impairment of Intangible assets within General and associates/joint ventures have been included. This mainly relates administrative relates to application software and other assets to financing, reorganization and acquisition-related costs of DPx. within DSM Business Support. See also note 8, Intangible assets. 2013 Other costs within General and administrative relate to restructuring costs (€ 33 million), acquisition and disposal The exceptional items in 2013 are listed below: costs (€ 5 million) and a settlement of a former disposal (-€ 2 million) The impairments of Property, plant and equipment and The release of provisions in Other operating income relates to business activities within Cost of sales relate to DSM the (partial) release of restructuring provisions (€ 7 million) and Nutritional Products for an amount of € 4 million. Also included the partial release of Other provisions € 3 million) which were are the reversals of an impairment at DSM Sinochem originally recognized as exceptional items. Pharmaceuticals of € 5 million and of an impairment at DSM The book gain on disposals relates to the sale of DPP. For Pharmaceutical Products of € 2 million. For further information further information see note 2, Change in the scope of see note 9 Property, plant and equipment. consolidation. The other costs in Cost of sales mainly relate to the inventory Additions to provisions relates fully to restructuring provisions. step up of the acquisitions. See also note 19 Provisions. The impairment in Research and development mainly relates Other costs within operating expenses relate to acquisition to the impairment of the goodwill in DSM Pharmaceutical and disposal costs. Products of € 152 million (for details see Assets and liabilities Other financial income and expense relates to the waiver of a held for sale in note 2 Changes in the scope of the loan. consolidation). Furthermore an impairment of development costs in DSM Nutritional Products of € 18 million has been Cash generating units are tested for impairment when economic included. For further information see note 8 Intangible assets. circumstances trigger an impairment test, which was the case Other costs in General and administrative relate to for the caprolactam business of DSM Fibre Intermediates in restructuring costs (€ 50 million) and acquisition, integration 2014. The impairment was principally triggered by the low and divestment costs (€ 27 million). utilization of the production capacity as a result of amongst The release of provisions in Other operating income relates to others a huge increase in Chinese caprolactam capacity coming restructuring provisions (€ 12 million) and other Provisions to market. DSM determined the value in use of the cash (€ 6 million). For further information see note 19 Provisions. generating unit using the model and approach that is also used The book gain on disposals in Other operating income relates for goodwill impairment testing. The cash generating unit to the disposal of DEXPlastomers. For further information see excludes the acrylonitrile and licensing businesses of DSM Fibre note 2 Change in the scope of consolidation. Intermediates because those are stand-alone businesses that Additions to provisions relate to restructuring provisions generate their own independent cash flows. The cash flow (€ 41 million) and other provisions (€ 12 million). projections for the first five years are derived from DSM’s Other financial income and expense mainly relates to the business plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as adopted by the waiver of a loan. Managing Board. Cash flow projections beyond the five year planning period are extrapolated taking into account the growth rates that have been determined to apply for the specific cash generating unit in the Annual Strategic Review. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to the growth of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 151 www.dsm.com 7 Income tax Effective tax rate The income tax expense on the total result was € 7 million, which in % 2014 2013R represents an effective income tax rate of 4.2% (2013: € 76 million, representing an effective income tax rate of Domestic income tax rate 25.0 25.0 22.9%) and can be broken down as follows: Tax effects of: Deviating rates (7.9) (1.1) 2014 2013R Tax-exempt income and nondeductible expense (4.1) (5.6) Current tax expense: Other effects 4.8 (0.7) Current year (64) (74) Prior-year adjustments 10 (1) Effective tax rate continuing Tax credits compensated 16 1 operations 17.8 17.6 Non-recoverable withholding Discontinued operations 0.1 (0.2) tax (7) (1) Exceptional items (see note 6) (13.7) 5.5 Total effective tax rate 4.2 22.9 (45) (75) Deferred tax expense: Originating from temporary Other effects relate to changes in tax losses and tax credits differences and their reversal 76 12 recognized. Prior-year adjustments (7) 8 Change in tax rate 26 1 The balance of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Change in tax losses and tax increased by € 73 million owing to the changes presented in the credits recognized (57) (22) table below: 38 (1) Deferred tax assets and liabilities Total (7) (76) 2014 2013R Of which related to: Balance at 1 January The result from continuing Deferred tax assets 364 332 operations before exceptional Deferred tax liabilities (375) (235) items (89) (110) The result from exceptional Total (11) 97 items 82 33 The result from discontinued Changes: operations 1 Income tax expense in income statement 38 (1) Income tax expense in other The deferred tax expense originating from temporary differences comprehensive income 56 (17) is mainly caused by the impairment of the caprolactam business. Acquisitions and disposals (5) (95) See also note 6 Exceptional items. Exchange differences (17) 18 Reclassification to held for sale 1 (13) The effective income tax rate on the result from continuing operations before exceptional items was 17.8% in 2014 (2013: Balance at 31 December 62 (11) 17.6%). The tax rate for continuing operations for 2015 will be about 18%. The relationship between the income tax rate in the Of which: Netherlands and the effective tax rate on the result from Deferred tax assets 427 364 continuing operations is as follows: Deferred tax liabilities (365) (375) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 152 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM In various countries DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have already been challenged, by the tax authorities because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. In determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities these uncertainties are taken into account. The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items: Deferred tax assets and liabilities by balance sheet item 2014 2013R Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Intangible assets 22 (224) 26 (218) Property, plant and equipment 102 (279) 23 (265) Financial assets 2 (4) 4 (3) Inventories 58 (35) 49 (37) Receivables 6 (5) 17 (8) Equity 2 (2) (1) Other non-current liabilities 36 (1) 43 (1) Non-current provisions 104 (1) 68 (5) Non-current borrowings Other current liabilities 81 (5) 41 (7) 413 (556) 271 (545) Tax losses carried forward 205 263 Set-off (191) 191 (170) 170 Total 427 (365) 364 (375) No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 88 million (2013: € 82 million). Unrecognized loss carryforwards amounting to € 2 million will expire in the years up to and including 2019, (2013: € 32 million up to and including 2018), € 63 million between 2020 and 2024 (2013: € 42 million between 2019 and 2023) and the remaining € 23 million between 2025 and 2029 (2013: € 37 million between 2024 and 2028). The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differences and the utilization of tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are recognized for future tax benefits arising from temporary differences and for tax loss carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are likely to be realized. In the Netherlands tax losses may be carried forward for 9 years. For the entities in the Dutch tax consolidation, losses will start to expire in 2019. DSM has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not probable that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In the event that actual future results differ from estimates, and depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement, changes to the measurement of deferred taxes could be required, which could impact on the company’s financial position and profit for the year. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 153 www.dsm.com 8 Intangible assets Goodwill Licenses Under Development Other Total and patents construction projects Balance at 1 January 2013R Cost 2,052 153 118 28 1,113 3,464 Amortization and impairment losses 164 82 4 460 710 Carrying amount 1,888 71 118 24 653 2,754 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 1 74 6 1 82 Put into operation 3 (80) 20 57 Acquisitions 35 29 6 285 355 Amortization (9) (1) (140) (150) Impairment losses (152) (2) (18) (4) (176) Exchange differences (104) (7) (1) (2) (40) (154) Reclassification to held for sale (7) (7) (3) (8) (25) Other reclassifications 4 4 (228) 8 (10) 11 155 (64) Balance at 31 December 2013R Cost 1,660 156 108 58 1,347 3,329 Amortization and impairment losses 77 22 540 639 Carrying amount 1,660 79 108 36 807 2,690 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 10 70 15 2 97 Put into operation 1 (79) 4 74 Acquisitions 7 23 4 34 Amortization (10) (3) (126) (139) Impairment losses (1) (12) (13) Exchange differences 122 5 2 1 63 193 Reclassification to held for sale 1 (1) Other reclassifications 3 1 1 5 128 32 (6) 18 5 177 Balance at 31 December 2014 Cost 1,788 204 102 75 1,525 3,694 Amortization and impairment losses 93 21 713 827 Carrying amount 1,788 111 102 54 812 2,867 Other intangible assets principally comprises acquisition related intangibles that have been included in the annual goodwill impairment test discussed later in this section. These assets are amortized on a straight line basis. In 2013 an impairment on Intangible assets of € 177 million was recognized. This mainly related to an impairment of € 152 million at DSM Pharmaceutical Products against goodwill relating to Catalytica (for details see Assets and liabilities held for sale in note 2 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 154 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Changes in the scope of the consolidation). Furthermore an impairment of development costs in DSM Nutritional Products of € 18 million has been included as certain new production techniques that had been developed were not taken into operation. Over the past few years DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the acquisition method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In making these estimates, management consults independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate. A change in assumptions and estimates could change the values allocated to certain assets and their estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the income statement, such as amortization of intangible assets. The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year-end 2014 is as follows: Goodwill Acquisition 2014 2013 R Cash generating unit Functional Year of currency acquisition Martek 382 337 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2011 NeoResins 358 358 DSM Resins & Functional Materials EUR 2005 Fortitech 286 252 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2012 Ocean Nutrition Canada 210 202 DSM Nutritional Products CAD 2012 Kensey Nash 133 117 DSM Biomedical USD 2012 Tortuga 125 121 DSM Nutritional Products BRL 2013 The Polymer Technology Group 72 63 DSM Biomedical USD 2008 Pentapharm 32 31 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2007 Cargill Culture and enzymes business 29 27 DSM Food Specialties EUR/USD 2012 Shandong ICD 26 23 DSM Dyneema CNY 2011 Unitech 17 16 DSM Nutritional Products NZD 2013 AGI Corporation 16 15 DSM Resins & Functional Materials TWD 2011 Novamid 12 12 DSM Engineering Plastics JPY 2010 Syntech Far East 11 10 DSM Resins & Functional Materials HKD 2005 Zhejiang Zhongken Biotechnology 11 9 DSM Food Specialties CNY 2010 Verenium 9 8 DSM Food Specialties USD 2012 C5 Yeast Company 9 9 DSM Bio-based Products & Services EUR 2011 Crina 8 8 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2006 DSM Japan Engineering Plastics 6 6 DSM Engineering Plastics EUR 2003 Fatrom 5 5 DSM Nutritional Products RON 2011 Other acquisitions 31 31 Total 1,788 1,660 The cash generating unit DSM Pharmaceutical Products including the goodwill relating to Catalytica was reclassified to assets held for sale in 2013 and is discussed in note 2. The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in the fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of the cash generating units concerned is based on a value-in-use calculation. The cash flow projections for the first five years are derived from DSM’s business plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as adopted by the Managing Board. Cash flow projections beyond the five year planning period are extrapolated taking into account the growth rates that have been determined to apply for the specific cash generating unit in the Annual Strategic Review. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to the market growth for the cash generating units and the related revenue projections. DSM Nutritional Products, DSM Resins & Functional Materials and DSM Biomedical are three cash generating units to which significant amounts of goodwill are allocated. The growth assumptions for these cash generating units are based on the growth of the global food and feed markets, the demand for advanced coating resins that is Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 155 www.dsm.com influenced by growth in the building and construction markets and the growth of the market for medical devices. Growth rates generally are between 0 and 5% (same as previous year) with the exception of DSM Biomedical where about 13% growth is expected. The terminal value for the period after ten years is determined with the assumption of no growth in all cases. The pretax discount rate is between 8% and 10.5% (2013: between 8.5% and 11.5%) depending on the risk profile of the cash generating unit. A stress test was performed on the impairment tests of the cash generating units. This showed that the conclusions of these tests would not have been different if reasonably possible adverse changes in key parameters had been assumed. The value-in-use of cash generating units (CGU) with significant amounts of goodwill clearly exceeded their carrying amount. The market capitalization of DSM at 31 December 2014 amounted to € 9,187 million (31 December 2013: € 10,370 million) and was clearly above the carrying amount of net assets, providing an additional indication that goodwill was not impaired. Because there were indicators for an impairment of the cash generating unit caprolactam this CGU was also tested for impairment. No goodwill was allocated to this cash generating unit. The results of the impairment test are discussed in note 6 Exceptional items. The other intangible assets are listed in the following table: Other intangible assets 2014 2013R Cost Amortization Carrying Of which Of which amount acquisitionacquisitionrelated related Application software 209 (134) 75 11 12 Marketing-related 81 (18) 63 16 57 Customer-related 492 (143) 349 287 328 Technology-based 658 (399) 259 200 235 Other 85 (19) 66 52 55 Total 1,525 (713) 812 566 687 Total 2013R 1,347 (540) 807 687 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 156 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 9 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Other Under Not used Total buildings machinery equipconstrucfor operating ment tion activities Balance at 1 January 2013R Cost 2,096 5,059 231 557 26 7,969 Depreciation and impairment losses 917 3,180 167 2 20 4,286 Carrying amount 1,179 1,879 64 555 6 3,683 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 8 47 3 554 612 Put into operation 94 183 23 (300) Acquisitions 90 21 5 116 Disposals (2) (2) (4) Depreciation (74) (283) (19) (376) Impairment losses (3) (7) (1) (11) Impairment reversals 2 2 Exchange differences (43) (45) (3) (18) (109) Reclassification to held for sale (68) (170) (10) (49) (297) Other reclassifications 5 (1) (8) (4) Other changes (1) 1 (1) (1) 1 (248) (3) 178 (72) Balance at 31 December 2013R Cost 2,024 4,441 201 734 20 7,420 Depreciation and impairment losses 844 2,810 140 1 14 3,809 Carrying amount 1,180 1,631 61 733 6 3,611 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 15 43 5 456 519 Put into operation 65 464 18 (547) Acquisitions 15 21 36 Disposals (5) (2) (7) Depreciation (75) (285) (22) (382) Impairment losses (11) (191) (110) (312) Impairment reversals Exchange differences 60 126 3 34 223 Reclassification to held for sale (3) (7) (10) Other reclassifications (11) 4 8 (7) (6) Other changes 1 1 50 173 13 (174) 62 Balance at 31 December 2014 Cost 2,155 5,097 234 669 20 8,175 Depreciation and impairment losses 925 3,293 160 110 14 4,502 Carrying amount 1,230 1,804 74 559 6 3,673 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 157 www.dsm.com In 2014 there are no material finance lease agreements (same as in 2013). In 2014 impairment losses on Property, plant and equipment of € 312 million were recognized. This mainly related to the impairment of the cash generating unit caprolactam of € 291 million at DSM Fibre Intermediates. The impairment test for caprolactam is discussed in note 6 Exceptional items. In 2013 impairment losses on Property, plant and equipment of € 12 million were recognized. This mainly related to impairments of € 6 million at DSM Nutritional Products and impairments of € 3 million at DSM Fibre Intermediates. Furthermore an impairment of € 1 million was recognized in a cash generating unit of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, which was more than offset by a reversal of a previous impairment in another cash generating unit of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals of € 6 million. In all cases the recoverable amount was determined on the basis of the value in use of the assets or cash generating units. 10 Associates and joint ventures The application of IFRS 11 impacted the accounting for the DSM interest of 50% in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals and POETDSM Advanced Biofuels which were proportionally consolidated in earlier years. With the adoption of IFRS 11, it has been determined that the interests in both companies have to be classified as joint venture under IFRS 11 and accounted for using the equity method. The transition was applied retrospectively and the comparative information was restated. DSM has a 49% interest and significant influence in DPx since the formation of this company early in 2014 and also accounts for this interest using the equity method. Relations with these joint ventures and their strategic importance are discussed in more detail in the sections Pharma Partnerships and Innovation Center in the Report by the Managing Board. Entities that meet the definition of joint operations of IFRS 11 were not identified. DSM's share in its most important associates and joint ventures is disclosed below: Company DSM interest 2014 2013 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) joint control 50% 50% POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC (Sioux Falls, South Dakota, USA) joint control 50% 50% DPx Holdings (Cayman Islands) significant influence 49% Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 158 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The following table provides an overview of DSM's investments in associates and joint ventures. Associates and joint ventures 2014 DPx DSP POET-DSM Other1 Total 2013R Balance at 1 January 130 81 84 295 250 Changes: Share of profits (51) 3 (4) (9) (61) (5) Acquisitions 26 Capital payments 2 26 7 35 58 Dividend received (3) (3) (4) New loans 3 14 28 8 53 24 Disposals (1) (1) Consolidation changes 422 (25) 397 Reclassification to held for sale (1) (1) (24) Transfers (1) 1 (18) Exchange differences 46 4 16 1 67 (12) Other (7) (10) (2) (19) Total changes 413 12 66 (24) 467 45 Balance at 31 December 413 142 147 60 762 295 Of which carrying amount of the investment 362 109 106 40 617 247 Of which loans granted 51 33 412 20 145 48 1 Amongst others Japan Fine Coatings, Xinhui Meida-DSM Nylon and Actamax are included in Other 2 The outstanding loan receivable is secured for 50% by a guarantee from the joint venture partner POET LLC Loans include a USD 61 million loan granted to DPx in 2014 with an annual fixed interest rate of 10.75% and an expected 5-year maturity. Loans of € 6 million and € 12 million to DSP maturing in 2016 together with a loan of CNY 115 million to be repaid in or before 2017. A USD 50 million loan to POET-DSM with a 5% interest repayable in 2018 and secured for 50% by a guarantee from the joint venture partner. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 159 www.dsm.com Associates and joint ventures on a 100% basis DPx1 DSP Other2 Total 2014 2013R 2014 2013R 2014 2013R 2014 2013R Assets Intangible assets 1,405 16 15 21 18 1,442 33 Property, plant and equipment 819 241 215 315 243 1,375 458 Other non-current assets 110 36 74 15 14 161 88 Inventories 362 75 73 13 17 450 90 Receivables 296 172 105 83 102 551 207 Cash and cash equivalents 70 67 56 48 36 185 92 Other current assets 3 5 65 5 68 Total assets 3,062 607 541 500 495 4,169 1,036 Liabilities Provisions (non-current) 3 3 3 2 6 5 Borrowings (non-current) 1,625 47 35 80 23 1,752 58 Other non-current liabilities 299 9 45 6 13 314 58 Provisions (current) 42 18 42 18 Borrowings and financial derivatives (current) 25 145 118 22 15 192 133 Other current liabilities 410 181 129 99 146 690 275 Total liabilities 2,401 385 330 210 217 2,996 547 Net assets (100% basis) 661 222 211 290 278 1,173 489 Of which non-controlling interest 4 4 Net assets excluding goodwill 661 222 211 290 278 1,173 489 Contingent liabilities Summarized statement of profit or loss Revenue (net sales)3 984 399 368 368 443 1,751 811 Operating profit (EBIT) 92 9 (2) (25) (11) 76 (13) Interest income 1 1 Interest expense (56) (6) (7) (4) (1) (66) (8) Other financial income and expense (1) 8 (3) 3 7 Share of the profit of associates (1) (1) Profit before income tax expense 34 11 (11) (29) (9) 16 (20) Income tax expense 9 (5) (5) (1) 4 (6) Profit for the year (continuing operations) 43 6 (16) (29) (10) 20 (26) Post-tax result discontinued operations Exceptional items (152) 22 2 1 (150) 23 Income tax expense exceptional items 4 4 Profit for the year (total) (105) 6 6 (27) (9) (126) (3) Other comprehensive income (35) (4) (10) (39) (10) Total comprehensive income (140) 2 (4) (27) (9) (165) (13) EBITDA 177 23 21 (18) (6) 182 15 Depreciation, amortization and impairment (85) (14) (23) (7) (5) (106) (28) 1 DPx is included from 11 March until end of fiscal year 2014 (31 October). 2 POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels is included in Other in view of the commercial start-up of the plant. At year-end 2014 total assets amounted to € 258 million and net assets amounted to € 211 million. Revenue for 2014 was € 0 and EBITDA was -€ 8 million. Furthermore, Japan Fine Coatings, Xinhui Meida-DSM Nylon and Actamax are included among others. 3 Excluding sales to DSM of € 18 million (DPx) and € 12 million (DSP). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 160 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 11 Other financial assets Other Other Other Total participations receivables deferred items Balance at 1 January 2013R 42 29 44 115 Changes: Charged to the income statement (10) 3 (3) (10) Acquisitions 9 9 Capital payments 4 4 Disposals (2) (2) Loans granted 5 5 Repayments (1) (1) Exchange differences (3) (1) (4) Transfers 33 (5) 28 Changes in fair value 9 9 Other changes 3 (4) (1) Balance at 31 December 2013R 46 71 35 152 Changes: Charged to the income statement (6) (7) (13) Acquisitions (5) 5 Capital payments 6 6 Disposals (2) (2) Loans granted 1 1 Repayments (2) (2) Prepayments 20 20 Exchange differences (4) 1 2 (1) Transfers (21) (14) (35) Changes in fair value 4 4 Balance at 31 December 2014 44 45 41 130 Other participations relate to equity instruments in companies whose activities support DSM’s business and which can be quoted or unquoted. In Other participations an amount of € 26 million is included that relates to equity instruments, with a fair value that cannot be measured reliably (2013: € 29 million). These instruments are therefore measured at cost. Transfers include the reclassification of a deferred receivable from Sinochem Group of € 39 million excluding accrued interest (same as in 2013), to current receivables, as this receivable has become due within one year. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 161 www.dsm.com 12 Inventories 13 Current receivables 2014 2013R 2014 2013R Raw materials and consumables 521 334 Trade receivables Intermediates and finished goods 1,274 1,353 Trade accounts receivable 1,538 1,453 Deferred items 33 25 1,795 1,687 Receivables from associates 17 18 Adjustments to lower net 1,588 1,496 realizable value (56) (49) Adjustment for bad debts (18) (19) Total 1,739 1,638 Total Trade receivables 1,570 1,477 Other current receivables The carrying amount of inventories adjusted to net realizable Income taxes receivable 50 22 value (before reclassification to held for sale) was € 213 million Other taxes and social security (2013: € 186 million). contributions 21 10 Government grants 1 10 The carrying amount of inventories before reclassification to held Loans 30 45 for sale was € 1,749 million. Receivables from joint venture partners 40 Changes in the adjustment to net realizable value Interest 1 2 Receivables associates relating to cash facility 11 2014 2013R Other receivables 37 25 Deferred items 8 6 Balance at 1 January (49) (50) Total Other current receivables 199 120 Additions charged to income statement (38) (47) Utilization / reversals 31 35 Deferred items comprised € 33 million (2013: € 25 million) in Exchange differences (3) 1 prepaid expenses that will impact profit or loss in future periods. Reclassification to held for sale 3 13 Acquisitions (1) Receivables from joint venture partners include a deferred Balance at 31 December (56) (49) receivable of € 39 million excluding accrued interest from Sinochem Group (the joint venture partner in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals) that is due when the new Yushu factory is ready for full commercial production. In 2013 this receivable was included under Other financial assets. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 162 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM With respect to trade accounts receivable that are neither 14 Current investments impaired nor past due, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations. An aging overview of trade receivables related to commercial transactions amounting 2014 2013R to € 1,408 million (2013: € 1,258 million) is provided below. The remaining balance reported as trade receivables amounting to Fixed term deposits 6 19 € 130 million (2013: € 195 million) is excluded from this analysis because it principally concerns reclaimable VAT and accruals Total 6 19 that are not related to the payment behavior of customers. Aging overview Trade receivables 15 Cash and cash equivalents in % 2014 2013R 2014 2013R Neither past due nor impaired 86 86 1-29 days overdue 10 10 Deposits 88 72 30-89 days overdue 1 3 Cash at bank and in hand 550 669 90 days or more overdue 3 1 Payments in transit 18 19 Bills of exchange 13 10 The changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable Total 669 770 are as follows: Cash at year-end 2014 was not being used as collateral (same 2014 2013R as in 2013). It was not restricted at year-end 2014 (in 2013: € 5 million restricted). Balance at 1 January (19) (22) Additions charged to income statement (7) (7) Deductions 8 12 Acquisitions (3) Exchange differences 1 Balance at 31 December (18) (19) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 163 www.dsm.com 16 Equity 2014 2013R Balance at 1 January 6,096 6,040 Net profit 99 269 Net exchange differences 310 (232) Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations (141) 15 Dividend (307) (276) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 160 268 Repurchase of shares (189) (73) Other changes (92) 85 Balance at 31 December 5,936 6,096 After the balance sheet date the following dividends were declared by the Managing Board: Dividend 2014 2013R Per cumulative preference share A: € 0.23 (2013: € 0.23) 10 10 Per ordinary share: € 1.65 (2013: € 1.65) 286 287 Total 296 297 The proposed final dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and has not been deducted from Equity. Shareholders will be provided with the opportunity to receive dividends in cash or in the form of ordinary shares. For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and of the statutory rights attached to preference shares B, see page 205. Share capital On 31 December 2014 the authorized capital amounted to € 1,125 million (2013: € 1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000 ordinary shares, 44,040,000 cumulative preference shares A and 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B. All shares have a nominal value of € 1.50 each. The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2013 and 2014 are shown in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 164 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Overview shares Issued shares Treasury shares Ordinary Cumprefs A Ordinary Balance at 1 January 2013 181,425,000 44,040,000 12,740,912 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (4,300,163) Repurchase of shares 1,266,945 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,246,106) Balance at 31 December 2013 181,425,000 44,040,000 7,461,588 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2013 (7,461,588) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2013 173,963,412 44,040,000 Balance at 1 January 2014 181,425,000 44,040,000 7,461,588 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (725,210) Repurchase of shares 3,733,055 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,581,248) Balance at 31 December 2014 181,425,000 44,040,000 7,888,185 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2014 (7,888,185) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2014 173,536,815 44,040,000 The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2014 was 172,605,434 (2013: 172,183,369). All shares issued are fully paid. The cumulative preference shares A have been classified as equity because there is no mandatory redemption and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. On 31 December 2014 no cumulative preference shares B were outstanding. Share premium Of the total share premium of € 489 million (2013: € 489 million), an amount of € 108 million (2013: € 110 million) can be regarded as entirely free of tax. Treasury shares On 31 December 2013 DSM possessed 7,461,588 ordinary shares (nominal value € 11 million, 3.3% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 39.43. As at 31 December 2013, 836,623 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder, 6,624,965 shares, is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007 and 2008 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in 2011, 2012 and 2013. On 31 December 2014 DSM possessed 7,888,185 ordinary shares (nominal value € 12 million, 3.5% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 44.27. As at 31 December 2014, 3,844,468 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder, 4,043,717 shares, is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007 and 2008 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in the years 2011 through 2014. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 165 www.dsm.com Other reserves in Shareholder's equity Translation Hedging Reserve for Fair value Total reserve reserve share-based reserve compensation Balance at 1 January 2013R 244 (30) 45 (24) 235 Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives 69 69 Release to income statement (28) (28) Release to share of subsidiaries (acquisition) (10) (10) Fair-value changes of other financial assets 9 9 Exchange differences (228) (228) Options and performance shares granted 20 20 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (24) (24) Income tax (8) (8) Total changes (228) 23 (4) 9 (200) Balance at 31 December 2013R 16 (7) 41 (15) 35 Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives (174) (174) Release to income statement (9) (9) Release to shares of subsidiaries (acquisition) 2 2 Fair-value changes of other financial assets 4 4 Exchange differences 282 282 Options and performance shares granted 19 19 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (11) (11) Income tax 18 18 Total changes 282 (163) 8 4 131 Balance at 31 December 2014 298 (170) 49 (11) 166 The significant increase in the translation reserve in 2014 amounting to € 282 million is the result of the weakening of the euro in 2014. As a consequence the value of the US, Swiss and Brazilian subsidiaries of DSM increased. The decrease of the hedging reserve is the consequence of value changes of interest rate hedges for which cash flow hedge accounting is applied. The significant reduction in the translation reserve in 2013 amounting to € 228 million is the result of the strengthening of the euro in 2013. As a consequence the value of the US and Brazilian subsidiaries of DSM decreased, which is the main cause of the negative exchange difference. The translation reserve, hedging reserve and the fair value reserve are legal reserves in accordance with Dutch law and cannot be distributed to shareholders. Additional information is provided in note 6 to the parent company financial statements. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 166 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 17 Earnings per ordinary share Continuing operations Discontinued Total in € operations Before Exceptional Total exceptional items items 2013R Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares (in € million)1 489 (237) 252 9 261 Basic earnings 2.84 (0.45) 2.39 (0.87) 1.52 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.93) (0.93) 0.93 Basic earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.84 (1.38) 1.46 0.06 1.52 Diluted earnings 2.82 (0.44) 2.38 (0.87) 1.51 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.92) (0.92) 0.92 Diluted earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.82 (1.36) 1.46 0.05 1.51 Dividend distributed in the period (including stock dividend) 1.52 Dividend for the year 1.65 Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1000) 172,183 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1000) 1,200 Adjusted average number of ordinary shares (x 1000) 173,383 2014 Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares (in € million)1 418 (281) 137 (2) 135 Basic earnings 2.42 (1.80) 0.62 0.16 0.78 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of 0.17 0.17 (0.17) Basic earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.42 (1.63) 0.79 (0.01) 0.78 Diluted earnings 2.41 (1.79) 0.62 0.16 0.78 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of 0.17 0.17 (0.17) Diluted earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.41 (1.62) 0.79 (0.01) 0.78 Dividend distributed in the period (including stock dividend) 1.70 Dividend for the year 1.65 Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1000) 172,605 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1000) 762 Adjusted average number of ordinary shares (x 1000) 173,367 1 Reconciliation to profit for the year is provided in the consolidated income statement Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 167 www.dsm.com 18 Non-controlling interests 2014 DNCC Nanjing Andre Pectin Other Total 2013R Total (CN) (CN) % of non-controlling interest 40% 71% Balance at 1 January 92 96 188 166 Changes: Share of profit/charged to income statement (35) (11) (46) (2) Acquisitions 45 45 Capital payments 4 4 36 Dividend paid (6) (6) (4) New loans Disposals (4) Consolidation changes Reclassification to held for sale Transfers Exchange differences 19 6 3 28 (4) Subtotal changes (16) 51 (10) 25 22 Balance at end of period 76 51 86 213 188 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 168 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Not fully-owned subsidiaries on a 100% basis DNCC Nanjing (CN) Andre Pectin (CN) Other 2014 2013R 2014 2013R 2014 2013R Assets Intangible assets 6 8 30 39 35 Property, plant and equipment 320 399 33 242 227 Other non-current assets 13 1 14 9 Inventories 28 31 13 32 31 Receivables 87 53 26 65 77 Cash and cash equivalents 67 23 2 40 51 Other current assets 1 Total assets 521 515 104 432 431 Liabilities Provisions (non-current) 16 5 2 10 Borrowings (non-current) 166 102 68 67 Other non-current liabilities 29 29 Provisions (current) Borrowings and financial derivatives (current) 40 30 11 54 34 Other current liabilities 127 139 17 93 87 Total liabilities 333 287 33 246 227 Net assets (100% basis) 188 228 71 186 204 Net sales 616 437 31 395 382 Profit for the year (14) 4 0 (13) (12) Total comprehensive income (14) 4 0 (15) (12) Operating cash flows 269 311 8 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests 6 4 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 169 www.dsm.com 19 Provisions The total of non-current and current provisions decreased by € 15 million. This is the balance of the following changes: Restructuring Environmental Other longOther Total costs and costs term employee provisions termination benefits benefits Balance at 1 January 2013R 94 33 49 30 206 Of which current 62 6 4 9 81 Changes in 2013: Additions 53 2 6 16 77 Releases (26) (1) (6) (33) Uses (54) (3) (4) (22) (83) Acquisitions 7 7 Exchange differences (1) (1) (2) (4) Reclassifications from/to held for sale (8) (8) Total changes (28) (3) (6) (7) (44) Balance at 31 December 2013R 66 30 43 23 162 Of which current 50 4 4 7 65 Changes in 2014: Additions 33 4 7 11 55 Releases (8) (8) (16) Uses (42) (4) (3) (6) (55) Exchange differences 1 1 Other Reclassifications (7) (2) 9 Total changes (23) (2) 4 6 (15) Balance at 31 December 2014 43 28 47 29 147 Of which current 24 2 4 12 42 In cases where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. The discount rate used, decreased from 3.16% to 1.82%. The balance of provisions measured at present value increased by € 1 million in 2014 in view of the passage of time, and increased by € 3 million due to the change in the discount rate. The provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes connected to the dismissal and transfer of employees and costs of termination of contracts. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years. The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil clean-up obligations, among other things. These provisions have an average life of more than 10 years. The provisions for other long-term employee benefits mainly relate to length-of-service and end-of-service payments. The average life of this provision is estimated to be between 10 and 12 years. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 170 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Several items have been combined under Other provisions, for example onerous contracts and legal settlements. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years. The additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits in 2014 mainly relate to the various restructuring projects. 20 Borrowings The schedule of repayment of borrowings (excluding debt to 2014 2013R credit institutions and commercial paper) is as follows: Total Of which Total Of which current current Borrowings by maturity Debenture loans 2,041 497 2,040 500 2014 2013R Private loans 237 144 222 38 Finance lease 2014 538 liabilities 1 2015 641 653 Credit institutions / 2016 43 7 commercial paper 502 502 303 303 2017 794 765 2018 and 2019 303 300 Total 2,780 1,143 2,566 841 After 2019 497 Total 2,278 2,263 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at yearend 2014 of € 2,165 million, of which € 500 million and USD 150 million are of a short-term nature (31 December 2013: A breakdown of the borrowings by currency (excluding debt to € 2,149 million, of which € 500 million of a short-term nature), credit institutions and commercial paper) is given in the following clauses have been included that restrict the provision of security. table: The documentation of the € 300 million bond issued in November 2005 (which was increased by € 200 million in Borrowings by currency September 2008), the documentation of the € 750 million bond issued in October 2007, the documentation of the € 300 million 2014 2013R bond issued in November 2013 and the documentation of the € 500 million bond issued in March 2014 include a change-ofEUR 2,042 2,046 control clause. This clause allows the bond investors to request USD 125 132 repayment at par if 50% or more of the DSM shares are CNY 75 45 controlled by a third party and if the company is downgraded Other 36 40 below investment grade (< BBB-). In December 2014 Moody's confirmed their A3 credit rating for DSM with a stable outlook. Total 2,278 2,263 Standard & Poor's reconfirmed DSM's credit rating in 2014, being A with a stable outlook. At 31 December 2014, there were € 497 million in borrowings outstanding with a remaining term of more than five years (at 31 December 2013 there was € 307 million with a remaining term of more than five years). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 171 www.dsm.com On balance, total borrowings increased by € 214 million owing locked in for the remaining life time. The effective interest rate for to the following changes: the increase now amounts to 3.67%. Movements borrowings At the end of 2014 an amount of € 300 million (year-end 2013: € 300 million) of the 5.25% EUR loan 2007-2017 was swapped 2014 2013R into CHF to hedge the currency risk of net investments in CHF denominated subsidiaries. In 2006 and 2007 the loan had been Balance at 1 January 2,566 2,533 partly pre-hedged (cash flow hedge) by means of forward starting swaps, leading to a lower effective fixed interest rate of Loans taken up 532 370 4.89% for the full loan. Repayments (534) (149) Acquisitions/disposals 18 52 In March 2014 a new 2.375% EUR bond of € 500 million was Changes in debt to credit issued for a tenor of 10 years. In November 2010 pre-hedge institutions/commercial paper 240 (221) contracts were concluded for this intended refinancing in 2014 Exchange differences 31 (19) of the maturing 5.75% EUR loan 2009-2014 at a 10-year interest Cash facility associates (73) rate of 3.42% excluding DSM spread. With the issue of the new bond this pre-hedge was settled. The effective interest rate for Balance at 31 December 2,780 2,566 this bond amounts to 3.98% including settlement of pre-hedge and DSM spread. The average effective interest rate on the portfolio of borrowings End of 2013 the € 300 million of the 1.75% EUR loan 2013-2019 outstanding in 2014, including hedge instruments related to was swapped to USD. The swap had been unwound by the end these borrowings, amounted to 3.88% (2013: 4.2%). of September 2014. A breakdown of debenture loans is given below: In November 2011 pre-hedge contracts were concluded for an intended refinancing in 2015 of the 4% EUR loan 2005-2015 at Debenture loans a 10year interest rate of 3.20% excluding DSM spread. At yearend 2014, the fair value of the pre-hedge contracts amounted 2014 2013R to € 109 million negative (year-end 2013: € 77 million negative including fair value of pre-hedge on matured 2009-2014 bond), EUR loan 4.00% 2005-2015 497 494 which is recognized in the hedging reserve. The refinancing EUR loan 5.25% 2007-2017 747 746 remains highly probable. EUR loan 5.75% 2009-2014 500 EUR loan 1.75% 2013-2019 300 300 A breakdown of private loans is given below: EUR loan 2.38% 2014-2024 497 Private loans Total 2,041 2,040 2014 2013R All debenture loans have a fixed interest rate. TWD loan floating 2013-2018 31 32 (1 month) The original amount of € 300 million of the 4% EUR loan CNY loan floating 2008-2017 40 37 2005-2015 was swapped into CHF to hedge the currency risk (12 months) of net investments in CHF-denominated subsidiaries. This USD loan 5.61% 2003-2015 124 109 original amount of the loan was pre-hedged (cash flow hedge) in Other loans 42 44 2005 by means of a forward starting swap, which led to a lower effective fixed interest rate of 3.66%. The loan increase of € 194 Total 237 222 million (after discount and fair value adjustments), was swapped to floating rates in August 2009 by means of an interest rate swap (fair value hedge). In August 2011 the swap to floating was unwound and an interest advantage of 1.54% per annum was Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 172 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The currency component of the 5.61% USD loan 2003-2015 23 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations was swapped into EUR (cash flow hedge). The resulting EUR liability was swapped into CHF to hedge the currency risk of net The contingent liabilities and other financial obligations in the investments in CHF-denominated subsidiaries (net-investment following table are not recognized in the balance sheet. hedge). DSM’s policy regarding financial-risk management is described 2014 2013R in note 24. Operating leases and rents 96 59 21 Other non-current liabilities Guarantee obligations on behalf of associates and third parties 124 150 Outstanding orders for projects 2014 2013R under construction 34 11 Other 27 33 Investment grants 42 42 Deferred items 29 24 Total 281 253 Other non-current liabilities 10 9 Total 81 75 Guarantee obligations are principally related to value added tax and duties on the one hand and to financing obligations of associates on the other. Most of the outstanding orders for 22 Current liabilities projects under construction will be completed in 2015. Property, plant and equipment under operating leases primarily concerns catalysts, buildings and various equipment items. 2014 2013R The commitments for operating leases and rents are spread as Trade payables follows: Received in advance 6 9 Trade accounts payable 1,287 1,212 Operating leases and rents Notes and cheques due 45 21 Owing to associates 23 30 2014 2013R Total Trade payables 1,361 1,272 2014 12 2015 52 11 Other current liabilities 2016 12 10 Income taxes payable 27 39 2017 2 1 Other taxes and social security 2018 and 2019 2 1 contributions 49 44 After 2019 28 24 Interest 24 36 Pensions 5 5 Total 96 59 Investment creditors 108 154 Employee related liabilities 240 282 Payables associates relating to Litigation cash facility 81 DSM has a process in place to monitor legal claims periodically Other liabilities 19 12 and systematically. Deferred items 1 1 DSM is involved in several legal proceedings, most of which are Total Other current liabilities 554 573 related to the ordinary course of business. DSM does not expect these proceedings to result in liabilities that have a material effect on the company's financial position. In cases where it is probable that the outcome of the proceedings will be unfavorable, and the financial outcome can be measured reliably, a provision has Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 173 www.dsm.com been recognized in the financial statements and disclosed in first extension option for the 2013 facility was executed to extend note 19 Provisions. the final maturity by another year, which was accepted by all banks but one, i.e. the facility amount in the last year will be 24 Financial instruments and risks € 480 million. Together, the facilities actually amount to a total of € 1,000 million (2013: € 1,000 million). Policies on financial risks General Furthermore, DSM has a commercial-paper program amounting The main financial risks faced by DSM relate to liquidity risk and to € 1,500 million (2013: € 1,500 million). The company will use market risk (comprising interest rate risk, currency risk, price risk the commercial-paper program to a total of not more than and credit risk). DSM’s financial policy is aimed at minimizing the € 1,000 million (2013: € 1,000 million). The agreements for the effects of fluctuations in currency-exchange and interest rates committed credit facilities neither have financial covenants nor on its results in the short term and following market rates in the material adverse changes clauses. At year-end 2014 no loans long term. DSM uses financial derivatives to manage financial have been taken up under the committed credit facilities. DSM risks relating to business operations and does not enter into has no derivative contracts to manage currency risk or interest speculative derivative positions. DSM does not hold financial rate risk outstanding under which margin calls by the instruments with embedded derivatives. DSM's financial policy, counterparty would be permitted. including policies and processes for managing capital, is discussed more extensively in Financial and reporting policy of Floating-rate and fixed-rate borrowings and short-term the Report by the Managing Board. monetary liabilities analyzed by maturity are summarized in the following table. Borrowings excluding credit institutions are Liquidity risk shown after taking into account related interest rate derivatives DSM has two committed credit facilities: one facility of € 500 in designated hedging relationships. DSM manages financial million issued in 2011 and maturing in September 2018 and one liabilities and related derivative contracts on the basis of the facility issued in 2013 of € 500 million and for greatest part remaining contractual maturities of these instruments. The maturing in April 2019. In 2013 the second extension option for remaining maturities presented in the following table provide an the 2011 facility was executed to extend the final maturity by overview of the timing of the cash flows related to these another year, which was accepted by all banks but one, i.e. the instruments. Financial assets are not linked to financial liabilities facility amount in the last year will be € 445 million. In 2014 the in order to meet cash outflows on these liabilities. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 174 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Borrowings and short-term monetary liabilities by maturity Fixed-rate Floating-rate Short-term Subtotal Interest Cash at1 Total cash borrowings borrowings monetary payments redemption out 2013R liabilities Within 1 year 505 33 2,148 2,686 76 2,762 Within 1 to 2 years 610 43 653 66 6 725 Within 2 to 3 years 1 6 7 45 52 Within 3 to 4 years 756 6 762 38 4 804 Within 4 to 5 years 3 3 8 11 After 5 years 300 300 7 307 Total 2,172 91 2,148 4,411 240 10 4,661 2014 Within 1 year 626 15 2,417 3,058 87 3 3,148 Within 1 to 2 years 11 32 43 65 108 Within 2 to 3 years 747 47 794 55 3 852 Within 3 to 4 years 3 3 25 28 Within 4 to 5 years 300 300 24 324 After 5 years 497 497 842 3 584 Total 2,181 97 2,417 4,695 340 9 5,044 1 Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs 2 Cumulative interest payment in remaining years Interest rate risk DSM’s interest rate risk policy is aimed at minimizing the interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company and thus at the same time optimizing the net interest costs. This policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed-interest and floating interest positions, including cash and cash equivalents, with the floating-interest position in principle not exceeding 60% of net debt. On 31 December 2014, DSM had no outstanding fixed-floating interest rate swaps other than the pre-hedges for refinancing in 2015 (see note 20). The following analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings and related financial derivatives to interest rate movements assumes an instantaneous 1% change in interest rates for all currencies and maturities from their level on 31 December 2014, with all other variables held constant. A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a € 1 million pre-tax loss in the income statement on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2014 as floating-rate borrowings are more than compensated for by floating-rate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in interest rates. The sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments on 31 December 2014 to changes in interest rates is set out in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 175 www.dsm.com Sensitivity of fair value to change in interest rate 2014 2013R Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value amount to change in interest of: amount to change in interest of: +1% (1%) +1% (1%) Current investments 6 6 19 19 Cash and cash equivalents 669 669 770 770 Short-term borrowings (1,143) (1,166) 6 (6) (841) (847) 1 (1) Long-term borrowings (1,637) (1,842) 87 (94) (1,725) (1,902) 61 (64) Interest rate swaps (fixed to floating and prehedges) (109) (109) 52 (58) (77) (77) 87 (99) Currency risk It is DSM’s policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the trade receivables and trade payables. In addition, operating companies may – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, GBP and JPY. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses average-rate currency forward contracts, currency forward contracts, spot contracts, and average-rate currency options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. At year-end, these instruments had remaining maturities of less than one year. To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts. Only for some larger internal loans with a total notional amount of € 766 million, hedge accounting is applied for these instruments. On 31 December 2014, the notional amount of the currency forward contracts was € 3,781 million (2013: € 3,713 million). In 2014 DSM hedged USD 684 million (2013: USD 707 million) of its projected net cash flow in USD in 2015, of which USD 209 million against EUR and USD 475 million against CHF by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of USD 1.31 per euro and CHF 0.93 per US dollar, respectively, for the four quarters of 2015. In 2014 DSM also hedged JPY 5,100 million (2013: JPY 5,100 million) of its projected net cash flow in JPY in 2015, of which JPY 4,000 million against CHF and JPY 1,100 million against EUR by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of JPY 114 per Swiss franc and JPY 138 per euro, respectively, for the four quarters of 2015. DSM also continued the hedge of projected GBP cash obligations against CHF: GBP 50 million at an average exchange rate of CHF 1.50 per British pound. These hedges have fixed the exchange rate for part of the USD and JPY receipts and GBP payments in 2015. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for these hedges. As a result of similar hedges concluded in 2013 for the year 2014, in 2014 € 11 million positive (2013: € 24 million positive) was recognized in the operating income of the segments involved in accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows. There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The currency risk associated with the translation of DSM's net investment in entities denominated in currencies other than the euro was partially hedged at year-end 2014. CHF-denominated net assets have been partially hedged by currency swaps (2014: CHF 994 million; 2013: CHF 994 million). There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December, with all other variables held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. A -10% change represents a weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 176 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Sensitivity of fair value to change in exchange rate 2014 2013R Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to amount change in all exchange amount change in all exchange rates of: rates of: +10% (10%) +10% (10%) Current investments 6 6 1 (1) 19 19 Cash and cash equivalents 669 669 53 (53) 770 770 38 (38) Short-term borrowings (1,143) (1,166) (25) 25 (841) (847) (11) 11 Long-term borrowings (1,637) (1,842) (9) 9 (1,725) (1,902) (19) 19 Interest rate swaps (109) (109) (77) (77) Cross currency swaps (49) (49) (101) 101 58 58 (236) 236 Currency forward contracts (36) (36) (136) 136 13 (13) Cross currency swaps related to net investments in foreign entities1 (87) (87) (89) 89 (73) (73) (89) 89 Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging2 (34) (34) (20) 20 28 28 (17) 17 1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve 2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve Fair-value changes on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss, with the exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net-investment hedge accounting is applied. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for the average rate forwards and average-rate currency options used for economic hedging; the fair value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Hedging reserve in equity until recognition of the related cash flows. Net-investment hedge accounting is applied for the cross currency swaps used to protect net investments in foreign entities; the fair-value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Translation reserve in equity until the net investment is disposed of, to the extent that the changes in fair value are caused by changes in currency-exchange rates. Price risk Financial instruments that are subject to changes in stock exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At year-end 2014 price risks related to investments in securities were limited. Credit risk DSM manages the credit risk to which it is exposed by applying credit limits per institution and by dealing exclusively with institutions having a high credit rating. At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. With regard to treasury activities it is ensured that financial transactions are only concluded with counterparties that have at least a Moody's credit rating of A3 for long-term instruments. At business group level, outstanding receivables are continuously monitored by the management of the operating companies. Appropriate allowances are made for any credit risks that have been identified (as listed in note 13). It is therefore unlikely that significant losses will arise in relation to receivables that have not been provided for. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 177 www.dsm.com The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets that are recognized in the balance sheet, including derivative financial instruments. No significant agreements or financial instruments were available at the reporting date that would reduce the maximum exposure to credit risk. Information about financial assets is presented in note 10 Associates and joint ventures, note 11 Other financial assets, note 13 Current receivables, note 14 Current investments, note 15 Cash and cash equivalents and note 24 Financial instruments and risks. Fair value of financial instruments In the following table the carrying amounts and the estimated fair values of financial instruments are disclosed: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013R Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Assets Other participations 44 44 46 46 Other non-current receivables 45 45 71 71 Current receivables 1,769 1,769 1,597 1,597 Financial derivatives 47 47 126 126 Current investments 6 6 19 19 Cash and cash equivalents 669 669 770 770 Liabilities Non-current borrowings 1,637 1,842 1,725 1,902 Other non-current liabilities 81 81 75 75 Current borrowings 1,143 1,166 841 847 Financial derivatives 362 362 190 190 Other current liabilities 1,915 1,915 1,845 1,845 The following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current investments, current receivables, current borrowings and other current liabilities are stated at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these instruments. The fair values of financial derivatives and long-term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or quotes obtained from intermediaries. The portfolio of derivatives consists of average-rate-forward contracts that are valued against average foreign exchange forward rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model, applicable market yield curves and foreign exchange spot rates. All inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable market data that are obtained from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable. DSM uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments measured at fair value: Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value that are not based on observable market data Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 178 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The following table shows the carrying amounts of the financial instruments recognized at fair value, broken down by type and purpose: Carrying amounts financial instruments at fair value Fair value hierarchy Assets Liabilities Total Interest rate swaps Level 2 (77) (77) Currency swaps Level 2 91 (106) (15) Total financial derivatives related to borrowings 91 (183) (92) Currency forward contracts Level 2 35 (7) 28 Balance at 31 December 2013 126 (190) (64) Interest rate swaps Level 2 (109) (109) Currency swaps Level 2 32 (168) (136) Total financial derivatives related to borrowings 32 (277) (245) Currency forward contracts Level 2 15 (85) (70) Balance at 31 December 2014 47 (362) (315) During the year there were no transfers between individual levels of the fair value hierarchy. 25 Post-employment benefits The charges for pension costs recognized in the income statement (note 4) relate to the following: The group operates a number of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of Pension costs which are generally held in separately administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from 2014 2013R employees and from the relevant group companies. The group also provides certain additional healthcare benefits to retired Defined benefit plans: employees in the US. Pension costs included in operating profit 25 22 Post-employment benefits relate to obligations that will be Healthcare plans 1 1 settled in the future and require assumptions to project benefit Other post-employment obligations. Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to benefits 1 1 reflect the recognition of post-employment benefits over the employee’s approximate service period, based on the terms of Defined contribution plans 87 91 the plans and the investment and funding. The accounting requires management to make assumptions regarding variables Total continuing operations 114 115 such as discount rate, future salary increases, life expectancy, Discontinued operations 2 9 and future healthcare costs. Management consults with external Pension costs included in actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for Financial income and expense 12 12 significant plans. Pension costs included in Exceptional items (8) Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected defined benefit obligations, funding Total 120 136 requirements and periodic costs incurred. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 179 www.dsm.com For 2015, costs for the defined benefit plans relating to pensions The changes in the present value of the defined benefit will be € 47 million (2014: € 39 million). obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major plans are listed below: Changes in Employee benefits liabilities recognized in the balance sheet are disclosed in the following overview: Present value of defined benefit obligations Employment benefits liabilities 2014 2013R 2014 2013R Balance at 1 January 1,279 1,317 Balance at 1 January (360) (429) Changes: Service costs 26 31 Changes: Interest costs 40 36 Balance of actuarial Contributions 13 12 gains/(losses) (167) 21 Actuarial (gains)/losses 223 (9) Employee benefits costs (31) (39) Past service costs (6) Contributions by employer 49 47 Curtailments/termination Exchange differences (14) 4 benefits (8) Reclassification from/to held for Exchange differences 59 (23) sale (1) 37 Reclassification from/to held for Other changes (1) sale (37) Settlements (16) Total changes (164) 69 Benefits paid (52) (42) Balance at 31 December (524) (360) Balance at 31 December 1,564 1,279 The Employee benefits liabilities of € 524 million Fair value of plan assets (2013: € 360 million) consist of € 478 million (2013: € 322 million) related to pensions, € 33 million (2013: € 25 million) related to 2014 2013R healthcare and other costs and € 13 million (2013: € 13 million) related to other post-employment benefits. Balance at 1 January 958 931 Pensions Changes: The DSM group companies have various pension plans, which Interest income on plan assets 29 23 are geared to the local regulations and practices in the countries Actuarial gains/(losses) 61 7 in which they operate. As these plans are designed to comply with the statutory framework, tax legislation, local customs and Actual return on plan assets 90 30 economic situation of the countries concerned, it follows that the Contributions by employer 45 47 nature of the plans varies from country to country. The plans are Contributions by employees 13 12 based on local legal and contractual obligations. Exchange differences 48 (20) Settlements (16) Defined benefit plans are applicable to certain employees in Benefits paid (52) (42) Germany, the UK, Switzerland and the US. The rights that can be derived from these plans are based primarily on length of Balance at 31 December 1,086 958 service and the majority of the plans are based on final salary. The majority of the obligations are funded and have been transferred to independent pension funds and life-insurance companies. The most important unfunded plans are in Germany. They amount to € 294 million (2013: € 252 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 180 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The amounts recognized of these major plans in the balance The changes in the net assets / liabilities recognized in the sheet are as follows: balance sheet are as follows: Net liabilities / assets 2014 2013R 2014 2013R Balance at 1 January (321) (386) Present value of funded Expense recognized in the obligations (1,261) (994) income statement (29) (37) Fair value of plan assets 1,086 958 Actuarial gains/(losses) recognized directly in Other (175) (36) comprehensive income during the Present value of unfunded year (162) 16 obligations (303) (285) Contributions by employer 45 47 Reclassification from/to held for Funded status (478) (321) sale 37 Effect of asset ceiling Exchange differences (11) 2 Net liabilities / net assets1 (478) (321) Balance at 31 December (478) (321) Of which: Liabilities (Employee benefits In 2015 DSM is expected to contribute € 44 million (actual 2014: liabilities) (478) (321) € 45 million) to its defined benefit plans. Assets (Prepaid pension costs) The major categories of pension-plan assets as a percentage of 1 Excluding less material plans with a net liability of € 46 million (2013: € 39 million) total plan assets are as follows: Pension-plan assets by category 2014 2013R Bonds 55% 54% Equities 34% 34% Property 7% 7% Other 4% 5% The pension-plan assets include neither ordinary DSM shares nor property occupied by DSM. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 181 www.dsm.com The total expense recognized in the income statement is as The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted averages) follows: are: Costs major defined benefit plans Actuarial assumptions 2014 2013R 2014 2013R Plans outside the1 Plans outside the1 Current service costs 26 29 Netherlands Netherlands Net interest costs 11 12 Past service costs (7) Discount rate 2.07% 3.14% (Gains)/losses on curtailments Price inflation 1.73% 1.92% Costs included in exceptional Salary increase 2.43% 2.72% items (8) Pension increase 0.93-2.2% 2.25-2.6% Costs related to defined benefit 1 In the Netherlands there is only one defined benefit plan which is immaterial for the plans 29 34 group Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: Major defined benefit plans per year 2014 2013R 2012 2011 2010 Defined benefit obligations (1,564) (1,316) (1,317) (1,105) (5,543) Plan assets 1,086 958 931 817 5,440 Funded status of asset/(liability) (478) (358) (386) (288) (103) Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss) 61 7 55 (18) 245 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss) (1) 16 (27) (8) 35 Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (222) (25) (157) (12) (466) Sensitivities of significant actuarial assumptions The discount rate, the future increase in wages and salaries and the pension increase rate were identified as significant actuarial assumptions. The following impacts on the defined benefit obligation are to be expected: A 0.25% increase/decrease in the discount rate would lead to a decrease/increase of 3.4% in the defined benefit obligation A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in salaries/wages would lead to an increase/decrease of 0.6% in the defined benefit obligation A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in the rate of pension increase would lead to an increase/decrease of less than 1.0% in the defined benefit obligation The sensitivity analysis is based on realistically possible changes as of the end of the reporting year. Each change in a significant actuarial assumption was analyzed separately as part of the test. Interdependencies were not taken into account. Healthcare and other costs In some countries, particularly in the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependants with postemployment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life-insurance premiums. Some of these are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the group companies concerned. These plans are not sufficiently material to warrant the individual disclosures required by IAS 19. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 182 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 26 Net debt The development of the components of net debt is as follows: Cash and Current Non-current Current Credit Derivatives Total cash investments borrowings borrowings institutions x € million equivalents Balance at 1 January 2013R 1,089 19 (1,910) (123) (500) (237) (1,662) Change from operating activities 998 30 1,028 Change from investing activities (1,057) (24) (28) 36 (1,073) Reclassification from non-current to current 537 (537) Transfers (7) (354) 139 222 Dividend (160) (160) Interest (200) (200) Proceeds from reissued shares 145 145 Repurchase of shares (73) (73) Capital payments of non-controlling interests 36 36 Derivatives 107 107 Other 1 (5) (4) Change from financing activities (258) 178 (398) 222 107 (149) Exchange differences (2) 7 7 3 15 Total changes (319) 185 (415) 197 173 (179) Balance at 31 December 2013R 770 19 (1,725) (538) (303) (64) (1,841) Change from operating activities 808 63 871 Change from investing activities (515) (13) 6 2 (26) (546) Reclassification from non-current to current 623 (623) Transfers 238 (532) 534 (240) Dividend (175) (175) Interest (302) 77 (225) Proceeds from reissued shares 26 26 Repurchase of shares (189) (189) Cash facility associates (21) 73 52 Derivatives (391) (391) Other 4 4 Change from financing activities (419) 91 (89) (167) (314) (898) Exchange differences 25 (9) (16) (6) (6) Total changes (101) (13) 88 (103) (199) (251) (579) Balance at 31 December 2014 669 6 (1,637) (641) (502) (315) (2,420) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 183 www.dsm.com 27 Notes to the cash flow statement The cash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis of a comparison of the balance sheets as at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as changes in exchange rates, amortization, depreciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are eliminated. Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing activities. Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance sheet items concerned. For those balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table below shows the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow statement: Change in operating working capital 2014 2013R Operating working capital Balance at 1 January 1,843 1,891 Balance at 31 December 1,948 1,843 Balance sheet change 105 (48) Adjustments: Exchange differences (130) 78 Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) 30 (101) Reclassification from / to held for sale 20 134 Transfers / non cash value adjustments 12 3 Total change in operating working capital according to the cash flow statement 37 66 In 2014 the operating working capital of continuing operations before reclassification to held for sale, was € 1,968 million, which amounts to 20.7% of annualized fourth quarter net sales (2013: 21.2%). Besides the business impact this decrease was due to acquisitions, disposals and an exchange rate effect. 28 Share-based compensation Under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, performance-based and non-performance-based stock options or Share Appreciation Rights (SARs) are granted to senior management. Such a grant takes place on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options and SARs. Since 2011 only stock options have been granted, and Share Appreciation Rights are no longer used as share-based compensation. Stock Options and SARs have a term of eight years and are subject to a vesting period of three years. After this three-year period one third of the stock options and SARs (non-performance-related) will vest and two thirds of the stock options and SARs that are performance based will become exercisable in whole, in part, or not at all, depending on the total shareholder return (TSR) achieved by DSM in comparison with a peer group. Non-vested performance based stock options and SARs will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. The exercise of stock incentives is regulated. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 184 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM For members of the Managing Board specifically, only LTI performance shares have been granted since 2010 (no longer stock options). LTI performance shares vest after three years upon the realization of a predefined performance measure. The performance schedule is the same as that for stock options. For LTI performance shares, see note 9 to the financial statements of the parent company. All stock options and LTI performance shares are settled by physical delivery of DSM shares, while SARs are settled in cash. Overview of stock options and Share Appreciation Rights for management Year of issue Outstanding at In 2014 Outstanding at Fair value on Exercise price Expiry date 31 Dec.2013 Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ 31 Dec.2014 grant date (€ ) (€ ) price (€ ) expired 2006 45,225 (42,725) 48.11 (2,500) 8.95 38.30 31 Mar. 2014 2007 159,438 (56,250) 51.36 103,188 7.69 33.60 30 Mar. 2015 2008 373,279 (35,375) 50.03 337,904 5.73 29.79 28 Mar. 2016 2009 372,200 (44,500) 52.02 327,700 2.83 21.10 27 Mar. 2017 2010 615,125 (94,500) 51.68 520,625 6.07 33.10 6 Apr. 2018 20111,2 2,562,113 (283,825) 52.08 (1,159,780)3 1,118,508 9.60 46.20 2 May 2019 20121 2,918,063 (25,600) 51.94 (227,300)3 2,665,163 6.88 40.90 15 May 2020 2013 1 3,308,063 (16,600) 52.73 (243,800)3 3,047,663 9.23 48.91 7 May 2021 20141 3,018,463 (50,850)3 2,967,613 10.66 52.00 9 May 2022 2014 Total 10,353,506 3,018,463 (599,375) 51.55 (1,684,230) 11,088,364 Of which vested 1,823,017 2,767,500 at 31 Dec. at 31 Dec. 2012 2013 2013 Total 11,772,416 3,442,563 (3,363,035) 50.82 (1,498,438) 10,353,506 Of which vested 3,382,177 1,823,017 1 Stock options will partly vest, and may therefore be immediately exercised, upon termination of employment in connection with retirement or early retirement. The remaining term to exercise stock options or SARs after their vesting as a result of retirement or early retirement is limited to three years (the remaining term to exercise in the case of regular vesting is five years). 2 Based on TSR performance, the stock incentives tied to performance granted in 2011 did only partially vest; the remaining part has been forfeited. 3 Number of forfeited options: 1,157,280 (2011), 164,300 (2012), 180,800 (2013) and 50,850 (2014). Certain employees in the Netherlands are entitled to employee stock options that are granted on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and have a term of five years. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 185 www.dsm.com Overview of stock options for employees Year of issue1 Outstanding at In 2014 Outstanding at Fair value on Exercise price Exercise 31 Dec.2013 Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ 31 Dec.2014 grant date (€ ) (€ ) period until price (€ ) expired 2009 41,922 (34,927) 47.92 (6,995) 2.31 21.10 Mar. 2014 2011 254,445 (15,935) 51.18 (1,835) 236,675 10.35 46.20 May 2016 2012 212,080 (16,245) 51.26 (1,775) 194,060 6.79 40.90 May 2017 2013 199,940 (5,840) 53.11 (5,805) 188,295 6.51 48.91 May 2018 2014 314,660 (1,850) 53.18 (4,350) 308,460 5.68 52.00 May 2019 2014 Total 708,387 314,660 (74,797) 49.88 (20,760) 927,490 2013 Total 1,338,068 284,935 (876,928) 51.93 (37,688) 708,387 1 Based on the 2009 result, no employee option rights were granted in 2010 Measurement of fair value The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options at the date at which the options are granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price of the DSM share. Stock-price volatility is determined on the basis of historical volatilities of the DSM share price measured each month over a period equal to the expected option life. The costs of these options are recognized in the income statement (Employee benefits costs). The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes In the costs for wages and salaries an amount of € 19 million is model to determine the fair value at grant date: included for share-based compensation (2013: € 23 million). In the following table the share-based compensation is specified: 2014 2013 Share-based compensation Management options Risk-free rate 0.76% 0.56% 2014 2013R Expected option life in years 6 6 Nominal option life in years 8 8 Stock options 18 17 Share price 52.00 48.91 Share appreciation rights (1) 4 Exercise price 52.00 48.91 Performance shares 2 2 Volatility 31% 29% Expected dividend 3.17% 3.07% Total expense 19 23 Fair value of option granted 10.66 9.23 Employee options 29 Related parties Risk-free rate 0.22% 0.13% Expected option life in years 2.5 2.5 Koninklijke DSM N.V. is the group holding company that is listed Nominal option life in years 5 5 on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. The financial Share price 52.00 48.91 statements of the company are included in the chapter Parent Exercise price 52.00 48.91 company financial statements. Volatility 23.5% 27.5% Expected dividend 3.17% 3.07% In the ordinary course of business, DSM buys and sells goods Fair value of option granted 5.68 6.51 and services to various related parties in which DSM has significant influence. Transactions are conducted under terms Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 186 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM and conditions that are equivalent to those that apply to arm's incentives) of the current members of the Managing Board length transactions. amounted to € 7.3 million (2013: € 9.6 million). The decrease was mainly caused by costs in 2013 in relation to the early retirement Transactions and relationships with related parties are reported of Mr. Gerardu to facilitate succession planning for the Managing in the table below. Board and the Dutch crisis levy which was partly offset by the one-time compensation payment to the new CFO. Total Transactions with related parties remuneration and related costs includes fixed annual salary including other items to the amount of € 3.9 million (2013: € 3.9 20141 2013R1 million), short-term incentives to the amount of € 1.1 million (2013: € 1.8 million), pension expenditure amounting to € 0.5 Sales to related parties 147 170 million (2013: € 0.5 million) and long-term incentives amounting Purchases from related parties 203 244 to € 1.8 million (2013: € 2.2 million). For further information about Loans to related parties 58 12 the remuneration of the members of the Managing Board see Receivables from related parties 8 22 note 9 to the Parent company financial statements. Payables to related parties 30 39 Members of the Supervisory Board received a fixed 1 Relates to continuing operations remuneration (included in General and administrative) totaling € 0.5 million (2013: € 0.5 million). DSM has provided guarantees to third parties for debts of Further information about the remuneration of Managing Board associates for an amount of € 81 million (2013: € 82 million). members and Supervisory Board members and their share option rights is given in the report by the Supervisory Board, from Other related-parties disclosure relates entirely to the key Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the management of DSM, being represented by the company's Supervisory Board onwards and note 9 to the Parent company Managing Board and Supervisory Board. financial statements. The total remuneration and related costs (including pension expenditures, other commitments, short-term and long-term 30 Service fees paid to external auditors The service fees recognized in the financial statements 2014 for the service of EY amounted to € 7.3 million (2013: € 7.8 million). The amounts per service category are shown in the following table. Total service fee Of which Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (Netherlands) 2014 2013R 2014 2013R Audit of the Group financial statements 3.9 4.1 2.1 2.2 Audit of other (statutory) financial statements 0.8 1.4 0.3 0.6 Other assurance services 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 Total assurance services 4.9 5.8 2.5 2.9 Tax services 2.4 2.0 Sundry services Total 7.3 7.8 2.5 2.9 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 187 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Balance sheet at 31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. before profit appropriation x € million Notes 2014 2013 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 2 444 432 Property, plant and equipment 3 19 18 Financial assets 4 9,773 9,980 Deferred tax assets 260 129 Other non-current assets 6 7 10,502 10,566 Current assets Receivables 5 215 14 Cash and cash equivalents 41 15 256 29 Total 10,758 10,595 Shareholders' equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 6 Share capital 338 338 Share premium 489 489 Treasury shares (349) (294) Other reserves 166 36 Retained earnings 4,934 5,068 Profit for the year 145 271 5,723 5,908 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 7 1,544 1,649 1,544 1,649 Current liabilities Borrowings 7 1,021 650 Financial derivatives 215 185 Other current liabilities 8 2,255 2,203 3,491 3,038 Total 10,758 10,595 Income statement x € million 2014 2013 Share in results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (after income tax expense) (40) 319 Other income and expense 185 (48) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 145 271 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 188 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 General Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. The Parent company financial statements are the financial statements of Koninklijke DSM N.V., which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the Netherlands. The accounting policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the provisions of article 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In these separate financial statements investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the net asset value. The balance sheet presentation is aligned with the consolidated financial statements in order to enhance transparency and facilitate understanding. In conformity with article 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, a condensed income statement is included in the separate financial statements of the parent company. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce for Limburg (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company’s website. Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM. 2 Intangible assets The carrying amount of intangible assets mainly comprises goodwill on the acquisition of NeoResins in 2005 (€ 358 million), Crina in 2006 (€ 8 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€ 32 million). For further information on these assets including the discussion of the related impairment tests please refer to note 8: Intangible assets in the Consolidated financial statements. 3 Property, plant and equipment This item mainly relates to land and buildings and corporate IT projects. Capital expenditure in 2014 was € 3 million (2013: € 2 million), while the depreciation charge in 2014 was € 2 million (2013: € 2 million). The historical cost of property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2014 was € 63 million (2013: € 59 million); accumulated depreciation amounted to € 44 million (2013: € 41 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 189 www.dsm.com 4 Financial assets Subsidiaries Associates Share in Share in Equity Loans equity Loans Other loans Total Balance at 1 January 2013 11,911 315 105 4 12,335 Changes: Share in profit 316 3 319 Dividend received (2,901) (2,901) Capital payments 1,854 1,854 Net actuarial gains/(losses) 15 15 Change in Fair value reserve 9 9 Exchange differences (226) (5) (231) New loans 1 1 Transfers (1,461) 40 (1,421) Balance at 31 December 2013 9,517 315 103 45 9,980 Changes: Share in profit 8 (48) (40) Dividend received (895) (895) Deconsolidation 381 381 Capital payments 150 3 153 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (133) (8) (141) Change in Fair value reserve 4 4 Change in Hedging reserve (71) (1) (72) Exchange differences 222 42 6 270 New loans 45 45 Transfers 131 (1) (42) 88 Balance at 31 December 2014 8,933 315 471 51 3 9,773 Transfers and the main part of dividend received and capital payments relate to the restructuring of the legal set-up of financing companies within DSM. Loans to associates relate to the USD 61 million loan granted to DPx in 2014 with an annual fixed interest rate of 10.75% and an expected 5-year maturity. Loans to subsidiaries relate to a € 315 million non-interest bearing profit participating loan granted to DSM Nutritional Products AG in 2004 and maturing in 2057. 5 Receivables 2014 2013R Receivable from subsidiaries 157 4 Other receivables / deferred items 58 10 Total 215 14 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 190 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 6 Shareholders' equity The repayment schedule for borrowings (excluding commercial paper) is as follows: 2014 2013R Borrowings by maturity Balance at 1 January 5,908 5,874 2014 2013R Net profit 145 271 2014 500 Exchange differences, net of 2015 621 603 income tax 282 (228) 2016 Net actuarial gains/(losses) on 2017 747 746 defined benefit obligations (140) 15 2018 and 2019 300 Dividend (301) (271) 2020 through 2024 497 300 Repurchase of shares (189) (73) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary Total 2,165 2,149 shares 160 268 Other changes (142) 52 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at yearBalance at 31 December 5,723 5,908 end 2014 of € 2,165 million, of which € 620 million are of a current nature (31 December 2013: € 2,149 million, of which € 500 million of a current nature), clauses have been included For details see the consolidated statement of changes in equity which restrict the provision of security. More information on (note 16). borrowings is provided in note 20 (Borrowings) to the consolidated financial statements. Legal reserve Since the profits retained in Koninklijke DSM N.V.'s subsidiaries 8 Other current liabilities can be distributed, and received in the Netherlands, no legal reserve for retained profits is required. Profits attributable to joint ventures and associates are not material and therefore any 2014 2013R related legal reserve is also not material. In Shareholders' equity an amount of € 298 million (2013: € 16 million) is included for Owing to subsidiaries 2,201 2,133 Translation reserve, -€ 170 million (2013: -€ 7 million) for Hedging Other liabilities 49 34 reserve and -€ 11 million (2013: -€ 15 million) for Fair value Deferred items 5 36 reserve. Total 2,255 2,203 7 Borrowings Contingent liabilities 2014 2013R Guarantee obligations on behalf of affiliated companies and third Total Of which Total Of which parties amounted to € 160 million (31 December 2013: current current € 164 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in writing that it accepts several liabilities for debts arising from acts in law of a Debenture loans 2,041 497 2,040 500 number of consolidated companies. These debts are included Private loans 124 124 109 in the consolidated balance sheet. Commercial paper 400 400 150 150 Total 2,565 1,021 2,299 650 At 31 December 2014, there was one debenture loan (€ 497 million, maturing in 2024) with a remaining term of more than five years (€ 300 million at 31 December 2013). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 191 www.dsm.com 9 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory The 2014 Integrated Annual Report presents the Short-Term Board Incentives that have been earned on the basis of results achieved in 2014. These Short-Term Incentives will be paid out in 2015. Remuneration Managing Board in 2014 As part of its remuneration policy for the Managing Board, DSM The Supervisory Board has established the extent to which the benchmarks its remuneration package against the packages targets for 2014 were achieved. Regarding the financial targets, offered by the labor-market peer group once every three years. the score on the EBITDA target was slightly above threshold, while the score on gross free cash flow was close to target. The Base salary in 2014 target for net sales growth was however not achieved. For the In view of the above-mentioned market comparison the base sustainability targets, the score on ECO+ was well above target, salaries of the Managing Board members were moderately and the score on the Employee Engagement Index was just increased with effect from 1 July 2014: below target. The target on Safety Performance was not CEO: from € 855,000 to € 870,000 (+1.8%). achieved. Managing Board members also have individual Other Managing Board members: from € 560,000 to € 570,000 targets. The scores achieved on these targets were below, at (+1.8%). and above target. The realization of the 2014 financial STI targets has been reviewed by EY. Furthermore, EY has reviewed the Fixed annual salary process with respect to the target realization of the non-financial STI targets. The average realization percentage was 33.55% of in € 1 July 2014 1 July 2013 base salary. Feike Sijbesma 870,000 855,000 In line with 2013 AGM approval, an STI Deferral and Share Stefan Doboczky 570,000 560,000 Matching Plan came into effect in 2014 with the STI pay-out over Nico Gerardu1 560,000 2013 performance. Geraldine Matchett2 570,000 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb3 570,000 560,000 With this plan only part of the STI outcome is paid out as cash. Stephan Tanda 570,000 560,000 25% of the gross STI value is mandatorily converted into DSM Dimitri de Vreeze4 570,000 492,500 Investment shares. Managing Board members can choose to convert up to a further 25% into additional DSM Investment 1 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 September 2013 shares (in 5% increments, with a minimum of 5% and a 2 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 August 2014 maximum of 25%). 3 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 4 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 September 2013 The company matches these STI Investment shares with an equivalent number of Restricted Share Units (RSUs), vesting of A new benchmark was conducted in Q4 2014, the results of which is deferred for three years, conditional on achieving which are the subject of study by the Remuneration Committee. predefined performance targets equivalent to the measures under the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Plan. The remainder of the Short-Term Incentives (STI) for 2014 STI gross outcome (50% to maximum 75%) is paid out in cash STI targets are revised annually so as to ensure that they are after tax. stretching but realistic. Considerations regarding the performance targets are influenced by the operational and strategic course taken by the company and are directly linked to the company’s ambitions. The targets are determined at the beginning of the year for each Board member. Target STI level and pay-out When they achieve all their targets, Managing Board members receive an incentive of 50% of their annual base salary. Outstanding performance can increase the STI level to 100% of the annual base salary. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 192 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Short-Term Incentives For an overview of all granted and vested stock options and performance shares see Overview of outstanding and exercised in € 20141 20132 stock incentives on page 195. Feike Sijbesma 320,812 480,938 Pensions in 2014 Stefan Doboczky 188,813 315,000 The members of the Managing Board participate in the Dutch Nico Gerardu3 309,400 pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland (PDN). Geraldine Matchett4 92,329 PDN operates similar pension plans for various DSM companies. Rolf-Dieter Schwalb5 166,548 315,000 As a consequence, the pension scheme for the Managing Board Stephan Tanda 158,888 298,200 is the same as the pension scheme for employees employed in Dimitri de Vreeze6 193,088 90,719 the Netherlands. 1 Based on results achieved in 2014 and therefore payable in 2015 As already mentioned in previous Integrated Annual Reports the 2 Based on results achieved in 2013 and therefore payable in 2014 pension plan for DSM in the Netherlands agreed with labor 3 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 September 2013 4 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 August 2014 unions came into effect on 1 January 2011. Its main Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 characteristics are: 5 6 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 September 2013 Based on career-average pay; annual accrual of pension rights All members of the Managing Board decided to invest the (old-age pension) over base salary exceeding € 13,449 maximum of 50% of their gross 2013 STI which was payable in (reviewed annually) at a rate of 2%. 2014 into DSM shares in 2014 in accordance with the STI Retirement age, 66 for accruals from 2012 onwards. Until Deferral and Share Matching Plan. Mr. Sijbesma bought 4,822 2011 the accrual was linked to a pensionable age of 65. shares, Mr. Doboczky and Mr. Schwalb each bought 3,158 The scheme includes a spouse pension as well as a disability shares, Mr. Tanda bought 2,990 shares and Mr. De Vreeze benefit. bought 910 shares. All were awarded the same number of Employee's contribution (Managing Board and Executives) of Restricted Stock Units (RSU’s) as matching shares. 3.5% percent of base salary up to € 59,827 and 7.5% of pensionable salary above this amount (reviewed annually). Long-Term Incentives (LTI) (Other employees contribute 5.5% of pensionable salary The following table provides an overview of the LTI performance above € 13,449 (revised annually)). shares that were granted to members of the Managing Board in Collective defined contribution: indexation of accruals and the respective year. These performance shares are subject to a retirement benefits, depending on PDN's coverage ratio. three year vesting period. Pensions Number of LTI performance shares granted 1 Accrued pension1 2014 2013 in € 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2013 Feike Sijbesma 24,000 24,000 Feike Sijbesma 466,639 449,658 Stefan Doboczky 16,000 16,000 Stefan Doboczky 38,920 27,889 Nico Gerardu 16,000 Nico Gerardu2 357,494 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 16,000 16,000 Geraldine Matchett3 4,638 Stephan Tanda 16,000 16,000 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb4 85,918 74,887 Dimitri de Vreeze 16,000 Stephan Tanda 103,910 92,879 Dimitri de Vreeze 5 144,430 134,074 1 Grant according to Koninklijke DSM N.V. Performance Share Plan 1 Pensions built up in the Dutch Pension Plan. The accrual is linked to a retirement age of 66 years. 2 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 September 2013. For 2015, the number of conditionally granted ordinary shares 3 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 August 2014. under the LTI program will be: 4 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014. 5 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 September 2013. Chairman 29,000 Members 19,000 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 193 www.dsm.com Revision and claw-back of bonuses In 2014, as well as in 2013, no revision or claw-back of bonuses occurred. Remuneration Managing Board The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is determined by the Supervisory Board within the framework of the remuneration policy as approved by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. More details about the remuneration policy are included in the Report by the Supervisory Board from page 106 onwards. The remuneration and related costs (including pension expenditure and other commitments and costs related to long term incentives) of the current members of the Managing Board amounted to € 7.3 million (2013: € 9.6 million). The cost of the remuneration of the individual members of the Managing Board for the company was as follows (these are costs for DSM which are not in all cases compensation paid to members of the Managing Board): DSM's remuneration expense for the Managing Board x € thousand Salary Short-term Pension Share-based1 Other items2 Total incentive expenditure compensation 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Feike Sijbesma 863 848 321 481 127 124 594 458 85 83 1,990 1,994 Stefan Doboczky 565 553 189 315 84 81 391 281 55 86 1,284 1,316 Nico Gerardu 9303 309 137 8524 31 2,259 Geraldine Matchett 5 538 92 35 35 700 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb6 518 553 167 315 77 81 359 302 32 34 1,153 1,285 Stephan Tanda 565 553 159 298 84 81 391 302 40 36 1,239 1,270 Dimitri de Vreeze7 531 164 193 91 79 17 106 40 13 949 285 Subtotal 3,580 3,601 1,121 1,809 486 521 1,841 2,195 287 283 7,315 8,409 Crisis levy 1,215 Total 7,315 9,624 1 Share-based compensation expense represents the cost for DSM of performance shares awarded to members of the Managing Board. These costs are recognized over the vesting period of the performance shares and therefore cover several years. The increase in 2014 is a result of the fact that older grants are being replaced by newer more expensive grants. The number of LTI performance shares granted was not increased from 2013 to 2014. 2 Other items include company car and expense allowance. 3 Includes a payment of one year fixed salary to Nico Gerardu as a compensation for his willingness to retire early to facilitate succession planning for the Managing Board. 4 Includes the impact of early vesting of performance shares. 5 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 August 2014; including assignment bonus of € 300,000. 6 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014. Excluding € 47,500 salary and € 57,987 other remuneration expenses (including pro rata STI) for Mr. Schwalb as retired member of the Managing Board. 7 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 September 2013. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 194 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Outstanding and exercised stock incentives The following table shows the stock incentives of the individual members of the Managing Board and the rights exercised. Overview of stock options Year of issue Outstanding In 2014 Outstanding1 Average Exercise Expiry date at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. share price at price (€ ) 2013 expired 2014 exercise (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 2008 28,125 28,125 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 18,750 18,750 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 46,875 46,875 Of which vested 46,875 46,875 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb2 2008 22,500 22,500 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 15,000 15,000 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 37,500 37,500 Of which vested 37,500 37,500 Stephan Tanda 2008 22,500 22,500 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 15,000 15,000 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 37,500 37,500 Of which vested 37,500 37,500 Dimitri de Vreeze 2008 22,500 22,500 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 18,000 18,000 21.10 27 Mar 2017 2010 18,000 18,000 33.10 6 Apr 2018 2011 36,000 (18,000) 18,000 46.20 2 May 2019 2012 36,000 36,000 40.90 15 May2020 2013 36,000 36,000 48.91 7 May 2021 Total 166,500 (18,000) 148,500 Of which vested 58,500 76,500 1 Currently Stefan Doboczky and Geraldine Matchett do not hold any stock options 2 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 Since 2010 the Managing Board has been granted LTI performance shares instead of stock options. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 195 www.dsm.com Overview of performance shares Year of issue Outstanding In 2014 Outstanding1 Share price at 31 Dec. Granted Vested Forfeited / at 31 Dec. at date 2013 expired 2014 of grant (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 2011 24,000 (12,000) (12,000) 46.20 2012 31,000 31,000 40.90 2013 24,000 24,000 48.91 2014 28,822 28,822 49.88 Total 79,000 28,822 (12,000) (12,000) 83,822 Retained shares originated from performance shares 47,900 Stefan Doboczky 2011 16,000 (8,000) (8,000) 46.20 2012 20,000 20,000 40.90 2013 16,000 16,000 48.91 2014 19,158 19,158 49.88 Total 52,000 19,158 (8,000) (8,000) 55,158 Retained shares originated from performance shares 5,382 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb2 2011 16,000 (8,000) (8,000) 46.20 2012 20,000 20,000 40.90 2013 16,000 16,000 48.91 2014 19,158 19,158 49.88 Total 52,000 19,158 (8,000) (8,000) 55,158 Retained shares originated from performance shares 31,600 Stephan Tanda 2011 16,000 (8,000) (8,000) 46.20 2012 20,000 20,000 40.90 2013 16,000 16,000 48.91 2014 18,990 18,990 49.88 Total 52,000 18,990 (8,000) (8,000) 54,990 Retained shares originated from performance shares 26,938 Dimitri de Vreeze 2014 16,910 16,910 49.88 Total 16,910 16,910 Retained shares originated from performance shares 1 Currently Geraldine Matchett does not hold any LTI performance shares 2 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 Purchasing shares In addition to the performance shares granted under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, the current members of the Managing Board have themselves invested in DSM shares. All members of the Managing Board, with the exception at this time of the recently appointed CFO, have purchased shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the strategy and the company. At 31 December 2014 the members of the Managing Board together held 202,598 shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V., compared to 147,296 at 31 December 2013. These shares were bought through private transactions with private funds (including shares bought from earned STI) and obtained through vested performance shares. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 196 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Managing Board holdings of DSM shares 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Board member Ordinary shares Retention from Total Ordinary shares Retention from Total purchased with vested holdings purchased with vested holdings private money performance private money performance shares shares Feike Sijbesma 45,922 47,900 93,822 38,600 35,900 74,500 Stefan Doboczky 11,158 5,382 16,540 6,500 6,500 Geraldine Matchett1 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb2 17,658 31,600 49,258 13,000 23,600 36,600 Stephan Tanda 12,990 26,938 39,928 8,000 21,556 29,556 Dimitri de Vreeze 3,050 3,050 140 140 Total holdings 90,778 111,820 202,598 66,240 81,056 147,296 1 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 August 2014 2 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 Loans The company does not provide any loans to members of the Managing Board. Supervisory Board remuneration in 2014 The remuneration package for the Supervisory Board comprises an annual fixed fee and an annual committee-membership fee. The fixed fee for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is € 70,000. The other members of the Supervisory Board each receive a fixed fee of € 50,000. Audit Committee membership is awarded € 10,000 per member and € 12,500 for the Chairman. Nomination Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and Remuneration Committee membership is awarded € 5,000 per member and € 7,500 for the Chairman. In addition, Supervisory Board members receive an intercontinental travel allowance of € 3,000 for each meeting that they attend outside their continent of residence. Committee membership Supervisory Board Audit Corporate Nomination Remuneration Committee Social Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Rob Routs, chairman Chairman Member Ewald Kist, deputy chairman Member Chairman Victoria Haynes Member Pierre Hochuli Member Member Eileen Kennedy Member Pauline van der Meer Mohr Chairman Member Member Tom de Swaan Chairman Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 197 www.dsm.com Overview of remuneration awarded to the Supervisory Board in 2014 The total remuneration (annual fixed fee and annual committee membership fee) of the members of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 0.5 million (2013: € 0.5 million). The remuneration of the individual members of the Supervisory Board was as follows: in € Annual fixed fee Committee fee Other costs Total 2014 2013 Rob Routs, chairman 70,000 12,500 4,250 86,750 86,750 Ewald Kist, deputy chairman 50,000 12,500 6,151 68,651 70,691 Victoria Haynes 50,000 10,000 16,250 76,250 76,250 Pierre Hochuli 50,000 15,000 4,250 69,250 69,250 Eileen Kennedy 50,000 5,000 16,250 71,250 71,250 Pauline van der Meer Mohr 50,000 12,500 6,151 68,651 70,691 Claudio Sonder (retired on 3 May 2013) 28,933 Tom de Swaan 50,000 17,500 6,151 73,651 75,691 Total 370,000 85,000 59,453 514,453 549,506 Total 2013 387,308 90,000 72,198 549,506 At year-end 2014 two members of the Supervisory Board held shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V.: Pierre Hochuli 7,210 (2013: 7,210) and Victoria Haynes 300 (2013: 300). Loans The company does not provide any loans to members of the Supervisory Board. Heerlen, 2 March 2015 Heerlen, 2 March 2015 Managing Board, Supervisory Board, Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Rob Routs, Chairman Geraldine Matchett, CFO Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman Stefan Doboczky Victoria Haynes Stephan Tanda Pierre Hochuli Dimitri de Vreeze Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr Tom de Swaan Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 198 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 199 www.dsm.com Other information Independent Auditor's Report on the independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore we Financial Statements have complied with the Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants (VGBA). To the Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements 2014 and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our opinion We have audited the financial statements 2014 of Koninklijke Materiality DSM N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM), based in Heerlen. The financial Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered statements include the consolidated financial statements and material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably the company financial statements. be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The materiality affects In our opinion: the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view opinion. of the financial position of Royal DSM as at 31 December 2014, and of its result and its cash flows for 2014 in Based on our professional judgment we determined the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards materiality for the financial statements as a whole at € 44 million. as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 This amount is based on a percentage (0.5%) of revenues, which of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. we considered to be an appropriate and stable basis for the company financial statements give a true and fair view of determining overall materiality. This materiality level is broken the financial position of Royal DSM as at 31 December 2014, down in smaller amounts that are allocated to individual and of its result for 2014 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 companies. In performing our audit, we have also taken into of the Dutch Civil Code. account misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for qualitative reasons. The consolidated financial statements comprise: We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014; excess of € 1 million, which are identified during the audit, would the following statements for 2014: consolidated income be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our statement and consolidated statements of comprehensive view must be reported on qualitative grounds. income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended; and Scope of the group audit the notes, comprising a summary of the significant accounting Royal DSM is head of a group of entities. The financial policies and other explanatory information. information of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM. The consolidated financial statements The company financial statements comprise: are a consolidation of 293 reporting units, comprising Royal DSM’s operating businesses and centralized functions spread the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014; across more than 54 countries. the income statement for 2014; and the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies In establishing the overall approach to the audit, we determined and other explanatory information. the type of work that is needed to be done by us, as group auditors, by component auditors of the EY network, or by other Basis for our opinion auditors operating under our instructions. In this respect we have We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under carried out for reporting units, which was based on either their those standards are further described in the “Our responsibilities overall size or risk characteristics. On this basis we selected for the audit of the financial statements” section of our report. reporting units for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial statements or on specific items. We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with international and national independence regulations, including Accordingly, we selected 54 reporting units for which an (full or the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants specific) audit or review had to be carried out, representing 82% bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO) and other relevant of the consolidated revenue and 81% of the consolidated assets. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 200 www.dsm.com Other information Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements Assurance report of the independent auditor Profit appropriation Special statutory rights Important dates The remaining reporting units were subject to period on period and Annual Strategic Reviews) as adopted by the Managing movement analysis with a focus on higher risk balances and Board. We also verified the adequacy of the disclosures of the unusual movements and additional audit procedures over assumptions to which the outcome of the impairment test is specific transactions. This provided us with the evidence we most sensitive, as included in note 8 of the financial statements. needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements The impairment of € 291 million has been properly included as as a whole. exceptional item under DSM accounting policies and has been disclosed in note 6 (exceptional items). At most of the group entities in scope of the financial audit in The Netherlands we have performed audit procedures ourselves. We Accounting for the disposition of the Pharmaceutical Products have mostly used EY auditors for the audit of group entities business outside The Netherlands. For the audit of significant associates As described in Note 2 and the Managing Board report, Royal and joint ventures we have used auditors of EY and KPMG. DSM finalized the agreement with private equity company JLL in Where the work was performed by component auditors, we March 2014 and agreed to contribute its Pharmaceutical determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the Products business into a new company (DPx Holdings B.V.). As audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude a result of this agreement, the related business group was whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained classified as asset held for sale at year-end 2013. In 2014 the as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial business transaction was finalized resulting in a classification as statements as a whole. associate of the 49% share of Royal DSM in DPx Holdings B.V. Accounting for the associate value of DPx Holdings B.V. was Our key audit matters complex considering the conversion of the local US GAAP Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional financials to IFRS, the fact that the year-end date for DPx judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial Holdings B.V. is 31 October 2014 and the need for purchase statements. We have communicated the key audit matters with price allocation adjustments. We audited management’s the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a accounting treatment of the exchange of DPP as assets held for comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. sale into the net equity value of DPx Holdings presented within associates. Furthermore, we verified the net equity value as per These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the year-end 2014 and we audited the book result recognized in financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 2014. thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Judgment and disclosure with respect to deferred tax assets Under EU-IFRS, Royal DSM is required to annually review the Judgment with respect to the valuation of goodwill and (in) valuation of the deferred tax positions. This was important to our tangible assets audit because the assessment process is judgmental and Under EU-IFRS, Royal DSM is required to annually test the amongst other based on assumptions that are affected by future amount of goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life market or economic conditions. Management concluded that it for impairment. The entity’s disclosures about goodwill and is not probable that all deferred tax assets will be realized within intangible assets are included in Note 8. IFRS also requires that the foreseeable future and therefore recognized only those Royal DSM assesses for all other classes of assets whether there assets for which recovery was deemed probable, which has are any indications of impairment. An impairment test itself only been disclosed in note 7. has to be carried out if there are such indications.These annual impairment tests were significant to our audit as the assessment Our audit procedures included, amongst others, a review of process is complex, contains items based on judgments and is forecasted fiscal results and methodologies used. We based on assumptions that are affected by expected future ascertained that information used was derived from Royal market conditions. With respect to the DSM Fibre Intermediates DSM’s business plans that have been subject to internal reviews business group and as described in Note 6, the 2014 impairment and were approved by those charged with governance test resulted in an impairment of € 291 mio. (Corporate Strategic Dialogue and Annual Strategic Reviews). We also involved EY tax specialists to review the fiscal position, Our audit procedures included, among others, using a valuation current tax planning strategies and to verify that the method used expert to assist us in verifying the assumptions and to calculate the valuation adjustment was consistently applied. methodologies used by Royal DSM. We compared forecasted We have also ascertained that disclosures in the financial revenue growth and profit margins for all cash generating units statement with respect to taxes are in line with IAS 12. with the Royal DSM business plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 201 www.dsm.com Responsibilities of management and the Supervisory Board in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an for the financial statements opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. Management is responsible for the preparation and fair Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EUand the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the disclosures made by management. preparation of the management board report in accordance with Concluding on the appropriateness of management’s use of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit management is responsible for such internal control as evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists management determines is necessary to enable the preparation related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we whether due to fraud or error. conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures As part of the preparation of the financial statements, in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are management is responsible for assessing the company’s ability inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s frameworks mentioned, management should prepare the report. However, future events or conditions may cause the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting company ceasing to continue as a going concern. unless management either intends to liquidate the company or Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. the financial statements, including the disclosures; and Management should disclose events and circumstances that Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves as a going concern in the financial statements. fair presentation. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among company’s financial reporting process. other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in Our Responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements internal control that we identify during our audit. Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have evidence for our opinion. complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. and frauds. From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained determine those matters that were of most significance in the professional skepticism throughout the audit in accordance with audit of the financial statements of the current period and are Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in independence requirements. Our audit included e.g.: our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of circumstances, when non-mentioning is in the public interest. the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to Report on other legal and regulatory requirements those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and Report on the management board report and the other appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not information detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is Pursuant to legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve Civil Code (concerning our obligation to report about the collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, management board report and other information): or the override of internal control. Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the We have no deficiencies to report as a result of our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate examination whether the management board report, to the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 202 www.dsm.com Other information Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements Assurance report of the independent auditor Profit appropriation Special statutory rights Important dates extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and whether the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code has been annexed. We report that the management board report, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial statements. Engagement We were appointed as auditor of Royal DSM for the 2013 and 2014 year audit by the Supervisory Board on 10 December 2012, which was approved by the shareholders at the annual meeting held on 3 May 2013. We have been statutory auditor of DSM for an uninterrupted period since 1967 and will rotate off after 2014 following mandatory firm rotation. Maastricht, 2 March 2015 Ernst & Young Accountants LLP Signed by G.A.M. Aarnink Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 203 www.dsm.com Assurance report of the independent A review is focused on obtaining limited assurance. The auditor procedures performed in obtaining limited assurance are aimed on the plausibility of information which does not require To the Supervisory Board and shareholders of Royal DSM exhaustive gathering of evidence as in engagements focused on reasonable assurance. The performed procedures consisted We have reviewed the sustainability information in the sections primarily of making inquiries of management and other within the ‘DSM in motion: driving focused growth’, ‘Growth driver: entity, as appropriate, applying analytical procedures and Sustainability’, ‘Stakeholder engagement’, ‘People in 2014’, evaluating the evidence obtained. Consequently a review ‘Planet in 2014’, and ‘Sustainability statements’, as included in engagement provides less assurance than an audit. the Integrated Annual Report for the year 2014 (hereinafter: the Report) of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereinafter: Royal DSM). The Procedures performed Report comprises a description of the policy, the activities, Our main procedures included the following: events and performance of Royal DSM relating to sustainable development during the reporting year 2014. Performing an external environment analysis and obtaining an understanding of the sector, relevant social issues, relevant Limitations in our scope laws and regulations and the characteristics of the The Report contains prospective information, such as ambitions, organization; strategy, targets, expectations and projections. Inherent to this Evaluating the acceptability of the reporting policies and their information is that actual future results may be different from the consistent application, such as assessment of the outcomes prospective information and therefore may be uncertain. We do of the stakeholder dialogue and the reasonableness of not provide any assurance on the assumptions and feasibility of accounting estimates made by management; this prospective information. Evaluating the application level in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 (application level References in the Report (to www.dsm.com, external websites Comprehensive) of GRI; and other documents) are outside the scope of our assurance Evaluating the design and implementation of the systems and engagement. processes for data gathering and processing of information as presented in the Report; Management’s responsibility Interviewing management (or relevant staff) at corporate level The Managing Board of Royal DSM is responsible for the responsible for the sustainability strategy and policies; preparation of the Report in accordance with the Sustainability Interviews with relevant staff responsible for providing the Reporting Guidelines G4 (application level Comprehensive) of information in the Report, specific issues including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the reporting criteria sustainability strategy, employee engagement survey, ECO+ developed by Royal DSM, including the identification of the and safety, carrying out internal control procedures on the stakeholders and the determination of material issues. The data and the consolidation of the data in the Report; disclosures made by management with respect to the scope of Evaluating internal and external documentation, in addition to the Report and the reporting criteria are included in the section interviews, to determine whether the information in the Report ‘Reporting policy’ of the Report. Furthermore management is is reliable; responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary Review of the results of procedures performed by the to enable the preparation of the Report that is free from material Corporate Operational Audit department of Royal DSM as part misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. of the operational audits at Royal DSM sites with respect to sustainability information; Auditor’s responsibility Analytical review of the environmental data submitted by all Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Report based sites for consolidation, together with an assessment of the on our review. We conducted our review in accordance with quality of the data validation process at group level; Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3810N ‘Assurance Analytical review of the people data submitted by all Business Engagements relating to Sustainability Reports’. This requires Groups for consolidation, together with an assessment of the that we are independent of DSM, comply with ethical quality of the data validation process at group level; requirements and that we plan and perform the review to obtain Analytical review of other data and trend explanations limited assurance about whether the Report is free from material submitted for consolidation at group level. misstatement. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 204 www.dsm.com Other information Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements Assurance report of the independent auditor Profit appropriation Special statutory rights Important dates Conclusion Profit appropriation Based on our procedures performed, and with due consideration of the limitations described in the paragraph According to article 32 of the Articles of Association of Koninklijke ‘Limitations in our scope’, nothing has come to our attention that DSM N.V. and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, every causes us to conclude that the sustainability information in the year the Managing Board determines the portion of the net profit Report, in all material respects, does not provide a reliable and to be appropriated to the reserves. For the year 2014 it has been appropriate presentation of the policy of Royal DSM for determined that no amount of the net profit of € 145 million will sustainable development, or of the activities, events and be appropriated to the reserves. From the profit of € 145 million, performance of the organization relating to sustainable dividend is first distributed on the cumulative preference shares development during 2014, in accordance with the Sustainability B. At the end of 2014 no cumprefs B were in issue. Reporting Guidelines G4 (application level Comprehensive) of Subsequently, a 4.348% dividend is distributed on the the GRI and reporting criteria developed by Royal DSM as cumulative preference shares A, based on a share price of disclosed in the section ‘Reporting policy’ of the Report. € 5.29 per cumulative preference share A. For 2014 this distribution amounts to € 0.23 per share, which is € 10 million in Maastricht, 2 March 2015 total. An interim dividend of € 0.08 per cumulative preference share A having been paid in August 2014, the final dividend will then amount to € 0.15 per cumulative preference share A. Ernst & Young Accountants LLP The profit remaining after distribution of these dividends on the Signed by G.A.M. Aarnink cumulative preference shares A (€ 135 million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the provisions of Article 32, section 5 of the Articles of Association. The Managing Board proposes a dividend on ordinary shares outstanding for the year 2014 of € 1.65 per share to be paid from the profit remaining after distribution (€ 135 million) and from the distributable reserves in accordance with the provisions of Article 33, section 4 of the Articles of Association (€ 151 million). With a total dividend of € 1.65 per ordinary share and an interim dividend of € 0.55 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2014, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.10 per ordinary share. If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders makes a decision in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will be appropriated as follows: in € million 2014 2013R Net profit 145 271 Profit appropriation: To be paid from the reserves (151) (26) Dividend on cumprefs A 10 10 Interim dividend on ordinary shares 95 87 Final dividend distributable on ordinary shares 191 200 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 205 www.dsm.com Special statutory rights On 31 December 2014 the board of the Foundation was composed as follows: DSM Preference Shares Foundation The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in Gerard Kleisterlee, chairman 1989. Cees Maas, vice-chairman Mick den Boogert By virtue of DSM's Articles of Association, 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B can be issued. The listing Important dates prospectus of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is made for the ordinary shares or a significant participation in ordinary Annual General Meeting of Shareholders shares is built up, or such an event is likely to occur, then these The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held at the DSM preference shares B may be issued, which shall have the same head office in Heerlen (Netherlands) on Thursday, 30 April 2015 at voting rights as the ordinary shares. 14.00 hours. Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently Important dates amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation and Publication of first-quarter results Wednesday, 29 April 2015 DSM, the Foundation has the right to acquire such preference Ex-dividend quotation Tuesday, 5 May 2015 shares (call option) to a maximum corresponding to 100% of the Publication of second-quarter capital issued in any form other than preference shares B, less results Tuesday, 4 August 2015 one. Publication of third-quarter results Tuesday, 3 November 2015 Full year results 2015 Wednesday, 17 February 2016 The objective of the Foundation is to promote the interest of DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all parties connected therewith, whereby influences that would threaten the continuity, independence or identity, contrary to the aforementioned interests, are resisted to the maximum extent possible. The purpose of the agreement with the Foundation is, among other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the opportunity to determine its position, for example with regard to a possible bidder for DSM shares or a party or parties tempting to obtain (de facto) control, to examine any plans in detail and, to the extent applicable, to look for (better) alternatives. Preference shares B will not be outstanding longer than necessary. As soon as there are no longer any reasons for the preference shares B to remain outstanding, the Managing Board will convene a General Meeting of Shareholders and recommend the cancellation of the preference shares B that are still outstanding. The Foundation acquired no preference shares B in 2014. The DSM Preference Shares Foundation is an independent legal entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first paragraph, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision (Wet op het financieel toezicht). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 206 www.dsm.com Other information Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements Assurance report of the independent auditor Profit appropriation Special statutory rights Important dates Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 207 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Balance sheet x € million 20141 2013R1 2012 2011 2010 Assets Intangible assets 2,867 2,690 2,793 1,786 1,070 Property, plant and equipment 3,673 3,611 3,811 3,405 2,943 Deferred tax assets 427 364 340 292 326 Prepaid pension costs 1 Associates 762 295 40 35 25 Other financial assets 130 152 141 135 270 Non-current assets 7,859 7,112 7,125 5,653 4,635 Inventories 1,739 1,638 1,803 1,573 1,340 Receivables 1,769 1,597 1,799 1,704 1,477 Financial derivatives 47 126 62 50 134 Current investments 6 19 12 89 837 Cash and cash equivalents 669 770 1,121 2,058 1,453 4,230 4,150 4,797 5,474 5,241 Assets to be contributed to joint ventures 317 Other assets held for sale 37 637 44 30 287 Current assets 4,267 4,787 4,841 5,504 5,845 Total assets 12,126 11,899 11,966 11,157 10,480 Equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 5,723 5,908 5,874 5,784 5,481 Non-controlling interests 213 188 168 190 96 Equity 5,936 6,096 6,042 5,974 5,577 Deferred tax liabilities 365 375 236 192 155 Employee benefits liabilities 479 326 388 322 297 Provisions 105 97 125 116 93 Borrowings 1,637 1,725 1,922 2,029 1,992 Other non-current liabilities 81 75 94 69 33 Non-current liabilities 2,667 2,598 2,765 2,728 2,570 Employee benefits liabilities 45 34 42 6 24 Provisions 42 65 81 43 33 Borrowings 1,143 841 642 160 105 Financial derivatives 362 190 299 326 219 Current liabilities 1,915 1,845 2,081 1,905 1,789 3,507 2,975 3,145 2,440 2,170 Liabilities to be contributed to joint ventures 104 Other liabilities held for sale 16 230 14 15 59 Current liabilities 3,523 3,205 3,159 2,455 2,333 Total equity and liabilities 12,126 11,899 11,966 11,157 10,480 1 Application of IFRS 11 'Joined Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014. 2013 has been restated. The years 2010 till 2012 have not been restated. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 208 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Income statement x € million 2014 2013R 2012 2011 2010 Net sales 9,283 9,429 9,131 9,193 9,050 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,166 1,312 1,109 1,325 1,278 Operating profit (EBIT) 617 773 635 895 838 Net finance costs (118) (137) (109) (82) (93) Income tax expense (89) (111) (91) (155) (185) Share of the profit of associates 7 (19) 2 3 5 Net profit before exceptional items 417 506 437 661 565 Net profit from exceptional items (318) (237) (149) 199 (40) Profit for the year 99 269 288 860 525 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 46 2 (10) (46) (18) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 145 271 278 814 507 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 135 261 268 804 497 Key figures and ratios Capital employed1 8,105 8,060 8,084 6,581 5,468 Capital expenditure: Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 616 694 715 528 427 Acquisitions 424 1,265 974 49 Disposals 93 78 46 742 377 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 549 539 474 430 440 Net debt (2,420) (1,841) (1,668) (318) 108 Dividend 296 297 263 247 234 Workforce at 31 December, headcount 21,351 23,485 23,498 22,224 21,911 Employee benefits costs (x € million) 1,713 1,822 1,761 1,655 1,566 Ratios1 ROCE in % 7.8 9.6 8.9 14.3 15.0 Net sales / average capital employed 1.17 1.18 1.29 1.53 1.62 Current assets / current liabilities 1.21 1.49 1.53 2.24 2.42 Equity / total assets 0.49 0.51 0.50 0.54 0.53 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 0.29 0.23 0.22 0.05 (0.02) EBIT / net sales in % 6.6 8.2 7.0 9.7 9.3 Net profit / average Shareholders' equity available to holders of ordinary shares in % 2.4 4.5 4.8 14.9 10.0 EBITDA / net finance costs 9.9 9.6 10.2 16.2 13.7 1 Before reclassification to held for sale Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 209 www.dsm.com Information about ordinary DSM shares per ordinary share in € 2014 2013R 2012 2011 2010 Core earnings 2.85 3.19 2.72 3.66 2.97 Net profit before exceptional items 2.42 2.84 2.52 3.66 3.27 Net profit 0.78 1.52 1.62 4.86 3.03 Cash flow 5.52 5.77 4.82 7.89 5.62 Dividend: 1.651 1.65 1.50 1.45 1.35 Interim dividend 0.55 0.50 0.48 0.45 0.40 Final dividend 1.10 1.15 1.02 1.00 0.95 Pay-out including dividend on cumulative preference shares as % of net profit before exceptional items 71 59 60 37 41 Dividend yield (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary DSM share) 3.3 3.2 3.7 3.6 3.8 Share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (closing price): Highest price 57.97 59.75 46.29 46.82 42.85 Lowest price 44.44 43.93 36.33 30.54 30.43 At 31 December 50.64 57.16 45.79 35.85 42.61 (x 1000) Number of ordinary shares outstanding: At 31 December 173,537 173,963 168,684 163,257 166,468 Average 172,605 172,183 165,543 165,567 164,047 Daily trading volumes on Euronext Amsterdam: Average 801 728 823 1,028 995 Lowest 104 95 225 191 85 Highest 7,981 3,049 2,720 3,512 3,629 1 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 210 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 211 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios PEOPLE United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights Eubiotics On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United Eubiotics is the science of hygienic and healthy living. The term Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of is used in the feed industry where it refers to a healthy balance Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembly called of the micro-flora in the gastrointestinal tract. upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the Declaration and 'to cause it to be disseminated, displayed, read and FI expounded principally in schools and other educational Frequency Index: a way to measure safety performance. The institutions, without distinction based on the political status of number of accidents of a particular category per 100 employees countries or territories'. per year. Zero SHE assessment LWC-rate DSM own A zero SHE assessment is a step in the integration process of The LWC-rate DSM own is the number of lost workday cases newly acquired units or new joint ventures. A team led by a per 100 DSM employees in the past 12 months: corporate SHE manager visits the unit and identifies and LWC-rate = 100 * (number of LWCs (past 12 months) / average assesses the main SHE risks and compliance gaps with the DSM effective manpower (past 12 months)). corporate requirements, standards and practices. The team provides recommendations to minimize and control these risks Occupational Health Incident and also identifies good practices that can be of use in other This refers to any abnormal condition or disorder requiring DSM units. During the zero SHE assessment the team elucidates medical treatment – other than one resulting directly from an the DSM SHE requirements and supports the unit in formulating accident – caused by, or mainly caused by, repeated exposure and prioritizing the actions in the SHE integration and to work-related factors compliance plan. People+ PLANET DSM’s People+ strategy will deliver measurably better solutions Biofuel to improve the lives of people. The company has defined a new A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources, as People+ framework based on broad stakeholder analyses. The distinct from one which is derived from non-renewable resources dimensions of health, comfort and well-being, working such as oil and natural gas. conditions and community development have been identified as distinct and instrumental categories to measure People+ impact Carbon footprint at product level. Based upon the stakeholder input DSM has The impact of a certain activity in terms of the emission of nondesigned a measurement tool, which will be further developed renewable CO2 to the atmosphere. in collaboration with The Sustainability Consortium, customers and other stakeholders. Circular economy Circular economy refers to an economy that is restorative and in REC-rate DSM all which materials flows are of two types: biological nutrients, The REC-rate DSM all is the number of recordable injuries per designed to reenter the biosphere safely, and technical nutrients, 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12 which are designed to circulate at high quality without entering months: the biosphere throughout their entire lifecycle. REC-rate = 100 * (number of RECs (past 12 months) / average effective manpower including contractor employees (past 12 CO2 months)). Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the atmosphere. It is part of the natural carbon cycle through photosynthesis and SHE respiration. It is also generated as a by-product of combustion. Safety, Health and Environment. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. United Nations Global Compact Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to COD is an indicator of the degree of pollution of wastewater by aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally organic substances. accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 212 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios ECO+ ‘Cradle to Grave’. It is also possible to assess a partial life cycle ECO+ solutions are products and services that, when of a product or process with the most common type being considered over their whole life cycle, offer clear ecological ‘Cradle to Gate’ which assesses the environmental impacts of a benefits (in other words, a clearly lower eco-footprint) compared manufacturing process without accounting for use phase or end to the mainstream solutions they compete with. These ecological of life impacts. There are many different environmental impact benefits can be created at any stage of the product life cycle from categories that can be assessed using LCA; at DSM the raw material through manufacturing and use to potential re-use standard approach is to evaluate the carbon footprint and end-of-life disposal. ECO+ solutions, in short, create more and eco-footprint. value with less environmental impact. The qualification ECO+ is based upon internal expert opinions where various impact N categories are evaluated. For a growing number of products Nitrogen. A mostly inert gas constituting 78% of the earth’s these expert opinions are supported by Life Cycle Assessments. atmosphere, nitrogen is present in all living organisms. Eco-efficiency N2O Eco-efficiency is a concept (created in 1992 by WBCSD) that Nitrous oxide. A gas that is formed during combustion. When refers to the creation of more goods and services while using emitted to the environment, it contributes to global warming. less resources and creating less waste and pollution throughout their entire life cycle. DSM applies the concept to its ECO+ NOx program. In the context of DSM’s SHE targets, eco-efficiency Nitrogen oxides. These gases are released mainly during relates specifically to the reduction of emissions and energy and combustion and cause acidification. water consumption, relative to the production volumes of DSM’s plants. Renewable resources A natural resource which is replenished by natural processes at Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction over volumea rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate of consumption by related revenue (VRR) humans or other users. The term covers perpetual resources The GHGE definition is according to the Kyoto Protocol and such as solar radiation, tides, winds and hydroelectricity as well includes carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, nitrous oxide (N2O), as fuels derived from organic matter (bio-based fuels). sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons. VRR is net sales adjusted for changes in selling prices, exchange SO2 rates and the impact of acquisitions and divestments. GHGE/ Sulfur dioxide. This gas is formed during the combustion of fossil VRR is one of the ratios in the Long-Term Incentive part of the fuels and causes acidification. Managing Board remuneration and relates to a three-year period. VOC Volatile organic compounds. The term covers a wide range of GRI chemical compounds, such as organic solvents, some of which The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed Sustainability can be harmful. Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase the transparency and accountability of economic, environmental, and social PROFIT performance. The GRI was established in 1997 in partnership General with the United Nations’ Environment Programme. It is an In calculating financial profitability ratios, use is made of the international, multi-stakeholder and independent institution average of the opening and closing values of balance sheet items whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable in the year under review. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These Guidelines are for voluntary use by organizations for reporting on the economic, The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated on the environmental, and social dimensions of their activities, basis of the average number of ordinary shares outstanding products, and services. (average daily number). In calculating Shareholders’ equity per ordinary share, however, the number of shares outstanding at LCA year-end is used. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) identifies the material, energy and waste flows associated with a product or process over its entire In calculating the figures per ordinary share and the ‘net profit as life cycle to determine environmental impacts and potential a percentage of average Shareholders’ equity available to improvements; this full life cycle approach is also referred to as holders of ordinary shares’, the amounts available to the holders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 213 www.dsm.com of cumulative preference shares are deducted from the profits and from Shareholders’ equity. Capital employed The total of the carrying amount of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables and other receivables, less trade payables and other current liabilities. Capital expenditure This includes all investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates and related cash flows. Core earnings Core earnings represent profit or loss from continuing operations excluding exceptional items and excluding amortization of intangible assets recognized from the application of purchase accounting for business combinations. Disposals This includes the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating interests and other securities. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) EBITDA is the sum total of operating profit plus depreciation and amortization. Earnings per ordinary share Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. minus dividend on cumulative preference shares, divided by the average number of ordinary shares outstanding. Operating working capital The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade payables. Return on capital employed (ROCE) Operating profit as a percentage of weighted average capital employed. Total shareholder return (TSR) Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 214 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 215 www.dsm.com List of abbreviations ADR American Depositary Receipts HNH Human Nutrition & Health AFM Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets IAS International Accounting Standards ANH Animal Nutrition & Health IASB International Accounting Standards Board API Active pharmaceutical ingredients IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee BIO Biotechnology Industry Organization IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards BMI Body Mass Index ILO International Labor Organization High growth economies including Brazil, Russia, India and IP Intellectual Property BRIC China IUCN International Union for the Conservation of Nature CEFIC Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie Chimique KPI Key Performance Indicator (European Chemical Industry Council) LCA Life Cycle Assessment cGMP Current Good Manufacturing Practice LMRA Last Minute Risk Assessment CMO Contract manufacturing organization LTI Long-Term Incentive CMP Corporate Multi-year Plan Responsible Care LWC Lost Workday Case COA Corporate Operational Auditing department NGO Non-Governmental Organization COD Chemical Oxygen Demand NIP DSM's Nutrition Improvement Program CRA Corporate Risk Assessment NPS Net Promoter Score CSR Corporate Social Responsibility NYSE New York Stock Exchange DEP DSM Engineering Plastics OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development DFI DSM Fibre Intermediates PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland DFS DSM Food Specialties PJ Petajoule DNCC DSM Nanjing Chemical Co., Ltd. PPA Purchase Price Allocation DNP DSM Nutritional Products PSI Process Safety Incident DPP DSM Pharmaceutical Products R&D Research & Development DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of EBA Emerging Business Area Chemical substances EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes (Operating Profit) ROCE Return on Capital Employed EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization SAM Sustainable Asset Management FIFO First in, first out SAR Share Appreciation Rights FTE Full-time equivalent SHE Safety, Health and Environment GAIN Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition SSP Supplier Sustainability Program GDP Gross Domestic Product STI Short-Term Incentive GFCF Gross Free Cash Flow TDC Total Direct Compensation GHG Greenhouse gas TSR Total Shareholder Return GHGE Greenhouse-gas emissions UHMwPE Ultra high molecular weight polyethylene GHS Globally Harmonized System VNCI Association of the Dutch Chemical Industry GMM Genetically Modified (Micro-)organisms VOC Volatile Organic Compound GMP Good Manufacturing Practice VRR Volume-Related Revenue GPS Global Product Strategy WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development GRI Global Reporting Initiative WEF World Economic Forum WFP United Nations World Food Programme Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 216 www.dsm.com List of abbreviations Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2014 217 www.dsm.com Questions about or feedback on this report can be addressed to: Royal DSM P.O. Box 6500 6401 JH Heerlen The Netherlands T +31 (0)45 578 8111 E media.contacts@dsm.com www.dsm.com
