Contents I. HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2013 2 VII. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 28 A. CLIMATE CHANGE & ENVIRONMENT II. MESSAGES FROM CHAIRMAN and GENERAL MANAGER 4 I. ALTERNATIVE FUEL AND RAW MATERIAL A. CHAIRMAN II. ENERGY EFFICIENCY B. GENERAL MANAGER III. EMISSIONS B. WASTES FROM OUR PLANTS III. COMPANY PROFILE 6 C. BIODIVERSITY A. ABOUT ÇİMSA B. OUR MISSION VIII. CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY 42 C.OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES A. INVESTMENTS ON EMPLOYEES B. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY IV. OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES 10 C. SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE B. BUSINESS ETHICS IX. PRODUCT SAFETY AND RESPONSIBILITY 62 V. OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 11 X. SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 66 A. CEMENT SECTOR AND SUSTAINABILITY B. ÇİMSA AND SUSTAINABILITY XI. DIALOGUE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS 72 C. MATERIALITY MATRIX FOR SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES D. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT XII. REPORTING APPROACH 82 VI. OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 18 XIII. 2020 SUSTAINABILITY AMBITIONS 86 A. MANAGEMENT APPROACH B. RISK MANAGEMENT XIV. PERFORMANCE TABLES 92 C. SUSTAINABILITY INVESTMENTS D. THE ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED AND DISTRIBUTED XV. COORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS 99 XVI. GRI CONTENT TABLES 100 XVII. CONTACTS 102 We constantly prioritize sustainability-oriented issues aiming for a more viable world along with environment, responsibilities and occupational health and safety. The most significant subjects in our road map are consisting of utilization of the natural resources efficiently in our business processes, recycling the wastes as energy and raw materials and investing in the renewable energy resources. I. Highlights from 2013 I. Highlights from 2013 Achievements and Sustainability Highlights Performance The first The first Highlights Turkish Turkish The first A+ The first company in Company GRI report in “Stakeholders the sector participating the sector Meeting” in signing Çimsa, one of the leading manufacturers of cement Çimsa, as one of the leading industrial companies in Cement the sector UN Global and building materials in Turkey, has become the of Turkey, which realizes all of its business and Sustainability Compact Initiative CSI first Turkish Company participating in Cement operations with the goal of a sustainable future has Sustainability Initiative (CSI) which acts under taken an important step in terms of sustainable the auspices of the World Business Council for development by becoming a member to Cement Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Sustainability Initiative (CSI) which carries out comprehensive studies about sustainable development in the sector. Being a part of CSI which Kayseri Plant has been Cement Industry Employers Capital Magazine operates within the awareness that understanding awarded with Cement Sector Trade Union 2013 Cement ‘Favourites’ and managing the sustainability matters correctly Work Health and Safety Sector Occupational Health are prerequisites for the prosperity and growth of Performance Award 2012 and Safety Performance Award, the sector, directly corresponds to the sustainability by 3 RM x plants of Çimsa in objectives of Çimsa. Blues Helmet Occupational Health Safety Competition The ‘Cement Sector Occupational Health Çimsa has participated with its 4 readyÇimsa, has been selected as the 2nd and Safety Awards’ have been granted mixed concrete plant in 2013 Blue most favourite company in the sector in to cement plants among the top three Helmet Occupational Health Safety Capital Magazine ‘Favourites’ survey. ones in the ranking demonstrating an Competition in where the outstanding outstanding performance regarding the plants in terms of occupational health occupational health and safety since and safety are awarded, Çimsa Tece 49 Millions Kws 2007 upon the evaluations of ÇEİS Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant scored 29,2 Hours/Person %25 13.5 Million Dollars Amount of Electricity İSG Board and the approvals of the 100 full points out of 100 and ranked as Total value of Produced by the Mersin Duration of training Alternative fuel Union Board of Directors. Kayseri Plant the 1st, Aksaray Ready-Mixed Concrete was granted with the award upon the Plant scored 99 points and ranked Sustainability Waste Heat Recovery Plant provided to our ratio of Eskişehir evaluation conducted for the year of as the 2nd and Pamukova and Misis Investments 26 K tons CO2 Saving employees in 2013 Plant 2012. Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant scored 98 points and ranked as the 3rd. -2-3II. Messages In an environment, where the natural resources are Çimsa, aiming for a ‘more viable world’ right along with the restricted more day by day, a sustainable economy maintaining the profitability, is aware that sustainabilitydevelopment cannot be attained without protecting oriented subjects, environment, occupational health and the environmental resources. Çimsa gives a specific safety should always be prioritized. This conception importance to decrease the costs and to increase enables us to have a pioneering position in the sector and efficiency through this understanding. Çimsa serves as a model for the industrial enterprises in Turkey through its endeavours. Accordingly the primary subjects of our road map Another significant development for us in 2013 is that are consisting of employees’ health and safety of the our endeavours have been moved on international employees, efficient use of the natural resources in our platforms. Çimsa has achieved the accomplishment of work processes, recycling the wastes as energy and raw being the first Turkish corporation to be accepted as materials and investing in renewable energy sources. In the member of Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) line with these objectives, I believe that we will obtain which is a special initiative acting under World Business successful results every year. Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and also representing approximately one-third of the world As an international player, while Çimsa tries to be cement manufacturing. Also in last year Çimsa has compliant with the global actors in this context by signed United Nations Global Compact and became a Dear Stakeholders, closely following up such studies, once more creates a Dear Stakeholders, part of the mutual culture in the business world. difference in our country and in our sector by means of Global climate change and related developments as one its sustainability based studies. Çimsa, which has been active in the cement and building We are proud to present to our esteemed stakeholders of the most significant problems constituting risk against materials sector for more than 40 years, realizes a this report prepared in accordance with the G4 basic the World is gradually taking its required position in the I would like to thank to all our colleagues; business profitable growth and aims to be an international cement standards with compilation of developments and global agenda. In line with the conscious and awareness partners, suppliers, vendors, neighbors and all our and construction materials company pioneering the investments focused on the sustainability. Çimsa is on this issue, development programs for protecting the stakeholders who always accompany us in this sector for a viable future. We scrupulously lay emphasis aiming to accelerate its sustainability-driven endeavours environment in all over the world are recently being process, sincerely adopt the operations we conduct on on an extremely critical point while endeavouring every year. Thus, our entire determined objectives prepared. The principles of the social development are sustainability and help us to reach our objectives. to achieve our objectives: The impact of the climate contain approaches based on sustainability and are re-determined. Calls for taking action are conveyed in changes on our world, sector and our company… devoted to make Çimsa a sustainable corporation. order to realize environmental friendly programs and the Sincerely, I hereby have the opportunity to present my gratitude required financing sources are investigated. We, as Çimsa, are aware that our risks are not only on behalf of the entire Çimsa Family to my predecessor, Hakan Gürdal based on investments and operations. The sustainabilityMehmet Hacıkamiloğlu as former General Manager Having the awareness of these changing conditions, Chairman based subjects have currently become more significant. of Çimsa and to Mehmet Göçmen who is appointed Çimsa as the pioneer of the cement and construction Therefore, we give a particular emphasis on occupational as the Sabancı Holding Energy Group President after materials sector, acted with a sustainability approach health and safety, water, energy costs, emissions and resigning from his duties of Sabancı Holding Cement in all its activities up to now. We have associated the compliance of our supply chain with such matters Group Presidentship and Çimsa Board of Directors the sustainability objectives with organizational within the scope of the risk management. Chairmanship in September 2014, who had both responsibility and conducted studies for inclusion precious contributions to the overall success of Çimsa of the related performance indicators into follow-up The sustainability subjects have become crucial and and the leadership of Çimsa in its sustainability journey. systems and for integration of sustainability with all the obtained a special spot in our investment program. In functions at every stage of the company. Therefore, this 2013, investments worth of 13,5 million USD have been I would like to thank you all for supporting us towards understanding places “human being” in the focus of the realized in our company regarding the sustainability and the creation of a better future. sustainability approach of Çimsa. We realize the action environmental subjects and this figure corresponds to plans for sustainability by considering our customers, 36% of our total investments. This ratio is a significant Sincerely, suppliers, shareholders, local people and briefly all our indicator showing the attention towards sustainable stakeholders and by including them into the subject. development and environment paid by Çimsa. Nevra Özhatay General Manager -4-5G4 17 G4 17 III. Company Profile a. About Çimsa Germany Total clinker capacitiy 5.5 million ton Romania Russia Turkey Cement Plants and Spain Grinding Stations Mersin, Kayseri, T.R.N.C. Italy Niğde, Ankara, Eskişehir, Afyon 26 Ready Mixed Concrete Plants 2013 MillionTL (%) Number of Employees Shareholder Structure of Çimsa 960 Economic Value Generated (Net Sales) Economic Value Distributed to the Stakeholders Operational Costs* 875,4 MillionTL 571,5 ( %) 65,5 Adana Çimento Akçansa %5,11 Hacı Ömer Sabancı Foundation %8,98 %0,11 Benefits Paid to Government 101,9 11,7 Number of Benefits Paid to Investors and Stakeholders 98,1 11,2 Other Partners countries exporting to %36,38 Benefits Paid to Lender&Creditors 25,1 2,9 60+ Benefits Paid to Employees Benefits to Society 65,4 10,3 7,5 1,2 TOTAL 872,2 100 Number of International Economic Value Retained (-) 28,2 Terminals 7 *Operational Costs: Cost of the Sold Good *(excluding the Amortization and Personnel Costs) %49,42 Sabancı Holding -6-7III. Company Profile III. Company Profile b. Our Mission c. Our Products and Services Çimsa, provides special products and services for the needs of its customers through its innovative approach and technological infra-structure based on its experience for more than 40 years. Who are we? Çimsa is an international cement and building materials company continuously growing by creating a difference in Cement Çimsa, as a company, which gives importance to customer satisfaction, continuous improvement the industry with an experience of more than 40 years, broad product range, innovative employees and a human and Grey cement and quality, produces all cement types within the environment conscious approach. We meet the product and service needs of our customers in full and in a timely C8/10-C100/115 range determined by EN standards manner with our market oriented approach and wide distribution network. As a reliable business partner of our Çimsa, manufactures grey portland cements As developed specially besides standard concrete types, stakeholders, we provide the required materials for the living areas and infrastructures reaching to next generations. complying with TS EN 197-1 standard, bearing the resistance level 32.5 & 42.5, having early and • Viskobeton (Self-Compacting Concrete) which What happens in our surrounding and our values normal resistance with or without additives. All the consolidates itself without dispersion despite its Continuous changes in competition conditions and customer expectations create new opportunities. We evaluate these manufactured cement is in possession of the CE viscosity and without requiring compacting via certificate; and are sold as casting, big bag, sling bag vibrator, passes through tight equipment and enables for building living areas and required infrastructure needed by the next generations and we assume responsibility for and packed. We provide services with all our plants a voidless and smooth surface, the future as we do today. We are aiming to advance our leading position in the industry further by creating a difference with our flexible business model and our employees having common values. and stations such as Portland Cement, Portland • Drabeton (Steel-fibre Reinforced Concrete) Composite Cement, Pozzolanic Cement, Sulphate which is a concrete demonstrating a high resistance Our common values are; desire to succeed, teamwork and cooperation, customer orientation and contributing to the Resistant Portland Cement, Çimsa Super Bims against tractive and tensile forces without requiring development of the society and to the environment. Cement, Blast Furnace Slag Cement. any additional reinforcements due to the steel fibres it contains, White Cement and Specialty Products Road Map Çimsa provides special solutions to the special Our target for the next 3 years is to grow profitably and to become an international cement and building materials Manufacturing processes • Dekobeton (Decorative Concrete) obtained by products of the customers as included in the spemeans of aging and wearing off the concrete in order company leading the industry for a livable future. In order to have a sustainable growth, we are aiming to create and standards related with products, details of cial products portfolio developed in accordance with to obtain the type of surface appearance requested value for all of our stakeholders as a company producing solutions swiftly with the products and services we cements, ready mixed the requirements of the customers such as Ekobeyaz by the customer directly from the concrete, develop together with our business partners for the differentiating needs of our customers and employees under concrete, product types which has the highest whiteness level in Turkey as ever changing conditions of the world. and other information • İzosap (Light weight Ready Screed) which is a the Super White Cement of Çimsa which is manurelated with the sector are factured in accordance with EN 197-1 standard by product whose drifted air amount is high but intensity accessible through Using the resources efficiently, recycling the wastes as energy and raw material and investing to renewable energy is low by means of the special chemical additives it www.cimsa.com.tr. Çimsa for the first time in Turkey, providing aesthetresources is an important item in our road map and highlights our responsibility for a sustainable future. contains, ics and high together with minimum 85% whiteness, together with ISIDAÇ 40 which is the calcium alumi• The products and the services of the customers We sincerely believe in all these and we promise to endeavor for realizing them. nate cement manufactured in accordance with TS EN are satisfied in full and on time with Uyubet 14647 standard only by Çimsa in Turkey. (Sleeping Cement), a special product manufactured especially for the critical construction elements, for the long distance cements, hot weather conditions, the significant constructions in where the hydration control of the cement is requested (mass concrete), for the slow pouring of the concrete as a requirement for the construction, for the manufacturing in which the surface finishing takes a long time and which Ready Mixed Concrete does not compromise on the quality and the cement Çimsa continues to provide special and innovative standards. products, which fulfil various requirements of the customers by closely following technologic and Çimsa manufactures special products such as scientific developments in ready mixed concrete viskobeton, dekobeton and drabeton with standard sector. ready mixed concrete up to C8-C50 in accordance with TSE EN 206-1 standards and continues its activities in 26 plants in total. -8-9IV. Our Business Principles V. Our Sustainability Strategy a. Cement Sector And Sustainability a. Corporate Governance The Audit Committee Our understanding of Corporate Governance with Çimsa displays maximum sensitivity on the compliance Cement sector contains three different business lines such as mining, sustainability in Çimsa is to be transparent and with laws and regulations, thus preventing any sort raw material production for building materials and ready mixed accountable in our decision-making processes. As a of corruption or noncompetition behavior; Çimsa concrete products due to the nature of its business processes. publicly held company, we act in compliance with the manages and monitors all related issues at the top Corporate Governance Principles of the Capital Market management level. Çimsa’s audit system covers all the The sector, which uses intensive work force, natural studies towards the social and environmental Board. departments (including international terminals) except raw materials and materials, and the sector in impacts emerging or to be emerged from the current the production units in the cement plants. In addition, where energy input constitutes one third of the and future activities. Our success in these efforts has demonstrated itself audits on administrative and commercial matters on manufacturing costs, also contains important risks with a significant effect in the survey conducted to ready-mixed concrete operations are done regularly. in terms of sustainability because of the importance Human factor takes part at the highest priority of our customers. Our customers have defined the most These functions are audited once every two years by given to organizational management, ethics, Çimsa’s sustainability activities. Considering the significant factors for cooperation with Çimsa as its the Audit Department reporting to Audit Committee transparency and its effect on stakeholders and fact that humans should be on the foundation of organizational structure and business ethics approach. appointed by Çimsa Board of Directors as stipulated in the society. Despite such risks, the sector provides corporate success and with the awareness of the the company’s Internal Audit Regulations as a whole. solutions to infrastructures which will accommodate performance of the entire activities by the humans Our Compliance Report with Corporate Governance The Internal Audit department executes several tasks the world population, which accomodate increasing and for the humans, the employees have priority in the Principles is available on Page 43 of the Annual Report and responsibilities under direct authorization by the world population and contributes significantly to corporate sustainability studies and activities. While 2013 and/or on http://www.cimsa.com.tr/tr/kurumsalBoard of Directors. local economy. Therefore the sector takes actions in considering that the stakeholders constitute the most yonetim/i-135. order to adopt nature and society friendly business significant subjects in the business processes and Main responsibilities are protecting Çimsa’s corporate models. Sustainability implementations in cement value chain of Çimsa, dialogue with the stakeholders b. Business Ethics rights, risk management, internal audits and to sector bring important opportunities together for through the most efficient mechanisms is embraced improving the efficiency of the company’s corporate development of the sector. by Çimsa as its corporate communication strategy. Çimsa is a company that shapes its business practices management: through its business ethics and is bound to these principles with all its employees. Through the sustainability approach, a balance is • By controlling implementation of the company b. Çimsa And Sustainability sought between economical, environmental and regulations, procedures, circulars and unit specific social impact. This understanding is reflected on the Regulations related to business ethics have been instructions and making proposals on matters that need The main objective of Çimsa is to take firm prepared under Sabanci Ethic (Sa-Etik) rules and organizational structure, business processes, and to be improved, steps forward towards a sustainable future. To constitute the base for our business principles. Business products and services of the company. • Monitoring execution of activities and transactions of relate sustainability ambitions with corporate ethic rules Çimsa employees must comply; take place in all the units according to legal legislations, regulations, responsibilities and to include related performance part III of Human Resources Directive; under the honesty, Besides the direct value added for the national procedures, circulars and instructions, indicators to tracking systems are integral parts of the confidentiality, conflicts of interest and responsibility economy, indirect contribution is made in the foreign• Keeping the Audit Committee continuously informed sustainability management systems. As an important main topics and are announced to all the employees dependent Turkish economy in terms of energy of auditing activities and sufficiency of internal control player of the sector, Çimsa integrates sustainability through the intranet. All the white collar workers go resources realized through activities such as energy systems; implementing all requests and proposals, management to all functions of the company. through an informative training within the first month efficiency policy and energy generation from wastes. providing consultancy and support services by they are employed on the rules of corporate ethics. All conducting advisory studies for the Board of Directors Taking the value chain of the company into the white collar workers take the SA-Etik training every and to the senior management for objectives that will consideration, the company has been attentive to year and also read the SA-Etik commitment document created added value such as increasing of stock values, perform continuous improvement activities and and sign it. This process is managed by the Corporate improvement of corporate processes and activities, Development and Human Resources function. Sabancı increasing of service quality and customer satisfaction. Holding Ethic rules can be reached through the www.sabanci.com.tr 10 11 G4 18 G4 18 G4 19 V. Our Sustainability Strategy V. Our Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Subjects In Our Value Chain Raw Material Production Sales Customers Occupational Health Occupational Health Occupational Health Innovation and Safety and Safety and Safety Dialogue with Dust Emissions Dust Emissions Dust Emissions Customers and Endusers Biodiversity / Mining Green House and Other Dialogue with the Local Quarries Gas Emissions Community Supply Chain Management Noise, Quakes and Alternative Fuel and Supply Chain Vibration Raw Material Usage Management Dialogue with the Local Energy Efficiency Community Usage of Natural Supply Chain Resources c. Materiality Matrix For Sustainability Issues Management Usage of Water/Waste A part of the subjects on which we focused in the In the previous years, objectives such as integration Water previous years has now been integrated with our of the employees for the sustainability approach operation. Based on the Sabancı Holding culture, the included in the plans and enlargement of the dialogue Dialogue with the Local Community coorporate management and ethic principles, which environment with the stakeholders has become the constitute the foundation of our business principles, most important issue among our agenda in 2013. are not new for us at the moment. However in order Stakeholder relations will increasingly continue in to remind once more that these phenomenon should 2014 as a factor for integration of our sustainability c. Materiality Matrix For Sustainability Issues constitute the foundation of our studies related approach to achieve our ambitions. with sustainability, we have included them into Çimsa studies its sustainability issues under the For the reporting studies of 2013, we have received our agenda. The report that you are reading at the In 2013, our sustainability issues focus on 4 main responsibility of the Sustainability Committee the preliminary information from our consultant moment is prepared in the light of ethical business, subjects. meetings regularly during the year. In the about the framework of G4 as the new reporting transparency, accountability principles and benefits Sustainability Committee, the studies were reviewed standard framework of GRI. We have defined our 2013 of the stakeholders. Our operations that we have Climate Change and Environment in two stages in 2013. sustainability issues with the continuity principle and conducted until now and we will conduct in the future •Reduction of emissions (C02 release, based on our 2020 targets. We have also considered is based on these principles. reduction of dust and gas emissions) 1) The management group including of Vice General market developments and expectations, our studies •Increase of usage of alternative fuel and Managers and Managers with trade associations, our supply chain, developments Çimsa carries and will carry the awareness and raw material 2) Operational Members on technology, legal regulations, as well as compliance responsibility of the requirement of creating a value •Energy efficiency expectations from WBCSD CSI and UNGC. Occupational Health and Safety to the stakeholders as well as to the employees and As of 2013, sustainability function has been created Dialogue with our stakeholders to the economy as a publicly held corporation. Our and a Vice General Manager has been appointed as • Economic value created for stakeholders We have reviewed our sustainability context during notes for creating awareness for sustainability among being responsible from Sustainability Management. Business Ethics and Corporate Governance our sustainability committe meetings and discussed our shareholders and the public opinion are included Thus, the Committee leadership besides General if our identification, prioritization and validation in our Annual Report. (Annual Report 2013 Page 36) Manager began to be managed directly by the has been completed properly. Understanding the Although with the fact that profitability is important responsible Vice General Manager. Çimsa has importance of the sustainability context for our for us, the requirements of a sustainable profitability become the first company, which officially carries the stakeholder was key. To receive final approval from have become more important. This requirement is sustainability management to the responsibilities of top management we have presented it to our general based on the sharing of the created economy with the top management level in the sector. manager. the stakeholders. 12 13 G4 18 G4 23 G4 20 G4 19 G4 21 V. Our Sustainability Strategy V. Our Sustainability Strategy Materiality Matrix 2013 Çimsa Sustainability Issues and Borders High Emissions G4 Category Sustainability GRI G4 Internal External Relation with External Stakeholders Stakeholder Issue for Sustainability Climate Change Relations Çimsa Issue & Environment Management Importance for Stakeholders Occupational Alternative Fuel & Restricting the release of C02 and other gases into the Health & Raw Material atmosphere will decrease environmental pollution and also Safety Supply Chain will contribute to the climate change studies and emission is Management related with many stakeholders of Çimsa. The value attached Energy Efficiency Reduction of C02, to the sustainability of the environment, human life and the Business Ethics Environment Emissions X X & Dust and Gas planet and keeping the dust and gas emissions under the limit Water Corporate Emissions values of the legislation helps us to be a respectfull company Management Biodiversity Governance which values sustainability and to meet the expectations of the investors. High Low Importance for Çimsa Energy efficiency is one of the methods for tackling with climate change. As Turkey depends on the other countries in energy resources, if we use the energy efficiently we The subjects included in the materiality matrix show Community, Suppliers, Public Institutions, Local Energy Energy X X can represent the positive change also in terms of country Environment Efficiency economy as a sector. As a representative of the sector where the areas where our company has the highest level People, NGOs (Non-Governmental Organizations), primary energy resources are used intensively, we aim to of economic, environmental and social impacts. They Professional Organizations, Financial Institutions, make positive contribution to the climate change efforts. are priority subjects for our stakeholders and our stakeholders, academic organizations, industry company. The related subjects are also important institutions etc. and improves the subject to be Usage of alternative fuels and raw materials contributes to decrease the activities resulting from mining and from primary for CSI, UN Global Compact and some finance focused on via evaluation of the top management. fossil fuel consumption. As a result of usage of the hazardous organizations. Çimsa realized the first stakeholder meeting of and non hazardous waste as an alternative fuels will prevent environmental pollution and also will be a solution of industrial the sector in 2013 and reflected the outcomes Increasing use of waste problem. Furthermore operations for being a solution Alternative Fuels X X Our report shares our primary sustainability subjects of the meeting on the “materiality matrix of the Environment Raw material partner for combusting the domestic RDF and domestic and Raw Material treatment sludge to be produced from the solid wastes and limits thereof, positive and negative impacts of sustainability issues” obtained from Metropolis Municipalities in the cement rotary our activities and the amelioration studies conducted kilns are in process. All these operations will create a positive impact on the environment and human health and will create for decreasing the negative impacts using clear d. Sustainability Management positive results for the planet and the society. and transparent information. Since Çimsa is an organization reporting in A+ level in 2012, our report Workforce Çimsa Sustainability Committee was founded in Occupational Occupational prepared for 2013 contains more criteria than the Practices and X Health and Safety Health and Safety 2011 under the leadership of the General Manager. Proper Work primary sustainability issues, which are required G4 GRI. The Committee is comprised of production, finance, Continuous, mutual and good relations with all our internal Stakeholder human resources, sustainability, strategy and Society Local Groups X X and external stakeholders are important for continuity of our Based on the developments in global sustainability Relations operations in an healthy manner. communication functions. studies, Çimsa has initiated the preliminary Continuity of our operations in every meaning is a subject of Anti-corruption, preparations and operations for sustainability sustainability in terms of Sabancı Holding business ethics and The aim of the Committee is to associate Business Ethics public policy, corporate governance rules. It is our fundamental principle implementations in supply chain recently. Different Society and Corporate anti-competition X X the sustainability issues with the feedbacks Management action, for implementation of the sustainability and is related with from the previous years, in this report we provide our harmonization many of our stakeholders because of its effect on the business received from the stakeholders in order to create relations. stakeholders with the limited information regarding organizational goals, to determine the subjects and our supplier companies for the first time. Financial prioritization orders in “materiality matrix of the Performance, Çimsa provides many positive outputs via financial value Economic Value created for its stakeholders. Suppliers, state, investors and Economic Created for Market Position, X X sustainability issues”, thus incorporating it into the Indirect Economic shareholders, employees, financial institutions and the public In order to carry out the sustainability issues of Stakeholders are the primary stakeholders who receive financial value. follow-up systems via related performance indicators Impact strategic importance; Çimsa obtained opinions from and integrating it with the sustainability management multiple stakeholder platforms such as Employees, system. 14 15 Our Economic Performance Çimsa has a management approach blending the financial and operational success through environmental and social awareness. VI. Our Economic Performance VI. Our Economic Performance a. Management Approach Economic performance means more than profitability for Çimsa The expectations regarding future in the long term Management of Çimsa also aims to play an effective refer to an important financial gain opportunity for role on the subject of dissemination of the sustainable Çimsa and its stakeholders. The investments to be development. By inclusion of the sustainability Considering the value chain, Çimsa always growth in 2013 as compared to the previous year. made in order to meet the capacity of the future will understanding into management strategies and by understands and develops the social, economic and Turkey is the leader in Europe in cement production enable new employment areas and will contribute leadership of our General Manager for the internal environmental effects of its past, present and future and ranked 5th after China, India, USA and Iran in to the financial improvement of the employees. As implementations, the implementation is under the operations. Çimsa is aware of the fact that integrating the world. the serious increase of resources starts to become responsibility of every manager and therefore every the sustainability understanding with the company a issue it brings important sustainabiliy challenging employee in the company. Çimsa has become a strategy and studies in all functions increases the Cement production in Turkey was realized in the issues. member of Cement Sustainability Initiavite (CSI) financial, competitive and innovative power and level of 76 million tones in 2013 and the cement acting under the structure of World Business Council helps to achieve its ambitions. consumption was realized in the level of 63.5 million Çimsa is aware of the fact that there will not be for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) in 2013 in tonnes*. The surplus of capacity more than internal a sustainable economic development without order to perform active operations in management This approach which addresses the requirement of capacity has been exported. However the civil war preserving the natural resources where the resources level. sharing the value created by the companies with particularly in Syria in 2013 and the social and politic begin to extinct more and to become expensive day the society, aims to cooperate with stakeholders. conflicts in Middle East and North Africa Region by day. Especially if we think that energy costs For Çimsa, every commitment made in the issues of Therefore, recently Çimsa has adopted the caused decrease in cement and clinker exportation constitute one third of the cement production sustainability directly supports the operations and participative stakeholder policy. of Turkey. The total cement and clinker exportation cost, decreasing the costs and productivity have company performance. Sustainability objectives and in 2013 was realized as approximately 12.5 million become fundamental elements. In order to use the gains of Çimsa are explained separately with this Despite the fact that the sector is mainly focused on tonnes with a decrease in the level of 10% as resources efficiently, to decrease energy costs and report. the economic objectives until the near future, recent compared to 2012. to decrease the rate of carbon dioxide released to changes and expectations in the world have shifted the atmosphere; use of waste fuels, use of alternative the focus to the efficiency of the used sources. This The market developments, which are directly related materials, prevention of waste water discharges and change is reflected individually on the management with sales and activities, constitute importance for soil pollution and preservation of the biodiversity strategies of the sector and the companies and short term and long-term decisions of Çimsa. are among the important issues focused on in the is developing. Beginning from the strategies in world and in Turkey. However especially the subject management level, Çimsa pioneers change and Urbanisation is an increasing trend in the world related with pollution of the environment and development and determines the company strategies as well as our country. Today, half of the global resource productivity has an importance for all the and the investment fields with a more integral point population lives in big cities. Due to the increase in stakeholders and the society. of view. world population and urbanization rate, it is assumed that the population in the urban areas will increase In cement sector, it is essential that the companies Capacity, productivity, employment, created value significantly by 2050. This situation will lead to an have the awareness of their social and environmental for the society, the value of the company and the increase in the building materials for livable cities. responsibilities. Çimsa, as a player in the stakeholder expectations are the parts of the financial international markets adopts the policy for following objectives. *Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association (TCMA) the operations of the global actors. The operations based on sustainability, which has significant effects The cement consumption in the world has reached to on the value and the reputation of the company, and the level of 4 billion tonnes together with the increase therefore on the profitability are also the factors in demands especially in the developing countries in for creating value to our stakeholders as a public 2013. company. In this meaning, Çimsa is aware of its responsibilities and operates in a pioneer approach The construction sector in Turkey has preserved its and acts as a leading organization in the sector in position in 2012 as compared to the previous year Turkey. but in 2013 a growth rate higher than the economic growth recorded by Turkey and it recorded 7% of 18 19 VI. Our Economic Performance VI. Our Economic Performance b. Risk Management c. Sustainability Investments In 2013, Çimsa has made sustainability and For the Hot Disc Automatic waste feeding system environmental investments in the level of 13.5 million project which was completed in 2011, 0.3 millions dollars and has continued to grow by integrating dollars of additional investment was made within the sustainability principles into its business model. scope of modification in 2013. In this way, removal Besides maintaining profitability while growing, we of the shutdown based on hot-disc and decrease of always give priority to the sustainability, environment fossil fuel use by increasing the alternative waste fuel and occupational health safety. Therefore we continue rate is enabled. to be a pioneer in the sector and setting an example. In the entry building and roads of the Eskişehir Plant, In 2013, Çimsa has made an investment of 37 million a total of 0.7 million dollars of investment has been dollars in total and 13.5 million dollars of such capital made for dedusting in conveyance lines and wagon expenditures were realized for our environment and filling areas. Besides, through an expenditure of 0.1 sustainability objectives. These investments are the million dollars in the plant, a surrounding wall and indicators of our sensitivity to environmental and leak proof flooring have been built on the coal storage social sustainability. area in order to protect the environment. The major environment and sustainability investments 0.5 million dollars was spent in 2013 for the We follow-up the risks of the company by making Just like every year, in 2013, the developments classified as the installation of energy transportation investment regarding dedusting of the clinker evaluations in a wide range from operations risks to experienced in the sector and in the geographical line and systems; waste burning systems; obtaining transmission lines for which a total of 1 million environmental effects, from competition to financial regions reached by Çimsa are closely followed and energy from waste heat, road constructions and dust dollars of expenditure has been spent since 2012 in risks, from work consistency to crisis management by the risk level of our company has been updated in removal. The details of aforesaid investments may be Kayseri Plant. After completion of the project in 2014, means of risk evaluation methods created in line with the direction of the obtained information. The effects summarized as follows: dispersion of the dust arising because of the puzzolan the aims and vision of Çimsa. By means of the risk of the climate changes on the company and on the being dried in clinker cooler to the environment will evaluation studies, which are repeated periodically financial results are handled in accordance with this An expenditure of 6.9 million dollars was spent be prevented. Puzzolan drying system includes every year, we keep the risk levels updated and and the required precautions are taken. in 2013 for the new energy transmission line dispatch of dried puzzolan to the silo or mills via 2 enable the risk map to remain alive. and switch system, which began to be founded bag filters, 2 elevators, 1 tracked band, 1000 tons of As Çimsa we are aware that our risks are not merely in 2012 in Eskişehir Plant. With new system it is concrete silo and 1 rubber conveyor band. We define our organizational risk management as based on investment and business operation and the aimed to prevent electric fluctuations and failures “a systematic process, which is created in order areas based on sustainability can be more important by preventing losses based on shutdowns and to By means of the project of obtaining energy from to define potential events to affect the company, today. Therefore in risk management adaptation of decrease energy consumption costs. waste heat, construction of which began in 2013 to manage the company in accordance with occupational health and safety, water, energy costs, and was completed in 2014 in Mersin Plant, after organizational risk profile and to provide a reasonable emissions, supply chain have begun to be particularly By means of the Waste Burning and Feeding System a change in design, electric generation is provided assurance in accordance with the organizational risk underlined and studies are widened for the required for which 2 million dollars was invested in 2013, also during production of white clinker from waste taking profile of the company; and which is effected precautions. The subjects of sustainability have the waste burning amount is increased and the fuel gas. By means of an investment of 0.4 million dollars, by the administration board, top management and begun to be the subjects in our risk management. costs are decreased and the fossil fuel usage was the temperature of the gas sent to electro filter was all other employees of the company and used for decreased by increasing the alternative fuel rate; decreased 150-200 C and approximately 500 KW defining the strategies and for implementing in the therefore contribution is made on protection of the electric is obtained during manufacturing. entire organization.” We pay attention for defining environment all sorts of situations and events, which will prevent In 2013 our investments intended for dedusting has our company from achieving its operational, strategic continued through investments such as closed stock and financial goals without letting them result in hole, dust curtain construction, landscaping, road danger and to take action in order to decrease the construction continued in 2013 in our cement and impact of the possible damages. ready mixed concrete plants. 20 21 VI. Our Economic Performance VI. Our Economic Performance d. The Economic Value Created And Distributed Since the cement sector mostly addresses to the domestic market and particularly to the surrounding markets, dynamism of the local economy is significant for us. Working with the local suppliers and contributing to In 2013 we achieved a growth not only by In order to increase local supply opportunities and ture groups came into focus and evaluated according the growth of the regional economy are our priorities. manufacturing but also by sharing our production. to enable a more transparent and effective procuretostrategic importance, complexity and risks. All PurWe contributed to the construction of public buildings ment, e-commerce platforms are developed with our chasing policies put in charge regarding risks reducIn order to be a permanent and sustainable cement such as municipality buildings, police stations, solution partners. By doing this all suppliers can join tion, and opportunities. company, it is important for us to be a part of the prisons, kindergartens in Mersin, Niğde, Sakarya to the system which is more transparent and has economic development in the market that we are in and Eskişehir and environmental planning thereof via fast feedback. Çimsa accepted as a partner by local suppliers and to be a solution partner of the rapidly growing our cement and ready mixed concrete. In our social due to its business culture and high business ethic and developing cities which contributes to the responsibility project in the scope of the amelioration With Category Management organization, supplier standarts. Çimsa contributes to local businesses infrastructure and meets the arising requirements in realized in the village schools every year in Niğde market will be managed closely and using effective with its long term and well established commercial time and in the best way. especially since the last 4 years we have contributed demand management tools Çimsa has maintained relations. Therefore, our local suppliers can make to a village kindergarten in 2013 from its roof to its significant resource savings Also in all categories efficient or effective decisions and manage their Our contribution to the economy is realized by kitchen, from its toilet to its doors and windows and using Kraljic matrix analizing methods, sub-expendi business to have business results. our payments to the firms of different sectors, from outer facade colouring to stationary and shoe which provide goods and services, as well as our procurement for the children. Economy Value Distributed to the payments to the stakeholders, investors and financial Million TL (%) Stakeholders ( 2013 ) organizations and salary payments to our employees. Our contributions to our suppliers Besides this direct economic contribution, we make Suppliers 571,48 65,52% indirect contributions to the Turkish economy, which Çimsa aims to pursue its contribution to the TurkGovernment 101,93 11,69% is dependent on other countries for energy resources, ish economy by supporting local businesses Çimsa Investors and Shareholders 98,07 11,24% by means of our activities such as energy efficiency provides most of its purchases from local suppliers policy and generation of energy out of waste and the Financial Institutions 25,07 2,87% except some investment items and kraft paper for part as much as the productivity is returned to the paper bag production, petroleum coke and coal in Employees 65,41 7,50% country economy as revenue. which domestic supplies are limited. Public 10,27 1,18% Another contribution provided by Çimsa to the Total 872,2 100,0% Çimsa has operations in many regions of Turkey, for economy of the country is removal of the additional this reason the definition of “local” means almost encost requirement in respect of elimination of the tire country. wastes to be disposed. Çimsa pays great attention to improve it her suppliers Çimsa always finding a place for itself in the top development and business conduct. For doing this, ranking of the companies, which pay the highest we began to work with local suppliers for our plants taxes and was ranked the 54th for Corporation Tax and ready mixed concrete plants (cleaning, safety, via a tax payment of 44.3 million TL in 2013. technical and other support services) which has morecorporate structure. In doing that Çimsa maintained subcontractors’ employees will have full legal rights and benefits. Stakeholders Meeting September 2013 Ankara 22 23 VI. Our Economic Performance Çimsa has created job opportunities in its hinterland which is reaching 580 employees under sub-contractors payroll. This number increased 8 points among the total employees as compared to 2012 and added economic contributions to the operational regions and in general to the country. Number of employees working in Çimsa Total number of Çimsa locations and registered in the Ratio (%) employees population registry of the same city Ankara 14 27 51,85 Eskişehir 127 183 69,40 İstanbul 5 42 11,90 Kayseri 78 107 72,90 Mersin 268 370 72,43 Niğde 88 107 82,24 Toplam 580 836 69,38 Support from State Incentives which are included in the advantages provided to Çimsa as one of the value creating cement companies the firms engaged in exportation activities. The of Turkey demonstrates its contribution aligned to the details regarding the loans are disclosed to the public economy of the country also by means of the exports together with the financial results of the company. although not being covered by the report. The amount of the tax discounts benefited within the scope of All the activities in 2013 such as quality certification the current export initiatives have been realized as application filed for incentives by preparing a related 0.9 million TL within 2013. Furthermore we have project and all our foreign publicity and individual fair also benefited from the export loans from Turkish participations were finalized with positive outcomes Eximbank with appropriate terms, and we reimbursed 79.220 TL of our expenditures. 24 25 Environmental Sustainability Çimsa is a corporation with the awareness of the sustainability agenda of cement sector. VII. Environmental Sustainability VII. Environmental Sustainability a. Climate Change And Environment Because of the intensive energy used during the By means of the importance given to the preservation manufacturing process of cement, cement sector is a of the climate in Çimsa, we voluntarily calculate carbon intensive sector. The expectation of decreasing and monitor the carbon dioxide emissions resulting carbon dioxide amount as the fundamental subject from cement manufacturing activities in our plants of the operations for combating with global climate in accordance with the methodology developed by change, brings a serious responsibility to the sector. Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI). The main target of the climate negotiations with the aim of reaching an agreement globally in 2015 will In cement sector, the indirect decrease in the be comprised of decrease of carbon. Therefore, the greenhouse gas emissions by using alternative fuel industry is engaged in serious studies on subjects instead of primary (fossil) fuels can be evaluated such as emissions, alternative fuel and the usage of within the scope of the obtained emission rights in sustainable resources within the framework of energy a certain level. National carbon dioxide emission efficiency, which has became particularly important. legislation studies are still conducted in Turkey. Until As Çimsa, we also put into practice step by step these studies are finalized, the indirect carbon saving operations to be conducted in the field of fight with credit to be inferred from alternative fuel use is not the climate. In order to accelerate the adaptation of included in the scope of the obtained emission right. the Turkish Cement Sector into emission and carbon Therefore (specific) net and gross carbon dioxide Çimsa is aware of the sustainability the prioritized subjects. In this section subjects, we conduct work groups in Turkish Cement emission values per tone of clinker and cementitious agenda of the sector. In this subject of the report, the sustainability issues Manufacturers’ Association (TCMA). product are identical. the internal studies began in 2007 and selected by considering the comments every year since 2010 the environmental and suggestions received from our As Çimsa, we have focused on the subject of usage of performance has been improving. stakeholders within the “Materiality alternative fuels, increasing alternative raw materials The investments under the scope of Matrix” are included. While we decrease and reinforcements, providing thermal and electric these studies and details thereof (See: our negative impact on the environment energy efficiency, which contributes significantly in Economic Performance, Environmental to minimum, the areas that we can decrease of carbon dioxide released by the sector investments) are presented to the public create maximum benefit have become and also enables sustainable resources use. every year in accordance with the our priority subjects. transparency and business ethic rules. The environmental studies of the sector In this context, the main subjects are as are collected under different areas which follows and since all our environmental Total Direct Gross CO2 Emissions ( ton CO2 /year ) interacts with the economic and social studies support tackling the climate impacts. In short, an environmental change, they are included under 1.025.239 991.816 869.465 880.835 982.024 835.606 impact can cause emergence of positive this topic. (See: Materiality Matrix of 1.064.826 or negative results on the subjects with Sustainability Issues) social contents as much as it is on the 3.401.693 3.471.076 3.115.468 3.116.543 3.392.879 3.091.542 economic revenues of the companies. 2.409.389 Çimsa handles all the possible areas 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 one by one and since the environmental subjects require intensive operation White Cement Grey Cement and investment, they are included in Total Direct Gross CO2 Emissions from Calcium Aluminotes Cement Production is 17.026 ton CO2 /year 28 29 VII. Environmental Sustainability VII. Environmental Sustainability 740 732 I) Alternative Fuel and Raw Material 720 711 Since cement sector is a sector in where the energy We have established Waste Management System efficiently and safely. Therefore the physical and 709 701 691 706 699 and raw material utilization is intensive, using in order to monitor compliance with the legislations chemical analysis results of the samples obtained 700 natural resources in the most productive way is very related with the emissions from the rotary kilns that from the wastes received from each waste producer 680 important in terms of using sustainable resources. can be produced as a result of use of alternative fuel are compared with Çimsa admittance criteria and 660 Therefore Çimsa always gives importance to and alternative raw material, to provide efficiency of the proper ones are accepted to our licenced cement substitution of the non-renewable fossil fuels and manufacturing process and to provide clinker quality plants. 640 and occupational health and safety standards. Waste natural raw materials with alternatives. In this way 620 while preserving the natural resources, we find a management system is updated in certain periods We aim to increase our alternative additives and the performance of the system is reviewed amount by using cementitious products in our solution for disposal of the wastes, which result in 600 by monitoring by means of Technical Committee 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 pollution of the environment and a social problem ready mixed concrete plants. monthly meetings held with the participation of all accordingly. * Amounts are valid for grey cement. cement plant managers. Our alternative raw material usage rates for Çimsa cement operations are calculated in accordance with In order to include alternative fuels and raw materials Within the framework of waste management system, Our clinker production, which was increased in 2013 the methodology of Cement Sustainability Initiative safely into the system and to maintain process we update the waste receiving criteria by means of as compared to 2012, resulted in an increase in our (CSI). productivity, the waste preliminary operations and waste acceptance procedure created in order to use total direct gross carbon dioxide emissions. waste feeding investments are accelerated and the alternative fuels and alternative raw materials every year we increase the rate of alternative fuel The most significant lever effecting decrease of the use. In these studies we give importance to the Specific CO2 Emissions is increasing the additives requirements of the stakeholders and conduct usage (per tone of cementitious product). Customer Alternative Raw Material Usage Rate in Grey Cement Production (%) studies for increasing dialogue with them. With the demands play an important role in sales of additive awareness of the responsibility for the environment cement sales. Increase of the market demands in 3,28 and the community, at first we search solutions this direction will also increase additive cement 3,05 for disposal of the industrial and municipality solid productions and create decrease in carbon dioxide 2,47 wastes of the regions where our plants are located. emissions per specific cementitious product. In our Eskişehir cement plant, in 2013, we 1,63 The second lever affecting the decrease of Specific 1,30 burned 25% alternative fuel in the 2nd rotary C02 Emission is to increase the usage of alternative 1,01 kiln, we decreased use of primary fuels 0,76 fuels. Since problems have been experienced in and gave importance to sustainable source terms of alternative fuel supply and continuity in management, as a production of solution locations of Turkey especially outside the Marmara against industrial waste problem, which is Region, we had to use less alternative fuel in 2013. In 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 currently a social problem. regions where our cement plants are located, burning the domestic alternative fuel and domestic treatment sludge to be produced from the solid wastes obtained Total Amount Usage of Alternative Raw Materials (Ktons) from Metropolis Municipalities in the cement kilns will 322 provide increase and sustainability of our alternative 266 fuel amounts. 217 154 128 90 87 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 30 31 VII. Environmental Sustainability VII. Environmental Sustainability Rate of Usage of Alternative Fuel (%) % 7,50 % 7,02 II) Energy Efficiency Çimsa aims to minimize carbon dioxide emissions Intensive energy is used during the manufacturing based on use of energy through its less energy % 4,60 phase of the cement. The global warming resulted in consuming modern manufacturing processes. the usage of energy sources and increase of the costs By means of the Waste Heat Recovery Project % 3,36 have led us to use less energy based on fossil fuels established in Mersin 1st and 2nd production plants % 2,65 and to use more alternative energy sources instead. of Çimsa, it is aimed to produce 50% of the electricity Another way of tackling with climate change is energy consumed in these two lines and to decrease energy efficiency. Therefore it has become very important in consumption accordingly. cement production to decrease energy consumption % 0,33 % 0,01 by using equipment which is more efficient and In 2013 by using alternative fuels, 93% of the consumes less energy, optimization operations for thermal energy (calorific basis) consumed during 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 crushing, burning and grinding processes and energy manufacturing of Çimsa’s grey cement is recycled recovery investments. from primary fuels. The major sources are coal, petroleum coke, natural gas, lignite and fuel oil as primary (fossil) fuels. Total Amount of Usage of Alternative Fuel (Ktons) 43 42 Çimsa Cement Plants Total Thermal Energy Consumption 24 13, 402 13,113 13, 217 15 12,054 3,900 12.500 12,004 11,833 11 3,700 8 3,420 10.500 9,347 3,410 6 3,367 3,500 8.500 3,292 3,293 3,292 3,334 3,300 6.500 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 3,100 4.500 2,900 2.500 2,700 500 2,500 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total Energy Usage (Tj) Total Thermal Energy Specific Thermal Energy 32 33 VII. Environmental Sustainability VII. Environmental Sustainability Çimsa Cement Plants and Grinding Plant Total Electrical Energy Consumption (Tj) III) Emissions Dust Emissions Dust and gas emissions of Çimsa are measured Our objective for 2013 was to enable our dust emission periodically in accordance with the applicable concentrations to remain under the threshold values laws and regulations by a company accredited by of regulation. Just like in the previous years, this 2.294 the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization and year we remained under the regulation limit values 1.986 2.090 2.056 1.949 1.902 the results of such measurements are reported and our objectives are attained by means of the 1.732 accordingly. dust emission concentrations of 14 mg/Nm3 as the average of all Çimsa cement plants. We monitor the dust and gas emission both as specific (g/ton clinker) and as total mass value (t/year). 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Çimsa Cement Plants Specific Dust Emissions (g dust/ton clinker) Cement Factories and Grinding Stations (TJ) *: (1 cal = 4.18 Joules) 61 47 We are aiming to perform a reduction in the energy consumption to be consumed for the cement manufacturing 37 36 by decreasing the utilization of clinker by substituting the alternative raw materials which 31 25 25 require high energy for manufacturing such as clinker, fly ash, slag with the cementitious materials. Our clinker/ cement ratio on yearly basis is presented on the table below. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Clinker / Cement Ratio (%) In our ready mixed concrete manufacturing plants, dust emissions are measured and monitored periodically in 82 82 81 81 82 accordance with the Regulation for Controlling Industrial Air Pollution by the firm accredited by the Ministry of 79 80 Environment and Urbanization. We monitor the measurement results obtained from these emission reports. In 2013 the dust emission average of our ready mixed concrete plants is 1.3 mg/Nm3. The dust emission measurement results obtained from our entire ready mixed concrete plants are below the limit value determined by the Regulation for Controlling Industrial Air Pollution. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 *White cement is not included. 34 35 VII. Environmental Sustainability VII. Environmental Sustainability b. Wastes Resulting From Our Plants NOx Emissions In 2013 NOx emission in rotary kiln chimneys of the limit value of the regulation and this year our the cement group was realized as 1430 gram/tons average NOx emission is measured as 732 mg/Nm3 clinker. NOx emissions for the average of cement which means that our NOx objective is accomplished. plants in 2013 is also below 1300 mg/Nm3 as Total NOx Emissions (g NOx / t clinker) 1731 1659 1442 1451 1460 1430 1227 We implement the Waste Management System for energy recycling.. The records of all the operations the hazardous and non-hazardous wastes created in are retained regularly in our stations. Çimsa. The non-hazardous wastes can be grouped as domestic and packaging wastes. We have a waste For the purposes of preservation of the natural storage area responsible person for conduction sources, manufacturing in line with sustainable 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 of the waste operations of every plant in one and environment and sustainable development principles without problem. Every waste in the plants is defined and in order to decrease the amounts of wastes to and the frequency and amounts of such wastes be stored it is very important that the generation of Other Emissions are determined. It is determined which legislation packaging wastes is avoided, priority should be given In accordance with the regulations regarding the The results of the measurements held in 2013 on the is binding upon said wastes, how should they be to re-use, it is recycled, recovered and used as an chimneys of rotary kilns of the cement plants, the chimneys of rotary kilns of the cement plants for the collected, carried, temporarily stored and their energy source. Volatile Organic Compounds are measured once Volatile Organic Compounds, HCI, HF, Heavy Metal maximum storage time. in every three months, HCI, HF and Heavy Metals and Dioxin/Furane are considerably below the limit Regardless of the type of the materials, the packaging are measured per six months and Dioxin/Furanes values of the Regulation for Burning Wastes. Different storage containers for packaging wastes wastes are separately collected in every station in are measured on an annual basis and the related and domestic wastes are available in the stations order to decrease environmental pollution, resulting emission reports are submitted to the Ministry of and precautions are taken against scattering of such in delivery of less waste to regular storage stations Environment and Urbanization the Ministry wastes through environmental factors such as rain and they are recycled by sending to the waste periodically. and wind. collection stations of the municipality to contribute to the economy. Heavy Metal, HCI, HF, Volatile Compounds and Dioxin/Furan specific measurement The storage area of the hazardous wastes is within results in Çimsa Cement Plants in Total the station area which has sealed concrete flooring, Çimsa covers the entire expenses and expenditures an upper cover and protected from spills and leakage. required for the separate collection, classification, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 In the sections of this area, the names and codes of recycling and recovery of the packaging wastes on Heavy Metals* 0,006 0,001 0,002 0,02 0,02 0,016 0,018 the stored wastes are written. site that are generated as a result of the utilization Volatile Organic Compounds 44 91 62 47 31 28,5 31,7 of our packaged products released to the market. HCl Research is conducted for disposal/recycling As a result of this, recycling and recovering of the 5 5 4,71 1,78 0,50 0,53 0,94 of hazardous wastes and contracts are signed packaging wastes that are introduced to the market HF 0,5 0,7 0,87 0,98 0,49 0,54 0,47 according to the types and codes of the waste, then by an authorized contracted entity are ensured in Dioxin/furan Specific (µg/ton 0,015 0,027 0,065 0,031 0,017 0,028 0,018 they are sent to the Disposal Stations together with accordance with the provisions mentioned in the clinker) the National Waste Transportation Forms and they related regulation. *Cd + Tl + Hg are combusted in our cement plants, which are in possession of licences for waste burning to enable 36 37 VII. Environmental Sustainability VII. Environmental Sustainability c. Biodiversity We pay great attention to the raw material extraction Every year we reserve provisional compensation for activities in the delicate and protected areas in order mine rehabilitations and keep them updated on an to protect wild life. Our Eskişehir Cement Plant mine annual basis. In order to make our mining activities is within the “Protect Short Distance” and our Mersin sustainable and to immediately rehabilitate the areas Cement Plant’s Sucular mine is within the “Protection from where ore is obtained we have initiated sample Region in Medium Distance to the Lake Area”. implementations for reforestation of such areas for the sake of social responsibility without waiting for We make plans for “Retrieval to the Nature” by the expiration of the activities within licenses. As obtaining approval from public organizations for a result of these studies, we have completed the completion of the mining activities which have rehabilitation of our fields of 12 hectares in 2013. environmental, social and economic impacts in an environment friendly way and retrieval of the used up The licensed excavation area of our active mines fields to the nature. is 285 hectares and the area being affected by our operations is 33 hectares. Based on the land ÇED reports are prepared for the areas for reports proprietary, these areas are distributed as follows: are required and in these reports the ecosystems 130 hectares of land for company, 95 hectares of are examined in order to comprehend the impacts of forestry land, 15 hectares of government (treasury) mining on these areas. lands and 45 hectares of pasture grounds. As Çimsa, in order to prevent negative Our entire manufacturing processes are impacts of our mining activities and to performed in accordance with the related minimize them to prevent damage to the regulations of the Mining Law and the environment, we make Environmental Environment Law. Our mining activities Impact Assessment (ÇED) before are monitored by the Directorate of Raw initiating our activities and prepare Materials and the raw material function plans for rehabilitation of the areas after of each cement plant. completing our activities. 38 39 Contribution to the Society Çimsa has been developing projects contributing to the local community of its locations in where it operates and creates values. VIII. Contribution To The Society VIII. Contribution To The Society a. Investments On Employees Our employees play a key role in the organizational corporate sustainability studies Employment ÇİMSA IN GENERAL* of Çimsa. Our actions related with human resources are shaped in order to enable Blue collar White collar Total our employees to act in accordance with the sustainability principles. All the implementations regarding employment 542 418 960 ANKARA PLANT are conducted under organizational and objective Mavi Yaka Beyaz Yaka Toplam Çimsa’s corporate development and human resources Regulation of the fundamental human rights processes standards and defined by in-house procedures and 18 10 28 regulations. Çimsa has provided 65.4 Millions TL of KAYSERİ PLANT vision; to create a high performance culture, such as selection and job placement, performance Blue collar White collar Total mission; to provide organizational transformation and management, training and skill management, wage economic value for 960 employees as of 2013. Many 77 32 109 development. and benefits management and organizational backadditional benefits are provided in order to improve life MERSİN PLANT up which supports the basic vision and strategy of standards of the employees and their families. Blue collar White collar Total Accordingly, we regulate our actions related with the company, also supports the following objectives: In Çimsa the legal requirements the maternity leave of 235 130 365 ESKİŞEHİR PLANT human resources under the framework of three basic the female employees are implemented properly. Blue collar White collar Total objectives: 130 57 187 • Sharings to affect organizational It’s essential that implementations of Çimsa for NİĞDE PLANT • To establish the organization and human climate positively and effective internal increasing employment in the centers, regions and Blue collar White collar Total 82 27 109 resources infrastructure supporting company communication studies, cities, together with assignment of employees with READY MIXED CONCRETE strategies; • Integration of the senior management similar tasks under equal conditions and also its Blue collar White collar Total • To measure and continuously develop the with Çimsa and studies for development providing equal rights and opportunities for the female 0 104 104 organizational climate, thereof, and male employees are fundamental principles of AGGREGATES Blue collar White collar Total • To increase the leadership characteristics • Employment and improvement of the company. 0 9 9 at every position level and to increase the qualified employees to contribute to the TERMİNALS knowledge and skill levels of the success of Çimsa in parallel with the growth Applications complying with the process are Blue collar White collar Total employees. objectives; implemented. Within this context, one employee has 0 8 8 HEADQUARTER (İSTANBUL) • Competitive total award management; benefited from paid maternity leave in 2013 and her Blue collar White collar Total While realizing the fundamental objectives, all • Management of effective risk and industrial position is preserved to enable her to return to her job 0 41 41 the implementations related with our employees relations, without any loss of rights upon completion of the legal Employees with blue collars mean unionized leave period. personnel. Employees with white collars mean are conducted in accordance with the related • Branding studies towards becoming the non-unionized personnel. legal regulations. Within this framework, all privileged “preferred company” to work in. implementations regulated with written legislations 2013 Cement Plants in Çimsa Cement and procedures are shared periodically with our Turkey* Plants employees via the internet and at meetings. In the organizational climate workshops and year-end Total Number of 10.000 960 sharing meetings held since 2007, the expectations Employees and ideas of our entire employees are received and Contractor’s 5.000 298** evaluated accordingly. Also in 2010-2013 periods, Personnel ** within the scope of the organizational requirements and employee expectations all Human Resources regulations and procedures (Salary and Fringe Benefit *The values in cement plants are approximate as of 31.12.2013. Covers the employees of the sub-contractors working in the auxiliary tasks Procedure, Recruitment and Placement Procedure, rendering service as sub-contractors (other than ready mixed concrete). Training Procedure, Performance Management **The number of the subcontractor employees in Çimsa workplaces merely Procedure, Appreciation-Recognition and Awarding covers the contractor personnel rendering service in auxiliary Procedure, Corporate GSM Lines Procedure, Subtasks in plants. Contractor Management Procedure) are reviewed and the required amendments thereof are performed. 42 43 VIII. Contribution To The Society VIII. Contribution To The Society Employment In Çimsa notification time periods for our white collar By means of the project for employment of the new Through BES (individual annuity system) which is With the project “Çimsa for Privileged” we have realized employees are determined under the scope of Article 17 graduates, 16 new graduates are employed in Çimsa a system based on optional volunteering we aim to an important study for improving the purchasing power of the Labor Law No.4857 based on their employment as candidates. After an intensive application and strengthen the loyalty of our employees by offering a of Çimsa employees and to increase the company period. For our blue collar employees notification time selection and assessment process, 16 newly graduated rich and long term benefit package. In BES, provided loyalty. In this scope, Çimsa employees can benefit from periods are determined in accordance with the related personnel including 9 female and 7 male are recruited that a contribution in the amount of 3% of the gross discounts up to 30% from contracted organizations article of the Group Collective Bargaining Agreement in different premises of Çimsa. As a part of the process monthly salary of the employee is taken; Çimsa also included in a wide range from foods to stationary and in force based on their employment period. The of recruitment of the new graduates, the personnel in makes a company contribution in the amount of 3% from garments to health services by showing their organizational alterations are notified to the related that group is also provided with an intensive orientation and payment of contributions above 3% is optional for Çimsa identity cards. personnel at least 1 week prior to the amendments. training and mentorship/coaching support as well the employees. No access fees are collected from the as a total 1.792 hours of class training comprised employees for individual retirement system. In order to In 2013 under the scope of our investments on our of Manufacturing, Sales, Marketing, Finance and benefit from the system, the total term of employment employees and our fundamental Human Resources Personnel improvement modules. It has been observed for the employee in Sabancı Holding group should be objectives, we have managed a first in the sector. that the project has positive contributions to Çimsa at at least 6 (six) months. In case the employees leave the point of employee brand and the performances of the system, deductions and payments are performed 16 new Çimsa personnel in the period of 2 to 6 months based on BES legislation and the related regulations. have been realized in high levels. In 2013 the number of the employees to benefit from BES (as potential and merited) with 3% company contribution is 289; the number of the employees who actually benefit from BES is 158 under the scope of the Personnel Turnover Rate (Consolidated Recruitment + Termination) related procedure. Therefore the rate of actual potential Blue collar White collar Total benefiting has been realized in the level of 54.67%. 2013 7,3% 14,1% 10,3% Frindge Benefits Provided to Employees All the applicable subjects related with benefits are private health insurance and private life insurance as regulated in detail in the procedure of wage and of employment is provided. Approximately 60% of our benefits which was published in 1 November 2011 and employees with white collars have organizational GSM reviewed annually and it is shared with our employees. lines and/or devices based on their position and task definitions. All personnel in plants (white-blue collar) The entire personnel employed in full-time with payrolls is provided with meals and transportation services. in Çimsa works under indefinite duration employment Meal cards are allocated for the employees working contract (45 hours a week). As benefits; based on in premises outside the plant. Personnel transportation the volume of the task for some Officers and for all service is also implemented in the premises of the Specialized Engineers and senior positions, individual General Directorate. Social and real benefits inferred retirement implementation (BES) with a company from the Group Collective Occupational Contract in contribution in the amount of 3% of the gross fee and force for our employees with blue collars are further provided. 44 45 VIII. Contribution To The Society VIII. Contribution To The Society Individual Performance Management System In line with our vision of a high performance culture, At the point of assessment of the competencies, The personnel of the subcontractor firm rendering Workforce Data our individual performance management system aims Performance Management system contains a 180 service under the scope of service purchasing Total Number of Employees 2013 to measure both behaviors and business outputs. These degrees of assessment system. agreements to Çimsa employees and Çimsa must be White Collar Employees 418 are established at the start of each year based on the insured with the social insurance under the scope of Blue Collar Employees 542 current company strategies, individual business targets Furthermore in accordance with the scope of the the Social Security Law no. 5510. Çimsa makes all Employees of the Sub-contractors 298 and so as to support individual competency targets. collective bargaining agreement, the performance social security premium contributions and payments of evaluation process held once in a year for all the Çimsa covenanted personnel Each program is planned via input from both managers its employees properly and on time. and employees.Performance level, reviewed during personnel with blue collars (under the scope-unionized) Employees with Permanent Employment 960 Contract mid term evaluation stage is evaluated at the year end is also created. For all the employees in the 2nd and Within the scope of the legal requirements we Employees with Temporary Employment 0 during the performance evaluation meetings bythe 6th months of their employment term a performance periodically control the responsibilities of the service Contract manager and the employee. We utilize the results from assessment is performed as of the beginning of the providing subcontractor firms under labour act and social Full time employees 960 this individual performance management system in employment. In terms of carrier development, under security implementations. The service agreements and Part Time Employees 0 order to reward, to improve our training and to conduct the scope of the organizational success plan conducted specifications concluded with the subcontractor firms Gender career planning. As part of Çimsa’s Performance annually, we are planning improvement for detailed include the related provisions, rules and sanctions to be back-up and critical positions for our expert engineer Male 911 Management System Project that started in 2012, all fulfilled in details. The subcontractor firms are warned processes related to performance management are and senior level employees (the proportion within the in case of any practice violating the rules since they Female 49 conducted and implemented via the intranet. group of white collars is 43.6%). are included in the scope of the audits conducted by Age the occupational health and safety officers in Çimsa Between the ages of 20-29 182 premises. Persistence of the misimplementation Between the ages of 30-39 489 may result in the annulment of the agreements and Our approach through Human Rights and Equal Employment Opportunity Between the ages of 40-49 260 specifications. The detailed agreements and regular Between the ages of 50-60 29 audits with subcontractor companies eliminate the risk Our approach for human rights and providing equal opportunity in all business branches Employees of the Minority Group of employing juvenile labour or forced employees. and locations where Çimsa is operating in; we pay great importance to human rights Position under the framework of social security law for investment agreement and supplier The private security services in the premises of Çimsa Senior Management 15 selections. are rendered from the subcontractor firm under Mid level executives 33 In 2013, we took important steps about “Equality Rights, SA-Ethical Rule Consultancy and Disciplinary the scope of the Law No. 5118. In the purchasing Junior executives 71 at Work” and we included provisions n support of Committee. agreement concluded with the related security firm, Specialist/Engineer 102 the principle of Equality at Work in all the company there are provisions also for training the private security Other White Collar Personnel 196 procedures and legislations and continuous By means of participation of Çimsa into the collective personnel for implementation of the human rights. Blue Collar Personnel 542 improvements are achieved in the related labour agreement of the blue collar employees in all the implementations in the company. cement plants and grinding stations, positive approach All companies providing services to Çimsa are subjected is adopted for union rights and freedoms. Based on the to periodical audits under the scope of the agreement In all business branches in where Çimsa is operational requirement for acting in accordance with the related provisions and are determined based on the essentials and for selection of the suppliers, we pay great laws and provisions thereof, in operational changes, for for selection of the firms stipulated in the procedures. importance to the human rights within the framework our white collar employees notification time periods While selecting our providers, in spite of not making an of the social security law. The subjects related with stipulated in the Labour Act based on their employment evaluation for compliance with human rights, by means Human rights in Çimsa are evaluated generally within period and for our employees with blue collars of the detailed selection procedure we implement, the framework of OHS (occupational health and safety) notification time periods stipulated in the Collective we supervise all service or good providers to create and social security principles. All the issues regarding Labour Agreement in force based on their employment employment in accordance with the occupational laws discrimination and employee rights are monitored by period are taken into consideration. and to fulfill the regulations in accordance with the laws. the Unit of Organizational Development and Human 46 47 VIII. Contribution To The Society VIII. Contribution To The Society HR Projects and Actions in 2013 Communication with the Employees determined from different locations upon the electoral In accordance with the vision of “being in possession Organization studies the total number of members Linkedin and Facebook pages of the company are process in which the employees participated, have of the best plants in cement manufacturing” together reached to 527 and the number of coaches reached to updated and articles for enhancing the organizational commenced their activities as of 2013. We can develop with the mission of “perfection of the Production and 126 within a 10-year period. Together with the teams reputation of the company are posted. Communication fast and constructive solutions for the requests of the Maintenance activities” we enabled implementation in Mersin, Eskişehir, Kayseri, Niğde, Afyon and Ankara for creating the employer brand is established with the employees through regional meetings held once in of Plain 6 Sigma methodology serving for perfection plants, the project teams of Learning Organization in candidates. For our white collar personnel Information every 3 months with the Employee Representatives. of business processes in the company in general by 2013-2014 period acted in a large area including Booklet for Business Family is created and informative We have initiated SMS Informing program (Messenger means of 60 completed projects and 18 projects in Energy Consumption, Dedusting, Water Consumption, meetings are held to cover all the white collar Pigeon) is introduced in order to inform the employees progress in 2011-2013 period. In this process we Wet Additive Usage Rate, Industrial Waste Usage, employees. For the fresh recruited personnel, a Çimsa regarding the important developments in the company improved 37 personnel up to Green Belt level. Lifelong Learning and Volunteering activities. brochure and e-orientation training are designed. and the premises in a fast and an effective manner. School report gifts were distributed to the children of By means of Learning Organization studies we carried our employees in primary-secondary and high schools. By means of Periodical HR Networking bulletins and out projects which created value in all our plants by 63 Family Magazine with increased number of pages, a personnel in 6 different teams. By means of Learning At the point of communication with employees, we closer relationship is established with the employees. have realized the implementation of Çimsa Employee Business Ethics training is also rendered for the blue Representative in order to hear the voice of the site, to collar employees and training based on role-playing solve the problems together with the employees and is organized in the field of occupational safety. The to reflect the beautiful events from the voice of the new implementations related with variable salary, employees on the site. 31 Employee Representatives premium system and fringed benefits are revised in a Trainings and Development performance encouraging manner. We have realized team work towards the productIn 2013, the average annual training hour per head was portfolio management, customer track system, obtained as 29,2. Again increase of e-training as of research and development works and ready-mixed 2013, generalization of the personal improvement and cement business model through studies related to the leadership videos and experience sharing meetings development and transformation. A regulation in factory were among the underlined activities. basis was put into practice with the restructuring process performed in the manufacturing organization In 2013, regulations regarding working and that predicated upon the fundamental objectives such infrastructure conditions of the plants have been as the separation of the planning and implementation performed. Optimization of the company vehicles is roles, featuring team performance, rational approach performed and processes of Common Health and Safety based on statistical analysis, expansion of management Unit (OSGB) are created in accordance with the new area by degrading business outcome and responsibility legislation on occupational health and safety. Under to the team level and institutionalizing knowledge and the scope of the collective bargaining agreement, the experience. With parallel to this new structure, Intensive TIS group and titles of the blue collar employees are training programs towards technical, occupational regulated. and individual developments of the employees were implemented by conducting Team Leader development program. In this program, capabilities are aimed such as planning, delegation, motivation, feedback providing, coaching, relation management and communication skills of the personnel taking part in the new organization. 48 49 VIII. Contribution To The Society VIII. Contribution To The Society b. Occupational Health And Safety (OHS) Çimsa embraces an insight in occupational OHS Performance in 2013 I) Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) health and safety (OHS) with parallel to the Mersin Plant Unit 2013 Management in Cement Operations policies and implementations in the sector. Fatality Person 0 In order to define the conditions required to be fulfilled The opening topic of the executive committee meetings Çimsa is continuously following the corporate Accident frequency % 3,33 in order to increase the awareness of occupational is constituted by occupational health and safety. and legal standards, determines the pro-active Lost working days Day 100 safety, to control the occupational health and safety risks in our company and to improve the performance, The most important policy implemented for achieving development areas and applies continuous Absentee days excluding accidents Day 0 we manage OHS operations within a management OHS performance objectives is to share our short and tracking systematics in OHS processes. Eskişehir Plant Unit 2013 Fatality Person 1 framework in accordance with TS-18001 specification. long term objectives with our employees. Acting in Accident frequency Under the scope of the new Occupational Health and compliance with OHS instructions; notifying all risky % 6,17 Safety Law No.6331 and its regulation which came into situations and last minute cases are the primary tasks Çimsa enables the OHS to be internalized and to Lost working days Day 7500+69 force as of 30 June 2012, we perform proactive studies of our entire employees including the sub-contractor’s become a company culture by means of informing Absentee days excluding accidents Day 951 personnel. related with the new legal legislations and requirements the employees of the main employer and the subKayseri Plant Unit 2013 thereof. In this context we have focused on fulfilling contractor, effective networking of the changes in Fatality Person 0 The most important tools for achieving our objectives are the legal requirements for organizations of OHS Board legislation with the organization by communication; Accident frequency % 8,8 implementations such as systematic field supervision, structure specific to Çimsa and under the scope of joint permanent availability of OHS metrics in company and Lost working days Day 40 last minute notifications and the related area and several responsibility, Employee Representatives, employee objectives; considering audits, last minute Absentee days excluding accidents Day 538 supervision results of the other area responsibilities. support personnel and assignment of OHS Expert and notifications and non-compliance number values as Niğde Plant Unit 2013 Additionally by means of OHSAS 18001 system the Workplace physicians (via OHS Clerk program) and risk key performance indicators and regular reporting. Fatality Person 0 annual internal audits, external audits of organizations analysis, fire drill, emergency action plan. Accident frequency % 8,21 such as TSE from which certificates are obtained Lost working days Day 310 Our entire plants have the system certificate for OHSAS and external audits of Sabancı Holding insurance are Absentee days excluding accidents Day 226 6 18001 Occupational Health and Safety. We support our monitoring and scaling our OHS system. Ankara Plant Unit 2013 OHS management system continuously via training, Fatality Person 0 information, inspection and improvement studies. We It is our routine objective to take amelioration actions Accident frequency % 20,81 as immediate as possible related with detections are aware of the fact that one of the most important Lost working days Day 0 factors behind our success is the understanding of obtained after monitoring. Our objective is to decrease Absentee days excluding accidents Day 45 carrying our implementations related with occupational the number of our total accidents by 50% and to reach Ready mixed concrete Unit 2013 health and safety beyond just acting in accordance with to the objective of “0” accidents in the long term Fatality Person 0 the laws and regulations. The operational responsibility and to maintain this objective. Our sub-objectives Accident involving death (Sub-contractor) Person 0 for OHS management is represented in the senior are amelioration of layout and setting, increasing Fatalities (3rd Party) Person 2 management level in Çimsa. occupational safety awareness and decreasing the Frequency of accidents muscle-skeletal disorders resulting from working. % -The plant managers share their reports prepared with We can summarize the fundamental OHS programs Lost working days Day 73 their management teams with the senior management implemented in our premises as follows while achieving Absentee days excluding accidents Day 0 in the monthly technical coordination meetings and the these main and sub-objectives: required actions are taken immediately. * One of subcontructor employee lost his lives because of work accident. Loss of labor is equal to 7500 days. 50 51 VIII. Contribution To The Society VIII. Contribution To The Society a) Area Responsibility c) Behavior Inspections • 343 personnel had routine chest radiography “Çimsa, as a member of our union, holds a Area Responsibility is an implementation obtained Inspection teams of 2-3 persons have been created examination. 8 personnel were sent to significant share of the national cement market under the scope of Occupational Perfection project of for supervising the site operations within a certain with its four integrated cement plants and the hospital for further examination. No 9 months completed in 2003-2004 and initiated in plan by all management team in order to remind the one grinding station. Çimsa’s sensitivity to occupational illness was found. Mersin Plant for the first time. By means of a circular employees to work in safety, cease work immediately occupational health and safety in its own plants • 267 personnel had audiometric examination. published by the General Manager in April 2008, in case of anomalous work or hazardous situations in can be easily seen in its plants. The most important (15 personnel has negative results.) implementation has been initiated in all locations. working area and to take precautions accordingly. The factor in development of Çimsa sensitivity in • Permanent employment: 35 contractor: 1.001 This a system in which the engineers or experts number of the field supervisors and inspection teams terms of occupational health and safety were the Beck test was applied. teach the tasks-authorizations and responsibilities to is determined based on the size of every plant. The studies of their occupational health and safety • 1 personnel received training for quitting management system started attheir Mersin the individuals elected by dividing the area without behavior inspections in Çimsa are initiated in parallel smoking. Cement Plant a long time ago and now reflected any empty spots and which is regularly updated. It is with the work schedules as of March 2008. Inspection • 2 personnel received training for cholesterol to their other plants. The value of these studies a mechanism established on controlling and taking system for inspections of behavior followed up by was proven with performance awards received in and triglycerides. necessary precautions for the surrounding risks in the name as of May 2010 is put into practice in all plants. 2007 (Nigde) and 2009 and 2011 (Kayseri). • 45 personnel received training for fields of responsibility and for all kinds of operations to diets. be conducted particularly by their teams. In order to improve the occupational health and • 35 permanent personnel and 2 contractor d) OHS Scorecard Application safety culture embraced by Çimsa, we suggest personnel received tetanus shots. Occupational safety scorecard application is an that the safe behavior habit as a significant • 59 permanent personnel and 1 contractor b) OHS Database application that we started to expand to all our plants element in occupational health and safety should personnel received hepatitis vaccination. The company OHS database was initiated to be created with pilot studies in 2010. At the same time we are be improved and the “Behavior Oriented Field • 223 personnel was inspected for hygiene. in electronic media in 2012 in order to enable all working on the development and implementation of Controls” should be implemented. Enabling Based on the results of the inspection, the improvement and permanence of this system employees to benefit from all the related information operational control mechanisms such as Lock out determined deficiencies were eliminated. which is already implemented in Çimsa is of great and to closely monitor the OHS operations based on Tag out (LOTO) for all of our facilities. The general • 5 personnel received medical check up on importance. Finally for developing the culture the objective of permanent improvement of OHS policy assessment of Çimsa’s OHS practices by one of our returning to work. of occupational health and safety, fulfilling the in our company. The database is designed to include most significant stakeholders, the the Cement Industry interior and exterior examinations of OHSAS 18001 • A health condition preventing employment of entire OHS assets of our company. Employers Association (ÇEIS), is as follows: management system plays an important role.” 1 personnel was detected and the employment initiation process was ceased. • 18 personnel received training for fire GRI OHS PERFORMANCE e) 2013 Implementations in our Plants notification and preparation. Ready-Mixed and Work Places Mersin Niğde Kayseri Eskişehir Ankara • 28 personnel received training for Concrete We can summarize the implementations highlighted in Number of 7 4 4 5 1 44 EKED. Work Accidents 2013 based on our Plant Premises as follows; • There were 52 work accidents as first aid Çimsa 3 2 4 4 1 7 implementation within the year. 45 of these Subcontractor 4 2 0 1 0 37 Mersin Plant: accidents were class 2 and 7 of them were Occupational Illness 0 0 0 0 0 0 • Periodical medical examinations were class 3 occupational accidents. Among the Çimsa 0 0 0 0 0 0 provided for 309 personnel. (146 personnel did personnel having a class 3 occupational Subcontractor 0 0 0 0 0 0 not have the desired normal values.) They were accident 3 of them are permanent personnel Absentee Days further examined and treated. No occupational 62 73 1.020 45 and 4 of them are contractor personnel. A total illness was found. Çimsa 59 73 1.020 45 of 100 days of work force was lost including 70 • 1.001 contractor personnel were controlled Subcontractor 0 0 0 0 days from permanent personnel and 30 days for their employment procedure and 453 Number of Accident from contractor’s personnel. Resulting in Death 0 0 0 1 0 0 contractor personnel were controlled Çimsa 0 0 0 0 0 0 periodically. Subcontractor 0 0 0 1 0 0 52 53 VIII. Contribution To The Society VIII. Contribution To The Society Eskişehir Plant: Ankara Plant: II) Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Our projects, training and general implementations 2013 is 13.6 hours/number of • 19 personnel received Fundamental OHS Management in Ready Mixed Concrete continued in Çimsa Eskişehir Plant which were initiated employees. training for 4 hours. in 2012. • The rate of environmental training in 2013 is • 24 personnel received training for “Methods Greean and Safe Plants Project 4.7 hours/number of employees. of Protection from Fire and Fire In our ready mixed concrete operations, we began our Kayseri Plant: • The rate of instructional training in 2013 is Extinguishing”. occupational health and safety operations by measuring • Periodical medical examinations were 9.6 hours/number of employees. provided for 109 personnel. 12 personnel • Periodical examinations and vaccinations • By participation of 28 personnel emergency the current accidents in 2008. Green and Safe Plant had further examination and treatment. No were completed and no occupational diseases intervention and first aid drills were performed. Project was realized in 2009 in order to increase occupational illness was found. were found. Periodical health scanning: Under • Periodical health examination was provided awareness for Occupational Safety, Occupational • Certified first aid training were completed for the scope of these scanning operations all for 41 personnel. These examinations included Health and Environment and to create better working 13 personnel. Çimsa employees and subcontractor employees routine chest radiography examination, SFT, conditions. First a Green and Safe Plant Committee is • 42 personnel received training for quitting were scanned for routine chest radiography audio test, eye examination, liver function test created and the accidents were divided into three (in smoking. examination, Audio and SFT tests. and blood glucose level measurement. No plant-in traffic-in site) and operations were initiated; • 27 personnel received training for benefits • An OHS report implementation is developed. occupational illness was found. one of them for solving problems regarding improper of flu vaccine and 85 personnel had flu The winners of the reports were • Our demijohn waters and utility waters were and unsafe environments and the other was for solving shots. awarded. • 9 permanent personnel and 43 contractor • In order to increase the awareness of controlled in Refik Saydam Hıfzıssıhha unsafe behavior. Under this framework, as a result of personnel had tetanus shots. occupational and safety, our employees Center of the Ministry of Health. After the control the risk analysis conducted during work processes, • 22 personnel had training for Ergonomics and exhibited a theater and the theater event is the demijohn water was found to be unhealthy we decided to establish an audit mechanism. Among Protection from Muscle-Skeleton Diseases. presented to our customers. and therefore a healthier firm was our facilities, in order to award the facilities which • 13 personnel received training for • 500% of increase was observed regarding chosen. created the safest plant – traffic and site and were the sanitation. the number of notification of the last minute • 3 active lightning rods were controlled and no most respectful for the environment, the project was • Body mass indexes of 187 personnel events reported by our employees as problems were detected. introduced as a contest to our employees. As of 2010, were measured. 12 personnel received diet compared to 2012. Furthermore closure r a t e • Operation of the natural gas detectors and tire inspection of our facilities by an inspection team of programs. of the notification of the last minute events is outer depth controls were held twice a year, as three persons for three times a year continued in 2013. • 2 times blood donation campaigns were held 81.19%. with Turkish Red Crescent. 84 units of blood • In order to inform our employees for the once being in winter and once being in summer. In the contest 60% of the questions were related with were donated. completion status of the notification of the last occupational health and safety. minute events, phone messages were sent Under the scope of the local implementations, in Niğde Plant: using the mail pigeon. practices such as “BEKIR has priority over work” in • 4 occupational accidents were experienced in Kayseri plant, “The Safety Person of the Month” in 2013. For contractor employees 72 work days Ankara plant, “You can get work safety as much as were lost because of occupational accidents, you take an example” and “business operation hosting which was 6 for permanent employees. principle” in Mersin plant, our employees continue to • Apart from routine inspection plan, individual internalize the importance of OHS and to disseminate it inspections are held and dangerous conditions and behaviors are taken under control. Besides into the company culture. by means of inspections for layout and setting held monthly, the accidents to occur from untidiness of the environment are prevented. • 456 inspections were held within 2013. • 18 blue collar employees received training for first aid. • 20 subcontractor and permanent personnel had training for fire. • The rate of fundamental OHS training for 54 55 VIII. Contribution To The Society VIII. Contribution To The Society ii) Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) New Nursery Class for Hüsniye Cement Donation for NYSA Antique City Management in Ready Mixed Concrete Primary School Project for Green and Safe Facilities Çimsa, under the scope of the project of providing a During NYSA Antique City excavation and restoration • Green and Safe Plant project continued, pressurized container-fuel tank-lightning kindergarten class for a village school, renovated the operations held in Aydın Sultanhisar in 2013, Çimsa • The risk analysis for all plants were renewed, arrester-earthing etc. was completed. kindergarten class of the Hüsniye Primary School. The donated 85 bags of cement for the project. As a result • Emergency action plan was created, • Training for using fire tubes was given, fire new kindergarten class was opened for education in of the operations performed for preserving of our • OHS exposure measurements were drills were performed, fire tubes were controlled 16 November 2013. As Çimsa under the scope of the cultural heritage, Ankara University sent their gratitude completed, periodically, project of providing a kindergarten class for a village by a letter. • Medical service was initiated in all plants, • Health scanning was performed for all school, we provided 5 kindergarten classes for 4 village • OHS expert service was initiated in all plants, employees and new employees, schools since 2010 in Niğde. • Medical rooms were established in all plants, • Studies for elimination and / or minimization • OHS training was rendered for all employees, of the risks to cause accident in facility, traffic Çimsa provided a kindergarten class for a village school • Occupational certificates were completed and site, under the scope of the social responsibility operations (mixer & pumping & loader & central & • We participated in THBB Blue Barette this year as well. With the contributions from Niğde laboratory) occupational safety competition held among Plant, Çimsa completely renovated the kindergarten • First aid training was given, Ready Mixed Concrete companies in Turkey. class of the Hüsniye Village Primary School in the • Ergonomics and sanitation trainings were Our 4 participant plants (Tece 1st-Aksaray Ulukışla located in the county of Niğde. given, 2nd Pamukova, Misis 3rd ) demonstrated • KKD training was given and its use was taken outstanding performances. Under the scope of the renovation project, the under control, • Traffic training was received from traffic kindergarten class of the Hüsniye Village Primary School • Periodical scanning for the measurements of police was modernized. Besides the restoration of the toilets, laminated flooring was placed in the classes The light c. Social Contributions armatures of the classes and corridors were renovated. The windows and the doors were replaced with PVC. Niğde Summer Camp Turkish Young Philharmonic Orchestra The classrooms and the corridors were painted. The roof of the school building was renovated, together with We reached to 82 children, twenty of which were from As Çimsa we provided our support for the youngster the renovation operations in the school building with the students of Niğde-Kolsuz Village Primary School by to a different platform by being a sponsor to the a total of 14 students; soft furnishing materials were means of the Summer Camp of 2013, the first of which Turkish Young Philharmonic Orchestra comprised of purchased for the kindergarten class children. Shoe was realized with the participation of the children of 100 successful young people which is established for and stationary requirements of the children were met. the employees of the Niğde Plant in 2012. In the camp creating the concept of “National Young Orchestra” in participated by the children in the age group of 7-8, Turkey which is available in the countries with a certain 9-10 and 11-12 , creative role playing events and sport level of music education and life style. activities were performed. The program prepared in accordance with the age level of the children aimed to support social, behavior and emotional development of the children by means of creative role playing events and to support physical development of the children by means of sports activities. The children was able to discover the new solutions for the daily life problems, conflicts or self expressions by trial. In the creative author event, the children used their imagination to create histories and converted them into booklets via their own designs. 56 57 Product Safety and Responsibility Çimsa has been creating value for its customers by providing products and services required by its customers. IX. Product Safety and Responsibility IX. Product Safety and Responsibility Guaranteeing reliability of our products is one of our Product Safety Management in Product Safety Management In most important social commitments. Cement Production Ready Mixed Concrete Production Our customers and the end users of the products are Besides TSE standards and laws and regulations audited Policies we follow at our ready mixed concrete Our ambition is to produce the ready mixed our stakeholders who are directly or indirectly exposed by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, the facilities to reach our product safety performance concrete having high degree thermodynamic to health, safety and environmental impacts of our REACH code for protecting the environment and human targets are; stability throughout its service line and that will products. In addition to production processes, we health, ISO and OHSAS standards and CE&G compliance get least effected by micro climate by meeting manage all the responsibilities in packing and storage are standards we follow in respect to Çimsa quality • Conducting procurement, production quality parameters like durability, workability and processes with quality management systems as well. policy. and follow up according to standards and functionality in line with customer needs and legislations, expectations and this way to keep product reliability Our company’s sustainability approach is to conduct Operational responsibility regarding these subjects • Frequently analyzing the date obtained and customer loyalty. Situations like lack of knowledge production according to standards, with high reliability has been shared at high level by being appointed from studies done with “best in class” and during the product’s end use process, requesting of and targeting customer satisfaction and to convey the by management representatives. Management “best in best” principles and to follow up new concrete not suitable for the purpose and customer’s information related to health, safety and environmental representatives are persons responsible to the person technologies. equipment and personnel being insufficient during impacts of our products to our customers and end users. auditing integrated management system. the placement of concrete are difficulties we face. Operational responsibility regarding these subjects Our sustainability approach and quality policy define our The training and awareness studies related to these have been distributed at the senior management product responsibility performance targets. To monitor subjects cover quality circles, learning organization, 6 level between Quality management and Customer Our facilities possessing; new technologies, to ensure qualified input from sigma team works and the auditors trained and/or will Support Management (compliance to regulations • TSE compliance to Turkish standards trustworthy sources, to increase competence of our be trained to conduct internal audits done every six and our Quality Policy, Customer satisfaction, certificates, human resources with training, to ensure continuous months. Our facilities are audited once a year or once Product innovation), Regional Sales Management • EC Certificates, development and improvement by following our quality every 6 months by establishments such as BSI, Prysma, (Production and compliance to ISG policy, Customer • Detailed information on Çimsa Cement management system conditions in line with our quality KÇK and TSE. Satisfaction), Ready Mixed Concrete Technical products carrying CE mark and thus having the targets is our company policy. Support Management (Machinery and Equipment free circulation right within the European Union In line with our quality objectives, our Cement processes go through until it transforms maintenance and control), OHS and Administrative borders, priorities are as follows: to final product is under the responsibility of our Affairs Management (Auditing, Monitoring and • TS EN ISO 9001:2008 quality management • To follow up the new technologies, customers. Quality is affected also by other inputs used Reportage). system certificate applied according to • To provide input into continuous improvement together with cement. The fundamental difficulty here is, international standards for the produced by systematic measurement of the performance significant part of the customers doing applications not G and KGS certificates have been granted to our 26 cement and ready-mixed concrete products of our processes, using qualified labor and this having negative impact in ready mixed concrete facilities by THBB. In these and information related to these facilities can • To increase the competency of our human ensuring quality in the life span. facilities of ours and in our laboratories unannounced be reached at web site. resources by training, audits are done three times a year and a general • To exhibit a strategic management approach As Çimsa, although we are not directly a part of these audit is done once a year. which is focused on the requests and processes, we plan to raise awareness of our customers requirements of our customers and gives more with technical seminars on cement and cement products Our 12 ready mixed concrete facilities have TSE importance to satisfaction than expectation, processes, site applications, laboratory support studies certificate. One unannounced and one general audit • Periodic evaluation of the risks about within the scope of customer focus and after sales within one year are done. information safety, OHS, environment technical service and support. management and occupational permanence in All our ready mixed concrete facilities consisting order to provide service sustainability, We monitor our long and short term performance of Sakarya, Eskişehir, Kayseri, Niğde, Mersin and • To provide input to the customer at monthly Technical Committee meetings by using Adana Regional Managements have TS EN ISO service management, technical corporate score card, with measurements 9001:2008 quality management system certificate, • To develop new products and services in order like rate of use of alternative fuel, number of warnings OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety to enable our employees to support all work and alarms, durability standard deviation, amount of Assessment Series) closely related to business life, processed via creative ideas, contribution, customer loyalty, etc. and ISO 14001 Environment certificates. • Continuous improvement and enhancement of our quality management system. 60 61 Supply Chain Management Çimsa shares its sustainability approach with its suppliers and develops mutual collaborations. X. Supply Chain Management X. Supply Chain Management Supplier Management Transportation Cement sector has an intensive supplier use model Optimization of Transportation within a long supply chain. Çimsa has started to take Inbound and Outbound Transportations actions to reduce negative environmental impacts in its supply chain, while accelerating capacity increase programs, and including business rules in supplier’s. With the support of SAP APO (Advance Planner and Optimizer) module which has implemented in the contracts. Transportation is prioritized area studied in year 2011, Çimsa is optimizing clinker and cement deliveries from our plants in terms of quantity and this direction. transportation distances. With this purpose, in 2013, by the simulations of different scenarios in APO that customers demands would be fulfilled by different Çimsa production plants and by applying the most Çimsa requests conformity with all govermental laws appropriate model, C02 emission resulted by transportation was reduced by approximately 350 tons. and regulations including protection of environment, labor and human rights in its transportation contracts In ready mixed concrete plants, Çimsa is planning and tracking vehicle outbound traffic by a special either of goods or personnel, and audits them.Our policy computer sofware. This system increases our performance to satisfy our customers demands on the right is to carry our targets beyond the govermental laws and regulations through the cooperation with our suppliers. time, in the right quantities and qualities wit the right documents as well as supporting efficient usage of our resources.Wehicle routes are determined by considering driving safety and enviromental ctiteria. GPR In 2013, Çimsa has provided trainings on the issues; systems installed on the vehicles provide tracking system whether drivers comply with plans, routes and driving safety, economical driving ,efficient vehicle speed limits . maintenance , prevention of noise, spills and dust as well as other environmental issues, to drivers In 2013, to decrease negative environmental impacts of Çimsa transportation activities, we made studies providing especially ready-mix concrete transportation to shorten the transportation distances, minimize the unnecessary transportation and use eco-friendly service. Our objective is to extend these trainings vehicles and fuel. Some examples from these studies are summarized as follows: within upcoming two years to all drivers performing transportation by reason of all Çimsa operations. Also, it is planned to integrate driver training programs With the new road arrangement, the routes between two limestone and clay quarries and Eskişehir which will be supported by targets in transport Plant were shortened 2.7 km less than original ones which were 10.6 km, as well as getting more contractor management system and to improve supplier away from neighbourhood village. assessment procedures accordingly. Çimsa Ready Mixed Concrete Plants in Sakarya-Eskişehir region have started to supply additives from suppliers located in neighbour region Gebze/Tuzla instead of Çimsa Ready Mixed Concrete Chemicals Production Unit which is located in Mersin. Ready mixed concrete shipments which “distribution responsibility until customer site” are belongs to Çimsa are realized by mixer and pumps owned by Çimsa. Ratio of vehicle mixer and pump with Euro4 and Euro5 engines increased to 66% in the year 2013 while this ratio was 55% in 2012. On the other hand, cement shipments in which “distribution responsibility untill customer site” belonging to Çimsa are realized by 3rd party logictic suppliers vehicles. Ratio of vehicles with Euro4 and Euro5 engines increased to 50% in the year 2013 while this ratio was 40% in 2012. One of our objective is to increase the amount of bulk cement volume transported in each trip by encouraging our logistics suppliers using aluminium cement trailers. In 2013, 41 more aluminium trailers were added to the fleet of our logistic suppliers. 64 65 X. Supply Chain Management Transports Inside Çimsa Cement Preventions Against Spills and Plants Dust Caused By Transportation In 2013, we have continued our efforts and studies to For the purpose of preventing spills and dust, dedicated reduce non-value added storing, handling and material pulverizers and methods are used during raw material movements in our plants by using systematic warehouse crushing and screening processes and during petroleum layout and material flow planning methods. coke unloading/loading processes at the port as well as during stocking of all bulk materials and just before In Mersin, until 2013, petroleum coke had being transfer them. Additionaly while transporting bulk transferred first from bonded warehouse to plant stock material, a tarp is mandatory to be stretched over the area and then feeded to bunkers of the mills via truck. loaders and trucks. In 2013, the bunkers started to be feeded directly from bonded warehouse. Again in the In addition to these preventive actions ,as a consequence same plant, packaging materials have started to be of our stock reduction policy, raw material stock amount stocked in an area of 1800 m2 instead of 3500 m2 with in our plants (Mersin, Eskişehir, Kayseri, Niğde, Ankara). new design, and transportation distances have been decreased by 30%. Eskişehir Learning Organization Team has aimed at improving transportation activities inside the plant in the year 2013; and achieved 25% reduction of unnecessary stocking, handling and material movements. Railway Transport Our objective is to increase the ratio of railway transportation which causes less emissions than road transport. However, problems such as, insufficiencies of existing infrastructure, capacity and delivery durations of railway transport slown down our progress. So as to reduce these kinds of problems, meetings are stil being held with representatives of the government which is in position of owner of all railways in Turkey. Meanwhile, in 2013, to be able to increase the railway usage for transferring containers between Mersin Plant and Mersin Port, works were started for construction of a new storing,loading and unloading station and an additional railway next to our Mersin Plant and it is planned to use them actively with full capacity in 2014. 66 67 Dialogue With Our Stakeholders Çimsa shares its sustainability vision with its all stakeholders and pays great attention to their feedbacks. G4 24 G4 26 G4 25 G4 27 G4 25 G4 26 XI. Dialogue With Our Stakeholders XI. Dialogue With Our Stakeholders Çimsa believes that sustainable development can be achievable through working in harmony with all stakeholders. Therefore Çimsa considers the communication and cooperation with its stakeholders as an indispensable for the corporate culture and strategy. While creating our sustainability based actions Although Cimsa has an open communication line In addition to this research; comments, suggestions Feedbacks we received within this scope play an we make point of applying studies that might with its all stakeholders, Çimsa meet its customers, on company’s perception and sustainability studies important role in sustainability actions we will take bring benefit to all our stakeholder and ensuring employees, shareholders suppliers and industry and opinions for collaboration opportunities were in following years. In September 2013, we held sustainability of these studies. With this approach, organizations once a year, with public institutions received through a questionnaire made with our first “Stakeholder Meeting” in Ankara, during implementation decisions are made by questioning and financial institutions throughout the year during customers. These questionnaires allowed Çimsa’s which information was provided concerning our the conformity to sustainability criteria. the studies, academia and local people periodically stakeholders to question their own knowledge and sustainability report and our sustainability focuses and when necessary. understanding with respect to sustainability. and targets were discussed. Our meeting which was Cimsa is in constant communication with internal and external stakeholders. C’msa has been a public When considering the fact that stakeholders are the first in the sector was held with the participation company to develop the dialogue with stakeholders important in Çimsa’s business processes and In 2014 reporting period, we are planning to of our customers, non-governmental organizations, at each stage. value chain, communication with stakeholders open new dialogue channels specific to external public institutions and provincial environment through most efficient mechanism is adopted as a stakeholders and listen the demands and opinions directorates, universities and our employees. Cimsa made efforts to integrate its employees, corporate communication strategy of the company. of our stakeholders on a regular basis, which are customers and arranged a big stakeholder meeting At this point, applications are realized in a systematic directly related to our business within the frame of Throughout the meeting, as well as many thanks to listen their top level executives. In this context manner for organization of events, seminars and sustainability. Feedbacks we will be receiving within to Çimsa for its studies carried out in terms of a direct dialogue with, public institutions, industry social activities where a meeting will be held with this scope shall play an important role in actions we sustainability, a request for being leader of the sector organizations and NGOs, financial institutions, stakeholders; conducting measurings through will take in the following years. with regard to sustainability was notified to Çimsa. companies, communities, suppliers, dealers and several questionnaires specific to stakeholders and In conclusion of the meeting, expectations of our academic institutions were carried out. also performing field visits and enriching the sharing General Stakeholder Meeting stakeholders are as below. and communication. Çimsa has conducted a survey Customers with its employees in 2013 just like previous years. In 2013 reporting period, it was aimed to open new • Effective resource usage, (Dealers & Sector & dialogue channels special to external stakeholder Users) • Alternative fuel (from waste-to-energy) usage Other sectors’ Entities and to listen regularly demands and opinions of as an energy Financial Institutions stakeholder, which are directly related to our business • Cooperation with trade unions with respect to within the frame of sustainability. occupational health and safety Employees • Review of effects on local community in factor areas Public • Development of collaborations with institutions stakeholders, especially with universities • Development of eco-friendly innovative products and R&D studies. Group Companies ÇİMSA While some of expectations specified during Suppliers the meeting have been already reflected to our Subcontractors employees, they have been also a guideline for the year 2014 and our upcoming studies. Academic Institutions Local Community Shareholders NGO & Trade Bodies 70 71 G4 27 G4 27 XI. Dialogue With Our Stakeholders XI. Dialogue With Our Stakeholders Dialogue with Our Employees Sustainability Survey with Our Customers Our employees who are the backbone of Çimsa’s communicated that they desired to participate in the In addition to the regular one-to-one interviews with Our corporate structure and business ethics corporate success have primary importance process by attending and supporting training, etc. our customers in 2013, a survey was conducted approach, both of which are the prioritized criteria in corporate sustainability studies. Our actions attempts to increase their knowledge and capacities with the participation of 70% of our customers. We for Çimsa to be selected by its customers, are our regarding human resources are shaped in a manner about sustainability. received the feedbacks of our customers through the prioritized sustainability subjects, with which we that will ensure our employees to have knowledge survey we held at the customer meetings. have made a difference in the industry. about sustainability subjects and act in compliance “Learning Organization” works that have started in with sustainability principles. the previous years for performing common team Being defined as simply “Reliable” by our customers, works improve and continue with voluntary teams. our company aims to enhance this trust. Human Resources Vision of Çimsa is to create a high Starting from 2014, our actions will focus on the performance culture, and its mission is to ensure sustainability based areas. organizational change and development. Accordingly, we regulate our actions related to human resources Our Dialogue with Our Customers within the frame of three main targets: As a company, we improve and offer our goods 1. To establish the organization and humans and services according to the expectations of our What is the most important reason for What is the secondary subject that your cooperation with Çimsa? influences your cooperation with Çimsa? resources infrastructure for supporting customers. According to the nature of the market and company strategies; the sustainability knowledge, dialogue and sharing Range and quality 2. To measure and continuously develop the with the customers are the prioritized subjects of of the products and services; Innovation organizational climate, economic sustainability for Çimsa. Çimsa is aware policy of, and aims at, the fact that its sustainability targets Occupational 3. To increase the leadership characteristics will be shaped and realized by its customers at a 21,5 % health and at every level and to increase the information 29,4 % safety policy and skill levels of the employees. gradually increasing rate in future. Currently we Environmental focus on how we can meet these expectations with 41,4 % policy 11,8 % Our internal stakeholder survey, also includes sustainability based products and services while 11,1 % sustainability targets, has completed with our developing and offering our products to meet the employees. Results of survey has proved once customer demands. Therefore, we will ensure that our customers will contribute indirectly to the chain Being a 16,4 % again that our employees are our most important corporate 9,6 % stakeholder in the development of the company, in terms of generating less emissions and using the company 46 % regionally in particular. According to the results sources more efficiently. We are able to understand 12,9 % of the survey that took part with the participation opportunities to develop more sustainableEnvironmental of 45% of employees, our employees are content innovativeproducts as a result of feedbacks from product Its contribution to the development our clients. For this reason, it is of a vital importance Innovative and with our current corporate performance related economic studies solution partner development of the Corporate to occupational health and safety, efficient use of for us to understand our customer correctly. approach region; Business Ethics sources and protection of environment. The target of taking the positive feedbacks we received much further is among our responsibilities. Our employees 72 73 G4 27 G4 27 XI. Dialogue With Our Stakeholders XI. Dialogue With Our Stakeholders Customer Loyalty Survey Dialogue with our Local Neighbors The survey was conducted face-to-face and by Being reliable comes first among Çimsa’s three through an appointment from the customers in order values. We always maintain our communication to identify the loyalty levels of cement and ready channels open with local public and administrations mixed concrete customers for Çimsa, emotional at the regions in which we operate in order to maintain According to you, which fields should Çimsa Which subject should Çimsa address for the upcoming and rational motivations of the customers and their this trust. We review their requests and suggestions improve more in the upcoming period? period that you provide your support? perceptions about Çimsa brand as well as to increase in no time and take necessary improvement actions. customer loyalty and to detect the areas that need to be improved. Our cement factories, which had been established far Cooperation with Environmental local administrations from residential areas according to regulations and Innovative policy None For Customer Loyalty Survey of 2013, total 269 laws, got closer to the residential areas by time as R&D studies Cooperation with 8,9 % non-governmental customers were interviewed; 98 of them are Ready cities developed and expanded to a large area. Our 15,7 % Voluntariness 8% organizations Mixed Concrete, 151 are grey cement, 18 are white ready mixed concrete facilities are established and works; 9,7 % cement and two are CAC customers. operated at industrial zones at a certain distance from 5,5 % residential areas according to regulations and laws. 41,4 % Loyalty levels of both cement and concrete customers In spite of that, the limited number of complaints we were found to be significantly high, compared to have been receiving about our cement factories and 27,9 % 35,6 % 32,6 % 2011. Index increased to 78 points within Çimsa ready mixed concrete facilities throughout the years in general, with cement index being 80 points and are reviewed by factory and facility management and RMX index being 75 points. (This is the highest level relevant people are informed accordingly. We have a that has been achieved since 2009. Value of the year written policy for managing the entrance, operation 15 % 2011 is 71.) and leaving/closing processes of cement and ready Cooperation with Employment Awareness building activities in public and other mixed concrete operations. policy the fields of efficient usage of the authorities in Loyalty score of grey cement customers is 80 points. Policy of using the natural resources, environment order to get over the sources efficiently preservation and climate change; Loyalties of both user and distributor group were During the reportage period, we not only sponsor challenges that the industry faces observed to be higher compared to 2011. many types of cultural and sportive activities supporting the public institutions and the community According to the resolution of Çimsa Marketing in all the regions we operate in, we also plant Committee, “customer loyalty” surveys will be thousands of saplings for improving the surrounding. Within the frame of the feedbacks from customer survey, Çimsa believes that the following areas will be important conducted every two years. for sustainability actions in later terms, and aims at performing these actions with the support from its customers. Planting Tree Activity in Eskişehir Plant • Leading the sector in order to overcome the challenges that the industry encounters, with our Customers • Engaging in awareness building activities regarding efficient usage of the natural resources Planting tree and picnic activity organized by our facility directorate every year were done at our Eskişehir plant this year for the first time, our customers were also invited to the activity. Our customers, who participated in the activity aiming at raising awareness among our customers, named the sapling they planted after their companies. At the activity ended with the picnic and factory trip, all guests emphasized that the social responsibility projects needed more cooperation. 74 75 G4 27 XI. Dialogue With Our Stakeholders XI. Dialogue With Our Stakeholders Dialogue with the Industry Dialogue with Non-Governmental ESOGU Civil Engineering Days Representatives Organizations While our works with universities increasingly as speakers, also hosted our R&D and Application Our dialogues we started in previous years with Çimsa became a member of Cement Sustainability continue, our communication is preponderating Center Director and Corporate Developmentthe Cement Industry Employees Association (CEIS) Initiative (CSI) in 2013. We had reviewed the sponsorships style. Capability Director. At the Civil Engineers Day, and The Turkish Cement Manufacturers Association improvement suggestions of CSI about the strategic information about the importance of cement (TCMA) is continuing steadily. We strengthened issues we determined with our shareholders and Çimsa was the sponsor of the Civil Engineering Days and concrete, developing technologies and new our works on occupational health and safety after strategic sustainability subjects that CSI detected that were held for the fifth time this year between generations of products were presented. we reviewed it again with the views of CEİS. By for cement industry, such as Climate Preservation, 19 21 April 2013 by Eskişehir Osmangazi University ensuring active participation in studies within TCMA, Fuel and Raw Materials, Occupational Health and Civil Engineering Club again. The activity at which we submitted our views and project proposals for Safety, Emission Reduction and Energy Efficiency, about 400 civil engineering students from all over development toward social and environment in the matched with the prioritized subjects of Çimsa. A Turkey as well as the leading people from academy sector. closer working environment at an environment in and business world attended which we use performance indicators of CSI, which Concrete Seminar for Employees in the engages in special works for cement industry, not Building Audit Sector only accelerates our accomplishment of targets, but also provides important benefits in terms of orienting As a leading cement and construction materials other organizations to the subject about this issue, as manufacturer of Turkey, we held a seminar on the first organization from Turkey. concrete in Kayseri and Mersin in order to inform building auditing professionals. At the seminar, ideas In addition of following the works of Turkish Business were exchanged about manufacturing concrete Council for Sustainable Development (SKD), of which conforming to standards in parallel with the we are a member of, and of expressing opinion, we developments in cement and concrete technology joined a cooperation by signing “Energy Efficiency at and ensuring that the correct concrete applications Buildings (EEB)” project, which was launched at the were implemented at the constructions. During the end of 2012. seminar which was mostly attracted by building auditing professionals, it was remarked that recently Sponsorship of ‘Quality at International cement and concrete quality had come to the Construction’ International Summit forefront recently in terms of construction safety and that positive developments were observed after Çimsa was the sponsor of the 5th ‘Quality at the introduction of new technologies in concrete International Construction’ Summit in which the manufactured in Turkey. The activity that delivered subjects of Sustainable, Reliable, Contemporary important messages to us, as Çimsa, in terms of Buildings and Urban Transformation, legal, social our product quality and innovative products, also and functional aspects of urbanization, material demonstrated our product quality once again. development technologies at construction sector, inspection and funding of urbanization, sustainability in urbanization, safety and energy efficiency were discussed. 76 77 Reporting Approach Çimsa constitutes its sustainability approach by taking its stakeholders and subjects vital to its corporate structure into consideration and proceeds with its endeavours. G4 17 G4 22 G4 24 G4 18 G4 23 G4 25 XII. Reporting Approach XII. Reporting Approach Our sustainability report that includes economic, importance of the sustainability context for our The definition of the reports contents. United Nations Global Compact environmental and social performance of ÇİMSA stakeholder was key. To receive final approval from Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Çimsa) for the year 2013 top management we have presented it to our general We have implemented guidelines of GRI for is presented based on opennes, transparency manager. As our business is in progress of being determining sustainability aspecs(materiality matrix) and accountability criteria in the light of business structured newly at Afyon Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret such as, importance, stakeholder participation, principles stated in this report. As Çimsa, we pay A.Ş., which we acquired in June 2012, it was added sustainability contecs and integrity while we are maximum attention to make a favorable effect only to “Corporate Profile” of this report. However, our preparing our report. The content of this report has on future requirements and expectations of our Afyon facility is not included in sustainability data. been identified our staheholder meeting, workshops stakeholders for sustainability purposes and take In addition, the entire operations of Çimsa, except and surveys, has been approved by our top necessary actions accordingly, while executing for logistics activities performed with its overseas management out of internal discussions. Çimsa works with an integrative approach to our present business and operations. Therefore, terminals and suppliers, are included within the its sustainability activities and all the programs this report is, in a way, one of the most important scope of this report. During the works where stakeholders oppinions and attended. Çimsa believes that ‘United Nations Global platforms that we can review the priorities of our suggestions were addressed we adressed Çimsa’s Compact’ signed in 2012 integrates its sustainability stakeholders regarding sustainability and that we GRI Global Reporting Initiative economical, environmental, social impacts and activities and enables these activities to be more can share the suggestions and offers. governance roles interms of sustainability for the significant. As an organization which has integrated We prepared Çimsa Sustainability Report based on company as a hole. We present each hadding in the principles of running a business ethically to its The Purpose and Scope of This Report GRI G4 standard principles in accordance ‘’Core’’ the rate of its importance and priority, supported by business process for a long time, Sabancı Holding level. These guidelines form a frame for companies appropriate data from the reporting period. Corporate Governance Principles and SA-Ethics are This report addresses economic, environmental to report their environmental, economic and social an extension of UN Global Compact (UNGC), which and social impacts of Çimsa, which operates in impacts together with their coorporate governence Period and frequency of the report has an inherent complementarity. Within this scope, cement and ready mixed concrete sectors, during its principles. www.globalreporting.org our report is prepared also as UNGC reporting and operations in Turkey as well as its relevant businessThis report covers Çimsa’s 2013 operation period we our relevant statements can be tracked on the running principles. The report aims at informing the Our report also includes the principles of UN Global intend to publish the subsequent volume of our report GRI Content Tables and within the reports, and our minimization of all possible negative results out of our Compact (UNGC), which we signed in 2013, in a GRI which will be regularly publish every year, in 2015 websites are also available. current and future operations with the participation report format. www.unglobalcompact.org covering the 2014 activity period. For the information stakeholders. Therefore, our shareholders will be in our report and further details, see able to watch the steps of measuring, tracking and While creating the report, we paid attention especially www.cimsa.com.tr. improving the sustainability performance of Çimsa the principles of CSI (CSI) under the principles of The during its triple reporting process. World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). www.wbcsdcement.org We examined all cement factories and ready mixed plants of Çimsa for determination of strategic Though we did not process our report through a subjects and collection of data. We have decided to specific auditing study, as we consider integritiy and use GRI G4 reporting framework our 2013 report. transparancy of the report we have specified the We have defined our 2013 sustainability issues with individual inspections on GRI Content Index Table, if the continuity principle and based on our 2020 targets. there is. We have also considered market developments and expectations, our studies with trade associations, our supply chain, developments on technology, legal regulations, as well as compliance expectations from WBCSD CSI and UNGC. We have reviewed our sustainability context during our sustainability committe meetings and discussed if our identification, prioritization and validation has been completed properly. Understanding the 80 81 2020 Sustainability Ambitions Çimsa works to achieve 2020 ambitions to take important roles at global platforms. XIII. 2020 Sustainability Ambitions XIII. 2020 Sustainability Ambitions Environmental Sustainability Ambitions 2 3 Environmental Sustainability Ambitions Our Environmental Sustainability Objectives For Cement Plants Our Environmental Sustainability Objectives for Cement Plants Environment Management and Reporting Management and Reduction of Emissions Systematic collection and monitoring of the environmental data Target Key Performance Unit Actual Actual Target Target Definition Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2020 Increasing the Alternative Fuel Usage Target Key Performance Actual Actual Target Target Emissions can be Unit kept under conLimit Values of Environmental Definition Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2020 stant control, enDust level mg/Nm3 13 14 <50 suring compliance Regulation for 2020 Reducing the use Rate of replacement % 7.50 7 6.5 10.6 with environmental of fossil fuels (calorific based) regulations Limit Values of Environmental NOx level mg/Nm3 712 732 <1300 Regulation for 2020 Restoring Lands to Their Natural Form and Decreasing Local Impacts Volatile organic comLimit Values of Environmental Target mg/Nm3 15 17 <150 Key Performance Actual Actual Target Target pounds Regulation for 2020 Definition Unit Indicator (Cumulative) 2012 2013 2014 2020 Heavy Metals (Hg+CLimit Values of Environmental mg/Nm3 0.010 0.006 <0.05 d+TI) Regulation for 2020 Rehabilitation of Rehabilitated area ha 11.5 12 12 16 Limit Values of Environmental quarries Dioxin/Furane µg/Nm3 0.011 0.007 <0.1 Regulation for 2020 Limit Values of Environmental HCI mg/Nm3 2.34 0.57 10 Climate Change and Protection Regulation for 2020 Target Key Performance Actual Actual Target Target Limit Values of Environmental HF mg/Nm3 0.28 0.21 1 Unit Regulation for 2020 Definition Indicator 2012 2013 2014 2020 Online monitoring Ratio of the kiln stackCO2 emission As Çimsa, we will comply with the international agreements that will be signed by Turkey and of dust and NOx Dust and NOx values can % 43 43 43 100 levels be monitored online all decisions taken by TÇMB in relation to our CO2 emission reduction targets for the years following 2013. Conversion of Conversion rate of rotary electro filters with kiln electro filters into % 57 57 57 100 bag type filter bag type filters 2 Çimsa is not manufacturing Aggregate since 2013. For this reason, the related objectives were excluded from our report. Products and Services 3 Objectives for Ready Mixed Concrete were achieved. Actual Actual Target Target Percentage of recycled paper/ Unit cardboard packaging 2012 2013 2014 2020 % 40 42 42 60 Social Sustainability Objectives Social Sustainability Ambitions (2014+) Cement Unit 2014+ Fatalities Person 0 Fatalities (Sub-employer) Person 0 Fatalities (Third Party) Person 0 Accident Frequency Rate 0 Lost working day Days 0 Absence from Work Except for Accident Days 0 Ready Mixed Concrete Unit 2014+ Fatalities Person 0 Fatalities (Sub-employer) Person 0 Fatalities (Third Party) Person 0 Accident Frequency Rate 0 Lost Working Day Days 0 Absence from Work except for Accident Days 0 84 85 Performance Tables Çimsa pays strict attention and cares for minimizing the environmental impacts of its operations through utilization of the natural resources more efficiently. XIV. Performance Tables XIV. Performance Tables Our Economic Performance Data Our Environmental Performance Data Created and Distributed Economic Value Our Environmental Performance Unit 2011 2012 2013 GRI Unit 2011 2012 2013 GRI Economic Value Generated (Net Sales) Million TL 765.75 805.58 875.40 EC-1 Gray cement manufacturing tons 4.543.044 4.715.042 4.759.454 EN 1 Economic Value Distributed to the Shareholders White cement manufacturing tons 965.926 902.293 984.975 EN 1 Operational Costs Million TL 513.04 525.01 571.48 EC-1 Calcium Aluminate Cement Manufacturing tons 27.320 EN 1 [Cost Goods Sold (other than amortization and Aggregate manufacturing amount tons 3.300.000 2.436.000 3.337.000 EN 1 personnel costs), General Administration Expenditures, Ready mixed concrete manufacturing amount m3 1.974.256 2.665.546 1.698.978 EN 1 Nonstrategic Investments, Copyrights, etc.] Benefits Paid to Government (Taxes, etc.) Million TL 61.60 70.74 101.93 EC-1 MATERIALS Benefits Paid to Investors and Stakeholders Million TL 94.83 106.72 98.07 EC-1 Gray cement 2011 2012 2013 (Dividends, etc.) Gray cement clinker natural raw material amount tons 5.699.371 5.980.292 6.133.601 EN 1 Benefits Paid to Financial Institutions (Interests, etc.) Million TL 15.91 34.3 25.07 EC-1 Clinker produced tons 3.984.355 3.946.950 4.001.839 EN 1 Benefits Paid to Employees (Salaries, etc.) Million TL 55.97 57.17 65.41 EC-1 Alternative raw material tons 114.452 180.581 211.583 EN 1 Benefits to the Society (Donations, etc.) Million TL 1.45 0.2759 10.27 EC-1 Conventional fossil fuels tons 430.180 404.446 398.106 EN 1 TOTAL 742.80 794.22 872.24 Alternative fuels tons 23.998 43.099 42.380 EN 1 Economic Value Retained Million TL 38.86 45.67 28.23 White cement 2011 2012 2013 Financial aids received from government Clinker natural raw material amount tons 914.664 1.064.718 955.098 EN 1 Tax reductions (R&D reductions + export Lump Sum Million TL 0.93 0.82 0.87 EC-4 Clinker produced tons 875.929 895.923 1.041.091 EN 1 Expenses) Other benefits paid to employees Alternative raw material tons 49.465 85.454 110.711 EN 1 Contributions of Çimsa to Personal Pension System tons 122.027 115.402 142.399 EN 1 Million TL 0.30 0.34 0.34 EC-3 (BES) on behalf of employees Aggregate 2011 2012 2013 Total number of employees who joined to BES system Person 154 165 158 EC-3 Total natural raw materials (lime stone) tons 2.795.000 2.700.000 3.900.000 EN 1 Ready Mixed Concrete 2011 2012 2013 Alternative raw material (volatile ash) tons 52.530 61.815 46.200 EN 1 Alternative raw material (clinker) tons 78.204 EN 1 RATIO OF RECYCLED MATERIALS USED AS INPUT Gray Cement 2011 2012 2013 Alternative raw material usage rate percent 1.63 2.47 3.05 EN 2 Alternative fuel usage rate percent 4.60 7.50 7.02 EN 2 White Cement Alternative raw material usage rate percent 3.42 4.77 6.09 EN 2 Direct energy consumption Gray Cement 2011 2012 2013 Total thermal energy consumption TJ 13.113 13.217 13.402 EN 3 Specific thermal energy consumption MJ/clinker 3.293 3.292 3.334 EN 5 Clinker/cement ratio percent 81.3 80.5 82.3 EN 3 White Cement 2011 2012 2013 Total thermal energy consumption TJ 4.155 4.631 4.835 EN 3 88 89 XIV. Performance Tables XIV. Performance Tables Our Environmental Performance Data Our Environmental Performance Data INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Unit 2011 2012 2013 GRI WASTES Unit 2011 2012 2013 GRI Cement Cement Electricity consumption TJ/y 2.090 2.056 2.294 EN 3 Hazardous waste tons/year 91 186 153 EN 23 Ready Mixed Concrete Non-hazardous waste Electricity consumption TJ/y 127 159 158.5 EN 3 Recycled waste tons/year 323 1200 857 EN 23 Aggregate Domestic waste tons/year 226 238 226 EN 23 Electricity consumption TJ/y 20.2 16.4 29.5 EN 3 BIODIVERSITY Ready Mixed Concrete Rehabilitation of mines ha 9.5 11.5 12 EN 13 Hazardous waste tons/year 12.6 EN 23 EMISSIONS Safe waste Greenhouse gas emissions Domestic waste tons/year 57.5 EN 23 Cement PERCENTAGE OF CEMENT SOLD AS BAG Total CO2 Emission (Scope 1) million tons/ 4.3 4.3 4.5 EN 15 AND BULK BY CATEGORY year Grey Cement kg CO2/ton Bulk percent 76.1 80.6 79.3 EN 28 Gray Cement Specific CO2 Emission (Scope 1) 711 701 732 EN 18 cementitious Bag percent 23.9 19.4 20.7 EN 28 kg CO2/ton White Cement Gray Cement Specific CO2 Emission (Scope 2) 52 EN 18 cementitious Bulk percent 48.7 43.7 38.2 EN 28 Total CO2 Emission (Scope 2)-gray tons CO2/y 245.182 EN 16 Bag percent 51.3 56.3 61.8 EN 28 Total CO2 Emission (Scope 2)-white tons CO2/y 65.335 EN 16 Recycled Bag Ratio percent 40 40 42 EN 28 CO2 Savings Amount (Waste heat-savings amount) tons/year 23.919 EN 19 GENERAL ENVIRONMENT EXPENDITURES NOx, SOx, 1 dust and other air emissions Cement Cement Expenditure on Environment Protection Total dust emission tons/year 128 108 156 EN 21 million TL 61.2 22.14 19.61 EN 31 Activities Specific dust emission g/t clinker 25 25 31 EN 21 Ready Mixed Concrete 2011 2012 Grinding and Packaging Expenditure on Environment Protection g/t cement 3.88 EN 21 million TL 0.64 5.33 4.30 EN 31 Total Dust emission Activities Ready Mixed Concrete Aggregate 2011 2012 Emission of dust hung in the air mg/N m3 1.47 1.33 EN 21 Expenditure on Environment Protection million TL 0.29 1.01 0.97 EN 31 Cement Activities 1 Total NOx emission tons/year 7417 5368 7196 EN 21 Specific NOx emission g/t clinker 1459 1227 1430 EN 21 Total Heavy metals tons/year 0.1 0.07 0.08 EN 21 Specific Heavy metals g/t clinker 0.02 0.02 0.02 EN 21 Total volatile organic compounds tons/year 135 125 139 EN 21 Specific volatile organic compounds g/t clinker 31 29 32 EN 21 Total Dioxin/furane g/y 0.076 0.125 0.079 EN 21 Specific Dioxin/furane ug/kg clinker 0.017 0.028 0.018 EN 21 Total HCl tons/year 2 2 4 EN 21 Specific HCl g/t clinker 1 1 1 EN 21 Total HF tons/year 2 2 2 EN 21 Specific HF g/t clinker 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 90 91 XIV. Performance Tables XIV. Performance Tables Our Social Performance Data Our Social Performance Data Our Social Performance Our Social Performance Occupational Health and Safety Trainings Unit 2011 2012 2013 G4 Numbers of Employees Distribution (31.12.2013) (By Age groups) Çimsa Employees Regional Distribution Age 20-25 Age 26-30 Age 31-35 Age 36-40 Age 41-45 Age 46-50 Age plus 50 Total OHS Training provided Hours/Year 11859 12500 6395 LA9 General Directorate (Istanbul) 1 8 13 6 7 1 5 Çimsa Subcontractors Mersin Plant 13 66 75 104 58 41 8 Total OHS Training provided Hours/Year 7681 8250 2829 LA9 Eskişehir Plant 12 42 53 39 26 12 3 Business Ethics Trainings Kayseri Plant 5 21 36 23 15 8 1 Çimsa Employees Niğde Plant 4 22 24 29 19 9 2 Managers received Ethics Training Percent 100 100 100 S03 Ankara Plant 0 1 14 7 4 0 2 Employees received Ethics Training Hours/Year 100 100 333 S03 Ready Mixed Concrete 4 26 42 16 10 5 1 Ethics Training per Employee 1 1 1 S03 Aggregate 0 3 2 2 1 1 0 General Trainings ( Personal and Career Oriented) Terminal 0 0 1 1 4 1 1 Çimsa Employees Total 39 186 260 227 144 78 23 Training per Employee Hours/Year 23,66 18,57 21,3 LA9 Distribution of Personnel (31.12.2013) (By Gender and Position) Employee Turnover Rates Top (Supervisor/ Officer/ Regional Distribution Total Manager Blue Collar Management Expert) Technician Consolidated (Recruitment + Quitting) General Directorate (Istanbul) 40 8 9 22 1 0 Within scope Percent 6.2 4.4 19.1 LA1 Mersin Plant 365 2 8 70 50 235 Out of scope Percent 14.0 7.9 22.3 LA1 Eskişehir Plant 187 1 3 23 30 130 Total Percent 9.5 5.9 20.9 LA1 Kayseri Plant 109 1 1 16 14 77 Workforce data Niğde Plant 109 1 1 16 9 82 Total Numbers of Employees Unit 2011 2012 2013 G4 Ankara Plant 28 2 0 7 1 18 White-Collar Employees Person 423 445 418 G4-10 Ready Mixed Concrete 104 0 5 12 87 0 Blue-Collar Employees Person 580 558 542 G4-10 Aggregate 9 0 1 2 6 0 Subcontractor's Employees Person 389 348 1108 G4-10 Terminal 8 0 5 2 1 0 Contracted Çimsa Employee Total 960 15 33 170 199 542 Contracted employees of indefinite duration Person 1000 1001 960 G4-10 Recruited Employees (01.01.2013-31.12.2013): 80 people Employees working with provisional contract Person 3 2 0 G4-10 Regional Distribution Number Number Ratio Full-time employees Person 1003 1003 960 G4-10 General Directorate (Istanbul) 6 10 %8 Half-time employees Person 0 0 0 G4-10 Mersin Plant 32 40 %33 Gender Male Person 959 956 911 G4-10 Eskişehir Plant 13 19 %16 Female Person 44 47 49 G4-10 Kayseri Plant 10 14 %12 Age Niğde Plant 11 13 %11 Between ages of 20-29 Person 227 150 182 G4-10 Ankara Plant 1 0 %0 Between ages of 30-39 Person 483 514 489 G4-10 Ready Mixed Concrete 7 24 %20 Between ages of 40-49 Person 253 297 260 G4-10 Aggregate 0 0 %0 Between ages of 50-60 Person 40 42 29 G4-10 Terminal 0 1 %1 Employees in Minority Group Position Data of Reporting Period Person Top Management Person 13 12 15 G4-10 Number of employees who take maternity leave in reporting period: 1 Mid-Level Management Person 38 34 34 G4-10 Number of employees who come back from maternity leave in 0 reporting period: First-level executives Person 87 39 71 G4-10 Number of employees who currently work in reporting period: Expert/Engineer Person 69 118 102 G4-10 N umber of employees who continue and come back from materOther white-collar employees Person 216 242 196 G4-10 0 nity leave: Blue-collar employees Person 580 558 542 G4-10 92 93 XIV. Performance Tables XV. Corporate Memberships Our Social Performance Data NAME OF ASSOCIATION / FOUNDATION / UNION / INSTITUTION REPRESENTING BODY POSITION Business Council for Sustainable Development Turkey Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU Member Recruited Employees (01.01.2013-31.12.2013): 80 people Number Number Ratio WBCSD Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) ÇİMSA (CORPORATE REPRESENTATION) Member Environment Friendly Green Buildings Association Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU Member Number of Female Employees 12 9 7% Turkish Industry & Business Association ÇİMSA (CORPORATE REPRESENTATION)-Mehmet GÖÇMEN Member Number of Male Employees 68 112 93% Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU Member 20 to 25 years of age 28 6 5% Cembureau The European Cement Association Mehmet GÖÇMEN Member Cembureau The European Cement Association Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU Member 26 to 30 years of age 36 23 19% Turkish Personnel Management Association Bilgen ÇAĞLI Member 31 to 35 years of age 10 26 21% Turkish Corporate Governance Association Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU Institution’s Representative 36 to 40 years of age 3 17 14% Turkish Corporate Governance Association Nevra ÖZHATAY Member Turkish Corporate Governance Association Memduh GÜLLÜ Member 41 to 45 years of age 1 13 11% Turkish Corporate Governance Association Remzi KARATAL Member 45 to 50 years of age 0 27 22% Turkish Corporate Governance Association Ümit ÇETİN Member 50(+) years of age 2 9 7% Private Sector Volunteers Foundation Bilgen ÇAĞLI Member Private Sector Volunteers Foundation Çiğdem GÜRBÜZ Associate Member of Supervisory Board Ratio to General Number of Employees 8.3% 12.6% 9,9% Association of Turkish Building Material Producers Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU Member Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Mehmet HACIKAMİLOĞLU Vice President, Chairman of Permanent Committee of Ready Mixed Concrete Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Şahap SARIER Technical Permanent Committee Member Member of Environment and Climate Change Committee, Member of Temporary Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association (EÇKA) İsmail BOZ Sub-Committee of Wastes and Petroleum Coke, Member of Temporary Sub-Committee of Online Communication, Member of the Board of Directors of Climate Commission Member of Permanent Committee of Ready Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Mustafa DEMİRCİ Mixed Concrete-Sub-Committee of Concrete Road and Concrete Barriers Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Çağatay AVŞAR Member of the OHS Board Member of Permanent Committee of Ready Mixed Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Mehmet ÖZYİĞİTOĞLU Concrete-Sub-Committee of Environment and Occupational Safety Member of Permanent Committee of Ready Mixed Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Tolga KALE Concrete-Sub-Committee of Environment and Occupational Safety Member of Permanent Committee of Ready Mixed Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Yeşim TEKNİKER Concrete-Sub-Committee of Environment and Occupational Safety Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Hüsnü GÜL Member of Technical Permanent Committee, Technical Specialization Committee Standards Cement Industry Employers Trade Union ÇİMSA (CORPORATE REPRESENTATION) Member Cement Industry Employers Trade Union Mehmet GÖÇMEN Member of the Board of Directors Cement Industry Employers Trade Union Bilgen ÇAĞLI Deputy Chairman of ÇAİK (Occupational Relations Board) Cement Industry Employers Trade Union Çağatay AVŞAR Member of the OHS Board Cement Industry Employers Trade Union Caner TÜRKYENER Member of ÇEİS Cement National Competencies Board (ÇYK) Cement Industry Employers Trade Union İlhami BARILDAR ÇEİS Business Assessment Member H.Ö.Sabancı Holding A.Ş. İsmail BOZ Member of Environment Committee Turkish Ready Mixed Concrete Association Önder KIRCA Representative of Institution Turkish Ready Mixed Concrete Association Mustafa DEMİRCİ Representative of Institution, Member of Technical Committee Turkish Ready Mixed Concrete Association Yeşim TEKNİKER Member of Environment Committee Turkish Ready Mixed Concrete Association Tolga KALE Member of Environment Committee Turkish Ready Mixed Concrete Association Merve ÖZKAN Member of Advertising and Public Relations Committee Turkish Foundation For Combating Erosion Reforestation And Alkan ŞENEL Member The Protection Of Natural Habitats Chamber of Mechanical Engineers Mustafa TURAN Member Chamber of Mechanical Engineers Faruk ÖZERGİL Member Chamber of Environment Engineers İlhami BARILDAR Member Chamber of Mineral Engineers Enver AYAS Member Mediterranean Sea Exporters Trade Unions ÇİMSA (CORPORATE REPRESENTATION) Member Middle Anatolia Exporter Trade Unions Erbil KOÇAK Member of the Board of Directors ÇİMSA (CORPORATE REPRESENTATION)-HB Regional Chambers of Commerce and Industry Corporate Membership of All Plants and HB Facilities Managers Mersin Industrialists and Businessmen Association Levent ÖNCEL (CORPORATE REPRESENTATION) Membership of Mersin Plant 94 95 XVI. GRI Content Tables XVI. GRI Content Tables Specific Standard Disclosures EXTERNAL UN GLOBAL DMA AND INDICATORS COMMENTS/PAGE NUMBER /LINK ASSURANCE COMPACT ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE General Standard Disclosures G4-DMA Our Economic Performance P.18, 19 No GENERAL STANDARD EXTERNAL UN GLOBAL COMMENTS/PAGE NUMBER/LINK G4-EC1 Company Profile P.6-7, Economical Values Created and Distributed P.24 No DISCLOSURE ASSURANCE COMPACT G4-EC2 Risk Management P.20, 21, Senior Management Statement P.4 -5, Sustainability Strategy P.11-15, 28 -29 No STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-EC3 Economical Performance Data P.88, Contributions to Society S.45, Çimsa’s contributions to the Individual Annuity Insurance No G4-1 Senior Management Statement Page 4, 5 No (BES) on behalf of employees : 0,34 million TL Total number of employees participating in the BES system is 158 COMPANY PROFILE G4-EC4 Our Economical Performance P.24, Economical Performance Data P.88 No G4-3 Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. S. 102, 104 and Annual Report 2013 P.41, 57 No MARKET PRESENCE G4-4 Products P. 9 No G4-DMA Senior Management Statement Page 4,5 No G4-5 Istanbul, Turkey P. 102 No G4-EC5 The gross salaries of the entire permanent personnel (blue and white collar) in the Company and the personnel of the subNo G4-6 Company Profile P. 6-7, 102-103 No employer providing services to the company do not fall below the minimum wage level determined legally. Taking living expense G4-7 Company Profile P. 6-7 No differences on a regional basis, the policy of the relative salary differences is embraced. Within this scope, the index for our personnel who are employed in the regions of Niğde-Mersin-Adana-Afyonkarahisar is predicated on as 100; and the index for the G4-8 Companys Profile P. 6-7, 102, 103 No regions of Eskişehir-Sakarya-Ankara is applied as 105 and the index for Istanbul is 114. G4-9 Company Profile P. 6 7, Performance Tables 88 94 No G4-EC6 Çimsa recruitment processes are performed in accordance with the Recruitment and Job Placement Regulation and conducted by No G4-10 Social Performance Tables P. 92-94. Excluding the exceptional situations all our employees are under the indefinite and full time No UNGC Principle 6 processing the entire job applications through an objective assessment. More than one applicants are interviewed for the vacant employment contract except the trainee position. Flexible employment practices can only be applicaple to the personnel of the subpositions and different supervisors interview the candidates during the selection process and express their opinions and views. employer companies. The total workforce distribution based on regions is directly proportional with the size of the enterprise and The ratio of the local people within the Çimsa personnel is 62% overall in Çimsa as 59% for Ankara, 62% for Eskişehir, 18% for workplace and norm staff requirements. There is no significant changes in number of employees. Istanbul, 70% for Kayseri, 65% for Mersin, 79% for Niğde. Contributions to Society P. 43 G4-11 The entire Blue-collar employees employed in Çimsa are within the scope of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. P.47, As of 31.12.2013, No UNGC Principle 3 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS the number of personnel of Çimsa within the scope of the Group CollectiveBargaining Agreement is 542 and the ratio to the total number G4-DMA Our Economical Performance P.21 No of employees is 56,5%. G4-EC7 Our Economical Performance P.21 No G4-12 Our sustainability subjects in the value chain P.12, No G4-EC8 Our Economical Performance P.22 No G4-13 Cimsa's shares in Adriatico SRL has reached from 60% to 70%. No PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-14 Corporate Governance and Business Ethics P.10, Risk Management P.20, Annual Report 2012 P.50 No G4-DMA Our Economical Performance P.22 No G4-15 Senior Management Statement P.5,Achievements P.2, CSI membership P.3, UN Global Compact P.81 No G4-EC9 Our Economical Performance P.22, 23 No G4-16 Corporate Memberships S.95 No ENVIRONMENT DENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDRIES MATERIALS G4-17 Corporate Profile P.6 -7; 2013 Annual Report P.22-23, — Cimsa Cementos Espana S.A.U. Spain Cimsa Cement Sales North GMBH No G4-DMA Environmental Sustainability P.29, 30 No Germany 50% Joint Enterprise), CimsaRom Marketing Distributie S.R.L. Romania Cimsa-Rus Cement Trading Company Limited Russia Cimsa Adriatico SRL Italy-70% Joint Enterprise), Cimsa Cement Free Zone Ltd. (TRNC), Afyon Çimento San. T.A.Ş. (51% Joint Enterprise). G4-EN1 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 Afyon Çimento San.T.A.Ş. does not appear within the scope of sustainability data report. Reporting approach P.80 G4-EN2 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-18 Materiality Matrix for Sustainability Issues P 12-14, Reporting Approach P 80, 81 No ENERGY G4-19 Materiality Matrix for Sustainability Issues P 13, 14 No G4-DMA Environmental Sustainability P.33 No G4-20 Materiality Matrix for Sustainability Issues P 15 No G4-EN3 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-21 Materiality Matrix for Sustainability Issues P 15 No G4-EN5 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-22 Reporting Approach P.80 No BIODIVERSITY G4-23 Materiality Matrix for Sustainability Issues P. 14, Reporting Approach P.80 No G4-DMA Environmental Sustainability P.39 No STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-EN13 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-24 Dialogue with Stakeholders P.70, Reporting Approach P.81 No EMISSIONS G4-25 Dialogue with Stakeholders P.70-71, Reporting Approach P.81 No G4-DMA Environmental Sustainability P.29, 35 No G4-26 Dialogue with Stakeholders P.70-71 No G4-EN15 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-27 Dialogue with Stakeholders P.71-76 No G4-EN16 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 REPORT PROFILE G4-EN18 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-28 2013 No G4-EN21 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-29 2012 No EFFLUENTS AND WASTES G4-30 Annual No G4-DMA Environmental Sustainability P.37 No G4-31 Legal Disclaimer P.104 No G4-EN23 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-32 GRI Index Chart P.96-101, The report is not entirely assured. Reporting Approach P.80, 81 No G4-33 Our Business Principles P.10 No GOVERNANCE G4-34 Our Business Principles P.10, Sustainability Subjects of Top Priority P.12, 14, 2013 Annual Report P.43 and No www.cimsa.com.tr/tr/kurumsal-yonetim/i-135 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Our Business Principles P.10, 2013 Annual Report P.43, 47, SABANCI Ethic Rules www.sabancı.com.tr No 96 97 XVI. GRI Content Tables XVI. GRI Content Tables Specific Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures EXTERNAL UN GLOBAL EXTERNAL UN GLOBAL DMA AND INDICATORS COMMENTS/PAGE NUMBER /LINK DMA AND INDICATORS COMMENTS/PAGE NUMBER /LINK ASSURANCE COMPACT ASSURANCE COMPACT PRODUCT AND SERVICES G4-LA15 The most critical subject with respect to workforce practices for Çimsa is the active monitoring of the employees of the subNo UNGC Principle 6 employers receiving their legal rights fully and on time. Within this context, Çimsa investigates whether the supplier company fulfils G4-DMA Environmental Sustainability P.37 No its responsibilities towards its employees and public authorities or not prior to the monthly progress payments. Regular monitoring G4-EN28 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 are performed towards occupational health and safety (OHS) matters and the responsibilities of the companies in terms of OHS are defined in details in the articles of the agreements. In case any breach of those aforementioned agreement articles is observed, TRANSPORT then there are also agreement articles towards implementing administrative sanctions for those companies. The agreements of 3 G4-DMA Supply Chain P. 64, 65 No sub-employer companies were not renewed due to non-conformance in the practices. Trainings with legal and social contents for increasing awareness towards the sub-employers are to be planned within the year of 2015. G4-EN30 Supply Chain P. 64-66 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 SUB-CATEGORY :HUMAN RIGHTS OVERAL INVESTMENT G4-DMA Our Economical Performance P.21, Environmental Sustainability P.2830 No G4-DMA Investments: The monitoring of the de facto applications of the personnel of the companies providing services and support regarding No G4-EN31 Performance Table 2013 No UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9 the human rights and the performance of audits on the protective provisions in the agreements shall be taken as a basis in the SOCIAL company policy investment processes. LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-HR1 The entire investment agreements of Çimsa are containing of special provisions and legal forces related to the Constitution in No UNGC Principle 1, 2 compliance with the related laws and regulations covering the age, social security, working hours and occupational health and safety EMPLOYEMENT matters. G4-DMA Contributions to Society P.42, 43 No G4-HR2 An average of 1 hour of training during the daily training of the private security personnel employed within the staff of the subNo UNGC Principle 1, 2 G4-LA1 Social Performance Table P.92, 93 No UNGC Principle 6 employer company covers human rights subjects. G4-LA2 Contributions to Society P.44 No UNGC Principle 6 NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-LA3 Contributions to Society P.43 No UNGC Principle 6 LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA Anti-Discrimination: Subjects such as equal opportunity, internal equilibrium among the employees are taken as a basis in the No Company practices and the monitoring and follow-ups of the rights and freedom secured within the scope of the Constitution and G4-DMA Workforce Management Practices: The organizational and operational amendments are networked by clarifying one month prior in No Labour Act are performed with parallel to the company regulations and procedures. order to perform the required preparations. G4-HR3 Within the scope of the related Labour Act and the Code of Obligations; Not even a single discrimination case or any related complaint No UNGC Principle 1, 2, 3, 6 G4-LA4 Contributions to Society P.44 No UNGC Principle 3, 6 have been observed. The company, consisting of a wide and diverse employee profile, has been performing the employee management OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY in an unbiased, fair and objective manner through the respect to diversities approach and the principle of diversities are prosperity. G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety: OHS actualization and objectives are periodically monitored, evaluated in the workplaces as the agenda No FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATIONAND COLLECTIVE BARGANING in OHS Committees and OHS Performance reporting are performed. The trends and alterations are analysed and the causes are examined G4-DMA Organizing and Collective Labour Agreement Freedom: Practices preventing and discouraging the freedom of organizing of the No by root cause analysis. suppliers are our of question for Çimsa. Within the scope of the Union Law, fair treatment of the employees employed by the suppliers G4-LA5 The cumulative ratio of the workforce represented in the occupational health and safety committees throughout Çimsa when considering No UNGC Principle 6 working with the Company constitutes a reason for their selection. the total number of employees in those workplaces is 9%. G4-HR4 For the Blue collar (within scope) employee groups; Çimsa implements and practices and takes Collective Labour Agreement regulation No UNGC Principle 1, 2, 3 G4-LA8 The related detailed information can be found as mentioned in 3 Articles in the Collective Bargaining Agreement concluded between No UNGC Principle 6 as a reference that is currently implemented in its entire factories within the framework of labour peace principles within the scope of Cement Industry Employers Union (ÇEİS) and Turkish Cement Ceramics, Earth and Glass Industry Workers Union (Türkiye Cam-İş) valid the Union and Collectiv Bargaining Agreement Act numbered 6356. By the affect of the existence of the employee and employer union between 01.01.2013-31.12.2015: 1Protective Precautions 2Notification of Diseases and Incidents 3-rules to be applied regarding in the sector, the relationship between the employee and the employer and union subjects are effectively executed with any disputes. occupational safety. CHILD LABOUR TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Child Labour: The suppliers employing child labour are not worked with as a principle and the required sanctions can be implemented No G4-DMA Training and Education: The intercorporate training and educational programs are determined with the defined procedures and policies No for the suppliers acting in breach of the agreement provisions within the scope of the agreements concluded. and regulated and monitored within the scope of the annual budget in accordance with the requirements of the organization and G4-HR5 The entire employees within the status of permanent employees and/or sub-employers providing services to Çimsa are obliged to No UNGC Principle 1, 2, 5 employees. have the social security in accordance with the registered formal employment within the scope of abiding with the Social Security G4-LA9 Contributions to Society P.48, Performance Data 92. The average annual training in 2013 is realized as 29,2 hour/per person No UNGC Principle 6 Act numbered 5510. The social security premium contributions and payments of the permanent employees are performed by Çimsa itself without causing any delays and interruptions. For the personnel of the sub-employer companies providing services to Çimsa, the G4-LA10 Contributions to Society P.48 No UNGC Principle 6 sub-employers are responsible to make the payments of the social security premiums of their own employees due to their solidary G4-LA11 Contributions to Society P.46 No UNGC Principle 6 responsibility within the scope of the 3rd Article of the Labour Act numbered 4857 and this is sought in the agreements concluded with the entire sub-employer companies as a prerequisite. This conditions is regulated in written in Çimsa Sub-Employer procedure. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-DMA Diversity and Equal Opportunities: Recognized opportunities in management and representation point, the flexibility and openness are No provided before their participation in various committees. G4-DMA Forced Labour or Obligatory Employment: The supplier should employ their employees through legitimate agreements and under No legal conditions. The compliance through human rights and quality standards are the critical factors in the supplier selection process. G4-LA12 Performance Table P.92 No UNGC Principle 6 G4-HR6 The entire personnel perform their duties and tasks under normal conditions within the scope of the Labour Act numbered 4857 upon No UNGC Principle 1, 2, 4 EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN reading and signing the employment agreement with their free will. Forced labour and/or obligatory employment is/are out of question in Çimsa. Audits, supervisions and contractual checks are performed for the suppliers and sub-employer companies providing services G4-DMA Equal Salary: Equal salary for equal work approach based on market values and internal equilibriums is embraced and practiced No to Çimsa whether they practice forced labour within the premises of Çimsa and such illicit situations are not allowed. throughout the company. G4-LA13 The gross salaries of the male and female employees, who are performing the same/similar duties and work, are addressed with a total No UNGC Principle 6 egalitarian and unbiased approach based on equivalence. The ratio of the average salary of the male employees on the same position performing same work and with similar experience and education levels, to the salary of the female employees is 1. This egalitarian approach is valid not only for salary but also for vested benefits (fringe benefits) and for total reward packages. SUPPLIER ASSESMENT AND LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA Social Contributions P.46, 47 No G4-LA14 The most critical subject with respect to workforce practices for Çimsa is sub-employer companies. Within this context, the selection No UNGC Principle 6 and assessment of sub-employer companies have the top priority. For the selection process of the sub-employer companies, evaluations related to the industrial relations within the scope of implementations and references for the previous SGK (Social Security institution) and the Labour Law. A total of three sub-employer companies have been warned due to their inability to fulfil their responsibilities regarding this area and no agreement renewals were performed with them for the new term. 98 99 XVI. GRI Content Tables XVI. GRI Content Tables Specific Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures DMA AND EXTERNAL UN GLOBAL DMA AND EXTERNAL UN GLOBAL COMMENTS/PAGE NUMBER /LINK COMMENTS/PAGE NUMBER /LINK NDICATORS ASSURANCE COMPACT NDICATORS ASSURANCE COMPACT SECURITY PRACTICES PUBLIC POLICY G4-DMA Security Practices: This situation which is obligatory for the sub-employer companies providing services of Private security companies is No G4-DMA Business Principles S.10 No aimed to be provided to other sub-employer company and supplier employees within certain period of time with an extended scope as general G4-SO6 Such moral/material contribution and/or support do not exist in the scope of the business ethics and corporate governance standards. No UNGC Principle 10 training. By this means, development of the general quality and training level are anticipated. G4-HR7 Çimsa has been receiving private security services in its premises from a sub-employer company within the scope of the law numbered 5118. No UNGC Principle 1, 2 COMPLIANCE The related sub-employer company is selected in compliance with the determined corporate and legal criteria. The entire personnel of this private security company receive human rights trainings and this condition takes place in cost sheet bearing the title of training expense/ G4-DMA Compliance: The legal risks and non-conformity notifications of the workplaces are monitored and followed-up and the required No cost in the service remuneration agreements. There are also provisions in this direction in the related purchasing/service agreements and requirements are fulfilled on time by pro-active precautions. specifications. The entire companies providing services to Çimsa are subject to audits and selected in consequence of a certain procedure. G4-SO8 No such penalty in reporting period. No The controls are performed in these audits whether the entire personnel of the sub-employer companies have received the required trainings or not. An average of 1 hour of training during the daily training of the private security personnel employed within the staff of the sub-employer SUB-CATEGORY :PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY company covers human rights subjects. CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY INDIGENOUS RIGHTS G4-DMA Not material No G4-DMA Rights of the Local Community: The requests, recommendations, opinions and feedbacks of the local communities that are one of the most No G4-PR1 Product Safety and Product Liability. P.60 61 No important stakeholders of Çimsa are taken into consideration and local delicacies are paid strict attention in the regulation of local policies. G4-PR2 No such similar incident exists regarding the reporting period. No G4-HR8 No such incident exists. No UNGC Principle 1, 2 PRODUCT AND SERVICES LABELING ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Not material No G4-DMA Human Rights Practices Supplier Assessment: This situation which is obligatory for the sub-employer companies providing services of Private No security companies is aimed to be provided to other sub-employer company and supplier employees within certain period of time with an G4-PR3 Product Safety and Product Liability. P.60 -61 No extended scope as general training. By this means, development of the general quality and training level are anticipated. G4-PR4 No such similar incident exists regarding the reporting period. No G4-HR9 The ratio of the activities controlled and audited periodically of the human rights practices within the scope of the services of sub-employers No UNGC Principle 1, 2 of Çimsa is 20%. Çimsa operations are entirely in fully compliance with the laws, regulations and legislations. G4-PR5 Stakeholder Relations P.7375 No HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISM MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Human Rights Complaint Mechanism: The required inspections and investigations are performed through such notifications via SA-Ethic No G4-DMA Not material No practices and company web site. G4-PR6 Product Safety and Product Liability. P.60 61 No G4-HR12 When the entire practices of Çimsa until today are considered, Not even a single case of human rights violations and complaints have been No UNGC Principle 1, 2 received within the scope of the total compliance to the Constitution and the entire applicable laws. G4-PR7 Product Safety and Product Liability. P.60 61 No SOCIETY CUSTOMER PRIVACY LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Not material No G4-DMA Local Community: Briefing and transmissions towards local community are performed systematically and returns are performed to the No incoming feedbacks through appropriate channels. G4-PR8 Product Safety and Product Liability. P.60 61 No G4-SO1 Stakeholder Relations P.75 No UNGC Principle 1 COMPLIANCE G4-SO2 Stakeholder Relations P.75 No UNGC Principle 1 G4-DMA Not material No ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-PR9 No such similar incident exists regarding the reporting period. No G4-DMA Anti-Corruption: The required controls, monitoring and tracking and finding determinations are conducted through intercorporate auditing No channels. G4-SO3 Çimsa's audit system is re-evaluated and updated with a risk and process oriented approach and is altered to cover the entire process and No UNGC Principle 10 locations. The corruption and fraud risks are the main criteria in the audit system. Seven private inspections were conducted in 2013. There is no business unit has been analysed in 2013 due to corruption risk. G4-SO4 Business ethics constitute the foundation of our business methods. The codes of conduct that the Çimsa employees are obliged to abide with No UNGC Principle 10 take place under the main topics of honesty, confidentiality conflict of interest and responsibility in the 3rd Section of the Human Resources directive and announced to the entire employees via intranet. 100 % of the white collar personnel receive trainings regarding the corporate code of conduct in the first month of their employment upon recruitment. The entire employees who receive ethics training again each year fill and sign the ethics commitment document. Blue collar personnel are also taken under the scope of ethics. G4-SO5 Seven private inspections were carried out in 2013 and the required actions were performed in accordance with the Sabancı Holding Business No UNGC Principle 10 Ethic rules and Çimsa Disciplinary Code and Procedure as a consequence of the aforementioned inspections. Legally appropriate actions were performed within the scope of the contradictions against procedure and/or malpractices detected in audits and inspections. 100 101 XVII. Contacts XVII. Contacts HEADQUARTER READY MIXED CONCRETE PLANTS SAKARYA ESKİŞEHİR REGION INTERNATIONAL TERMINALS Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. ADANA REGION Çimsa Regional Management Germany Cimsa Cement Kısıklı Cad. No: 4, Sarkuysan Ak iş Merkezi Çimsa Regional Management İnegöl Hazır Beton Tesisi Sales North GmbH S Blok, Altunizade İstanbul Zeytinli Plant Cerrah Kasabası Kalburt Mevkii Nesserlander Strasse, 5 Emden T : 00 90 216 651 53 00 Adana Mersin Yolu Üzeri 17. Dereboyu, İnegöl Bursa Almanya 26721 T : 00 90 224 714 22 00 T : 00 49 40 70 20 93 14 00 90 216 651 05 00 Km Kestel Mevkii Zeytinli, F : 00 90 224 714 22 03 F : 00 49 70 20 93 20/22 00 90 216 651 03 85 Seyhan Adana Çimsa Adapazarı Plant Italy Cimsa Adriatico S.R.L. F : 00 90 216 651 14 15 T : 00 90 322 441 19 01 Orta Mah. Plevne Cad. Riva Cadamosto, 8 34147 F : 00 90 322 441 19 02 No: 31 Sakarya Trieste Italya CEMENT PLANTS AND TERMINALS Çimsa İncirlik Plant T : 00 39 040 2820918 Çimsa Osmaneli Plant Mersin Plant Güzelevler Mah. Girne Bulvarı Bossa Spain Cimsa Cementos Espana S.A.U. Camikebir Mah. Çörektepe Toroslar Mah. Tekke Cad. 2. Fabrika Yanı, Yüreğir-Adana Carretera de la Esclusa S/N, Mevkii Osmaneli Bilecik Yenitaşkent Mersin Çimsa Misis Plant Darsena del Batan Notre, 41011 Çimsa Bilecik Plant T : 00 90 324 454 00 60 Hacı Sabancı Organize Sanayi Bölgesi Puerto de Sevilla Ispanya 1. Organize Sanayi Bölgesi F : 00 90 324 454 00 75 6. Cadde Misis, Yüreğir Adana T : 00 34 95 427 50 68 8. Cadde No: 3 Merkez Bilecik Eskişehir Plant Çimsa Osmaniye Plant F : 00 34 95 427 19 36 Çimsa Eskişehir Plant Tüysüz Beldesi Yolçatı Mevkii Puerto De Alicante (Prolongación sur) İstanbul Karayolu 22. Km Muttalip Yolu 500. metre, Eskişehir D 400 Karayolu Üzeri, Muelle 21 Parcela 1 03008 Çukurhisar Eskişehir Çimsa Çukurhisar Plant Toprakkale Osmaniye Alicante Ispanya T : 00 90 222 411 32 00 Bursa yolu 20. km Çukurhisar Çimsa Kahramanmaraş Plant T : 00 34 965 107 707 F : 00 90 222 411 31 31 Eskişehir Kayseri Yolu Üzeri 2. km Galericiler F : 00 34 965 286 628 Kayseri Plant Çimsa Kütahya Plant Sitesi Bitişiği, Kahramanmaraş T.R.N.C Çimsa Cement Free Zone Ltd. Kayseri Bünyan Yolu 35.km Zafer Tepe Mahallesi Selçuklu Çimsa Kozan Plant Serbest Liman, Gazi Magosa KKTC Caddesi No: 36 Kütahya Bünyan Kayseri Kozan Organize Sanayi Bölgesi İçi T : 00 90 392 365 49 80 Çimsa Denizli Üçler Plant T : 00 90 352 712 16 07 Kozan Adana F : 00 90 392 365 49 81 Hacı Eyüpü Mah. 3125 Sok F : 00 90 352 712 22 59 Romania Cimsarom Marketing No:5 Üçler Denizli Niğde Plant MERSİN REGION Distributie S.R.L. Hacı Sabancı Bulvarı, Niğde Yenihal Plant BdMamaia, Ofice Nr 5, Nr 251 Et 4, KAYSERİ NİĞDE REGION T : 00 90 388 232 36 30 Bahçelievler Mah. 1097 Sok. Constanta Romanya Çimsa Regional Management F : 00 90 388 232 36 34 No: 2 Yenihal Yolu Yalınayak T : 00 40 241 585 333 Başakpınar Plant Afyon Plant Kasabası Mersin F : 00 40 241 585 333 Malatya Yolu Üzeri 10.km Başakpınar Güvenevler Mahallesi Fatih Cad. T : 00 90 324 235 73 14 Russia Cimsa Rus Cement Gaziler Mevkii Talas Kayseri F : 00 90 324 235 73 17 Trading Company Limited No :22 03040 Afyonkarahisar T : 00 90 352 224 67 40 (3 hat) Çimsa Tarsus Plant Malozemelskaya Str, No: 16, T : 00 90 272 214 72 00 F : 00 90 352 224 67 44 Çamlıyayla Yolu, Eshab ı Kehf Yol 353900 Novorossiysk Rusya F : 00 90 272 214 72 09 Çimsa Anbar Plant Kavşağı, Tarsus Mersin T : 00 7 918 66 49 344 Ankara Grinding Station Ankara Karayolu Üzeri, Anbar Çimsa Tece Plant Karşıyaka Mah. Fırat Cad. Mevkii Bölge Trafik Arkası, Kayseri Cumhuriyet Mah. Mersin Silifke No: 3 Lalahan Ankara Çimsa Nevşehir Plant Karayolu Üzeri, Tece Mevkii Mersin T : 00 90 312 865 23 96 Niğde Yolu Üzeri 7. km Göre Nevşehir Çimsa Silifke Plant F : 00 90 312 865 23 95 Çimsa Aksaray Plant Kabasakallı Köyü Gökçeboyu Organize Sanayi Bölgesi, Aksaray Çimsa Marmara Terminal Mevki, Silifke Mersin Çimsa Karaman Plant Sahil Caddesi Rota Limanı İçi Yarımca, Organize Sanayi Bölgesi, Karaman Körfez Kocaeli Çimsa Ereğli Plant T : 00 90 262 528 42 33 Konya Yolu Üzeri 3. km Ereğli Konya F : 00 90 262 528 42 36 Çimsa Tufanbeyli Plant Çimsa Malatya Terminal Tufanbeyli Termik Santral TCDD Yanı Çimento Dolum Tesisi, Proje Sahası, Taşpınar Kapısı Girişi, Battalgazi Malatya Tufanbeyli-Adana T : 00 90 422 841 36 77 F : 00 90 422 841 32 30 102 103 Legal Disclosure 2013 Çimsa Sustainability Report Sustainability Report (Report), Çimsa Çimento San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Prepared Besides the information and analysis regarding the company, the report by (Çimsa) under the scope of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) reporting also reflects the opinions including the future expectations in line with principles. the foreseeable events in the future for ÇİMSA Administration. Although we believe in the accuracy of the information and analysis rendered in All the information and opinions included in this Report are provided the report and their compliance with the truth, based on the change of by Çimsa and Çimsa does not undertake and/or guarantee that such the factors lying behind the anticipations, the results to be obtained in information and opinions are complete and verified. This report is for the future may divert from what is foreseen today. information purposes only and does not constitute any foundation for any investment decision or is not intended for manipulating the In this framework, Çimsa, its affiliated companies, associates, parent vendors while making decisions. The information in this Report does company/holding and their administrative board members, directors, not constitute any proposal, part of proposal or invitation for a similar consultants and employees and other related persons shall not be held sales process and publication of this report shall not be deemed as an responsible for any possible direct or indirect loss and damage as a establishment of such a legal relationship. result of any information disclosed under the scope of this Report, any As of the date of preparation of this report, we believe in the accuracy use thereof or of any issues based on the information in this Report or of all the information and related documents included in this report; the not included in this Report. information is disclosed in good faith and based on reliable sources. The contents of this report shall not be copied, altered or distributed However, Çimsa does not render any type of representation, guarantee without clear written consent of Çimsa. All rights are reserved by Çimsa. or undertaking related with this information. Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Kısıklı Cad. No: 4, Sarkuysan Ak iş Merkezi S Blok, Altunizade İstanbul For More Information About Çimsa Sustainability Report; Ülkü Özcan Vice General Manager, Strategy, Marketing and Sustainability Baran Çelik Finance Director İsmail Boz Director, Environment, Alternative Fuels and Alternative Raw Materials Çiğdem Şahin IFRS, Reporting and Consolidation, Specialist T : 00 90 216 651 53 00 F : 00 90 216 651 14 15 Reporting Consultant SVS Turkiye (Sustainability Value Services Turkey) T : 00 90 532 615 43 01 www.svsturkiye.com This report is designed by Unite İletişim and printed on recycled paper. www.unite.com.tr 00 90 212 272 93 13 We would like to thank all our employees and our shareholders for their contribution enduring preperating of this report. 104 105 106 107 -
