D IC REPO RT 2014 The DIC Group’s Corporate Profile & Sustainability Report DIC REPORT 2014 The DIC Group’s Corporate Profile & Sustainability Report English Version Contents The DIC Group A Global Po erhouse R e p or t on S u s t a ina bilit y T h e m e s Compliance A essa e from the President Risk Management Information Security The DIC Group s Sustainability Pro ram Environment, Safety and Health (ESH) and Quality The DIC Group s Business Portfolio Human Resources Management Supply Chain Management Special eature Creatin e alue that Business Models that Respond to Social Imperatives Responds to Evolvin Social Imperatives New Technology Development and Value Creation Ceranate ® Hybrid Resin for Coatings Harmony with the Community and Social Contributions Hybranch® Hyperbranched Polystyrene Communication with Stakeholders Solar Cells Materials for Solar Cells DIC Report 2014 and ISO 26000: A Comparison ithium Ion Batteries Materials for Lithium-Ion Batteries Printed Electronics Materials for Printed Electronics DIC istory Topic 1 Corporate Data Sun Chemical Revamps its Website Topic 2 T h ir d P a r t y O p inion ® DIC Expands Supply Capabilities for Linablue Natural Blue Food Coloring Corporate Governance Sustainability Report Goals and Achievements of Major Sustainability Initiatives Goals and Achievements of Major Responsible Care Initiatives About this Report Scope of Reportin In principle, this report provides information on DIC Corporation and consolidated DIC Group companies Effective from fiscal year 2014, the DIC Group has combined in Japan and overseas. For information on the scope of reporting for ESH-related initiatives, please visit its corporate profile and its sustainability report, previously the pertinent page of the DIC website. independent documents, with the aim of presenting a clear, easy-to-understand picture of the Group and its sustainability WEB http://www.dic-global/en/csr/pdf/dic_csr_scope_ja_2014.pdf initiatives. Reportin Period This report provides information on domestic Group companies for fiscal year 2013 (April 1–December 31, 2013), a transitional irregular nine-month period, and on overseas Group companies for 2013 (January 1– inks ith the DIC ebsite December 31, 2013). ESH information is for domestic and overseas Group companies for 2013 (January 1–December 31, 2013). The WEB mark indicates that more detailed information and/or data can be found on the indicated page of the DIC website. Date of Publication DIC website WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en June 2014 (The next report is scheduled for publication in June 2015.) Guidelines Referenced Guidelines referenced in the preparation of this report were ISO 26000, the International Organization for Standardization’s standard for social responsibility, released in 2010, and Japan’s Responsible Care Code. Established in 1908 as a manufacturer of printing inks, DIC has expanded its mainstay organic pigments and synthetic resins businesses while at the same time cultivating world-class related core technologies. Since then, DIC has leveraged these technologies to build a broad portfolio encompassing materials and finished products. This has enabled the Company to respond to market needs by providing customers in the automotive, electronics, food packaging, housing and other industries with solutions that bring “color” and “comfort” to people’s lives. Looking ahead, DIC—today a multinational corporate group with operations in more than 60 countries and territories—will redouble its efforts to contribute to environmental protection and to the realization of a safe and sustainable society. Reports on activities Real-time information DIC Group DIC ebsite Printed PD -form publications DIC Report Annual Report DIC ebsite Communications Tools The DIC Group uses a variety of tools to promote communication with its many stakeholders to encourage greater awareness of the Group’s activities. More detailed sustainability-related information and data can be found on the DIC website. Combined report on Report on operations WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en sustainability initiatives and financial condition mbrella ebsite providin information and corporate profile PD -form publication to the lobal public about the DIC Group published annually and reportin on its various activities Printed and PD -form updated as necessary publications The DIC Group: A Global Powerhouse Corporate data is as of December 31, 2013. Net sales and operating income results are consolidated results for fiscal year 2013. Corporate Data Reportable Segments Printing Inks Fine Chemicals Offset inks, gravure inks, flexo inks, Organic pigments for printing inks, organic can coatings, news inks, packaging pigments for coatings and plastics, organic adhesives, presensitised (PS) plates, pigments for color filters, thin-film transistor printing supplies (TFT) liquid crystals (LCs), supertwisted nematic (STN) LCs, alkylphenols, metal carboxylates, sulphur chemicals (lubricant additives) Net sales ••••••••••••••••• ￥373.6 billion Net sales ••••••••••••••••• ￥116.9 billion Operating income •••••• ￥18.4 billion Operating income •••••• ￥11.4 billion ※ The consolidated results for fiscal year 2013 comprise the accounts for the nine months ended December 31, 2013, of DIC and its domestic subsidiaries but one and the 12 months ended December 31, 2013, of its overseas subsidiaries and one domestic subsidiary. Global Network DIC has 176 subsidiaries in 61 countries and territories around the world. 3 The DIC Group: A Global Powerhouse The DIC Group has leveraged its distinctive organic pigments Share of Operating and synthetic resins, essential to the manufacture of printing inks, Share of Net Sales Income to build an extensive business portfolio. Application Application Materials Materials 14.3% 13.5% ￥705.6 ￥40.2 billion billion Polymers Application Materials Polymers Polymers Synthetic resins for inks and coatings, Ultraviolet (UV)-curable coatings and bonding molded products, adhesives and adhesives for optical discs, jet inks, plastic 19.2% Printing Inks 20.4% Printing Inks 50.7% 40.8% t e x t i l e s ( p o l y u r e t h a n e , e p o x y, colorants, polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) compounds, high-performance compounds, Fine Chemicals Fine Chemicals p o l y s t y r e n e , p o l y e s t e r, a c r y l i c and phenolic resins, plasticizers), coextruded multilayer films, decorative boards, 15.9% 25.3% papermaking chemicals industrial adhesive tapes, specialty magnetic foils, hollow-fiber membranes and modules Note: The aggregates of net sales and operating income by region on page 3 and below do not correspond to Net sales ••••••••••••••••• ￥141.2 billion Net sales •••••••••••••••• ￥105.2 billion reported net sales and operating income, as the former includes income not attributable to reportable Operating income••••••••••• ￥9.2 billion Operating income •••••••••• ￥6.1 billion segments and eliminations (¥4.3 billion). Breakdown of Net Sales by Region Asia and Oceania 19.9% North, Central and South America ¥705.6 Japan 18.0% billion 35.7% North America Europe and Africa 26.4% 15 Breakdown of Operating Income by Region Asia and Oceania 23.8% North, Central and South America ¥40.2 Japan 11.4% billion 48.7% 12 Europe and Africa 16.0% Central and South Notes: America 1. Operating income as used here includes eliminations (approximately ¥3.5 billion). Accordingly, these percentages do not represent shares of reported operating income. 2. The consolidated results for fiscal year 2013 comprise the accounts for the nine months North, Central and South America ended December 31, 2013, of DIC and its domestic subsidiaries but one and the 12 months ended December 31, 2013, of its overseas subsidiaries and one domestic subsidiary. Sun Chemical Group and others Net sales •••••••••• ¥126.9 billion Operating income ••••••••¥5.0 billion The DIC Group: A Global Powerhouse 4 A Message from the President Representative Director, President and CEO DIC Corporation oshiyuki akanishi In line ith the slo an of DIC Step Beyond e ill concentrate our allocation of mana ement resources in business domains ith the aim of ensurin sustainable ro th The DIC Group in iscal ear continued to support a weak yen and strong share prices. Against this backdrop, results in core industries, notably I n A p r i l 2 013 , w e e m b a r ke d o n a n e w m e d i u m t e r m automobiles, civil engineering and construction, were firm. We management plan, DIC105, which will guide our efforts through also saw a significant improvement in operating results, with fiscal year 2015. This plan is the first phase of a longer-term operating income rising to ¥40.2 billion, Our operating margin initiative that sets clear, concrete objectives for fiscal year reached a record-high 5.7%, underscoring the effectiveness 2018. of restructuring initiatives and the global expansion of our With signs of a gradual global economic recovery evident operations. On the balance sheet, our debt-to-capital ratio*1 in 2013, Japanese government economic policies—dubbed declined to 57.7%, as we achieved our DIC105 target for “Abenomics” after the current prime minister, Shinzo Abe— fiscal year 2015 (58%) a full two years ahead of schedule. 5 essa e ro the President Ceremony to mark the opening of DIC’s new printing inks mother plant in the PRC (May 2013) Visit to subsidiary Earthrise Nutritionals, LLC., in the United States (September 2013) While many challenges remain, I think it is fair to say that we restructuring initiatives. Of note, we have completed a succeeded in laying a solid foundation for the implementation roadmap for optimizing our printing inks businesses in of measures that will ensure we meet all the targets we have North America and Europe and are steadily implementing set under DIC105. measures delineated therein. These include reengineering our publishing inks business by taking necessary steps—including Implementin the Central Strate y of closing plants—to streamline production configurations and Our edium-Term ana ement Plan significantly increase operating rates for mother plants. We expect such initiatives to begin contributing to income in fiscal We have positioned the expansion of businesses that will drive year 2015. growth in the years ahead as the central strategy of DIC105. Another focus of DIC105 is the creation of next-generation Accordingly, we are promoting bold, global initiatives to grow businesses. We will continue to conduct R&D in line with such businesses. themes of impor tance to the sophisticated, informationOne business that will drive growth going forward is TFToriented society of the future, including materials for printed LCs* 2 . Demand for TFT LCs, currently the dominant format electronics*3 , as well as to advance the development of hybrid used in liquid crystal display (LCD) televisions, continues to chemicals*4 by combining organic and inorganic materials to expand rapidly in the People’s Republic of China (PRC). In realize superior performance features. addition to expanding the scope of our TFT LCs business, we are also in the process of building a new production facility in DIC s Approach to Sustainability the PRC, a move that will further increase sales. In the area of pigments for color filters, another such business, we have We launched our corporate social responsibility (CSR) expanded our product range beyond our highly rated green program in fiscal year 2007, in line with “The DIC WAY”— an pigments, modifying technologies to facilitate the production of articulation of our basic management approach—and have blue pigments for color filters that deliver superior brightness promoted efforts that reflect our belief in the importance of and contrast. In PPS products, a third growth-driving business, fulfilling our responsibilities as a member of society through we are working to expand our global production capacity our business activities. Having acknowledged the need to worldwide. We will also press forward with assertive efforts to pursue sustainable growth in a manner that takes into account further bolster sales of these products, including localizing our the environment, ecosystems and socioeconomic issues, in production of PPS compounds. January 2014 we changed the designation we use across our In these and all of our businesses, our success depends on program from “CSR” to “sustainability.” our ability to build a strong corporate structure that enables We are committed to remaining an organization that us to compete in global markets. I will make every effort to contributes to sustainable development for society and the enhance awareness of the importance of further cementing global environment, as well as ensures our own sustainability. our position as a leading global player and of reinforcing our To do so, we must ensure our ability to effectively manage competitiveness across the DIC Group. risks, as well as to achieve unfaltering growth in global markets. We will approach this challenge with a long-term Takin DIC to the e t Sta e perspective, promoting consistent initiatives that reflect our fundamental philosophy of engaging in businesses that enable To facilitate the concentration of our allocation of management us to create value for society. resources in key areas, we are also advancing decisive *1 Debt-to-capital ratio is calculated as interest-bearing debt / (interest-bearing debt + net assets). *2 For more information on DIC’s TFT LCs, see page 12. *3 A next-generation production process for electronic circuits that employs printing technologies, printed electronics continues to attract attention for, among others, its suitability to mass production, ability to reduce fabrication costs and solid environmental credentials. *4 The term “hybrid chemicals” describes technological areas and related product groups that combine DIC’s specialized basic technologies with inorganic materials, thereby realizing sophisticated and/or multiple performance capabilities. essa e ro the President 6 Sustainability A Global Commitment Group. Accordingly, we have resolutely shifted the emphasis of our efforts to optimize human resources from regional to global We have declared 10 DIC Group sustainability themes and and will continue to focus on cultivating employees with the theme-specific medium-term targets, in line with which we are skills to compete on a global stage in a fast-changing business promoting a variety of initiatives aimed at a broad range of environment. To this end, we have created a comprehensive issues, from resources to value creation. human resources database that provides access to a broader, As a manufacturer of fine chemicals, we have a particular deeper pool of talent and are promoting measures aimed responsibility toward issues related to operational safety and at fostering a new generation of employees with leadership ESH. We work tirelessly to reinforce our safety infrastructure capabilities. and conduct safety training programs for employees worldwide Through initiatives such as those I have outlined here, we that are designed to heighten individuals’ ability to recognize remain committed to thriving in an increasingly complex and danger, thereby enhancing safety across our diverse range diverse global environment as a corporate entity deserving of of production activities and creating a Groupwide culture of the trust of our many stakeholders. In these and all our efforts, safety. we look forward to our stakeholders’ ongoing support and The issues that threaten the earth’s natural environment are guidance. a global challenge. Mindful of the importance of ensuring we operate in a manner that is in harmony with the environment, we conduct stringent environmental assessments and work diligently to develop products that balance exceptional performance and consideration for the environment and to realize environment-friendly production processes, as well as to enhance our R&D configuration and marketing practices to Yoshiyuki Nakanishi better respond to the needs of society. Representative Director, We also acknowledge that the globalization of our personnel President and CEO DIC Corporation will be crucial to supporting sustainable growth for the DIC Basic ana ement Approach n ebruary celebrated its centennial anniversary. aking advantage of t e opportunity provided by t is ilestone t e o pany c anged its o cial na e to orporation and introduced a new corporate sy bol. rior to e barking on its second century in business adopted e an articulation of its new anage ent approac for t e entire roup. e co prises t ree ele ents na ely s anage ent vision corporate values and principles of conduct. ese t ree ele ents are supported by e S . MANAGEMENT VISION MANAGEMENT VISION CORPORATE VALUES Through unceasing innovation, the DIC Group strives to create new The DIC SPIRIT value directed at sustainable development for its customers, society and the environment. Enterprise CORPORATE Integrity VALUES Diligence PRINCIPLES OF CONDUCT We shall hone our sensitivity to changes in society and be aware of our mission to always be ahead of the times. We pledge to incorporate the concepts of social and environmental PRINCIPLES OF sustainability into our corporate activities. CONDUCT We vow to strive constantly to hone “The DIC SPIRIT.” We shall respect the autonomy and initiative of each individual employee in applying his or her talents to the pursuit of our values and the realization of our vision. 7 essa e ro the President The DIC Group’s Sustainability Program rom CSR to Sustainability http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/ The DIC Group launched its corporate CSR program in fiscal year 2007. to “sustainability,” which it feels is more appropriate for a globally active In line with The DIC WAY, DIC has identified fulfilling its responsibilities corporate entity. as a member of society through its business activities and contributing The DIC Group remains dedicated to conducting its businesses while to the evolution of society as the cornerstones of CSR. retaining a strong commitment to five key concepts: preserving safety In recent years, the need to achieve sustainability in a manner that and health, ensuring fair business practices and respect for human takes into account, among others, the environment, ecosystems and rights, maintaining harmony with the environment and advancing its socioeconomic issues, including global warming and the depletion of protection, managing risks, and creating value for society through natural resources, has gained increased recognition worldwide. The innovation. Through the unceasing implementation of initiatives aligned DIC Group has consistently promoted a program of initiatives that with these concepts, the Group will strive to remain an organization reflect its awareness of these and other key imperatives. that contributes to sustainable development for society and the global Having clarified its overall policy, effective from fiscal year 2014 the environment, as well as ensures its own sustainability, thereby earning DIC Group changed the designation used across its program from “CSR” the trust of stakeholders. Sustainability rame ork and Themes As a framework for implementing our sustainability program, Business models focused on social issues the DIC Group has developed 10 sustainability themes and Themes that demonstrate New technology development and value creation Harmony with the community and contributions to society introduced a system whereby these are categorized as unique capabilities (A) Communication with stakeholders basic themes, themes that demonstrate unique capabilities ESH and quality and themes that combine elements of the previous two Themes that combine Human resources management elements of (A) and (B) Supply chain management classifications. Each fiscal year, the Group formulates targets and activity plans for each of these themes. Compliance Basic Risk management, including business continuity management (BCM) Note: Details of themes and activities and achievements in fiscal year 2013 can be themes (B) Information security found in the “Report on Sustainability Themes” section of this report (pages 27–53). To guide its efforts to promote sustainability as an integral part of its business activities, the DIC Group formulates a basic sustainability policy, theme-specific medium-term targets and an annual activity plan. Accordingly, individual sales and technical administrative divisions, product divisions, sites and domestic and overseas DIC Group companies are charged with pursuing effective sustainability programs by formulating their own annual activity plan, ensuring the basic sustainability policy and targets permeate their organizations and labor forces, and linking sustainability activities to business targets. System for Promotin Sustainability The DIC Group’s system for promoting As of January 2014 sustainability centers on the Sustainability Board of Directors Committee, which answers directly to the Sustainability Committee President and CEO Initiatives related to the president and CEO and is tasked with reporting on the status of sustainability themes, as well Sales administrative divisions, product divisions, maintenance and improvement of as with proposing policies and programs for Production Administrative Division, Technical Administrative Division, advancing sustainability and deliberating related Corporate R&D Division, back-office divisions, sites, Corporate Communications domestic and overseas DIC Group companies internal control systems matters as a vital component of corporate Department management. Sustainability themes Ensurin DIC Remains a Globally Trusted Corporate Citi en ith a Proud Reputation In December 2010, the DIC Group became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The Group also operates in a manner that is consistent with ISO 26000, released in November 2010, which provides businesses and organizations with global guidelines for operating in a socially responsible manner. The DIC ro p s staina i ity Pro ra 8 The DIC Group’s Business Portfolio Corporate profile An Efficient Corporate Organization that Leverages DIC Group Strengths Target Markets and Business Development The DIC Group has capitalized on its capabilities in organic pigments and synthetic resins, the principal material for printing inks, to build a broad portfolio. Today, the Group classifies its products in four business segments: Printing Inks, Fine Chemicals, Polymers and Application Materials. Through its Advanced Technology Sales Administration Div., Life & Living Sales Administrative Div. and Packaging & Graphics Sales Administrative Div.—three sales administrative divisions organized in line with three key market categories—and its affiliated companies, the DIC Group works to provide products that respond to the needs of society and its customers. The DIC Group’s Basic Technologies The DIC Group strives constantly to contribute to a materially and spiritually affluent society through the development and provision of environment-friendly technologies and products. To this end, the Group is leveraging its basic technologies in the areas of optics and color, organic molecular design, polymer design, dispersion and applicability assessment to promote the development of products in key target markets. 9 The DIC Group's Business Portfolio to Respond Swiftly and Accurately to Evolving Social Imperatives A Matrix-Like Corporate Organization that Leverages Comprehensive Capabilities With the aim of facilitating concentrated efforts to grow core products, as well as a shift toward market-focused business development, the DIC Group has created a matrix-like corporate organization. This organization centers on seven product divisions, which are responsible for spearheading the implementation of global product strategies, and three market-oriented sales administrative divisions. The DIC Group is confident that this format will enhance agility—enabling it to respond swiftly to evolving social imperatives—and improve the internal sharing of information, thus underpinning efforts to leverage its comprehensive capabilities. Product divisions Categorized at the process chain level; responsible for spearheading the implementation of global product strategies for each constituent product group Business segments Sales administrative divisions Organized by core market; charged with providing the distinctive value that permeates all DIC Group products to customers and with implementing marketing initiatives in line with forward-looking themes that reflect the customer’s perspective The DIC Group's Business Portfolio 10 The DIC ro p s siness Port o io The DIC ro p s siness Port o io Polymers DIC’s second core business Capitalizing on DIC’s world-class resin engineering capabilities, this segment provides synthetic resins and resin-related products to a wide array of industries. Polymers Alkyd resins Polyester resins Unsaturated polyester resins Plasticizers Waterborne resins Acrylic resins Methacrylate resins Amino resins Phenolic resins Polystyrene Processed sheet molding compounds (SMCs) Epoxy resins UV-curable resins Polyurethane resins Surface protection for Fluorochemicals a wide variety of applications UNIDIC series (UV-curable hard coat materials) The UNIDIC series comprises UV-curable resins that leverage DIC’s distinctive resin engineering capabilities to satisfy diverse needs in terms of hardness, flexibility, viscosity, refractive index and other properties. Applications for these products are wide-ranging and include protective coatings for optical films, touch screens and other components for electronics equipment. DIC has established a broad lineup of hard coat materials that respond to customer needs not only for substrate surface protection but also for fingerprint resistance and flexibility, among others. DIC is also promoting its hard coat materials for a variety of new applications, including flexible displays. Exceptional heat resistance facilitates use in precision instruments EPICLON series (Epoxy resins for electronics substrates) Epoxy resins are UV-curable synthetic resins that cure when combined with curing agents, achieving exceptional moldability, heat resistance, electrical insulating properties and adhesive properties. These resins are used by manufacturers of electronics substrates and in a broad range of other industries. As Japan’s largest manufacturer of epoxy resins, DIC supplies the EPICLON series of environment-friendly, high-performance epoxy resins, which combine outstanding heat and flame resistance. Applications for EPICLON epoxy resins are diverse and include smartphones and computers. 13 The DIC Group's Business Portfolio The DIC ro p s siness Port o io Special eature Creatin e alue that Responds to Evolvin Social Imperatives hile increasin ly convenient and comfortable, our lives also face comple and diverse challen es The DIC Group is levera in its technolo ies to address these issues, deliverin ne value to help create a sustainable society Ceranate ® ybrid Resin for Coatin s Shieldin houses and other structures from rays and air pollution Social Imperative DIC s Response Promote market acceptance of Develop stain-resistant Ceranate a ueous resin a coatin that resists pollution One problem with common fluorinated resin coatings is that although they and reduces operator orkloads are impervious to water and UV rays, their high affinity with oil results in stains from car and factory emissions. In 2008, DIC developed Ceranate ®, a Coatings for housing, public structures, waterborne hybrid acrylic–polysiloxane (organic–inorganic) resin that uses iron bridges, roads, automobiles and other nanotechnology to control dispersion. Hybrid molecules fuse together with objects must provide protection against the evaporation of moisture to form an exceptionally durable coating film that rain and UV rays, as well as oily or acidic boasts not only superior gloss retention but also excellent resistance to oily par ticulates from vehicle and factor y emissions. Coatings made with organic stains and a self-cleaning capability Acrylic resin Ceranate ® solvents contain VOCs, so there is a risk of whereby it uses rainwater to wash off damage to the health of operators. Many dirt. As an aqueous resin, Ceranate ® emerging economies are experiencing requires no organic solvents, thus vigorous construction demand, but have yet reducing the health risks to operators. to address air pollution issues. Contamination is a particular concern in these nations, which require coatings that offer superior resistance to weather, pollutants and wear. Self-cleanin capability ensures e cellent stain resistance K E Y P E R S O N o f D I C This is an optimal coatin for the environmental and structural needs of emer in economies Hybrid organic–inorganic molecules were made possible by DIC’s high-precision molecular design and nanoparticle dispersion technologies. Construction is still booming in many emerging economies, which suffer from worsening air pollution, making Ceranate ® a choice that delivers true value. It is worth noting that there is a theory that urban appearances affect social order. We are promoting Ceranate ® by highlighting its diverse benefits, including its contribution to aesthetic appearances, in emerging economies. a a ro r a ch ica ar i DIC booth at Painted India 2014 i i i ar i i i i a Ad i i ra i i A hi i a a i 5 pe ia eat re Ener y A in Safety uman Social Imperative Conservation Rs Society Reliability Ri hts Hybranch ® yperbranched Polystyrene Enhancin the environmental performance of food containers, electrical appliance components and insulatin materials Social Imperative Provide superior resins that help reduce use of resources and ener y in and increase the recyclability of containers Polystyrene and clear plastic containers that keep food products fresh are essential to food sanitation, preventing contamination during transportation and storage and the deterioration of quality due to changes in temperature and humidity. Plastic containers are also light and strong, thus consuming little energy during transportation, and in Japan the Container and Packaging Waste in Overall Waste materials therein can be recycled and reused in various products in line with the Containers and Packaging Recycling Act. Nonetheless, the plastics are made with petroleum and a considerable amount of energy is used in their production. Moreover, plastic containers account for a significant volume of household container and packaging waste. From the perspective of helping to prevent global warming and resource depletion, the development and promotion of more resource-efficient materials is a crucial challenge. DIC s Response Develop revolutionary thin polystyrene that resists tears and breaks In 2006, DIC succeeded in developing a revolutionary polymer for which it became the first in the world to establish a mass production technique, called hyperbranching. This technique takes performance to new heights by creating multiple branches, or small molecules, through a polymerization reaction with the core monomer. DIC has used this technique in the production of polystyrene—a popular material for containers and packaging—to achieve a material that is lighter and thinner, yet more resistant to breaks, than conventional polystyrene, and has greater tear resistance than conventional laminated films. Containers and films made with DIC’s Hybranch ® polystyrene are thus thinner and lighter, require less energy to produce thanks to lower rejection rates and can be molded at low temperatures. Other benefits include high recyclability and quality even after recycling. In addition to food containers, applications for Hybranch ® polystyrene include refrigerator trays and housing insulation. K E Y P E R S O N o f D I C The establishment of an industrial technolo y is a deeply si nificant achievement DIC’s proprietary polymer design, mixing and polymerization technologies enabled us to overturn the accepted notion that the flowability of a polymer necessarily decreases as its molecular weight increases. I believe it is very significant that DIC was the first in the world to establish a viable industrial technology that facilitates stable mass production of a hyperbranched polystyrene. This was possible thanks to an environment that encourages close collaboration between basic and developmental research groups. Going forward, we intend to further strengthen the framework for in-house collaboration in development efforts. ad arch r o r ch ica ro o r ch ica i o hi i a i hly InformationComfortable Resource CO Improvement of pe ia eat re 6 Oriented Society ifestyles Conservation Reduction Convenience Social Imperative DIC s Response Enhance eatherability to encoura e evera e the outstandin reater use of rene able ener y eatherability of DIC adhesives Degradation as a result of UV rays, to increase back sheet durability heat, humidity, wind and rain lowers Back sheets for solar cells, which Solar Cells the generating efficiency and shortens provide protection against heat, UV the lifespan of solar cell modules* 1 . rays and humidity, are made from Accordingly, enhancing the weatherability three layers of film bonded together aterials for Solar Cells of these modules is a key challenge. with an adhesive. However, generalTo encourage use of solar power, it is purpose adhesives weaken quickly essential to safeguard modules’ vital solar after use, negatively affecting both Seekin to e tend cells from natural damage and to extend the per formance and lifespan of the lives of solar replacement cycles, thereby enhancing solar cell modules. DIC overcame cell modules resource efficiency and enabling users to this problem in 2009 by developing swiftly recoup their investment. Another a highly weather-resistant adhesive challenge is to lower the weight of solar that leverages its hydrolysis-inhibiting cell modules, thereby reducing the burden resin design and additive-mixing on structures that have had solar cell technologies. modules installed. Social Imperative DIC s Response ❶ Increase the ener y density and Develop active materials reliability of lithium-ion batteries that increase lithium ion In addition to being smaller and lighter and stora e capacity Lithium– offering higher capacity and voltage than other LiB charges drain quickly because of secondary batteries, lithium–ion batteries the limited ion absorption capacity of the Ion (LiBs) charge quickly. For these reasons, LiBs active material (graphite) used for the are expected to play an important role in the anode, to which lithium ions move from years ahead in everything from smartphones, the cathode during discharge. To date, Batteries tablet computers and PCs to electric vehicles and aircraft, as well as in smart cities and other energy-conscious infrastructures this has prevented further increases in energy density. Employing its distinctive synthesis aterials for ithium-Ion of the future. Challenges facing battery technologies for nanolevel composites*2, Batteries manufacturers include making LiBs thinner DIC is currently developing an advanced, and lighter by achieving higher energy high-capacity alternative active material density, as well as prolonging battery lifespan, for anodes that if commercialized will Contributin to the shortening charge time and increasing safety. make it possible to use mobile devices evolution of hi hlonger and drive electric vehicles further performance batteries on a single charge. is essential in a smart technolo y-based E tendin the duration of iB char es society Active material raphite *2 Composite materials, or composites, are materials made from two or more different constituent materials that when combined deliver a performance that is superior to that of either of the materials used alone. 7 pe ia eat re Ener y A in Safety uman Social Imperative Conservation Rs Society Reliability Ri hts KEY PERSON of DIC This adhesive is used in many solar cell modules, having performed well over more than 3,000 hours in testing at 85°C and 85% humidity. In 2013, DIC developed a weathere are acceleratin development resistant coating that absorbs UV rays and a highly heatand moisture-resistant sealant. efforts ith the aim of enhancin Used together, the coating and sealant enhance back sheet durability and help extend thinness and reducin costs the lifespan of solar cell modules. If we can develop a coating and sealant offering the same weatherability as film, Structure of typical solar cell module it would enable us to reduce the number of film layers to two or even one. DIC has developed multifunctional packaging and construction material coatings that have contributed to weight reduction while also lowering costs. We are pressing forward with R&D aimed at realizing similar innovations for solar cells. ro a a r i r io ch ica ro i r io ch ica i a a i o i *1 Solar cell modules are panels comprising solar cell sheets connected in a series to obtain the required voltage and current. DIC s Response ❷ KEY PERSON of DIC KEY PERSON of DIC e are ma imi in key Develop an adhesive for iB pack DIC s reatest stren th DIC Group syner ies to containers that offers outstandin is its sophisticated revolutioni e iB technolo ies electrolyte resistance laminatin technolo ies Although there is plenty of research being conducted Laminated multilayer film is steadily replacing These laminated films were not created into the use of silicon and tin as active materials to conventional metal as the preferred material simply by bonding together aluminum foil increase the capacity of LiBs, the fact is that it is for the containers used to hold LiB packs. substrates and films. We dramatically difficult to control expansion and contraction. By Advantages offered by laminated containers increased electrolyte resistance by leveraging its core technologies, DIC has succeeded include low electrical resistance, high heat interposing a newly developed adhesive in precisely controlling nanoparticle distribution, a between two substrates with significantly dissipation and formability. potential solution to this issue. Going forward, we different properties. Made possible by our In 2013, DIC drew on the vast pool of composite will strive to contribute to technological innovation in proprietary resin mixing materials formulation technologies it has this area by maximizing synergies technologies, this adhesive with our multiple other core accumulated in the area of food packaging to is a solution that we can technologies. develop a new adhesive for laminated LiB pack offer with confidence. containers. Adhesives used to bond films to ri ci a arch r c io a a ria ro aluminum foil substrates must remain strong, ad arch r i r io or a arch r even when immersed in highly acidic electrolyte ch ica ro or ora i i r io ch ica i hi i a o solution. DIC responded by greatly enhancing a a o a a adhesiveness, thereby realizing excellent shielding properties and productivity. Active material alternative to raphite i hly InformationComfortable Resource CO Improvement of pe ia eat re 8 Oriented Society ifestyles Conservation Reduction Convenience Printed Electronics aterials for Printed Electronics akin today s advanced information society easier to navi ate and more environment-friendly Social Imperative Photolitho raphy vs printed electronics Simplify patternin processes for electronic circuits to reduce consumption of resources and ener y and production costs Photolithography is the process most commonly used to form patterns on electronic circuits, which are what make electrical appliances work. Nonetheless, photolithography has a number of downsides, notably the fact that it is a multistage process requiring substantial capital investment and that it uses significant volumes of raw materials, including rare metals, and energy and emits substances that negatively affect the environment. Such considerations have prompted great interest in printed electronics, which uses printing technologies to create devices, as a viable alternative that greatly simplifies patterning, reducing facility needs, energy consumption and the emission of environmentally damaging substances. DIC s Response Develop inks for printed electronics that deliver hi h resolution and facilitate lo -temperature bakin The printing of circuit patterns demands conductive inks that deliver high resolution. Quality determines the reliability of a circuit or device. DIC has leveraged its proprietary dispersion technologies to develop inks for printed electronics that accommodate the need for increasingly fine lines. A low baking temperature means that these inks can be used to print patterns on substrates made of plastics and other materials that are less resistant to heat. Potential applications for these inks are diverse and include electronic paper, displays, solar cells and organic TFTs*. Inks for printed electronics Accommodatin the need for increasin ly fine lines Patternin Comparison bet een photolitho raphy and printin ith DIC inks Printin ith DIC inks Photolitho raphy Production costs o High Infrastructure required Small to medium Large Environment Air Vacuum Production processes e Many, complex Process Baking temperature o to medium Low to high Takt time Short to medium Long Environmental impact inimal Significant Precision edium to hi h High K E Y P E R S O N o f D I C e are drivin chan e by capitali in on DIC s innovative materials technolo ies and printin ink desi n capabilities Our inks for printed electronics were made possible by the integration of DIC’s raw materials technologies, compounding technologies—which determine the properties of ink—and mass production technologies. However, there are numerous key factors besides conductive inks that need to be considered in printed electronics, including insulators and semiconductors, meaning that it is crucial for us to take into account overall systems. We look forward to capitalizing further on our design DIC’s inks for printed electronics were capabilities for materials and printing inks and our expertise in matching inks to printing equipment awarded an Outstanding Achievement needs to contribute to the realization of next-generation technologies for printed electronics. Pr ize at FPD I nter nat i o nal 2 013 ad arch r E o ro or a arch r or ora i iro o o a a i (Yokohama, Japan). * Organic TFTs—thin transistors that use organic semiconductors for the active layer—are under development with the aim of facilitating the low-cost production of large electronics products. 9 pe ia eat re Topic Sun Chemical Revamps its ebsite 1 The Sun Chemical Group, a core member of the DIC Group with operations in North America and Europe, recently revamped its website, improving search capability and simplifying navigation. http://www.sunchemical.com Sun Chemical introduces a ne ebsite By monitoring and measuring website traffic, Sun Chemical will gain insights into the needs of current and prospective customers, In October 2013, Sun Chemical launched a new global website enabling it to modify content in-house and giving it the flexibility to that can be utilized by both current and prospective customers— make online updates in the event of business or industry changes. from printers using flexographic, sheetfed or web offset printing to packaged goods brand owners, cosmetics formulators and automotive coatings manufacturers—to gain more information about Sun Chemical products, services and innovations. Created to help customers discover solutions that suit their business needs, the new website features a bold new design, an improved search capability, content that has been optimized to take full advantage of search engines and simplified navigation. The website is also socially connected. Providin diverse value The improved functionality and search capability makes it easier for customers to find solutions designed for various market segments and customer applications, making it a place where customers can find what they want and discover innovations that will add new value to their businesses. For the first time, Sun Chemical also included an “Innovation” section that highlights new Sun Chemical products and services, ranging from electronics materials, special effect coatings and low-migration inks to brand protection and brand color management. VOICE ro the DIC ro p e have created a po erful tool for communicatin ith customers The new website gives Sun Chemical an improved platform for communicating with current and prospective corporate customers, as well as with employees. Making the site more intuitive and interactive has also made it more useful. The most challenging part of the project was sifting through more than 10,000 pages of existing content to narrow down information pertinent to customers while at the same time being mindful of the importance of improving search capability, optimizing content to take advantage of search engines and simplifying navigation. We learned through this experience that less is more. The volume of content had to be reduced to avoid overwhelming customers. Navigation had to be easy and relevant to site visitors. The information available had to enable readers to make informed decisions and to contact Sun Chemical directly. ic r id A ar i h ica or ora io o a d Topi 0 Topic DIC E pands Supply Capabilities 2 for Linablue atural Blue ood Colorin Rising concern for the health benefits and safety of food is accelerating a shift toward using natural, rather than synthetic, colorings in the food products industry. As the world’s largest manufacturer of one of the few natural blue colorants in existence, the DIC Group intends to bolster its supply capabilities by building a new plant in the United States. Linablue A natural blue colorant e tracted aintainin safety and uality by inte ratin manufacturin to from edible al ae cover ra materials throu h production The DIC Group’s Linablue® natural blue food coloring is made from phycocyanin, To ensure premium-quality products, it is vital to manage quality at all stages of the a vivid blue colorant extracted from Spirulina grown under special conditions. production process, from the cultivation of high-grade algae on strictly managed farms to the Having begun research into Spirulina after noting its role as a high-quality processing of the algae into powder. Quality thus remains a core focus in all processes, from nutrient in traditional diets in Africa, in 1977 DIC became the first in the world to phycocyanin extraction to refining and concentration, color modification and sterilization. This develop commercially viable technologies for managed Spirulina cultivation. In strong commitment to safety and quality underscores the market dominance of Linablue®. It the years since, DIC has manufactured and marketed Spirulina-based nutritional is also worth noting that algae absorbs carbon dioxide and produces oxygen as it grows, for supplements as well as become the world’s leading supplier of natural blue food every 800 tons of Spirulina cultivated 1,200 metric tons of carbon dioxide are absorbed. coloring, which it supplies for use in confectionery and desserts, among others. Linablue natural blue food colorin Frozen desserts U.S. b a s e d E a r t h r i s e Macarons Nutritionals, LLC., is currently building a new p lant for Candy-coated chocolate Linablue ® in California. apan s role as a drivin force behind the shift to ard natural food colorin s Consumer awareness of the potential health hazards of artificial food colorings has long been high in Japan. Accordingly, the trend toward natural food colorings is well established. In Europe and North America, where popular dislike of synthetic food colorings is said to have begun around 2008, the shift to natural food colorings has accelerated in recent years. It was against that backdrop that in September 2013 Spirulina became the first natural blue food coloring to be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, while in Europe the European Commission presented natural color guidelines that authorized sales of Linablue ®, achievements that served to reconfirm Linablue ®’s reputation for outstanding safety. Looking ahead, DIC expects demand for Linablue ®, already strong in Japan, the Republic of Korea (ROK) and the PRC, to expand in Europe, North America and Southeast Asia. VOICE ro the In the future, e ill also e tract and commerciali e DIC ro p colorants other than blue from Spirulina In addition to blue, Spirulina is a source of a green colorant (from chlorophyll) and an orange colorant (from carotenoids), as well as of a number of useful active ingredients. We are currently working toward the commercialization of products based on these other Spirulina-derived colorants, which will enable us to expand our supply of safe, attractive products to people worldwide. ra a a r o ora a i c o d i o a a ada Topi Corporate Governance http://www.dic-global.com/en/about/governance.html Basic Approach to clarifying responsibilities. DIC also has a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee, which include the two outside Corporate Governance directors, to ensure objectivity in the nomination and selection of, and determining remuneration for, directors and executive The DIC Group identifies the purpose of corporate governance officers. The four-member Board of Auditors, which includes two as being to ensure effective decision making pertaining to its attorneys as outside auditors, liaises with the accounting auditors management policy of achieving sustainable corporate growth and the internal auditing department. and expansion through sound and efficient management, while at the same time guaranteeing the appropriate monitoring and assessment of and motivation for management’s execution of System of Internal Control business activities. With the aim of achieving a higher level of trust To ensure fair business practices, the Board of Directors has on the part of shareholders, customers and other stakeholders set a basic policy on internal control that encompasses, among and enhancing corporate value, DIC promotes ongoing measures others, compliance with laws and regulations and DIC’s Articles of to reinforce its management system and ensure effective Incorporation, risk and information management and the creation monitoring thereof. of systems to foster business efficiency. Specific initiatives to date have included formulating a code of business conduct that Corporate Governance Organization encompasses a whistle-blowing system, various risk management initiatives implemented by the Sustainability Committee, the A company with internal auditors, DIC maintains a Board of establishment of various internal rules and monitoring (internal Directors and a Board of Auditors. As well as appointing two highly controls audits and environment and safety audits). The Board of independent outside directors, DIC has instituted an executive Directors also hears annual reports on the measures implemented officer system, a move aimed at separating decision making and in line with the policy on internal control. implementation and thereby accelerating business execution and Corporate Governance Organization Meeting of Shareholders Audit Board of Directors Board of Auditors Nomination Committee Accounting Remuneration Committee President and CEO audit Accounting auditors Sustainability Committee Executive Committee Sales administrative divisions, product divisions, Production Administrative Division, Internal Control Department Technical Administrative Division, Corporate R&D Division, Group companies headquarters’ administrative divisions, offices Internal audit Leveraging its Position as a Global Manufacturer of Fine Chemicals to Support the UNGC http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/gc.html Seeking to fulfill its responsibilities as a member of the international community in a more proactive manner, in December 2010 the DIC Group pledged its support for 10 principles put forward by the United Nations (UN), as well as for the UN’s Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Initially proposed in 1999, the UNGC is a voluntary initiative for companies that seeks to achieve sustainable development worldwide. More than 8,000 companies and organizations have pledged their support for the UNGC in the belief that global sustainable development is possible if companies align their business practices with 10 globally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and the prevention of corruption, and fulfill their social responsibilities. Corporate Governance 22 Sustainability Report Goals and Achievements of a or Sustainability Initiatives oa s and hie e ents o a or staina i ity Initiati es Evaluations are based on selfevaluations of current progress. Key: ★★★ = Excellent; ★★ = Satisfactory; ★ = Still needs work oa s and hie e ents o a or staina i ity Initiati es Goals and Achievements of a or Responsible Care Initiatives * Japan Chemical Industry Association (a general incorporated association): As one of the Japan’s major industry organizations, JCIA is a member of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) and pursues the healthy development of the chemical industry with other chemical-industrial organizations around the world. 5 oa s and hie e ents o a or esponsi e Care Initiati es Evaluations are based on selfevaluations of current progress. Key: ★★★ = Excellent; ★★ = Satisfactory; ★ = Still needs work oa s and hie e ents o a or esponsi e Care Initiati es 6 Compliance Central Themes To ards air and Transparent Corporate Activities WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/compliance.html Basic Approach to System to Ensure Respect for Compliance Compliance The DIC Group has established a global compliance promotion Compliance in the DIC Group encompasses not only obeying system led by DIC Corporation (Japan), Sun Chemical laws but also acting properly and in keeping with social norms. Corporation. (Europe and the United States), DIC (China) Co., Ltd. With the aim of ensuring sustainable growth of businesses that (PRC), and DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd (Asia and Oceania) as the are both fair and transparent, DIC formulated The DIC WAY Code core members. In addition, the DIC Group established a whistleof Business Conduct, a unified set of guidelines the adherence blowing system. In cases where there is an issue or question to which it considers to be the foundation of compliance. DIC regarding compliance, one can directly report the matter to the compels all DIC Group employees to conduct themselves in compliance division. We have also established external whistleaccordance with the code. blowing hotlines that can handle reports in the languages of more than 160 countries. When a report is received, we respond swiftly and appropriately with due consideration for pertinent laws rame ork for while also incorporating internal and external opinions with the Promotin Compliance aim of identifying and correcting misconduct or other compliance violations as quickly as possible. The DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct embodies principles of conduct based not only on compliance with national laws and international rules but also on principles essential to the business Basic Outline of the DIC A Code practices of DIC Group employees. The DIC Group promotes of Business Conduct the understanding and entrenchment of the code not only by Basic business practices holding explanatory seminars but also through e-learning. To Employee ri hts to respect, di nity and privacy enhance awareness of compliance, the Group also provides Environment, safety and health ES training focused on legal issues for new employees, as well as for Avoidin conflicts of interest responsibility to protect DIC Group assets employees who have been promoted and transferred overseas. 5 The DIC Group s policy re ardin the prevention of corruption and bribery 6 Relationships ith customers, suppliers, third parties and public officials 7 oney launderin and the prevention of terrorism 8 orced labor, child labor and conflict minerals 9 Insider tradin 0 Internal controls to ensure the appropriateness of accountin and financial reportin VOICE ro the DIC ro p Our oal is to enhance lobal le al services I serve as General Counsel and Secretary of Sun Chemical. In this role I am responsible on a global basis for Sun Chemical’s legal, intellectual property, real estate, regulatory compliance, and environmental, health and safety functions. I am proud of the work performed by each of these areas and of the collaborative working relationship that we have with DIC. As an example of the exceptional work performed Sun Chemical employees, our Legal Group was recently named the “Legal Department of the Year” by the New Jersey Law Journal. This award is in recognition of the group’s outstanding work in providing legal services to the Sun Chemical organization and in managing relationships with outside counsel located around the world. ic r id ra o a d cr ar h ica or ora io i a or 7 eport on staina i ity The es Co p ian e Risk ana ement Central Themes Reducin Business Risks and Preventin Recurrences of Incidents WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/bcm.html Risk ana ement in the DIC Group Business Continuity ana ement Risk management is a key theme of the DIC Group’s overall A key business continuity management (BCM) initiative within the sustainability policy. The Risk Management Conference DIC Group was to list major products for which no alternatives are spearheads efforts to manage all types of risks, abstracting, available and for which any interruption of supplies would have a identifying, appropriately evaluating with the potential to significant negative impact on society and to formulate business undermine the Group’s sustainability and taking steps to ensure continuity plans (BCPs) for these products in collaboration with their reduction or elimination. The conference also promotes relevant production, technical, sales and purchasing departments. ongoing efforts to build, maintain and operate systems and The Group has also prepared lists that include products for which procedures to facilitate swift responses in crisis situations. requests for BCPs have been received from customers, which it Having defined risk management as maximizing returns and draws on as part of its ongoing effort to promote practical solutions continuously enhancing corporate value by managing risks from by promoting measures aimed at, among others, facilitating substitute a Companywide perspective using rational, optimal methods, production at other plants in the event of a disaster and resolving DIC recognizes risks in three principal categories: risks arising concerns over raw material supplies. from natural events or social circumstances that are beyond its control; risks that affect all Group business activities and should Reinforcin easures to iti ate Disaster Risk be dealt with by specialized departments; and risks that affect the activities of individual businesses and should be handled by the The Great East Japan Earthquake damaged several of the DIC relevant departments. The Company has strengthened measures Group’s business sites, with restoration in some cases a timefor high-priority and urgent risks that are beyond its control, consuming process. One outcome from this experience was that notably by producing crisis management manuals and conducting it pushed DIC to revise emergency procedures to ensure that the emergency drills to ensure preparedness for disasters. The Risk Group’s ability to respond effectively in the event not only of an Management Conference is also enhancing responsiveness by earthquake but also of a major accident or a pandemic. To this customizing solutions and promoting initiatives related to various end, DIC is reinforcing its contingency plans by upgrading various risks that must be addressed by specialized departments. tools and systems. One example is a system that enables DIC to quickly and efficiently confirm the safety of individual employees. This system was originally deployed in 2007, primarily at DIC’s headquarters in Tokyo. Use of the system has since expanded steadily to Group companies, augmenting regular emergency drills and enhancing the speed and accuracy of response capabilities, including personnel safety checks, in the immediate aftermath of a disaster. VOICE ro the DIC ro p e are promotin application of the PDCA cycle throu h solid collaboration bet een departments I work in the Liquid Compounds Product Division, which manufactures products that apply key basic DIC technologies and are developed to address the needs of customers for, among others, coloring capability and adhesive performance. With the aim of contributing to society through our business activities, we promote ongoing efforts to differentiate and add value to our products. From the perspective of risk management, customers increasingly seek effective responses to the need for effective BCM. To foster BCM organically within DIC, I worked with relevant technical, production and sales departments to prepare lists for core products that include specific response measures. These lists are held jointly by all pertinent departments and the plan–do–check–act (PDCA) cycle is used to promote continuous improvement. ra a a r i id o o d rod c i hoichi a a eport on staina i ity The es is ana e ent 8 Information Security Central Themes Initiatives to Ensure Information Security WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/security.html use in the Asia–Pacific region and Greater China in cooperation Basic Approach to with regional administrative companies with the aim of formalizing Information Security information security systems at local Group companies. In fiscal year 2014, DIC will provide support for efforts to establish regulations The DIC Group has positioned information security as a key and guidelines as part of an overall initiative aimed at further management priority and established its Basic Policy on strengthening the information security responsiveness of overseas Information Security, which is founded on its recognition that DIC Group companies. DIC will strive to optimize the management protecting information assets that belong to or are managed by of information by planning and issuing a global security policy and the DIC Group is essential to its ability to conduct business. related guidelines. In line with by this policy, the DIC Group has formulated management regulations for confidential information, information management guidelines and individual guidelines. These were prepared to ensure that each director and employee fully Reinforcin Information Security understands the importance of information assets, manages them DIC will replace its existing firewall and quarantine system responsibly and uses them effectively. DIC will strive to further and launch a next-generation firewall to shield its system from improvements by conducting internal audits and confirming targeted cyber attacks. Concurrently, DIC is implementing a current issues. new quarantine system to enhance the security of IT devices connected to its internal network, DIC-NET. Promotin Information Security In fiscal year 2013, DIC prepared the Englishand Chinese-language versions of its confidential information management regulations for Topic DIC Earns apan Institute of Information Technolo y A ard The Japan Institute of Information Technology (JIIT) recently awarded DIC an IT Management Award for fiscal year 2013, in recognition of its move to absorb its information systems subsidiary with the aim of ensuring effective IT governance. DIC accepted the award at JIIT’s 2014 IT Management Conference, which was held February 6–7, 2014. A representative of DIC also gave a lecture at the conference. In Japan, it is common for companies to use information systems subsidiaries to create IT systems. The downside of this is that many companies that have spun their IT systems development departments off as affiliates now face a challenge in implementing effective IT governance groupwide. Acknowledging that realizing effective IT governance would require elevating the position of information systems operations within corporate management, DIC took the decision to absorb its information systems subsidiary and refocus resources on systems planning and engineering. The IT Management Award was in recognition of these efforts. IT Management Award certificate Notes: 1. The Japan Institute of Information Technology (JIIT) is a public interest association established in July 1981 that conducts R&D on corporate applications of IT, as well as disseminates and promotes the practical implementation of its findings. 2. JIIT sponsors the Information Technology Awards (named the OA Awards until 2000), which recognize companies, institutions, operations, divisions and individuals for outstanding efforts and results in using IT to revamp operations. One of these is the IT Management Award, given to entities that have leveraged IT as an innovation tool to effect management transformation or achieve a dramatic increase in productivity. 9 eport on staina i ity The es In or ation e rity Environment, Safety and ealth ES and uality Core and Cate ory-Specific Themes To ard the Achievement of a Sustainable Society WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/environment/ Promotin Responsible Care Annual Policy The DIC Group sets an annual policy for Responsible Care initiatives, Basic Philosophy which it also translates into English and Chinese to facilitate As a company that handles chemical substances, DIC sets dissemination and encourage initiatives Groupwide. The Group has also standardized safety regulations for ESH initiatives. The Company developed a slogan to guide these initiatives: “Working to create a safe is working to exceed regulatory standards and fully disclose global environment through Responsible Care initiatives that facilitate results. personal growth for each individual employee.” In line with this slogan, DIC established its Principle and Policy for the Environment, the Group pledges to pursue corporate activities that contribute to the Safety and Health in 1992 and in 1995 pledged to implement the preservation and enhancement of society and the environment. precepts of Responsible Care. Since reaffirming its support for Responsible Care management in January 2006 by signing the CEO’s Declaration of Support for the Responsible Care Global Policy for 2014 Responsible Care Initiatives Charter, the Company has promoted constant improvements. In ● Promote Responsible Care activities across the global network of DIC Corporation. 2014, DIC renamed its Principle and Policy for the Environment, ● Establish a safety culture oriented toward “zero accidents.” ● Set targets to reduce environmental impact through business activities and openly report performance Safety and Health the Core Policy for the Environment, Safety and achievements. and Health. ● Manage chemical substance information in an appropriate manner and provide it to customers and to be used in DIC Group activities. Core Policy for the Environment, Safety and ealth As a responsible corporate citizen, and as a company that manufactures and sells chemical substances, DIC recognizes that care for the environment, rame ork for Promotin Responsible Care safety and health is fundamental to the management of the Company. DIC is committed to the concept of sustainable development in all aspects Each year, DIC identifies priority issues to be addressed and of its businesses and contributes to the global environment, including biodiversity, by creating environmentally sound products and technologies. promotes use of the PDCA cycle for each Group business-, ❶ We take responsibility for the environmental, safety and health implications company-, plantor R&D facility-driven initiative. While striving of products throughout their life cycles. on various fronts to ensure that initiatives progress well, the ❷ We continuously set goals and targets for environmental, safety and health improvements. Responsible Care Department conducts regular audits to maintain ❸ We comply strictly with laws, regulations and agreements relative to safety, compliance and improve/upgrade environmental, safety and the environment and health. For countries lacking such laws, we prioritize safe operations and protection of the environment. quality standards. ❹ We systematically provide education and training on the environment, safety and health. ❺ We prepare systems and audit internally to benefit the environment, safety ra or or ro o i o i ar and health. We disclose these policies internally and externally and ask that all DIC Group companies observe them. The abovementioned “safety” also encompasses security and disaster prevention. eport on staina i ity The es H and a ity 0 Support for Group Company Initiatives Occupational Safety and ealth, The Responsible Care Department provides a wide range of Security, and Disaster Prevention support for both domestic and overseas DIC Group companies, regardless of size, with the aim of enhancing Responsible Care initiatives Groupwide. Occupational Safety and ealth Prioriti in Safe Operations Information Disclosure and Dialo ue ith Stakeholders DIC recognizes that operational safety is fundamental to its operations, The DIC Group strives to increase the transparency of its as well as a core component of Responsible Care. Accordingly, the activities through the active disclosure of information while at Company undertakes occupational safety and health, security, and the same time promoting dialogue with stakeholders by, among disaster prevention measures to foster a “safety first” philosophy others, presenting safetyand environment-related data on the Groupwide and in the mind of every employee. DIC website, in reports and through other media. The Group also Because its manufacturing operations span diverse fields, DIC has undertakes initiatives aimed at promoting communication with numerous production processes that use hazardous and toxic materials society, including through community meetings. and rotating devices, including ones that do not involve chemical reactions. Any accident involving such materials or devices has the potential to significantly impact society in general and damage the health of DIC and partner company employees and of local residents. Responsible Care Auditin With the aim of preventing such accidents, DIC places a high priority on Basic Approach reducing risks in the workplace by reinforcing awareness of Principles of Responsible Care Department specialists with expertise, Safe Conduct and training safety personnel. Through efforts to reinforce experience and auditing capabilities regularly visit DIC Group the Group’s safety infrastructure and create a safety-oriented corporate companies to assess the status of Responsible Care initiatives. In culture, DIC strives to enhance safety Groupwide. addition, top management ESH audits, which include participation by DIC’s President and CEO, as well as by senior executives and executive officers, are conducted at multiple sites each year Basic Philosophy with the aim of enhancing Responsible Care performance levels across the domestic DIC Group. As a responsible member of society and a manufacturer that Overseas, Responsible Care Department specialists and sells chemical substances, the DIC Group recognizes that proper regional Responsible Care officers assess the progress of consideration for ESH is fundamental to its operations and works efforts at production sites and work together to enhance the to incorporate this awareness into all of its business activities. effectiveness of Responsible Care initiatives. Guided by this philosophy, the DIC Group analyzes accidents and communicates information thus derived, based on which it undertakes risk assessment in order to protect occupational safety and health. Initiatives in iscal ear １）DIC s President and CEO Appears in Posters Promotin Principles of Safe orkplace Conduct DIC’s President and CEO appeared in posters highlighting the importance of safe workplace conduct, underscoring DIC’s commitment to reinforcing its safety infrastructure and creating a culture of safety. These posters were prepared in three languages (Japanese, English and Chinese) and hung at production sites and offices in all countries and territories where the DIC Group has operations. (Above) DIC President and CEO Yoshiyuki Nakanishi participates in a top management ESH audit (Below) Audit at Shanghai DIC Ink Co., Ltd. eport on staina i ity The es H and a ity Status of Occupational Accidents In 2013, the number of occupational accidents at DIC and DIC Group companies in Japan declined, although the DART rate * for the global DIC Group increased. Since fiscal year 2008, the Group has deployed the DART rate, a common indicator used in various countries, to bolster safety activities. * DART rate: DART = N/EH x 200,000 N = total days away from work. EH = total annual hours worked by all employees. The 200,000 hours in the formula represents the equivalent of 100 employees working 40 hours per week for 50 weeks per year. Safety posters featuring DIC President and CEO Yoshiyuki Nakanishi a or o cc a io a Accid i 2）Risk Reductions (Numbers in parentheses are for fiscal year 2012) By understanding potential risks in production processes, facilities and devices, and the hazards of chemical substances, DIC systematically 6 7 8 also prepared initiatives to prevent accidents and occupational injuries. DIC creates risk assessment guidelines when deploying new or modified 0 8 0 678 6 06 9 equipment or changing production processes, informs business sites 0 00 00 00 8 00 5 about its guidelines and conducts training workshops. 5 90 6 86 78 77 3）Trainin Skilled Safety Personnel to Predict Risks Note: Data for 2013 is for January–December. DIC regularly educates skilled safety personnel on how to handle chemical substances, using materials such as its Principles of Safe Conduct and Environment and Safety Guidelines for the R&D Department, as well as safety data sheets (SDSs) and Occupational Accident Case Studies. In recent years, DIC has focused especially on a risk prediction training technique called Kiken Yochi Training (KYT) (“hazard prediction training”) and on hands-on safety training among Group companies in many regions. 4）Promotin ands-On Safety Trainin Hands-on safety training is an effective alternative to classroom-based learning that uses actual equipment to simulate potential risks in the workplace, thereby heightening employees’ awareness of the importance of proper safety. In fiscal year 2013, DIC added five new categories of hands-on training that use three types of equipment to the program, which is currently a mobile initiative that travels from site to site. In fiscal year 2014, DIC intends to reinforce the program by setting up the Saitama Hands-on Safety Training Center on a site adjacent to its Saitama Plant. The Group recently began deploying similar hands-on safety training in Greater China and the Asia–Pacific Safe Corporate Climate Cultivation orkin Groups region. Safe Corporate Climate Cultivation Working Groups comprise personnel in charge of safety at plants belonging to DIC and subsidiary DIC Graphics New employees experience Corporation. These groups have been active since fiscal year 2010. getting tangled up in a chain Members meet regularly to discuss and exchange proposals regarding safety policies and measures. ro a d a rai i ar ici a i i ca ar In fiscal year 2013, the working groups prepared safety posters and proposed the reading out of key passages from Principles of Safe Conduct 57 9 7 9 0 5 in the workplace as a measure to enhance employee awareness. eport on staina i ity The es H and a ity Security and Disaster Prevention culture). DIC introduced its safety assessment system in fiscal year 2013 with the goal of objectively evaluating and enhancing its safety capabilities. This system was developed by the Japan Basic Philosophy and Or ani ation Society for Safety Engineering, a common benchmark for Any fire, explosion or leak of hazardous substances from engineers in the petrochemicals industry. The system is currently a chemical plant could have a tremendous impact on local used by the 19 major corporations in Japan that collaborated to residents and the rest of the community and damage the health of establish the Japan Safety Competency Center. employees, including those of partner companies. In fiscal year 2013, DIC tested the system at three plants, In addition to establishing a security management system to feeding back the results of voluntary assessments of safety prevent such accidents, the DIC Group operates and maintains infrastructure and safety culture to Group sites. In fiscal its facilities in line with pertinent laws and regulations. The Group year 2014, DIC plans to evaluate one plant after renewing its regularly conducts emergency drills and has earthquake and assessment system, and will consider further expanding its use. other response measures in place. DIC also undertakes risk assessments to ensure its ability to i o a ra r c r construct safe production facilities. In 2013, the Group formulated the DIC Process Risk Management (PRM) Guidelines*1, which consist of four assessment techniques and implementation timetables for each. The Group uses these tools to conduct regular risk assessments at each of its sites. *1 The DIC PRM Guidelines outline timetables and implementation frameworks for assessing the handling of chemical substances, production processes, production formulas, machinery and work practices with the aim of comprehensively identifying and steadily reducing risks associated with production and R&D processes. acility Safety Assessments １）Evaluation of Safety DIC Group production facilities have a vast array of equipment, ranging from chemical reaction plants to machine presses and Implementin Emer ency Response Drills other processing equipment. When modifying processes or DIC augments daily security patrols and periodic equipment upgrading/replacing equipment, safety is assessed at every checks with regular emergency response drills, especially at stage from process design and construction through to operation, production sites in Japan and overseas, to prepare for emergency maintenance and final disposal, in line with risk assessment situations. guidelines for reaction processes and for equipment and facilities, to ensure higher safety levels for new processes and facilities. 2）Accident and Disaster Analysis and Timely Information DIC collects and compiles information on internal and external Training in the use of fire extinguishers Firefighting skills In-house firefighting squad drill accidents, disasters and problems into its Occupational Accident Case Studies and Accident Case Studies databases. After identifying the causes of accidents or problems and establishing Safety ana ement in o istics points to be checked, the Company incorporates database information into safety education for DIC and DIC Group Initiatives in iscal ear companies in Japan and overseas. To handle emergencies during transport, DIC requires transport 3）Initiatives to Enhance Safety Competency personnel to carry Yellow Cards* 2 . When transporting our A company’s ability to enhance safety competency can be defined products, we use containers that comply with the Fire Service Act as its ability to maintain safety levels at its various sites. DIC’s and other transportation laws and with UN standards. safety assessment system encompasses questions about safety *2 Yellow Cards are part of activities recommended by the Japan Chemical Industry Association (JCIA). infrastructure (technical considerations) and the Company’s The cards contain information about the right actions to take if accidents occur and provides contact details to ensure proper responses of transportation operators, firefighters and police officers if accidents occur culture of safety (operation and management of organizational when transporting chemical substances. Transportation personnel must carry these cards at all times. eport on staina i ity The es H and a ity CO Emissions and Ener y Consumption Inde per nit of Production Safe uardin the Environment Preventin Global armin Basic Philosophy In light of public expectations regarding the implementation of measures to help prevent global warming, DIC has included initiatives aimed at reducing Ener y Consumption Crude Oil E uivalent greenhouse gas emissions from its production facilities within its overall and Ener y Consumption Inde per nit of Production sustainability policy. The Company is currently implementing a variety of initiatives to reduce its consumption of energy—and its emissions of CO2 —as outlined below, as well as promoting the active disclosure of related data. ndertake ener y-savin initiatives Group ide Deploy effective measures throu h orkin roup activities Operate ener y-savin co eneration systems heat and po er eneratin facilities Employ ener y from rene able sources biomass, ind and solar po er as appropriate at suitable sites In fiscal year 2013, DIC inaugurated conservation efforts at overseas DIC Group companies, which consume approximately 1.8 times more energy than Note: Data for 2013 is for January–December. domestic counterparts. rame ork for promotin Ener y-Savin Initiatives Promotin Ener y-Savin Initiatives Savin the e uivalent of , drums of oil throu h In Japan, DIC has established energy-saving promotion committees ener y-savin activity at each of its production and R&D facilities. Committee activities Energy savings from activity at DIC Group production and R&D facilities include confirming the progress of initiatives, engaging in discussions in Japan in fiscal year 2013 were equivalent to 3,300 kiloliters of crude and conducting patrols. DIC has also set up an energy-saving oil, or 16,500 200-liter drums of oil. This represented 2.9% of total energy working group with members chosen from each production facility. consumption by domestic DIC Group companies throughout fiscal year 2012. The working group fosters the exchange of information, research pertaining to new items and the deployment of effective measures to sin Rene able Ener y Application and Co eneration reduce CO2 emissions. The Production Control Department provides In Japan, the DIC Group actively promotes the use energy from renewable international support from various perspectives. This includes the sources (biomass, wind and solar power) at suitable sites. In fiscal year 2013, operation of management systems and human resource education, DIC dramatically improved the generating capacity of biomass boilers (2,000 as well as independent initiatives in each country and region. kW and 20 tons of steam per hour) and wind power generation (4,600 kW). Principal Initiatives in iscal ear DIC built an 80-kilowatt solar power plant at the Kashima Plant in Ibaraki Prefecture, as a result of which renewable energy output increased 6.1% from １）Initiatives in apan fiscal year 2012. Renewable energy accounted for 7% of domestic DIC Group Ener y Consumption and CO Emissions energy consumption. As a result, we reduced CO 2 emissions by 32,989 In fiscal year 2013, energy consumed by the DIC Group in Japan amounted to metric tons in calendar 2013. 113,500 kiloliters, calculated in kiloliters of crude oil, down 0.2 percentage point from fiscal year 2012, while energy consumption per unit of production declined 1.5%, reflecting the utilization of oil byproducts from production processes CO Emissions Reductions at ashima Plant thanks to the recovery and use of waste heat, as well as to other initiatives. As a consequence, the Group attained its target for reducing domestic energy consumption for the period.. In Japan, the Group’s CO2 emissions in fiscal year 2013 increased 6.4% from the previous fiscal year, to 244,377 metric tons. A major factor behind this result was a jump in consumption of electric power, as the country’s nuclear power generating facilities remained offline, increasing dependency on thermal power and pushing up the emissions factor for CO2 emissions from the use of electric power. In fiscal year 2014, DIC looks to further cut CO2 emissions by improving its energy efficiency. eport on staina i ity The es H and a ity Indirect CO Emissions in the Supply Chain Scope a voluntary scheme created by the Japan Chemical Industry In fiscal year 2012, DIC reported indirect emissions in one Association (JCIA) since fiscal year 2005. category of Scope 3, “upstream transportation and distribution.” In fiscal year 2013, DIC introduced management by objectives In fiscal year 2013, the number of categories increased to six (MBO) at DIC Group companies in the PRC and the Asia–Pacific (including “capital goods” and “waste generated in operations”). region with the aim of further encouraging emissions reductions. E iro a E i io o a c ar d or d a c ２）Initiatives Overseas i c di d i a d a c a do a c ro In fiscal year 2013, energy consumption by overseas DIC Group Decrease of 8% 6 7 (25 tons) from companies amounted to 208,700 kiloliters, equivalent to 700 0 0 fiscal year 2012 kiloliters of crude oil (up 15% from fiscal year 2012). CO2 emissions were 478,579 tons (up 16% from fiscal year 2012). The increases Decrease of 18% 56 66 (101 tons) from reflected the addition of production companies in the Asia–Pacific 0 0 fiscal year 2012 region as a result of acquisitions. While laws and regulations on infrastructure differ between Principal Initiatives in iscal ear countries and regions, DIC strives to save energy and conduct efficient operations wherever it is active and to set precedents In fiscal year 2013, the DIC Group’s principal initiatives focused for the chemical industry. In fiscal year 2013, the Company on 462 PRTR-designated class-1 chemical substances and 105 implemented 65 emissions reduction initiatives overseas. These chemical substances (excluding class-1 substances) and one initiatives achieved reductions in annual energy consumption of substance group—chain hydrocarbons with 4 to 8 carbons— 2,229 kiloliters (equivalent to 1.2% of overseas energy consumption targeted for study by the JCIA. During the period, DIC and DIC in fiscal year 2012) and in CO2 emissions of 5,018 tons (equivalent Group companies in Japan used and/or produced 93 substances to 1.2% of overseas CO2 emissions in fiscal year 2012). in the first category and 108 substances in the second category in amounts exceeding 1.0 ton. DIC Group companies in Japan met i ca ar E r a i o r a ro o a i their emissions targets through thorough effective management of io facilities, including VOC combustion facilities. Overseas, DIC Group companies studied emissions of targeted 0 9 9 substances and reported findings to regulators in line with pertinent A ia aci c 7 597 6 national and regional regulations. In fiscal year 2013, DIC Group h r 8 0 7 5 companies in the PRC and the Asia–Pacific region introduced MBO using pertinent national targets and guidelines, thereby reinforcing ３）E ternal Assessments their commitment to such efforts. DIC will continue working to attain DIC has been reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since both facility and operational reductions targets. 2010. The CDP requests disclosure regarding corporate activities and environmental information relating to climate change. The CDP has Reducin Environmental Impact on the Air, ater and Soil recognized DIC’s consistent environmental initiatives, increasing its performance and disclosure scores for an overall score of 88B. １）Addressin OC Re ulations Having succeeded in achieving a voluntary target—set in fiscal Reducin Emissions of Chemicals year 2007—of reducing atmospheric VOC emissions 30% by fiscal year 2010 (using fiscal year 2000 as the base year) for the into the Environment DIC Group in Japan, domestic Group continue to pursue steady Basic Philosophy annual reductions through facility improvements and emissions management. Because chemicals companies handle a considerably greater volume and more diverse range of chemical substances than Chan es in Atmospheric Emissions of Substances Tar eted for Study OCs substances, includin PRTR-desi nated substances, and one substance roup companies in other industries, they must be extremely vigilant in handling to prevent discharges of such substances into the environment. DIC and DIC Group companies in Japan have worked to reduce emissions into the air, water and soil of substances designated under the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) since fiscal year 2000 and of substances targeted for study under Note: Data for 2013 is for January–December. 5 eport on staina i ity The es H and a ity 2）Soil and Ground ater Pollution Studies surpass standards specified in the Law Concerning Special In Japan, the DIC Group strictly observes the Soil Contamination Measures Against Dioxins. Countermeasures Act, Water Pollution Control Act and other relevant laws. The Group implements soil and groundwater surveys and countermeasures as necessary and assesses environmental and Chemical O y en Demond safety-related risks. 3）Reducin SO , O and COD Taking fiscal year 1990 as the base year, DIC Group companies in Japan have worked to reduce sulfur oxide (SOx) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions from boilers. These are a key cause of acid rain. The DIC Group is also Note: Data for 2013 is for January–December. achieving steady results in the reduction of chemical oxygen demand (COD), an indicator of water quality deterioration in wastewater. Reducin Industrial aste SO and O Emission olumes Basic Approach The DIC Group aims to minimize industrial waste by recycling and reusing materials. Since fiscal year 2001, DIC has been involved in a zero-emissions initiative aimed at reducing industrial waste disposed of as landfill. DIC has deployed zero-emissions initiatives at DIC Group companies in Japan since fiscal year 2008. With the aim of Note: Data for 2013 is for January–December. expanding efforts across the global DIC Group, in fiscal year 2013 DIC began to introduce MBO at overseas Group companies. 4）Compliance ith Re ulations DIC subcontracts the treatment of industrial waste to be for Dio in Emissions disposed of as landfill. The Company ensures waste is properly In Japan, the DIC Group currently has incinerators and other such treated by promoting strict compliance and on-site confirmation equipment at six facilities. Continuous efforts to reduce emissions by designated departments at each of its production facilities. levels have enabled the Group to achieve results that greatly Topic Advanced Initiatives in the PRC Earn DIC Green Enterprise Certification The PRC is reinforcing regulations pertaining to chemical substances with the aim of balancing economic growth and environmental protection. It is against that backdrop that 20 DIC Group companies in the PRC have promoted improvements in their own practices for handling chemical substances based on the Group’s environmental management system to reduce chemical substance emissions, water intake and discharge, waste disposal and energy consumption and have submitted data annually to the relevant authorities. These highly transparent initiatives have garnered considerable praise. In June 2012, Nantong DIC Color Co., Ltd., which manufactures organic pigments and printing inks, was certified as a Green Enterprise by the Nantong City Environmental Protection Committee, a designation recognizing companies with environment-friendly business practices. As a consequence, Nantong DIC Color is now seen as a model Green Enterprise certificate chemicals plant. eport on staina i ity The es H and a ity 6 Principal Initiatives in iscal ear Chan es in Industrial aste Disposed of as andfill sin the ETSITE Responsible Care Data ana ement System In fiscal year 2012, the DIC Group in Japan introduced a Responsible Care data management system called ETSITE to ensure rational management and effective usage of management data for industrial waste. ETSITE is an Excel-based data management system that provides information on companies that dispose of industrial waste, looking at their disposal routes and flows, and reports to Japan's prefectural governments. In fiscal year 2013, the ETSITE system helped DIC improve the efficiency of various practices and of progress management. Note: Data for 2013 is for January–December. Reducin Disposal of Industrial aste as andfill In fiscal year 2013, DIC worked to reduce the disposal of industrial waste as landfill by recycling cinders, dust and sludge, among others, into cement and other resources. As a result, the total volume of waste disposed of as landfill for the DIC Group in Japan in fiscal year 2013 was 19.3% lower than in the previous fiscal year. Overvie of Environmental Impact of DIC Group Business Activities 7 eport on staina i ity The es H and a ity Product Chemical Substance ana ement Promotin Chemical Substance Trainin in Chemical Substance ana ement and Product Safety DIC endeavors to improve employee awareness and knowledge of chemical substance regulations in Japan and abroad. This includes Basic Approach and Implementation rame ork providing specialized training for individuals involved in exporting In 2003, the UN Economic Commission for Europe issued the chemical substances in line with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign first edition of the Globally Harmonized System of Classification Trade Act, and for individuals involved in importing substances in line and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS), the idea behind which was to with the Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation reduce hazards through an internationally harmonized approach to of Their Manufacture, etc; the Industrial Safety and Health Act and the classification of chemicals by type and toxicity, the clear display of Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act, among others. information on labels for better understanding and the provision of DIC only licenses employees who have completed designated safety data sheets (SDSs). training and passed in-house examinations. Licenses permit these To respond swiftly to requests to reduce risks by providing individuals to engage in import and export operations. To renew their customers with complete information on hazardous substances, licenses, they must retake classes and pass the subsequent exams. DIC introduced the CIRIUS (Chemical Substance Information As of March 31, 2014, 1,272 employees held export licenses and 224 Comprehensive Management System) for domestic products in 2009. employees held import licenses. CIRIUS centralizes the management of raw materials and information to facilitate the provision of reliable SDSs. The system automatically checks various laws and regulations, including security export control rules; the Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc; the Industrial Safety and Health Act and the Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act. In 2013, DIC began using the Wercs (a global SDS/label creation Topic system developed with know-how from DIC) for products for export. Global armin Prevention Initiatives in the PRC In November 2013, the energy officers of 16 sites in the The Wercs logo PRC gathered to report on the results of global warming prevention initiatives in 2013. They confirmed the progress DIC now has a structure that enables it to compile SDSs for over of energy-saving plans and discussed useful deployments. 250,000 products that comply with national and regional laws and Authorities in the PRC are encouraging companies to regulations and is accessible in all local languages. In April 2014, switch from light oil to a town gas that is an active biodiesel DIC began using the Wercs to issue SDSs and labels for all exported refined from vegetable matter. Shanghai DIC Ink Co., Ltd., products. which manufactures printing inks in Shanghai, started using biodiesel in 2013. The company plans to replace 90% of its boiler fuel with biodiesel in fiscal year 2014. Collectin , Analy in and Communicatin the atest Information DIC collects the latest information on chemical substances through international consultants and experts, news wire services and chemicals industry associations to ensure its ability to respond swiftly and effectively to revisions in laws and regulations. In fiscal year 2013, DIC switched to using Wercs for the creation of SDSs and labels for existing products for export. In response to the May 2013 announcement by authorities in the ROK regarding the introduction of the Act on the Registration and Energy management conference in Changzhou Evaluation of Chemicals (K-REACH), DIC is currently analyzing information and taking steps to prepare for implementation in 2015. eport on staina i ity The es H and a ity 8 Supportin the Activities of DIC Group Companies orld ide To promote Responsible Care activities globally, DIC is providing leadership Topic 1 to assist a variety of initiatives by Group companies worldwide. DIC also confirms the progress of initiatives by conducting Responsible Care audits Asia Pacific DIC Safety Officers and sharing information by identifying new issues and areas in need of Conference eld improvement. DIC focuses particularly on its 20 sites in Greater China and 17 sites in the Asia–Pacific region with the aim of facilitating the eventual Asia–Pacific region safety officers meet biannually for a conference aimed establishment of independent management systems, emphasizing the at supporting initiatives among DIC Group companies in the region. In importance of: February 2014, 24 representatives from 16 companies, including from Buildin a culture of safety throu h hands-on trainin Japan, gathered at DIC Compounds (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. in Penang. Improvin the skills of operators at each site The gathering featured reports on accidents within the DIC Group in Providin information on safety measures for production e uipment Reinforcin mana ement of ha ards static electricity, rotatin fiscal year 2013 and progress on safety initiatives, as well as a discussion machinery and chemical substances on ways to deploy effective safety measures at individual sites. There were reports from all participating Group companies on their own safety results In line with efforts to drive activities, local safety officers in the PRC and management system deployment. Participating officers also presented gathered at Nantong DIC Color Co., Ltd., in Nantong, Jiangsu Province, in safety initiative case studies and exchanged opinions about enhancing the March 2013 to report on progress at their companies and participate in risk effectiveness of safety training and education and about environmental prediction and hands-on safety training. In the Asia–Pacific region, safety protection activities. Safety officers at the conference thereafter attended officers from relevant companies gathered for a safety conference in Penang, a hands-on training session led by DIC Compounds (Malaysia)'s safety Malaysia in February 2014 to confirm the progress of initiatives, share up-toofficers. The meeting proved so valuable for sharing information that many the-minute safety information and exchange opinions. participants indicated that they would like the gathering to be held annually In fiscal year 2012, DIC began selecting sites with equipment and instead of every two years. operations similar to its sites in Greater China and the Asia–Pacific region from its Occupational Accident Case Studies and Accident Case Studies databases in Japan and preparing Englishand Chinese-language translations of case study descriptions to use in training designed to prevent accidents. In addition, employees in Greater China and the Asia–Pacific region have voluntarily translated Principles of Safe Conduct into English, Chinese, Korean and Malay. To date, the Sun Chemical Group, which focuses on the European and U.S. markets, has pursued independent safety and environmental improvement initiatives. In fiscal year 2013, DIC and Sun Chemical began sharing Attending DIC Compounds (Malaysia)’s hands-on training session information and resolved to promote more effective improvements with the goal of facilitating the creation of common target benchmarks for the global DIC Group in fiscal year 2015. VOICE ro the DIC ro p e are providin multifaceted support for Responsible Care Activities at each DIC site in Greater China I am responsible for providing support for the Responsible Care efforts of 20 DIC Group companies in the PRC, as well as in Taiwan. The PRC has capitalized on recent major events such as the 2008 Beijing Olympics and the 2010 Shanghai World Expo to raise the bar for safety and environmental laws and regulations. Regional governments have now started to implement their own regulations. While keeping tabs on such moves, I am striving to improve my skills so that I am able to advise and instruct sites handling different chemical substances and products and help to enhance their Responsible Care initiatives. cia Ad i or E cia Ad i or oordi a or hi a o d r i h 9 eport on staina i ity The es H and a ity Topic 2 Qingdao City Honors Qingdao DIC Finechemicals for Safety Excellence In January 2014, the Qingdao People’s Government recognized Qingdao DIC Finechemicals Co., Ltd., for firefighting and safety excellence. The city government, which has recently reinforced local firefighting and safety capabilities following an accidental explosion, praised the site’s daily security and disaster prevention efforts, naming it a model company. Citywide firefighting conference Topic 3 Sun Chemical Group ESH Initiatives Sun Chemical Group and Solar Panels Installed DIC Enhance Collaboration in Wavre, Belgium The Sun Chemic al Group, which Sun Chemical has implemented a solar panel oversees DIC Group businesses in production system in Wavre, Belgium, with a Europe and North America, works total installed capacity of 203 kWp. The solar tirelessly to promote ESH initiatives to EcoTrack screen panels, which have been positioned on the support its dynamic business activities. roof of the main building and on an adjacent In fiscal year 2013, Sun Chemical reporting system. To further enhance parking lot, are expected to generate a total began stepping up collaboration with the quality of reporting, Sun Chemical of 175 MWh of renewable energy annually. DIC on initiatives aimed at contributing recently developed a new internal WebMore than 50% of this renewable energy to global sustainability. based data collecting system called will be consumed inside the plant, while the EcoTrack. Rolled out in 2013, EcoTrack excess will be sold to the grid to benefit other enables continuous monitoring, gives energy users. Solar panel-based electrical more transparency and improves data power production at Sun Chemical’s Wavre quality check capabilities. It will be a key facility will thus allow for greater reliance on tool moving forward in Sun Chemical’s renewable energy resources. road map objective to review target improvement opportunities. Historical data collected since 2005 will also ESH conference in Parsippany, New Jersey, U.S., be uploaded into the system to keep in February 2014 continuity in data reporting. All of Sun Chemical's production New Web-Based Data sites will report into EcoTrack, raising Collection System Developed the internal standard for sustainability key metrics tracking, improving quality Since 2005, Sun Chemical has and enabling continuous monitoring collected data for key sustainability throughout the year. metrics using a spreadsheet-based Solar panels in Wavre, Belgium Report on Sustainability Themes（ESH and Quality） 40 uality ana ement System uality ana ement Customer Satisfaction To better leverage its agility and comprehensive capabilities, in April 2012 DIC realigned its overall quality management system (QMS), establishing a matrix-type organization orkin to Enhance uality ana ement that positions product divisions on the vertical axis and sales administrative divisions, the and Customer Satisfaction Production Administrative Division and the Technical Administrative Division on the horizontal axis. In line with this change, the Group introduced a QMS based on ISO 9001, the International Organization for Standardization’s standard for such systems, and subsequently earned ISO Basic Approach 9001 certification for all of its production facilities. The Group capitalizes on this QMS and on Along with its Core Policy for the Environment, Safety and Health, the DIC its overall system to promote ongoing efforts to Group views the improvement of quality as a theme that is essential to enhance quality. upholding a sound operating foundation. Accordingly, the Group seeks to The DIC Group also uses periodic quality ensure every employee shares the sentiment conveyed in its Quality Policy audits to promote quality improvements. By and works continuously to enhance quality and ensure customer satisfaction. sharing customer feedback and other information within its matrix-like quality management DIC s uality Policy organization, and promoting close cooperation “Contribute to the prosperity of customers and society among product divisions, the Group works by consistently providing reliable products.” tirelessly to achieve customer satisfaction. 1）Initiatives Aimed at Increasin Customer Satisfaction Close cooperation among relevant divisions and departments from product planning through to shipment enables DIC to develop and manufacture products with high added value, while rigorous process and identification management ensure product quality. Meticulous risk evaluation is conducted at the design review stage to guarantee safety. Moreover, after products have been sold customer and market assessments are gathered and fed back to development departments to facilitate further quality improvements. 2）Redefinin and Promotin A areness of DIC s Distinctive uality ana ement Systems DIC has developed a distinctive QMS that focuses on constant quality improvements through ISO-based quality audits, launched in April 2012, and quality management assessment (QMA)-based quality initiatives conducted by product divisions. Recognizing that improving internal quality audit capabilities was crucial to raising the effectiveness of product divisions’ quality improvement initiatives, DIC provides training designed to upgrade the skills of internal auditors. Beginning in fiscal year 2013, audits are also attended by internal auditors from other sites. Going forward, DIC will continue to focus on firmly establishing and promoting awareness of its QMS. 3）Preventin the recurrence of problems Information on quality problems (complaints and criticisms) that arise is collated and analyzed and then shared across the Group to prevent recurrence. To discover the causes of such problems, the Group employs naze-naze bunseki (“why why analysis”). Naze-naze bunseki involves repeatedly asking “why” to encourage people to not jump to conclusions, but rather to investigate and identify actual root causes, thereby making it possible to ensure problems do not recur. ha i h ro ai ro DIC also applies naze naze Chan e in the umber of Product Returns Chan e in the umber of Complaints Received bunseki in determining the causes of accidents, an approach that continues to yield solid results. Group exercise using examples of actual accidents to analyze causes eport on staina i ity The es H and a ity uman Resources ana ement Core and Cate ory-Specific Themes orkin to Enhance ob Satisfaction WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/staff.html E pandin Career Opportunities for omen Ob ectives of DIC s uman Resources ana ement System DIC is implementing a variety of initiatives to promote career opportunities for women in line with its commitment to creating a With the aim of being a company where employees can fully work environment in which motivated employees can fully exercise exercise their abilities, DIC strives to support a healthy work– their abilities. In addition to measures designed to transform the life balance and create a work environment conducive to job mindset of employees and the corporate culture of the DIC Group, satisfaction. DIC also fosters local human resources in markets the Group has undertaken various steps to heighten the drive and around the world, which it recognizes as essential to ensuring determination of female employees, including providing education sustainable corporate growth. aimed at enhancing awareness and broadening the range of jobs open to women. DIC also continues to offer specialized training for female employees that have been tapped for management Respect for uman Ri hts positions and one-on-one training designed to expand job opportunities. The DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct, which outlines Thanks to these and other efforts, the number of female standards DIC Group employees are expected to observe, lays employees who have qualified as candidates for management down provisions prohibiting human rights violations and requiring positions continues to increase steadily. As well as increasing the respect for diversity, philosophies that are the foundation of the number of female employees appointed to management positions, DIC Group’s corporate activities. All DIC Group employees are DIC will continue promoting initiatives focused on boosting the obliged to provide written pledges to abide by The DIC WAY Code overall number of female employees in its labor force. As well, DIC of Business Conduct and to conduct themselves as stipulated continues working to boost the number of new female graduates it therein. recruits from Japan’s universities, a key source of talented human resources. Promotin Diversity Advancin the Employment of Individuals ith Disabilities The DIC Group is working to create human resources systems As of March 31, 2014, individuals with disabilities accounted that enable it to foster local employees of its affiliated companies for 2.22% of DIC’s total labor force, exceeding Japan’s legally around the world—people who will be crucial to the success of mandated quota of 2.0%. Going forward, DIC will continue striving its current medium-term management plan—and to encourage to exceed its legal obligation by creating a work environment that oppor tunities for individuals based on business-related increases retention rates and by enhancing workplaces to ensure considerations, without regard for nationality. Having created equal access for disabled employees. a human resources system and introduced specialized training for the next generation of local senior management at Group companies in the PRC, DIC took similar steps for affiliates in Encoura in Reemployment after Retirement Southeast Asia. DIC is also promoting the establishment of global human resources databases and the development of, among In addition to establishing a system that facilitates the others, systematic training programs. reemployment of individuals up to 65 years of age, in compliance In Japan, DIC not only endorses global training for Japanese with the Law Concerning Stabilization of Employment of Older employees but also actively includes foreign nationals among new Persons, DIC works to secure reemployment opportunities university graduates and mid-career candidates recruited. through the use of work sharing. This framework ensures reemployed individuals are able to maximize their experience and make full use of their accumulated technological capabilities and specialized expertise. eport on staina i ity The es H an eso r es ana e ent Initiatives that Support a ealthy umber of Employees sin DIC s Childcare eave System ork ife Balance In 1986, DIC blazed a trail for chemicals manufacturers in Japan by implementing a childcare leave program. Since then, the Company has introduced a number of other systems and programs designed to assist employees balancing the demands of work and childcare, as well as introduced flexible working styles that make it easier for employees to make use of these systems, thereby ensuring that its overall Work and Childcare Balance Support Program, established in 2007, exceeds legal requirements. As a consequence, there is currently very little difference in the average years of employment for male and Work and Childcare Balance Support Programs female employees. Childcare eave The maximum length of leave is until the child reaches the age of 2 years and 6 months, which is one year longer than the legally Pro ram mandated leave period. Avera e ears of Employment This program encompasses two flexible working systems. One enables Childcare hile employees to shorten their daily working hours by up to three hours until the end orkin Pro ram of the child’s third year of elementary school, while the other allows employees to stagger their working hours to accommodate childcare schedules. Rules concernin returnin These rules specify that employees returning from childcare to one s previous leave will return to their original position or an equivalent or an e uivalent position position. This system enables employees on unpaid childcare leave to borrow a portion of their bonus in advance. Employees may also Economic support use this system to obtain an internal loan to cover major expenses system for, among others, fertility treatments or the cost of daycare facilities for children, thereby relieving financial concerns. * Calculated based on the years of employment of individuals employed at the time. Information sharin DIC’s views on support for work and childcare balance, as well as a guide to its various available systems and to to promote pro ram make use of them, are posted on internal websites and the Since 2002, DIC has also offered an option where regular participation Company’s intranet. employees can choose between career courses that either include or exclude transfers to other locations that would also require them to move house. In fiscal year 2012, the Company Acquisition of the Kurumin Mark i ca ar a c rii d introduced a system that allows management-level employees a a hi dcar or o a a d to limit the locations to which they will accept transfers, making it accord d h r i ar a ar o c r i ca io ro a a i i r o possible for employees who are unable to accept transfers that a h a o ra d ar i r co i io o co a i ha involve relocating because of childbirth, childcare or nursing care ac i ro o i i ia i ha a i i rai i h ra io responsibilities to effectively balance the responsibilities of their o chi dr careers and their private lives. VOICE ro the DIC ro p Balancin a career and childcare is a challen e, but I feel happy and fulfilled When I first joined DIC as a salesperson, I was a bit taken aback by the attention given to the fact that I am a woman, but it was never uncomfortable in any way. The biggest test came after I became pregnant, had my baby and then returned to work after taking maternity leave and childcare leave. First, there were all the unexpected and bewildering changes that come with pregnancy. Then I was up to my ears looking after a new baby, a situation that was compounded by anxiousness about being away from work for so long. Since coming back to work, the limits of being a working mother have been a source of some pressure, but everyone in my department and family has been really encouraging. Balancing a career and childcare is certainly a challenge, but it’s one I took on readily and I feel happy and fulfilled in both roles. I’m really grateful to have such support, and I will continue to do my very best both at work and at home. Ad a c d ch o o ar i ao o a ai a eport on staina i ity The es H an eso r es ana e ent Carin for ental ealth Trainin System Addressing mental health issues in the workplace is a challenge that has DIC’s training system comprises programs in six categories: managementattracted increasing attention in recent years. DIC works to correct problems that level training, global human resources development, level-specific have been shown to negatively affect psychological well-being, implementing training, department and job-specific training, on-the-job training and selfmeasures to combat harassment and digitizing the management of work hours development. These programs are based on practical curricula and focus to prevent extreme overwork to ensure its labor management practices are in on enhancing workplace skills and accelerating change in line with business compliance with legal requirements. DIC has also established a mental health strategies. DIC is currently in the process of restructuring its departmentprogram under the direction of an in-house occupational health psychologist, specific training programs to create a framework that meets the requirements under which it is promoting comprehensive efforts to address mental health care of departments and jobs. In fiscal year 2013, we systematically created issues, including providing ongoing training to facilitate effective line care* and a human resources development framework for sales departments and equip employees with self-management skills, installing an internal help desk implemented training, having previously done the same for production and and providing access to outside counselors, and providing support to ensure a technical departments. smooth return to work for employees taking leave. In the area of global human resources development, DIC continues * Line-care training: Training for supervisors to help them recognize promptly when an employee is to expand the number of trainees it sends from Japan to overseas Group unwell and respond appropriately by, for example, recommending guidance or counseling or making workplace improvements. companies. In fiscal year 2013, a total of 20 individuals were dispatched to eight countries and territories, including the United States, the PRC and Singapore. DIC also operates a reverse trainee program under which it Securin and osterin uman Resources welcomes trainees from overseas Group companies to Japan. These two programs together comprise a global personnel exchange system that Ability-Oriented ualification System and air and Impartial Treatment enables DIC to foster global human resources with practical skills. DIC also offers the Global Challenge Program, which targets young employees in To enable all employees to fulfill their potential in jobs suited to their Japan, featuring a curriculum that encompasses not only language instruction abilities, and to ensure that their efforts are reflected appropriately in their but also training aimed at, among others, cultivating a global perspective, treatment, DIC has consolidated its numerous employee qualification understanding other cultures and developing mental toughness. systems irrespective of job classification and educational credentials. The selection of employees to recommend for qualification is done DIC s Personnel Evaluation System through screening based on objective standards, thereby guaranteeing equal opportunities for promotion to all motivated, capable employees. Personnel evaluation and remuneration systems designed to enhance job satisfaction ensure that abilities and achievements are assessed appropriately and reflected in a timely manner in their treatment. Of note, DIC has introduced management by objectives (MBO) into its personnel evaluation system, a goal-setting management tool that promotes both corporate growth and employee development. Results of individual evaluations are fed back in full to employees, including reasoning behind Green arrows indicate processes that are implemented via the intranet determinations, a transparent process that ensures employees are Target setting, evaluation, feedback and preparation of career development sheets are implemented via the intranet. largely satisfied with evaluation results. VOICE ro the The e perience you accumulate in your day-to-day ork is the key to DIC ro p becomin someone ho can function any here in the orld I took part in the Global Challenge Program because I was looking for an opportunity to improve my English, which wasn’t very good. It was a little naïve to think that “global” skills equaled language ability. I remember our instructor saying, “When you encounter another culture, can you accept and enjoy it or is your automatic reaction to reject it as ‘foreign’?” Over the course of my career, I’ve met a wide range of people and as a result have had the opportunity to encounter a variety of different cultures. The Global Challenge Program taught me that it’s important not to let your job take up all your energy. It’s important to be interested in new things and willing to continue learning. I look forward to applying the practical global skills I’ve accumulated to continue growing in my career and to become someone who can function effectively anywhere in the world. i r io ch ica i A a o o eport on staina i ity The es H an eso r es ana e ent Supply Chain ana ement Core and Cate ory-Specific Themes Global Supply Chain ana ement WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/partner.html assess the CSR procurement status of suppliers, including the Basic Supply Chain ana ement newly added items, as well as to visit certain suppliers to conduct Philosophy on-site inquiries, enabling it to confirm the progress of initiatives to promote CSR procurement, as well as to encourage awareness With the aim of fulfilling its responsibilities to society throughout its of related concerns. supply chain, from the production of intermediate materials to the DIC Group Supply-chain CSR Deployment Guidebook sale of DIC Group products, the DIC Group has formulated the DIC Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. The Group promotes CSR procurement across the entire supply chain by ensuring that Feedback sheet (English-language version) all suppliers understand and agree to abide by these guidelines. DIC Group CSR Procurement Guidelines Compliance ith la s and social norms Respect for human ri hts and consideration for ork environments Safety and hy iene Promotion of sound business mana ement Consideration for the environment Information security Appropriate uality and safety and improved technolo ies le ible attitude to ensure stable supplies and respond to chan e Contribution to local communities and society Promotion of CSR deployment of CSR in the supply chain Global Perspectives Promotin CSR Procurement To broaden awareness of the DIC Group CSR Procurement Guidelines among suppliers, in 2013 DIC held CSR procurement Since 2010, DIC has assessed the CSR procurement status of briefings at Group companies in the PRC and began assessing and provided feedback to more than 400 suppliers, acting in line the CSR procurement status of local suppliers. In Southeast with the DIC Group Supply-chain CSR Deployment Guidebook. In Asia, where supplier assessments commenced in 2012, the fiscal year 2013, we revised the guidebook, including a number of Group provided feedback to suppliers outlining its findings and new items to be checked in relation to issues attracting increased suggesting improvements. concern in recent years, including biodiversity preservation and The DIC Group continues to promote efforts to eliminate measures for dealing with conflict minerals, thereby expanding the conflict minerals from its supply chain. The Group has completed scope of assessment. DIC currently produces Japanese-, Englishtraceability surveys worldwide regarding most commonly mined and Chinese-language versions of the guidebook. In fiscal year conflict minerals in both the production and the transport of 2014, the Company will use the revised guidebook to once again materials it purchases from suppliers. VOICE ro the DIC ro p DIC and its suppliers are orkin to ether to promote CSR procurement DIC provides a broad range of products that supply a diverse range of customer needs. Accordingly, we also require a wide variety of materials. In recent years, the number of overseas suppliers we use in overseas markets has grown, with a particularly large proportion of them located in the PRC. I have been in charge of CSR procurement since 2010. Since then, we have conducted assessments of and provided feedback to suppliers, in some cases visiting suppliers directly to conduct on-site inquires and exchange views, a process that has yielded valuable insights. With general understanding of CSR procurement having increased in Japan in recent years, our initiatives have succeeded in bolstering supplier awareness. Going forward, we will conduct CSR procurement assessments of our suppliers—including those in overseas markets—in line with version 2 of the DIC Group Supply-chain CSR Deployment Guidebook, which has been revised to include a number of sustainability-related items. Through these and other efforts, we will continue working to ensure our ability to provide stable supplies of environment-friendly, socially responsible products. a a r i char o roc r rcha i a d o i ic i ai o i a i 5 eport on staina i ity The es pp y Chain ana e ent Business odels that Respond to Social Imperatives Themes that evera e Our ni ue Capabilities Establishin a Solutions Business WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/customer/satisfaction.html of information networks, continued to drive the development Capitali in on Chan es in the of materials for printed electronics. In addition to automobiles, eeds of Society information and communications and other fields that necessitate advanced technologies, DIC is also responding to social The DIC way of doing business starts with listening to what our imperatives in such areas as packaging, graphics and the field the customers say. The cornerstone of our approach is to swiftly Company has dubbed “life and living.” grasp the concerns of our customers and, by identifying concerns shared by multiple customers, to gain insights into evolving social imperatives and offer appropriate solutions. While our starting Enhancin Brand Stren th point is the voice of our customers, we also pay heed to issues of global significance, such as global warming, with the aim of Established as a printing inks manufacturer, DIC has expanded predicting trends and anticipating the future needs of society. its business by leveraging its capabilities in organic pigments and synthetic resins. The Company’s wealth of elemental technologies is what makes these products possible. To encourage broader Business Activities ith Roots customer awareness of its distinctive products and technologies, in Societal Issues DIC publishes market-oriented product guidebooks (editions for electronics and automotive products, packaging products and Forces propelling the increased presence of electric vehicles products for the life and include the need to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases living field). DIC also and promote the use of renewable energy, both critical to strives to enhance the resolving such crucial issues as global warming and fossil fuel strength of the DIC brand depletion. However, a number of technological challenges through par ticipation must be addressed to further expand use of electronics in in trade shows such as such vehicles. Of particular note, it is necessary to increase FINETECH JAPAN and the capacity of storage batteries and to reduce the size and Tokyo Pack. weight of powertrains*1. With the goal of responding to social imperatives, DIC will continue to promote extensive research aimed at addressing these challenges, based on which we will develop technologies that facilitate concrete, viable solutions, *1 In a motor vehicle, the powertrain is the group of components that transform stored energy into kinetic including innovative materials that boost battery capacity and energy for the purpose of propulsion. The engine generates power and transfers it via the transmission to driveshaft, differentials and final drive. improve the performance of power devices*2. In the information *2 A power device is a semiconductor used as a switch or rectifier in power electronics. *3 Wearable devices are incorporated into accessories such as watches and glasses and worn on the and communications field, the growing trend toward wearable*3 body rather than carried like traditional mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet computers. *4 Flexible devices are bendable, rollable and more durable than conventional devices made with glass or and flexible*4 devices, bolstered by the increased sophistication other stiff, breakable materials. VOICE ro the DIC ro p e be in by analy in social needs Our team is charged with analyzing global megatrends from four perspectives: the environment; economic and political implications; legal implications and standardization; and technology, and using our findings to predict what sorts of new markets future social needs will bring about. The emergence of any new market almost always brings a host of technological challenges. We work with R&D departments to promote the development of new technologies that address such challenges. Looking forward, I'm excited to be helping DIC provide solutions to social imperatives in such areas as resources and energy, transport vehicle, construction, and healthcare and medical devices. a a r or ora ar i o o o i ra eport on staina i ity The es siness ode s that espond to o ia I perati es 6 e Technolo y Development and alue Creation Themes that evera e Our ni ue Capabilities Proposin Solutions that evera e DIC s Elemental Technolo ies WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/technology_development.html Developin e Technolo ies and Creatin alue With the aim of achieving its Color and Comfort by Chemistry management vision, the DIC Group is leveraging its core technologies, including those in the areas of optics and color, organic molecular design and polymer design, as well as its elemental technologies in such areas as synthesis, compounding and formulation, and surface treatment, to develop high-value-added products. The Group is also building a portfolio of next-generation products and new technologies that will support sustainable growth for such key applications as LCDs, electronics, digital printing and packaging, by integrating technological resources originating across the Group. h ro E a ch o o i a d ar ar Specific Initiatives and Achievements In addition to promoting the use of water as a base material and the elimination of solvents, the DIC Group is advancing the development of environment-friendly products that will help enhance the environmental performance of the LCDs, electronics and electrical equipment, automobiles, printing inks and other finished products in which they are used. 7 eport on staina i ity The es e Te hno o y De e op ent and a e Creation Products sed in CDs Promotin EnvironmentIn the area of organic pigments for the color filters used in LCDs, riendly Products DIC recently launched a new blue pigment. The Company is also working to further enhance the performance of its green pigments Conscious always of the importance of ensuring its products are for color filters, which are renowned for delivering excellent environment-friendly, DIC promotes the development of products and brightness and contrast. In the area of LC materials, DIC is taking new technologies that are useful to society and works to increase the steps to further improve the capabilities of its products for use weighting of environment-friendly products in its portfolio, by reducing in large-screen LCD televisions and continues to promote the the volume of hazardous substances it uses, focusing on products development of new LCs for next-generation devices. that are less hazardous and products that facilitate recycling, and realizing safer production processes that generate less waste and Products sed in Electronics and Automotive Applications use less energy. DIC also conducts environmental assessments on a continuous basis and strives to maintain a solid grasp of laws In PPS compounds, DIC previously developed a molding and regulations in different countries and territories and of trends compound that delivers improved thermal resistance and vapor in environmental measures, thereby ensuring its ongoing ability to barrier properties and is increasingly favored for use in electrical engineer products that comply with diverse regulations governing the components for hybrid vehicles. In industrial adhesive tapes, use of chemical substances in different markets. In fiscal year 2013, recent development efforts yielded a number of products that environment-friendly products accounted for 57% of all products put have improved the performance of smartphones. These include out by DIC and subsidiary DIC Graphics. an antiscattering adhesive film, which leverages DIC’s exclusive hard coat technologies to prevent shards of glass from scattering in the event of screen breakage and also offers increased ife Cycle Assessments fingerprint resistance, as well as a waterproof double-sided Currently nder Consideration adhesive tape and an ultrathin adhesive tape. In recent years, manufacturers have been required to quantify Printin Inks their consumption of nonrenewable resources and their emissions of substances that negatively affect the environment. In response In the area of offset inks, recent efforts focused on UV-curable to this and other trends driven by common concerns, DIC is inks that deliver outstanding sensitivity and printability and currently considering the introduction of life cycle assessment respond to the use of UV printing systems that use weaker UV (LCA) initiatives to ensure it fully grasps the various environmental radiation or LED lamps, thereby reducing consumption of electric impacts of all DIC Group products, as well as the adoption of the power. In gravure inks, DIC commenced full-scale sales of a new Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s*1 Scope 3*2 standard. line of inks for food packaging that maintains the superb image *1 The Greenhouse Gas Protocol, or GHG Protocol, is a suite of standards for calculating and reporting of quality and suitability for the high speed of gravure printing and greenhouse gas emissions. delivers an improved performance in terms of environmental *2 Scope 3 is the GHG Protocol’s standard for calculating indirect greenhouse gas emissions resulting from production, transport, business travel and commuting, among others, across an entire supply chain. and food safety, thereby responding to the needs of customers seeking to market their products worldwide. VOICE ro the DIC ro p e are developin PPS compounds for use in ne teneration automotive components The outstanding heat resistance, electrical properties, chemical resistance and other performance features of PPS compounds have made them a popular alternative to metal materials for components used in automobiles, hot water heaters and lithium–ion batteries (LiBs), among others. With the remarkable rise in popularity of next-generation hybrid, electric and fuel cell vehicles, the need to reduce vehicle weight has accelerated efforts to shrink component size and increase motor output, underscoring the importance of developing new materials and mass production technologies. Our team will continue to address these challenges by capitalizing on the comprehensive strengths of the DIC Group. We look forward to helping expand the Group's share of the global market for PPS compounds. ro c A i a a a r o r roc i ch ica i a i o hi o eport on staina i ity The es e Te hno o y De e op ent and a e Creation 8 armony ith the Community and Social Contributions Themes that evera e Our ni ue Capabilities Addin Color and Comfort to ifestyles WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/society/ Basic Approach to Guidelines for Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution In line with its Color and Comfort by Chemistry management vision, the DIC Group will promote social contribution initiatives in three areas: business activities, culture and education, and the Based on its Guidelines for Social Contribution Activities, community and society. established in fiscal year 2009, the DIC Group promotes harmony with local communities and individuals through activities aimed at WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/society/guideline.html building a strong relationship with society. E amples of Recent Social Contribution Initiatives Publication of the Guidebook for the Color Universal Design– Recommended Color Set The DIC Group is actively involved in R&D in the area of color be reproduced using printing inks, coatings and digital imaging universal design (CUD), as well as expanding public awareness devices. The set encompasses 20 easy-to-distinguish colors: nine and understanding of CUD’s importance. In November 2013, high-saturation accent colors suitable for publications design, research conducted by the Group—in cooperation with the printed text and other comparatively small surfaces; seven colors Japan Paint Manufacturers Association, the Industrial Research appropriate for broader surfaces such as directories and maps; Institute of Ishikawa and the Color Universal Design Organization and four achromatic colors easily distinguished from the preceding and under the supervision of the University of Tokyo—published 16 colors, thereby ensuring information is conveyed accurately, the Guidebook for the Color Universal Design–Recommended and usable in printing inks, coatings and digital imaging devices. Color Set. In developing this color set, participating organizations (Two additional alternative colors are included for coatings.) capitalized on their par ticular exper tise in color vision WEB http://www.dic-graphics.co.jp/navi/color/ud.html (Japanese only) characteristics to verify and adjust proposed colors, a process that facilitated the creation of a set of colors that are relatively easy to distinguish regardless of ability to see colors and can C O M M E N T Our oal as to make C D a desi n system that everyone can use We've had many people say to us that they want to apply CUD to their design work, but that they don't know what colors are easy to distinguish and need some sort of guide. These are the people we had in mind when we produced the Color Universal Design–Recommended Color Set. We developed the set by taking colors that are commonly found in everyday life and for each chose the tones that were easiest to discern. This color set has been adopted for a wide range of applications, including publications and choosing colors for information on signs. We've received a great deal of positive feedback from people who have found the set useful in design work. DIC's new Guidebook for the Color Universal Design–Recommended Color Set provides information on where and how the color set should be used, as well as advice on things designers need to be mindful of, all presented in an easy-to-understand format. Looking ahead, we will continue to modify and improve the Color Universal Design–Recommended Color Set in response to feedback on actual examples of use, as well as to advances in coating and printing technologies. A ocia ro or i o o c ar a d ar io ci c i r i o o o i o 9 eport on staina i ity The es Har ony ith the Co nity and o ia Contri tions Science ab Pro ram Initiatives ed by the Central Research aboratories In line with the Japanese government’s effort to promote career The Central Research Laboratories offers a variety of visiting science labs education initiatives for students, as well as to help curb a decline in the and classes on uniquely DIC themes such as chromatics for nearby schools. popularity of science among children—an issue of increasing concern In May 2013, employees from the facility served as lecturers for a science lab in Japan—the DIC Group provides employee-taught visiting science titled “Experiencing Science through Household Items” at Chiba Prefectural labs at public schools with the aim of encouraging children to realize the Funabashi High School, a designated Super Science High School*2. Led close relationship between science and their daily lives. Drawing on its by researchers from the Central Research Laboratories, the lab included distinctive capabilities, DIC conducted a visiting science lab program in experiments in extracting the natural colorant from Spirulina and rheology (the 2013 that focused on simple experiments in pigment synthesis and offset study of the deformation and flow of matter) experiments using mayonnaise printing. Evaluated highly for its curriculum, as well as for the consistency and honey. Lecturers also incorporated a career education component to the of its activities, this program was among the top finishers in the 2013 lab, taking time after the lecture and experiments to talk to interested students CSR Initiative Award in Education*1, sponsored by Tokyo-based Leave about the challenges and rewards of being a researcher. a Nest Co., Ltd., winning in the Award for Visiting Labs and Lectures *2 Super Science High School is a designation awarded by Japan’s Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) to senior high schools that implement curricula focused for Elementary School Children category and placing in the Award for on the sciences and mathematics that goes beyond the Ministry’s official guidelines with the aim of fostering the next generation of talented engineers and scientists. CSR Initiatives in Education Selected by Junior and Senior High School Students category. a amura emorial DIC useum of Art *1 The CSR Initiative Award in Education comprises the Award for Visiting Labs and Lectures for Elementary School Children The Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art, located adjacent to and Award for CSR Initiatives in Education Selected by Junior and Senior High the Central Research Laboratories in Sakura, Chiba Prefecture, School Students, which are voted on by, respectively, teachers and junior and senior was established in 1990 to publicly exhibit works of art collected high school students from across Japan. by DIC Corporation and its affiliates. In May 2014, the museum Science lab will celebrate its 25th anniversary. The museum exhibits works from a collection that spans numerous genres, with a focus on 20th century American art, and encompasses works by Rembrandt; Impressionists such as Monet and Renoir; modern European artists such as Picasso and Chagall; and early modern, modern and postwar Japanese artists. In 2014, the museum will hold a special exhibition showcasing works from its permanent collection that will include a number of seldom-shown pieces. Also on the calendar is a retrospective exhibition of works by much-talked-about young Japanese artist Tomoo Gokita, scheduled to begin in September. Another appealing aspect of the Kawamura Memorial DIC DIC’s 2013 CSR Initiative Award in Education Museum of Art is its location on a lushly forested 10-hectare certificates site that has been open to the public since the museum’s establishment. In 2013, the museum established a flower garden C O M M E N T e strive to build brid es that enable children to connect ith today s fast-chan in orld DIC's visiting science lab program in 2013, the theme of which was “Chemistry's Ability to Bring Color to Life,” won in the Award for Visiting Labs and Lectures for Elementary School Children category and placed in the Award for CSR Initiatives in Education Selected by Junior and Senior High School Students category in the 2013 CSR Initiative Award in Education, which we sponsor. Voters were particularly impressed by the choice of subjects familiar to children—pigments, which are used to color most industrially manufactured products, and offset printing, used for school textbooks and other printed materials—to convey the close links between science and everyday life, as well as by the fact that DIC employees actually went to schools. Many of the teachers who voted this time commented that the value of the program was that it not only encouraged children to take an interest in science but also enabled them to connect with the outside world through communication with DIC employees. This is the true potential of CSR initiatives in education. Ed ca io o i i io a a o d ar a eport on staina i ity The es Har ony ith the Co nity and o ia Contri tions 50 are currently conducting production and technological feasibility studies in Zambia with the aim of facilitating local cultivation of Spirulina for local consumption. In addition to maintaining existing programs, which include the donation of bulk powdered Spirulina, the DIC Group has broadened the scope of its efforts to encourage awareness and consumption of Spirulina in Zambia. Currently, the Group also welcomes Zambian engineers to Japan for training and provides production and technological support through assistance with selecting locations for cultivation and providing information on raw materials. The DIC Group is also engaged in a variety of other initiatives designed to promote the nutritional value of Spirulina. In fiscal year 2013, these included a nutritional education program for private in one area of the site containing more than 100 species of elementary schools in the Nagoya area. flowering plants and trees that enables visitors to enjoy the colors of seasonal flowers and foliage. Active in efforts to preserve * The AFF is an NGO established in 1985 in California by current Chairman of the Board George Hara. The goals of the AFF include supporting the advancement of developing countries. woodlands and biodiversity, the museum has also established a biodiversity satellite, a special biodiversity-themed display area, in cooperation with the Chiba Biodiversity Center. undraisin Efforts in Support of Social elfare Initiatives DIC has a matching gift program whereby it matches the total amount collected through an annual year-end fundraising drive spearheaded by its employees’ union. Funds raised through the 2013 drive and matching gift program were donated to 19 children’s homes and Biodiversity satellite Nature trail facilities providing support for disabled individuals. Spirulina Promotin armony ith Society DIC employees visiting Hifumi Gakuen in Machida, Tokyo, to present a donation The DIC Group is the world’s largest supplier of Spirulina, a cyanobacteria rich in more than 50 nutrients, including vitamins, minerals and essential amino acids. In line with a support agreement Support for Reconstruction ollo in the Great East apan concluded in 2009 with the Alliance Forum Foundation (AFF)*, a Earth uake and Other Disasters Japan-based nonprofit organization (NPO), the Group provides assistance to the Spirulina Project, an AFF initiative that seeks to Since 2011, DIC has provided support for reconstruction in areas alleviate hunger and improve nutrition in the Republic of Zambia. devastated by the Great East Japan Earthquake as a participant In June 2012, with the purpose of contributing to the well-being in the IPPO IPPO NIPPON project, an initiative organized for this of the people of Zambia, we purpose. In fiscal year 2013, DIC also donated funds to assist implemented a projec t to recovery efforts in the Philippines following Typhoon Haiyan, assess the impact of Spirulina a super typhoon that struck in November 2013. Funds were on human health. This project given to the Philippine Red Cross verified a reduced incidence of via DIC Philippines, Inc., with DIC malnutrition among children who Philippines’ general manger Mario regularly consumed Spirulina. Estrada visiting the Red Cross Encouraged by these findings, directly to present DIC’s donation. the DIC Group and the AFF IPPO IPPO NIPPON project logo 5 eport on staina i ity The es Har ony ith the Co nity and o ia Contri tions Communication ith Stakeholders Themes that evera e Our ni ue Capabilities Promotin Disclosure and Communication WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/ As an organization with a global presence, the DIC Group works Basic Approach to continuously to strengthen its ties with customers in overseas Promotin Communication markets. In fiscal year 2013, the Group introduced a number of advanced technologies at electricaland electronics-themed The DIC Group places a priority on communication with trade shows in Asia, including major flexible panel display (FPD)stakeholders, which it promotes actively through, among themed trade shows in Taiwan and the PRC in August and October, others, direct dialogue, websites and events. By communicating respectively, and the International Meeting on Information Display effectively with stakeholders, the Group strives to ensure an (IMID) in the city of Goyang, in the ROK, in October. adequate understanding of stakeholder expectations to ensure such expectations are reflected in its business activities. The DIC Group is also expanding its awareness of the concept of Ties ith Shareholders stakeholder engagement, a key requirement under ISO 26000. and Investors The DIC Group strives to ensure fair, appropriate and timely Ties ith Customers disclosure and to communicate closely with investors and incorporate their opinions and requests into its management In fiscal year 2013, the DIC Group promoted a number of and operating activities. In fiscal year 2013, the Group sought initiatives aimed at enhancing communication with customers to enhance communication with domestic investors by holding in Japan. In August 2013, we redesigned the showroom at the two results presentations for institutional investors and securities Central Research Laboratories in Sakura, Chiba Prefecture, analysts, as well as by participating in investor relations (IR) enabling us to provide a better experience for visitors to the conferences and small-group meetings. Overseas, the Group facility. The revamped showroom features displays that illustrate held IR meetings in North America, Europe and Asia, encouraging the key role DIC products play in everyday life, a format designed greater understanding of the Group’s strategies through to stimulate interaction between visitors and staff. presentations by senior executives. Topic Responsible Care Dialo ue eetin eld at Sakai Plant In February 2014, DIC’s Sakai Plant hosted the ninth Sakai–Senboku region Responsible Care dialogue meeting. This meeting, which is sponsored by the RC Committee of the Japan Chemical Industry Association (JCIA) and five committee member companies with operations in the Sakai–Senboku region (Mitsui Chemicals, Inc., Lion Corporation, Ube Industries. Ltd., Sakai Chemical Industry Co., Ltd., Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. and DIC) and held biennially with the aim of deepening local understanding of the activities of member companies, focuses on introducing the operations of the companies and panel displays describing the companies’ Responsible Care initiatives. The 2014 meeting welcomed 80 stakeholders, including local government and other officials, municipal The general manager of the Sakai Plant greets participants employees and teachers. DIC’s presentation touched on the Sakai Plant’s earthquake safety measures and tsunami countermeasures, both areas of particular concern, and succeeded in increasing local awareness of the Sakai Plant’s emergency shutdown system, emergency shutdown training program and tsunami evacuation plan and emergency supply stockpile. Following the presentation, DIC took participants on a tour of the Sakai Plant and held a session to exchange views. Response to DIC’s efforts was positive, with participants commenting that they had learned a lot about the history and operations of DIC and of the Sakai Plant, and that they recognized DIC as a Company that would put safety and respect for human life first in the event of an earthquake or a tsunami. Participants listen intently to DIC’s presentation eport on staina i ity The es Co ni ation ith ta eho ders 5 For individual investors in Japan, the DIC Group provided tailored information via its corporate website and through an article in IR Magazine, with the aim of improving understanding PAWW participants touring the Sakai Plant’s wastewater treatment facility of the Group and its business activities. Because the Sakai Plant’s wastewater treatment facility is jurisdictionally located in the Seto Inland Sea region, it is subject Results presentation (February 2014) to numerous restrictions governing impurity concentrations and volumes and wastewater discharge. In response to these stringent Ties ith Society regulations, in 1973 the plant brought a new current wastewater treatment facility on line. Since then, the facility has operated In addition to the business community, the DIC Group took steps to without incident, a factor that in DIC’s view has contributed enhance communication with students and other consumers in fiscal year to its outstanding reputation. In addition to the facility, praise 2013. In October, subsidiary DIC Color Design, Inc., participated in Tokyo has been given to the technological skills of facility operators. Designers Week 2013, taking part in an exhibit focusing on Asian color Facility operators also provide training for DIC Group companies use and aesthetics that enabled it to convey the DIC Group’s role as an worldwide, underscoring the importance DIC places on ensuring organization that helps bring color to life to a variety of stakeholders. its technologies are passed down to successive generations of In December, DIC participated in Eco-Products 2013, marking its first employees. appearance in this annual event, which is noted for attracting a broad Looking ahead, the Sakai Plant pledges to continue range of ordinary consumers. DIC’s Eco-Products 2013 booth included contributing to environmental protection by ensuring the water it environment-friendly printing inks; PPS resin, which plays a key role returns to the sea is clean and safe. in reducing the weight of automobiles; and a presentation on how the Group’s technologies for cultivating Spirulina are aiding research in the area of biofuels. Ties ith Employees The DIC Group promotes a variety of initiatives to encourage active communication with its employees. DIC Plaza, the Group’s in-house newsletter, which is published in Japanese and English, as well as a Group intranet and various portal sites enable DIC to share information with employees and enhance understanding of its activities. DIC also makes use of an in-house social networking service dubbed CoCoT, and various other media to facilitate the DIC’s booth at Eco-Products 2013 Tokyo Designers Week 2013 exchange of information among employees. Recently, the Group launched a new initiative comprising E ecutives from Southeast Asia Tour Sakai Plant s operating results presentations for employees given by aste ater Treatment acility the president and CEO, the goal of which is to enhance understanding of the Group’s current operating and financial In November 2013, 20 participants in the Program on Industrial Wastestatus and of management strategies. In fiscal year 2013, DIC’s Water Treatment Technologies for Asia (PAWW), an initiative hosted corporate headquarters in Tokyo hosted two such presentations. by the Overseas Human Resources and Industry Development Presentations were also held at 15 other key sites over the course Association (HIDA) in collaboration with Osaka Prefecture, toured the of the year. wastewater treatment facility at DIC’s plant in Sakai, Osaka. PAWW To advance awareness of CSR, training for new employees program participants are executives and management-level employees includes a group work-based component from Thailand and other parts of Southeast Asia. The inclusion of the that focuses on social imperatives, Sakai Plant’s wastewater treatment facility in the program reflects the providing an opportunity for participants solid marks accorded its performance over the years by the Osaka to learn about the links between such government’s Environment Bureau, which has endorsed the plant as a issues and business activities. model for such facilities. After visitors were greeted by the general manager of the Sakai Plant, the leader of the plant’s Environment, Safety and Quality Group gave a brief outline of the plant’s wastewater treatment facility. Participants were then taken to see the facility in action. DIC Plaza, the DIC Group’s in-house newsletter 5 eport on staina i ity The es Co ni ation ith ta eho ders DIC Report and ISO A Comparison DIC eport and I O Co parison 5 DIC History 55 DIC History DIC History 56 CORPORATE DATA Fine Chemicals 57 Corporate Data Corporate Data 58 Fine Chemicals 59 Corporate Data Third-Party Opinion Counselor, ead of ESG Research Center The apan Research Institute, imited Eiichiro Adachi In his current capacity, Eiichiro Adachi conducts industry research and assesses corporate performance from the perspective of social responsibility. He also provides financial institutions with corporate information for socially responsible investing (SRI). A member of the Market Evolution and Corporations in the 21st Century working group organized by the Keizai Doyukai (Japan Association of Corporate Executives), Mr. Adachi was involved in the preparation of The 15th Corporate White Paper on “Market Evolution” and CSR Management: Toward Building Integrity and Creating Shareholder Value. He also served as a national expert for Japan to the ISO 26000 working group. From this year’s edition, DIC has combined its previously financial report filed by publicly traded companies in Japan), one independent CSR report and corporate profile to create a new can assume that half of the DIC Group’s production activities kind of report. Care has been taken to present information on are based overseas. Accordingly, improving use of the PDCA business activities and sustainability initiatives in an efficient, cycle overseas and disclosing information on related efforts easy-to-understand manner. must be regarded as crucial aspects of the Group’s initiatives I found “The DIC Group’s Business Portfolio,” special to help prevent global warming, manage waste, minimize use of feature, “Creating New Value that Responds to Evolving hazardous chemical substances and ensure occupational safety Social Imperatives” and “DIC History” sections very effective and health. in conveying how the DIC Group evolved over a century-plus The section titled “Business Models that Respond to Social from its beginnings as a manufacturer of products as ordinary Imperatives” makes reference to “analyzing global megatrends… as inks used in letterpress, woodblock and lithographic printing, and using our findings to predict what sorts of new markets leveraging its related core technologies to expand continuously future social needs will bring about.” I see this as a particularly into new markets, and developing a broad range of innovative forward-looking way of thinking for a materials manufacturer. I and industrially viable technologies. At the same time, I also would like to see DIC take this one step further by discussing thought that the report was very effective in portraying DIC as and identifying what it sees as the ideal society of the future and a company that while very much a technology-driven entity actively communicating its views to external audiences. is also highly aware of issues that affect society. The style of In closing, I read the account of DIC’s decision to change the the special feature, with each section presenting a specific designation across its program from “CSR” to “sustainability” social imperative and then describing DIC’s response thereto, with particular interest. The explanation of DIC’s move to clarify appears to have become a regular fixture of the report. This the direction of its initiatives and choose a designation that is time, I was particularly interested in the section describing how more suitable to a globally active corporate entity is clear and DIC has long worked to respond to growing global needs for persuasive. I also find the decision to set forth 10 incremental natural food coloring by, among others, capitalizing on business Group sustainability themes commendable. However, it is opportunities for the natural blue colorant extracted from important for them to keep in mind that when stakeholders hear Spirulina. I look forward to seeing the Company develop new a company use the word “sustainability,” they naturally expect and different Spirulina-based products. that the company is referring to both its own sustainability and Last year, I stated that I would like to see DIC significantly that of society. Based on the understanding that it’s not possible expand the inclusion of information based on overseas examples to ensure the health of business activities without ensuring the in the report. Unfortunately, this year’s report again falls short health of society and the earth, I would like to see DIC take in this area. From the information contained in the “Important further steps to reduce the negative impacts of its operations Facilities” section of DIC’s Yuka Shoken Hokokusho (annual and reconfigure, among others, its social contribution program. This third-party opinion reflects my view of CSR activities and information disclosure of the DIC Group, as understood from reading this report, from my perspective as an individual who provides corporate information to financial institutions to assist SRI. It is not intended as a comment on whether or not the information herein has been measured and calculated accurately to conform to commonly accepted standards for the preparation of environmental or other reports or a judgment on whether the report covers relevant important matters in full. Third-Party Opinion 60 : : http://www.dic-global.com/en
