Yeş i m Te x t i l e P r o g r e s s R e p o r t 2014-2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 1 producing for the world 2 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 3 Global Compact Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses, Global Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Compact Labor Standards Principle 4 Businesses should effectively eliminate all forms of Agreement forced and compulsory labor, Principle 5 Businesses should effectively abolish child labor, Principle 6 Businesses should effectively eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, Principle 8 Businesses shall undertake and encourage Yeşim Textile has pledged to conform to the initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, principles of this international agreement on Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development human rights, labor standards, the environment and diffusion of environmentally friendly, and the struggle against corruption. Yeşim Textile transparently shares the details of its work under the Global Compact Agreement in the global network Anti-Corruption since 2008. Yeşim Textile is in the Board of Managers Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of of Global Compact Turkey since March 2014. corruption, including extortion and bribery. About the Report Index Y eşim Textile pledges to conform and to implement the principles of the agreement at each and every stage of production and governance Yeşim Textile aims at diffusing sustainability efforts to all work processes and making sure that its suppliers and contract manufacturers also adopt these 6 8 Message from CEO Information about Yeşim Textile 33 Governance in Yeşim 42 Yeşim; the Green Factory and to monitor compliance. principles. The efforts made by the company to this 14 Achievements in 2014 52 CSR Activities Report end and the targets for the year 2015 and subsequent 16 Lean Management Systems 66 People First The report briefly explains previous practices within years are communicated in the report together with the organization of the company under the Global the relevant data. 20 Social Compliance 68 Information Increases if it is Shared Compact Agreement and mainly highlights the work carried out in 2014. The information provided in the report is supported by statistical data, model practices and photographs. 4 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 5 operationally implemented written requirements on social responsibility and environment incorporated into our company’s mission and values. • In-house applications for progress evaluation we have implemented have led to improvement in our performance in this regard. • These good practices we have implemented in the social responsibility framework have brought us into contact with global brands and brought us new customers, thus leading to higher financial gains for our company. Benefits outside the company: • Making business with world-famous brands has opened Continuing the us doors towards strategic partnership with them. Compact Turkey’s Board of Managers in March 2014 and try to become a Pioneer and disseminate activities in this • The atmosphere of more transparency and trust has increregard all around in Turkey. ased our company’s reputation. sustainability journey All of the efforts we have undertaken for • The sustainability vision, strategy and social responsibility have been extremely In this scope we have implementation plan have provided a frauseful for us both inside and outside the taken an active role mework for the development of relations company. with all our stakeholders. in the Global Compact Efforts to build a sustainable future are becoming increain projects for waste water treatment plants as well as water Benefits of the efforts can be summarized • Our cooperation has provided valuTurkey’s Board of singly vital in today’s world. Yeşim Textile has committed to and energy recycling projects with its environment friendly as follows: able learning opportunities for all our sustainability as one of its main strategies and shapes all its brands. Yeşim Textile believes that social compliance is an Managers in March stakeholders. relationships with its stakeholders accordingly. essential prerequisite for sustainability. Consequently we 2014 and try to • It is our purpose to share this approaconsider it imperative to establish systems regulating worBenefits inside the company: Our company holds world’s most prestigious SA8000 social become a pioneer and ch and applications dating back to our king conditions of our workers with particular attention to • We have started to more clearly highlicompliance certificate and is a member of Global Compact, disseminate activities corporate history in a global network by gender equality and to take occupational health and safety ght the commitment of our top manathe widest network in the world in this field, proving the signing this agreement and lead the whole measures. Our Social Compliance Department established gement to the environment, community in this regard all importance given to this issue by our company for a long world and primarily the textile and gartime. Our SA8000 certificate, which was renewed for the 4th as a result of importance placed on this issue for a long time, and governance reaching out to the around in Turkey. ment industry on these issues. leads our efforts to this end. employees. time last year and our progress report as issued by Global Compact for the 6th time mark our commitment to this After fulfilling all these prerequisites, we aim at giving back • We have managed to increase our empissue. Our Corporation considers the concept of sustainabito the society what we have received from them by social loyees’ corporate loyalty and motivation through all the lity in its widest sense. Our company has adopted green proresponsibility projects. All social responsibility projects are applications we have accomplished for them. duction strategy and developed environment friendly work long term projects covering all our stakeholders. Şenol Şankaya • The company integrated its corporate citizenship activCEO processes in all aspects setting an example for the entire Furthermore sharing all our efforts on sustainability with ities with work operations and encouraged the employees industry. Holding international certificates for environment our stakeholders and the society at large is one of our prioritowards an increase in the positive social effects of the friendly production, our company systematically engages ties. In this scope we have taken an active role in the Global values chain. • We have had an opportunity to demonstrate how we have 6 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 7 Yeşim Textile With a total operation area of 325 thousand square meters in Bursa, of which 144 thousand are indoor space, Yeşim Textile, which has knitting, dyeing, and confection departments, is one of the leading integrated facilities in the world. Our Vision • To fulfill our obligations to the community and always act in a socially responsible manner. To become the model strategic manufacturing partner to the world’s leading brands in both apparel and • To set an example for other companies by always home textiles. putting “People first”. Our Values Our Mission • Achieve mutual & sustainable growth with our key customers and manufacturing partners. • To be a pioneer in the textile sector, manufacturing top-quality products and making significant • Set the international benchmark for corporate investments both in qualified people and the responsibility in textile manufacturing. latest technology. • Be an industry leader in innovation and imple• To ensure the highest levels of customer satisfamenting new technologies & processes. ction. • Evolve our supply chain providing transparency • To protect the environment and foster environand trust for our customers. mental consciousness among staff, suppliers and • Continue to partner with our customers to shorthe public at large. ten end to end production times. Manufacturing for the internationally renowned brands, Yeşim Textile is in strategic partnership with companies like Nike and Esprit in apparel and Matheis-Schlafgut in home textiles sectors. Yeşim also produces for Zara, Pull&Bear, Massimo Dutti, Bershka, Hugo Boss, Calzedonia, Hurley, Tchibo, Converse, Tommy Hilfiger and Mexx brands. 8 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 9 2014; Exports 256 Milyon USD Our certificates and Revenue global memberships 260 Milyon USD • SA8000 • BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) • Oekotex Standard 100 • GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) manifacture from %100 organic cotton • OCS (Organic Content Standard) • BCI (Better Cotton Initiative) • Bluesign • ISO/IEC 27001:2005 (Safety) Capacity of company production knitting dyeing printing 50 tons / day 60 tons / day 100.000meters / day apparel home textile 150.000 units / day 100.000 units / day 10 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 11 Warning! There is gender equality in this workplace. Besides being a pioneer in the Turkish textile sector, Yeşim We support Textile also guiding the youth, which will become our future. women’s participation to Approximately 300 employee’s children in the 0-6 age group are cared for and educated free of charge in the daycare facilities of Yeşim. Yeşim Textile employs 2380 individuals in house and provides employment opportunities to around 10.000 economic life... individuals in the aggregate including domestic and international subcontractor. Number of Female Number of Male Number of Employees Employees Interns We value employment of women to achieve gender equality. For 26 years women produced and their children were raised in safety and love in the kindergarten of Yeşim. 1244 1136 64 12 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 13 With its exports reaching 256 million dollars, Yeşim Textile ranked 54th best company of Turkey and the 5th best company of Bursa in the Largest Companies of Turkey survey of Turkish Exporters’ Assembly. Achievements in 2014 Yeşim Textile rewarded by various institutions and organizations according to its 2013 data and performance. Yeşim Textile held the 274th position in the “500 awarded with gold, silver and bronze medals based Largest Enterprises” list of Istanbul Chamber of on their exporting performances in 2013, Yeşim Commerce (ISO). became the first and received the “Export Achievement Award”. In the Ceremony entitled “Adding Value to the Economy”, which was organized by BTSO on November In the Anatolia’s Top 500 Companies research of the 7 in Merinos Atatürk Congress and Culture Center, Ekonomist magazine, based on the 2013 data, Yeşim Yeşim Textile was declared the 5th Biggest exporStores became 60th and Yeşim Textile became 100th. ter in Bursa after international automotive giants Yeşim Stores was 322nd and Yeşim Textile was 451st Oyak Renault, Tofaş, and Bosch and Componenta in “Turkey’s 500 biggest companies” survey of CapiDökümcülük; Yeşim Textile was the only company tal magazine. with 100% Turkish Capital in the list. Yeşim Textile’s award was presented to CEO Şenol Şankaya by the Deputy Prime Minister Bülent Arınç. Yeşim Textile Factories and Yeşim Stores A.Ş. ranked 233rd in “Turkey’s Largest Companies” list of Fortune magazine. In the awards ceremony entitled “Stars of Exporters”, which was organized by Uludağ Textile Exporters’ Union in April, Yeşim Outlet Stores and Yesim Textile was given “Achievement Award”. In the ceremony, where 75 companies were Yeşim Textile was selected as the second best company in Turkey in May in a contest in the scope of the “increasing gender equality in the work life” activities carried out by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. 14 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 15 Yeşim Textile has launched the Lean thinking project, which is one of the most effective production and management models today with respect to efficiency, quality, Human Resources, process improvement and profitability, back in 2006, which is currently being implemented fully in each and every stage of production and management. Lean thinking aims to generate a production and and creating value as part of lean production, which management model which reduces processes that is a human focused management system. This is do not add value, as well as wastes, by focusing on the major source of Yeşim Textile’s success in lean rds value in each process. Kaizen techniques which are production. pr oc eed to wa continuous improvement with small steps play a We very important role and significantly contribute to the future this process. Sustainability The extension of management with targets, which is The term “sustainability” comes forward in today’s with our lean a major lean technique, throughout the workforce business environment, where companies need to be and the continuous monitoring of the performance competitive, work in a world with limited resources, production and indicators of each individual unit are key factors reduce their environmental footprint, reduce costs that contribute to Yeşim Textile’s progress towards is and meet customer demand. el “True North” business results. n a ge m en t m od The road to sustainability goes through being a ma All our employees have fully adopted the concepts company, which is lean, green and has empowered of communication, sharing, team work, team spirit workforce. Lean Gains Kaizen works of Yeşim Textile, which is among its sine qua non for continuous improvement, also continued in 2014 with the enthusiasm for the amelioration of the work of employees and the quality of work environment. The number of kaizen in various departments such as apparel, knitting, production, etc. reached 2,345 with 12,080 participants as of 2014. In 2014 using the weekly kaizen calendar, kaizen pioneers were selected by comparing the number of kaizens in each department. By this way, the participation to lean production works and the awareness for being a part of continuous improvement are strived to be increased. 16 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 17 institute consultants. The article is the first to be published in the website and tells the story of lean transformation 2nd Quality (%) Repair (%) of Yeşim Textile, which is shown as an example for 6 64% improvement 8 85% improvement its lean activities in the textile sector. The article was published on 19 February 2014 and you can access it at 4 6 http://www.planet-lean.com/index.php?option=com_ content&view=article&id=471. 4 2 2 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 0 Information weeks Stain (%) Efficiency (%) The series of “information week” that the lean office 20 15 74% improvement 100 80 33% improvement initiated in December 2012 also continued in 2014. Information on variable subjects chosen in accordance with the survey results located in the portal was provided 10 60 monthly periods. In this context, informative emails were 40 sent for five days in the chosen week so as to increase the 5 awareness on the relevant subject. Nike Lean Forum 20 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Information on kaizen, PDCA, best lean practices, best The lean office has participated to the “Second Lean Forum” 0 0 kaizen activities, standardized work,7S, A3, in station which was organized by Nike and its just normal office in quality and lean production were provided so far. April 2, 2014 and also the “Third Lean Forum” which was Information regarding the new subjects that are to be organized by the company Milteks between the dates 22 determined by the Lean Office will henceforward continue and 23 October 2014. During the first day of Third Lean monthly. Forum, which took place for two days, the leader of lean production Toyota was visited to see the best applications in place. During the meetings participants shared their applications and know which about various subjects. The lean forums are organized once in every six months. Continuing dissemination of lean production with suppliers Lean activities not only continue in Yeşim Textile but also in suppliers, stakeholders, and other locations of Yeşim. Lean trainings and support which were given in January 2014 at the factories of Moldova gave results in February 28, 2014 and the first NOS lean production line Benchmarking at the factory Asena 4 received approval. NOS approval Lean Office is continuing visits to compare lean is evaluated by Yeşim Textile’s customer Nike to see if applications in different companies and sectors and to the minimum of eight criteria (connected operations, share information with such companies. The lean office inventory control, andon, performance indicators, quality which started 2014 with the aim of “12 comparison visits at station, standardized work, 5S, and visual management, in 12 months” and has visited companies such as Coşkunöz team management) are fulfilled. These criteria are seen as Metal Form, Kilim Furniture, Coats, Uludağ University, an indicator if the company is applying lean operations Pres Metal and Aster Textile. as a basis. Also NOS lean production line plays a role for selecting producers by the customers and is importance of continuing production and customer satisfaction. As To ensure everyone knows what is lean Leadership and lean sharing a result of activities in this area two more production Lean Office, continued to increase awareness on lean related to Lean Production and Value, 7S and Visual lines were approved in Moldova in May, and therefore production of the employees of Yeşim, with activities The Lean Office is involved in various projects to become the number of NOS approved production lines of Yeşim Factory, In Station Quality, Standardized Work, PDCA, an example globally and to lead others. One of these reached 14, and six of them are in Moldova. carried out at production departments and offices in 2014. Problem-Solving Techniques-Kaizen. During trainings activities was the preparation of an article for the website The trainings started in March with Business Unit 1 and implementations took place to increase of the level of “Planet Lean – The Lean Global Network Journal” which continued in May with Business Unit 5. In the scope of the adaptation of the information learned. In total the trainings is a new website established by worldwide known lean trainings every employee received six different trainings took 26.5 hours and reached 662 people. 18 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 19 Social Compliance 20 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 21 People First “Never forget that your colleagues and employees are human beings just like yourself, and that it is your duty to treat them well”. Social compliance is an integrated This paternal advice rang in the ears of Yeşim part of our business processes Textile’s founder Şükrü Yeşim Textile has a Social Compliance Department Also encourages all suppliers with a view to fulfilling Şankaya when he first under its Directorship Social Compliance and expectations regarding social compliance. In addition, started the business, Human Resources which ensures that all expectations it shows the methods achieving the needs for social and remains at the regarding social compliance are notified and compliance. There are activities to need the demands heart of the company’s implemented. of customers related with social compliance and sustainability. “People First” vision, its This department conducts audits both at the main corporate culture and all plant and at the suppliers and reports the improvement This department also accompanies the customers and areas to the respective departments and companies and auditors during social compliance audits carried out by its policies. supports. third party organizations and customers. 22 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 23 Main Strategies / Sub Strategies Employee representatives were selected In September 2014 the garments and hunting TRUE departments at their own location, and printing, NORTH processing, knitting, dyeing departments at the cafeteria • Customer • Profitability voted to select their representatives to the Workplace • Speed • Innovation Health and Security Board. Seven permanent members • Competence and six reserve members were selected to the board, Yeşim Textile has BUSINESS which gathers once a month and represents the RESULTS IN YESIM allocated TRY employees of the company in the İSG board. TRACKED BY TARGETS 970.177 from its total • Profitability Corporate Social • Revenue Loading • Performance Total Responsibility budget of TRY 1.530.177 to Emergency situation evacuation drills • Lead Time MAIN social compliance, In 2014, Yeşim Textile continued doing • Competency STRATEGIES emergency situation evacuation drills, which • Stock occupational health Finance, Quality, is given great importance in the company. The Loading Performance, and safety in 2014. company readied its workforce to threats with Social Compliance, drills made in June and December 2014. The Employee Satisfaction, E company has done a Fire Extinguishing Drill S I EG Lead Time, in June 2014 and increased awareness. Corporate Reputation AT TR S UB S Trainings for health and safety Distribution 200 180 195 of work 160 176 140 accidents 120 141 by year 100 80 118 89 60 65 40 53 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 We believe that training In 2014 a total of 12.872 In 2014 makes us better and see hours of training were 1500 trainings as a part of our job. given to employees hours The Social Compliance Environment of trainings Yeşim Textile delivers training in house, to Occupational Health and Safety Board were given. make sure that all its employees participate which was founded in 1983, comprising 30 in occupational health and safety practices Personal members, convenes regularly on a monthly through a system which gives priority to the Technique Development Leadership Total basis and adopts resolutions and the minutes of health of its employees. Number of Number of Number of Number of these meetings are recorded and communicated to the people Hours Hours Hours Hours SA 8000, Ergonomics, İndividual Hygiene, Basic Workplace people people people relevant departments. Occupational health and safety efforts Safety, Workplace Security in Activities İnvolving are based on trainings. 1693 6162 1595 6480 136 230 3424 12872 Chemicals, KKD Usage and First Aid trainings’’ 1240 people received 1500 hours of training. 24 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 25 Social Compliance Social compliance activities are followed by continuous internal and external audits conducted both at Yeşim Textile and suppliers and improvement is measured. Continuous monitoring through audits Social Compliance at Yeşim Scheduled internal audits are conducted at the suppliers every BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) year in accordance with the annual main plant and supplier audit The main objective of BSCI Procurement Rules is to ensure plan. specific social and environmental standards on the basis of In case a need arises for new suppliers, substantive scheduled internationally accepted conventions. By signing the BSCI or unscheduled audits are conducted at new suppliers on social Procurement Rules, companies undertake to accept the social compliance, environment, occupational health and safety, and environmental standards specified in these rules, to in accordance with the social compliance questionnaire for implement these rules and to take measures in their corporate suppliers and social compliance manual for suppliers upon policies for compliance with these rules. Yeşim Textile, signed request by the production department. The audit plan is prepared on an annual basis in a way to ensure that the main BSCI Procurement standards in 2011. plant, all contract manufacturers, printing and embroidery firms are audited once every 6 months. The audits are conducted by the Social Compliance Team of Yeşim, comprising members who 7S audits are competent and authorized on this issue. 7S audits that started in Yeşim in 2012 under the frame of sustainable production also continued in 2014. 7S audits, where 7 phases of all office and production fields are inspected Our Company was subjected to and scored by the Simple Office and Social Convenience the following social compliance Departments and corrective actions are requested for the audits in 2014 inconveniences, contains 5S Simple, 6S Occupational Health and Security and 7S HR and Staff controls. As distinct from • Intertek SA8000 (March-July-December 2014) previous years’ audits, occupational health and security and • Intertek NIKE ESH SMS (May 2014) amelioration of working conditions are also controlled during • Inditex RTM (December 2014) these audits. • Next SU (January 2014) 7S audits realized 3 times in a year in 2014, provided that 20 • Burberry & Esprit SU (April 2014) selected departments should be controlled once in 4 months. • ÇSGB İSG (April 2014) • ÇŞB Environment (December 2014) 26 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 27 The most prestigious social Joint environmental audit Yeşim Textile, in the scope of this partnership agreement, will supports nature friendly production and sustainability Auditors from Ministry of Environment and Urbanization by purchasing yarn made from Better Cotton (BCI) in will have visited Yeşim in December for a joint environment audit. In the scope of the audit subjects such as operation of produce for Nike, and Converse, which is another brand of Nike. compliance certificate the purification plant, hazardous and non-hazardous waste management, wastewater discharge criteria, chimney gasses Yeşim Textile will gradually increase yarn made from BCI were examined. Auditors have indicated that all phases were cotton every year, and in 2014 the BCI yarn used accounted correctly carried out in Yeşim and that Yeşim is a “good for 19% of total yarn used in production. The company aims to example” for companies. increase this percentage to 22% in 2015 for all production. And the company, which commits to use 100% BCI certificated cotton yarn by 2020, is working since 2012 in this area follows BCI all developments closely. Yeşim Textile continued to undertook the purchasing in accordance with the strategic partnership agreement with What is Better Cotton Initiative (BCI)? KİPAŞ so as to purchase yarns made of cotton within the frame of BCI certificate that are produced in an environmental It is a voluntary program enabling millions of farmers around Yeşim Textile is the first company in the ready to wear friendly manner and sustainable conditions. Under the frame the world to produce cotton in healthier conditions. In order sector in Turkey to receive the SA8000 certificate which of the strategic agreement contracted, Yeşim Textile commits to guarantee the future of the sector, a Sweden-based nonwas renewed for the 4th time in 2014. There are only a to use more yarns made of cotton that are comforting to profit council named “Better Cotton Initiative” (BCI) was established in 2005. Collaborating with cotton supplying chain few companies in the world which manage to renew this Better Cotton (BCI) certificate and to orient its customers in this subject. BCI membership of Yeşim was approved in 1st and relevant stakeholders, the Council serves for securing the certificate for the 4th time. Yeşim has declared at the September 2012 and its name has been started to be published sustainability of global cotton production environmentally, highest level that the company will comply with the “Social on the website of BCI since then. socially and economically and as a sharing site where the Responsibility Policy” corresponding to the internationally results of the production quality are kept and shared with accepted “SA8000 Social Compliance Standards”. relevant customers and that is used for web-based international Yeşim-Nike cooperation in BCI cotton information and data storage. SA8000 is an important part of our business Customers from Yeşim Textile, became one of the partners of Nike for the processes the U.S.A and EU production of products in the scope of Better Cotton Initiative countries in the (BCI) in the world. In this scope Linai Vaz Yeşim Textile aims at incorporating social responsibility ready-to wear and DeNegri, Nike global sustainable cotton, requirements in its corporate culture. Consequently household textiles sector evaluate their sustainable production and resources it implements social compliance standards within its suppliers with respect to good quality, fair price, on time director, and Nike TKLO Material organization. delivery and compliance with social responsibility standards Manager Ayçe Özgün have visited Yeşim Through the Social Compliance Standards, Yeşim Textile and place their orders accordingly. Consequently Yeşim Textile on 15 October 2014 and presented Ali covenants to ensure that its employees receive all their rights is subjected to social compliance audits by its customers and Yayla, Yeşim Textile Supply Chain and under the law and the respective standards while delivering potential customers throughout the year on the principles of Purchasing Director and Enis Kızılay, its products or services, to comply with occupational health the Global Compact and on other issues. Nike Customer Group and Material and safety rules and to act in compliance with the prevention Manager, a plaque for taking part in this The SA8000 certificate and the good results achieved from the of environmental pollution. Yeşim Textile covenants to process. audits conducted by the customers assure that Yeşim Textile implement these principles which are also included in the fulfills all the requirements of the Global Compact Agreement. Global Compact Agreement in good faith and to allow 3rd parties to conduct audits. 28 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 29 Yeşim proved its trustworthiness again Yeşim Textile, implemented necessary actions in order to protect the information of its customers and the business environment and prolonged TS ISO IEC 27001 Information Security Management System the certificate in 2014, which was received initially in 2013. In order to renew this document, which is valid for one year, the company needs to be audited regularly every year. What is ISO/IEC 27001:2005? the leakage, theft and loss of basic information of companies. What does it provide? Information security management system shows to your commercial partners and customers that you take the information ISO/IEC 27001:2005 document is based on the principle of security serious. ISO 27001 enables you to do business with attainability, integrality and confidentiality of information and many organizations as it is a precondition, an expectation and a of determination and elimination of relevant risks. The needs of condition in contract. It facilitates the exposition of the security customers, employees, commercial partners and society as a whole of your IT system to the third parties without demonstrating your are also included in the relevant parts. Receiving this certificate security procedures to your customers. Minimizing the effects of is perceived as a strong indicator of the importance that an a possible security violation, it helps the development of business institution shows to the security of information. continuity of your institution. It decreases the system weakness and Unprotected systems invites the computer based penetration, the risk about the security, enables the operation of the relevant sabotage and viruses. Insecurity of information may cause control mechanism. 30 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 31 Governance in Yeşim The basis of management implementations in Yeşim that started out with the objectives of perpetual development and enhancement of performance is the mentality of “people first” just like all its processes. Adapting the humanitarian and ethic management perception, Yeşim structured all its processes on these values. Yeşim, which aims to establish a lean, corporate, result oriented, fruitful and sustainable organization structure, has revised its organization chart in 2014 with the help of a professional consultancy company. The new organization chart was prepared by defining the size of all positions in business processes, identifying risks and also taking into consideration opportunities for further development. In the new organization chart, the process starting from the order of customers and going all the way to the delivery is carried out in accordance with the value stream map and in line with lean management principals. The basis of the sustainable management is Social Responsibility policy, EnvironmentOccupational Health and Security Policy, Human Resources Management System Policy that is included in the management system of Yeşim. SA8000, the International social convenience certificate, and Global Compact Contract are the most valuable certificates that Yeşim acquired as the outcome of sustainable works included into its work processes. 32 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 33 Human Resources Management System Joint projects with our customers to develop them on sustainability. During the meetings every company provide information about their own applications In order to align the human resources management system Tchibo We Project and share their best practices. The “Learning Group”, which with corporate and social compliance rules current procedures Yeşim Textile takes part in the learning and development group was established in order to define new targets and strategies were reviewed and new procedures were written. entitled “We Project”, which was started our customer Tchibo related to Lean Human Resources and Social Compliance, to increase the awareness of subcontractors and suppliers on In the scope of the reorganization of the company which develop solution suggestions and share best practices in order social compliance. In the scope of the project two day meetings was initiated at the beginning of 2014 the duties of all whiteto develop vision of participating companies gathered for the were organized in Istanbul in January and June in which collar workers were analyzed and they are job definitions fourth time on 24th and 25th of February 2014 at the company managers and workers from every company participated. The were revised in accordance with the new format. In line with Gibor in Düzce; the fifth of this meeting was held on 19 and subject of the first training program was “Communication the information gathered the leveling system and wages were 20 June 2014 at the company İmteks in Düzce. The agenda of with Employees and Problem Analysis” and the subject of the reorganized. the fourth meeting was employee loyalty and risk analysis; the second applied training program was “Selection of Employee agenda of the fifth meeting was activities related to lowering The performance management system was reorganized to be Representatives”. turnover rates and reducing fire risks. implemented starting from 2015. In this regard, the goals of the company and the departments were set together with the upper management, and activities to systematically report such goals Esprit social compliance training were started. Esprit, gathered all suppliers in July and gave training about social compliance and about its own rules of conduct for social compliance. Aydın Maydaer, Social Compliance Manager, Rules of conduct Özlem Şenkoyuncu, Human Resources Manager and Erhan The rules of conduct of Yeşim were revised in accordance Metin, Subcontractor Monitoring Manager have represented with the social compliance and customer expectations. The Yeşim in the training, in which information related to BSCI rules of conduct of personnel which was prepared in 2010 was audits were given. revised in accordance with needs to ensure that employees of Yeşim could work in harmony and safely. The rules of conduct were conveyed to all ready wear employees in May by Özlem Tommy Hilfiger social compliance training Şenkoyuncu, Human Resources Manager, in the scope of In scope of the We Project, trainers visit Yeşim Textile once Tommy Hilfiger, gathered all suppliers in September and “Feedback Meetings”. The rules of conduct was published in the every four months to give applied trainings, and once in gave training about social compliance and about its own rules portal and also was hung to information boards at the ready every six months trainings are received together with the of conduct for social compliance. Fatoş Hüseyinca, Human wear and operations departments. representatives of other companies. The program aims for Resources and Social Compliance Director represented increasing the awareness of managers and employees about Yeşim in the training, in which information related to social social compliance and creating projects related to the trainings compliance audits of Tommy Hilfiger was given. Orientation booklet received. In this scope during the visit of Tchibo We Project The orientation booklet, which was prepared to ensure faster team to Yeşim Textile, applied Communication, On-the-job adaptation of new employees and give information about the Training, Workplace Health and Security, and Productivity company, started to be distributed in June to all employees. The trainings were received. booklet gives information about the company and also about We are classified in the “good” category based on our current topics such as lean production, quality, social compliance, and situation and the works we have carried out during our rules of conduct. involvement for two years in the project, which was initiated by our customer Tchibo. The project will end in 2015. Workplace Psychologist serves the employees of Yeşim In order to enable the employees of Yeşim to manage the stress in their professional and private lives; Psychologist Ayça Bolten Ülkü started to serve in Yeşim as a Workplace Psychologist between 08.30-18.30 in Tuesdays and Thursdays as of 2013. Having individual interviews, our psychologist facilities the tackling with the stress in the professional and private lives. Nike Learning committee Workplace psychologist has so far done 650 hours training and The suppliers of Nike get together once every four months un180 hours face-to-face interviews in 2014. der the initiative entitled Learning Group since 2012 in order 34 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 35 Legal working conditions Our employees work under conditions which comply with national and international standards and receive wages according to these standards. The wages of all employees who have worked for Yeşim Textile in excess of 3 months are higher than the minimum wage. Working conditions in compliance with the law with this collective bargaining agreement since 1983, when the cooperation with TEKSİF was started. The provisions of the “Labor Law” numbered 4857 as ratified by the Council of Ministers and the provisions of the In the scope of these laws the company does not employ forced “Collective Bargaining Agreement” which was entered into workers. All new recruits completing the probation period (1by and between the employer and TEKSİF (The Union of 3) depending on the nature of their position are considered as Textile, Knitting and Garment Industry Workers of Turkey”) permanent staff. are applied by Yeşim Textile. The administrative staff (“white The wages are determined on the basis of the minimum wages collar”) are subjected to the provisions of the Labor Law and defined by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. New the workers (“blue collar”) are subjected to the provisions of recruits are paid minimum wage for a period of 3 months the Collective Bargaining Agreement. following recruitment and then their wages are increased at When compared to the Labor Code, the Collective Bargaining the rates specified in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The Agreement always provides more favorable conditions for the wages of all employees who have worked for Yeşim Textile in workers. Yeşim Textile recruits its employees in accordance excess of 3 months are higher than the minimum wage. 36 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 37 The number of people according to ages 700 600 675 670 500 400 416 300 377 200 201 100 98 0 20-25 25-30 30-35 35-40 40-45 45 and older A Wage Policy Supported by Yeşim Textile complies with the requirement of Social Benefits employing disabled persons at the rate of 3% pursuant to the Labor Law. It is not required to be citizen of the Republic of Turkey to be to be employed at Yeşim Textile. Employees of Yeşim Textile receive the consideration for their efforts not Yeşim Textile allows its employees to enroll with a only through wages but also through social benefits. trade union however it is not • Payment of bonuses every month at the amount of 5 days compulsory. Social assistances at Yeşim Textile wage, • Education grant for all schooled children of employees, • Religious holiday allowance for all employees, • Marriage grant to employees who get married, • Heating allowance for all employees each month, • Maternity benefits at childbirth, • Gifts to all employees once a year from the products 692 • Funeral grants those who lose their first degree relatives, manufactured by the company, • Military service allowance to those who leave their jobs for • Free shuttle service for all employees, military service, • Free lunch to all employees every day, 1747 • Reimbursement of meal ticket fees to those employees who are on fast during Ramadan, • Provision of 40 kg of foodstuff to all employees quarterly, • Child allowance for parents, separately for each child, • Free of charge kindergarten service. Number of employees are enrolled with a trade union • Holiday allowance for those who take annual leave, Number of employees which are not enrolled to a trade union 38 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 39 Employees, whose children The kindergarten is staffed by a team of 24 qualified and licensed specialists comprising 1 manager, 2 shift responsible, 11 teachers, 1 nurse and 9 child minders to ensure the health, education and happiness of are in the the children. Yeşim’s kindergarten is open 6 days a week between 07.0023.00 hours. Not only mothers but also fathers are allowed to bring their children pursuant to the kindergarten regulations. kindergarten, are at ease The kindergarten which is provided free of charge to the Personal development of the children are cared employee’s children in the 0-6 year old age group is an ultraNew courses were added to the curriculum of the kindergarten modern facility with a capacity of 1000 children, meeting all in 2011 with a view to contributing to the personal development the needs of the children. The kindergarten at Yeşim provides of the children with different topics. According to the new education to approximately 300 children currently, with a educational programme chess, drama courses are provided to curriculum in line with the curriculum of private nursery the 5 year old age group and English, chess, drama, and folk schools aiming at supporting personal and social development dances courses to the 5 and 6 year old age group. of the children. Teachers in the kindergarten receive periodical trainings from psychiatrists of the company in order to increase their skills to better communicate with children and their parents. 40 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 41 Green Factory 42 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 43 Yeşim; The Green Factory Yeşim Textile is committed to preserve the environment at each and every stage of production through its environmentally friendly sustainable activities, energy friendly projects and recycling efforts. Environmental awareness in production Yeşim Textile has fulfilled Yeşim has fully integrated the Activities causing waste water, environmental projects which have hazardous waste and solid waste its social responsibilities been carried out for years in its generation and air pollution are since the first day of its business processes. monitored through a separate incorporation, aiming at Environmental Management System These activities which are carried in accordance with the regulations carrying out its production out with a human focus are based on issued by the Ministry of Forestry activities in line with the viable and improvable systematics and Environment of the Republic of in accordance with international green factory approach with a Turkey. standards and monitored through view to acting as a role model performance metrics. The primary environmental objective for its customers, contract of Yeşim is to make sure that each These activities are guided via the and every project adds value to manufacturers and suppliers Global Compact Agreement, SA8000 our employees, stakeholders and BSCI (Business Social Compliance and raising public awareness. to the public in general to ensure Initiative), OCS, Oekotex Standard sustainability. 100, GOTS certificates, Bluesign and BCI memberships 44 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 45 A green step forward in home textiles Yeşim Textile enrolled to the carbon Performance improvement initiative System (CPI₂) with its home textiles department. CPI₂, is an initiative of European retailers, the online system and receive online which aim to become active pioneers to protect the climate. This improvement recommendations for improvement. The company will improve its energy Projects to be carried out in 2014 system, which is also supported by our costs and carbon dioxide emissions by customer Tchibo, aims to systematically implementing these recommendations. reduce energy costs and carbon dioxide (CO₂) emissions. In this scope Yeşim Textile will put in its factory data to Yeşim Textile has allocated TRY 720.000 from its total Corporate Our goal; to reduce Projects for reducing water and savings at the rate of 30% and cotton fabric will be reduced Social Responsibility energy consumption in the dye energy savings at the rate of 25% considerably and the total process budget of TRY 1.530.177 house: in the dyeing process. time will be shortened at a great to environmental consumption in extent. In this regard there will • Project for saving time, water and • Project for water free polyester projects in 2014. be an increase in the production energy in preliminary finishing. dyeing. capacity without any additional This project aims at achieving • Energy saving and reduction investments to machinery. production water savings at the rate of 30-35 of carbon dioxide project with % per year and energy savings at • Energy savings projects in the a special dye to be used in the the rate of 20-25% per year. knitting department lightings dye house. In this project steam • Project for dyeing with low liquor and water consumption and • Energy savings projects for well Environmental activities of Yeşim are encouraged and ratio in the dyeing machine. This the carbon dioxide levels from pumps monitored by the CEO Şenol Şankaya and the entire project aimed at achieving water the chimney for dyeing 1 kg senior management team. Energy saving projects that were carried in 2014 and the outcomes of these projects Energy Project Outcome 202.390kg/year CO2 Electricity Improvements carried out for lightings emission reduction. 470.988 kg/year CO2 Electricity Driver applications in pumps emission reduction. Natural 14.000.000 kg/year CO2 Heat recovery system Gas emission reduction. Natural Replacing the hot oil system with direct combustion system in 2.950.000 kg/year CO2 Gas stenter machines emission reduction. 122.275 kg/year CO2 Steam %20 savings with steam pre-drying system emission reduction. 46 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 47 Environmentally friendly brands Yeşim’s environmentally friendly brands Water is life, represent the production made in the «green factory» concept and the vision of the company. The brand we appreciate Yeşim Organic was patented in 2010 its value and the brand Yeşim Recycle was patented in Yeşim has commissioned its in house treatment plant 2011. in 2000, treating and discharging 6.000 tons of water to the nature every day. This plant is one of the first in house examples in the textile sector with its capacity and its construction at international standards. Electricity Consumption (Kw) Naturel Gas Consumption (Kw) The benefits of the projects which were initiated in 2014 Energy Project Outcome Reduction in the CO2 emissions at the rate of • Using variable speed control units in the soft water 625.800kg/year and hard water pump motors. Reduction in the CO2 emissions at the rate of Electricity • Using variable speed control units in the well pump Demineralized Water Consumption (m3) Coal Consumption (ton) motor. 265.500kg/year • Using LED lamps for general lightning Reduction in the CO2 emissions at the rate of 683.700kg/year • Heating the fresh air to be fed into the stenter Reduction in the CO2 emissions at the rate of machines with hot exhaust gas. 70.000kg/year Natural Gas • Increased production capacity of stenter machinery Reduction in the CO2 emissions at the rate of to ensure shutting down one machinery at minimum 1.070.000kg/year No major defect was found during the environmental audits that were carried out in 2014 and no environmental accident was experience. Targets for 2015 Online tracking for Yeşim • Recovering more than 50% of the process water Yeşim Textile participated in the project that was started by Metropolitan Municipality; ‘online monitoring • Increasing the share of organic fabric production in the total production to 25%. of wastewater’ application. Yeşim Textile first participated to the system in 2013; and in 2014 the company • Increasing the share of yarn manufactured from cotton produced to BCI standards in the total fabric was again monitored online by Bursa Metropolitan Municipality. The Online monitoring system measures production to 20%. the parameters of water and delivers data in real-time to Bursa Water and Sewerage Administration and • Increasing the share of African cotton in the total production to 4%. Provincial Directorate of Environment. The parameters include oxygen, conductivity of water, the pH level water, temperature of water and its flow rate. • Increasing the share of recycled fabric in the total fabric production to 5%. 48 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 49 Environmentally friendly production Yeşim Textile aims at reducing the adverse impacts of the products it manufactures on the environment, during their life cycle, to the extent possible. To this end Yeşim Textile engages in alternative efforts for environmentally friendly products and endeavors to consume resources to a lesser extent, to recycle and reuse the products. Environment is our social responsibility Yeşim Textile carries out numerous initiatives under the scope of its social responsibility in additional to social compliance requirements with respect to the environment. Projects that were carried out jointly with Tema until now • Twin Village Project (Şükriye village-2000) • Şükrü Şankaya Commemoration Forest ( 2006) • Friends of Recycling Schools Project (2007) • Let’s Avert Global Warming (2007) Wastes are collected safely • TEMA advertisement published free of charge in the Önce İnsan magazine(2009-2011) • Used vegetal oils collected at canteen. Used wastes. Send to recycled licensed firms and • Junior TEMA Project (2011) vegetal oils given without cost to licensed waiting for the acceptance. recycling companies. • Used electrical equipment are collected in • Oily rags are collected separately from labeled containers at waste storage area. «Green IT» initiatives carried out by the Information other wastes at maintenance departments and are sent to licensed firms. Applied to a licensed recycling company and the application has accepted. Waste Technologies Department of Yeşim Textile • Contaminated barrels, chemical containers, electrical equipment are collected at the hazardous waste storage area. When the IBC’s are sent to hazardous waste area waste quota gets full, electrical wastes are • BLADE Servers which require lesser space, energy • In the scope of Green IT initiative, the Active (temporarily) from chemical and dye sent to the licensed recycling company. and air conditioning were started to be used in 2008 Directory 2012 transition Project reduced power preparing areas. Contaminated barrels, to initiate Green IT initiatives within the organization consumption of servers in 2014 chemical containers, IBC’s are transported • Medical wastes are taken by the licensed of Yeşim. to licensed recycling facilities by licensed vehicle of local waste company. • Activities to reconstruct the system room based on transporting companies. • DELL Vostro products with an environmental the ISO 27001 standards has started in the year 2014. approach and LCD monitors were purchased after These activities target to reduce energy consumption • Fluorescent lamps are collected in safe 2008 to support the Green IT initiative. and the space required. containers and separated from other • We have started to dispose of our electronic waste through certified recycling companies in 2009. 50 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 51 CSR Activitie s Re p o rt 52 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 53 Yeşim is aware Yeşim Textile meets social compliance requirements regarding production and also carries out social of its social responsibility projects voluntarily. The social responsibility projects mainly address our employees, the environment, education and sports activities. responsibilities 54 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 55 If a woman changes, society changes... Women and Children Club has carried out a number of activities in 2014 in the scope of The World of Butterfly Project, which was initiated together with the Uludağ Soroptimist Club in 2013. The World of Butterfly is at its first age and Merih Eskicioğlu, Chairman of Uludağ Soroptimist Club, the details of the project were conveyed to the participants. Authorities Yeşim Textile Women and Children Club, which was initiated of the United Nations indicated that they will show The World of together with Uludağ Soroptimist Club celebrated its first year in Butterfly Project as an example to other companies in Turkey and November 2014. that they are looking for the support of Yeşim Textile. In the scope of the project 30 different speakers have given a total The Clubs encourage of 46 hours of training in one year. November 25 the Day of “Elimination of Violence A total of 66 hours of volunteer consultancy services were given to against Women” personal development women working at Yeşim by experts. Yeşim Textile Women and Children Club and Uludağ Soroptimist 467 women received free of charge advisory services. Club members have organized an event at Yeşim Textile facilities In the project in the scope of the Healthy Living campaign 30 in the scope of The World of Butterfly Project on November 25 and Yeşim Textile has put various social activity clubs into practice for its staff in order to enliven women, who received free of charge consulting services from a distributed brochures giving information to women where to apply social life and contribute their social and personal developments. In these clubs, the staff is dietitian lost 135 kg. in case they are the victim of violence. The brochures were also organizing different activities voluntarily. In this frame, the activities in 2014; Since the start of the project until the end of 2014 a Turkish and distributed to male employees to increase awareness. English e-bulleting was published six time. Excursion and Futurists Club in February, May, July and September.) The World of Butterfly is in the social media Entertainment Club • Bulletins of Futurists’ Club (4 bulletins • “Turkish alternative to Google” with • Karaoke Night (31 January 2014) were published in April, June, August Murat Yanıklar (27 February 2014) Young people and butterflies are together The World of Butterfly project is also active in the social media. All and November.) information related to the activities about The World of Butterfly • Çanakkale Trip (12 April 2014) In the scope of a youth project which is carried our together by Environment and Social Project is distributed both in Turkish and English in the Facebook • Abant Excursion (24 May 2014) Mor Salkım Women Solidarity Association and Uludağ University Responsibility Club page of the Project. Various information about life and women is • Kapadokya Trip (20-22 June 2014) Sport Club European Union Unit and supported by “European Union” an also shared in the page. • LÖSEV, would you like to realize the Italian group of students have visited Yeşim Textile in February 10. • Ağva Trip (31 August 2014) • Şükrü Şankaya Football Tournament dreams of a child? (11 December 2014) The students, who came together with the interns at Yeşim Textile (21 May 2014) • Table Tennis Tournament were informed about the project of The World of Butterfly, which Fashion Club Women and Child Club is carried out for women employees. Yeşim Kindergarten, which (13 February 2014) • “Design journey” with Mehtap Elaidi • The Women and Child Club has makes the life of women employees easier, was visited after the (7 January 2014) carried out various project again in briefing. Positive Thinking Club • “Tips for taking photographs” with 2014 in the scope of The World of Serenay Lökçetin (29 January 2014) • “How can you change yourself with Butterfly project, which was initiated • “Do we know what we are wearing” NLP and how can you be yourself?” together with Uludağ Soroptimist Club United Nations has visited Yeşim with Beril Stock (5 March 2014) with Füsun Aykut (5 February 2014) in 2013. Elif Elçi Çarıkcı, United Nations UNFPA Programme and Foreign • The address of fineness in design: Resources Supervisor and Ege Tekinbaş, Programme Coordinator, Dilek Hanif (6 November 2014) Innovation and Technology Club have visited Yeşim on April 10 to receive detailed information • Bulletins of Innovation and Technology about The World of Butterfly project. In the scope of the visit Club (Totally 4 bulletins were published Dilek Cesur, Yeşim Textile Corporate Communications Manager 56 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 57 Trainings given in 2014 under the frame of The World of Butterfly project: Tarih Konu Konuşmacı 07 January 2014 Acquiring a vision about fashion and garment Fashion designer Mehtap Elaidi 08 January 2014 Methods to protect skin health and beauty Dr. Mukaddes Özcan 16 January 2014 Development information related to children at the age of two Corporate psychologist Ayça Bolten Ülkü 29 January 2014 Secrets of taking photographs Photographer and Blogger Serenay Lökçetin 05 February 2014 How to change the self and how to become yourself with NLP? Active Life Coach Füsun Aykut 05 March 2014 Do we know what we are wearing? Visual consultant Beril Stock 27 March 2014 There is a teenager in the house Senior psychologist Azade Altıntaş Durmuş 10 April 2014 Women and leadership Trainer Şehzan Seçen 07 May 2014 Everything about deserts Uzay Confectionary Production Manager Ali Muslu 13 May 2014 Breast cancer and how to protect Associate Prof. Hicran Yıldız 21 May 2014 Frequent conditions during pregnancy Dr. Muammer Durak 24 May 2014 Cake adornment at Uzay Confectionnary Chef Bilal Aydemir 18 June 2014 Families under risk based on genetics Dr. Taner Durak 12 September 2014 Everything about eye health Dr. Zülfiye Güven 24 September 2014 Communication and body language in man and woman relations Trainer Şehzan Seçen 30 September 2014 Technology addiction and children and teenagers Senior psychologist Azade Altıntaş Durmuş Support to education from The World of Butterfly Bursa Pilot Branch Chairman Ekrem Saraçoğlu two provide a 10 October 2014 Personal Leadership Trainer and counselor Aksel Karaşahin room to the women of Yeşim. This room has become the meeting 17 October 2014 Cooking apron sewing activity with Astaj Juki Astaş training coordinator Refika Güneş In the scope of “The World of Butterfly” project, which was point for the women of Yeşim for activities carried out throughout 23 October 2014 10 rules to become the perfect chef Chef Ömür Akkor initiated by the Yeşim Textile Women and Child Club and Uludağ the year. 06 November 2014 Fashion designer Dilek Hanif Dilek Hanif Soroptimist Club, the company participated to a fair in May 23th to support education. 14 November 2014 The guide to happiness Özlem Süyev 17 December 2014 Discussion with the Corporate Psychologist of KindyROO Gizem Ozan Aslan In the fair, which took place at Bademli Agora Shopping Mall, What do women want? products such as home textiles, garments, the household A “Wish Tree” was installed by Mor Salkım Women Solidarity decorations, and foodstuff were sold in more than 30 stands. In Association to The World of Butterfly Room, which was opened the stand the volunteers from Yeşim Textile worked and informed participants about the activities carried out in the scope of The on March 6. The “Wish Tree” attracted a great deal of attention and women provided their answers on the tree to the question “what World Of Butterfly World of Butterfly project; the income generated from sales of tablecloth and bed sheets was donated to the scholarship fund do women want?” Based on the evaluation of the answers given Project by the woman of Yeşim the greatest two desires of women are TEV Şükrü Şankaya. improvements in work life and retirement conditions (29%) and a happy and peaceful life (26.2%). 15 women, who provided the If a woman changes, society changes... answers on the wish tree, were awarded presents after sweepstakes. The World of Butterfly’s Room opened The results of the survey carried out in the scope of The World of “The World of Butterfly” project which aims for contributing to the Butterfly project, which included 877 women employees of Yeşim, %52 of professional and individual development of women and supports are as follows: The action covers women in all aspects opens its “The World of Butterfly Room” on 92% of female employees of Yeşim believe that the project is March 6, 2014 two days before 8 March International Women’s useful, 36% want to be involved in the project, 53% would like Day. Sharla Settlemier, Deputy Chairman Sustainable Production 1244 en i Ye ş to see discussions about health, 54% prefer entertainment events wo m of Nike, which is a customer of Yeşim Textile, participated in the m ex re organized just for women, and 35% receive information about the T til' s e m oye e s a women working in Yeşim Textile pl opening ceremony together with CEO Şenol Şankaya and Teksif project from posters in the company. A total of Trainings accumulated to A total of 30 66 hours 46 hours of face to face experts met with female until today counseling services employees of Yeşim were given by experts in the scope of the action from a dieti Six e-bulletins ed cia eiv n were published the services r women los 6 of We continue 30 ec 135 non-stop lt t kg. a since the start res of u tal of the action As a to 58 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 59 Yeşimspor introduces basketball to youth Yeşimspor Club was founded in 2003 with a view to providing wider possibilities for sporting activities to the youth of Bursa and Yeşim is preparing the training basketball players for the team. Providing hundreds of children with the opportunity to engage in sports activities, the youth for the future club has enjoyed considerable success both at local and national level. Yeşim Textile, which values not only the personal development of its employees but also the interns, prepares the youth for the future. Yeşimspor which celebrated its 11th Yeşimspor introduces basketball (TBF) in Kuşadası the Yeşimspor children anniversary in 2014, has signed a series of to youth! team was selected as the demo team. 790 Personal development trainings to young people • Yasin Yıldız A New Generation is Needed for the New Era events during this year. people participated to the International Yeşimspor, carried out another social (26 March 2014) Coach Development Seminar; Yeşimspor Yeşim Textile, which organized many seminars and discussion responsibility activity by sharing its Director Cem Çağal has carried out the last panels related to business life for university students in the scope of • Ayça Bolten Ülkü Draw Your Own Future (14 May 2014) knowledge and experiences with the Şükrü Şankaya Basketball session of the second day on “Offence and the “Intern Development Program” during July-September 2014, public through a television programme. • Yasin Yıldız Towards Life (05 November 2014) Tournament Defence Combination Infrastructure”. aims to increase knowledge and skills of interns on their professions The “Basketball School” show, which was and the business life. The seminars organized for university interns • Gülsüm Ekmekçi ve Hayriye Ünal How Can We Manage Şükrü Şankaya Basketball Tournament was aired first on June 21, 2014 and hosted in this scope are as follows; Our Money? (10 December 2014) organized in 11 October 2014 in Bursa in by Yeşimspor Head Coach Cem Çağal Şükrü Şankaya Football School commemoration of Late Şükrü Şankaya, continued to meet with its viewers every • Özlem Şenkoyuncu Career Opportunities and Preparation one of the founders of Nergis Holding. TED Saturday at 11:30 at Olay TV. Çağal Şükrü Şankaya Football School, which was for Employment Interviews (02 July 2014) University-Yeşim cooperation Collage, Çakır Collage as well as Yeşimspor introduced basketball techniques and formed by the Association of Professional • Arzu Kırayoğlu Youth Opportunities of European Union attended to the tournament. Yeşimspor Yeşimspor players showed basketball Footballers of Bursaspor in 2009, was Yeşim Textile has signed an internship protocol with Faruk was the winner of the tournament. The financially and morally supported; (10 July 2014) techniques and rules basketball court. Saraç Design Occupational Higher School as a good example for tournament, the third of it was organized, is thus hundreds of children are provided • Dilek Cesur Social Responsibility and Volunteers university and industry cooperation. In the scope of the protocol, organized every year traditionally. opportunities to do sport in professional (16 July 2014) seven students from Uludağ University Textile Engineering Faculty, Continuing as a demo team conditions. In this context, 30 children three students from Industrial Engineering Faculty, and five got benefit from Şükrü Şankaya Football • Ayça Bolten Ülkü Draw Your Own Future (24 July 2014) During the 9th International Coach students from Faruk Saraç Occupational Higher School completed Summer School freeof-charge due to the Development Seminar organized on 20-22 • Nergis Akıncı Future Humans (13 August 2014) their long term internship programs. Uludağ University students private contingent allocated to the children June by Turkish Basketball Federation have worked for 2 days a week and Faruk Saraç Occupational of Yeşim in 2014 summer period. • Taner Alan What is Lean Production? (20 August 2014) Higher School students worked for one day a week throughout their internships. Journey to future In the scope of the protocol made with Uludağ University, one Yeşim Textile launched the personal development program as of academician and one supervisor from Yeşim Textile responsible 2012 toward the high school trainees working in the company. for every student took part in the internship program. Students Contribution to the professional improvement as well as personal prepared their final studies, which were assigned to them by the development of students are intended by means of this program. academicians at their schools and the supervisors in Yeşim, during Seminars that were organized in 2014 in this context were; their work in the company. • Gönül Uman Yiğit Communication for Success (12 February 2014) 60 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 61 The name of Şükrü Şankaya lives in education The mission of Şükrü Şankaya, one of the founders of Yeşim Textile, who has given his best efforts to support education, is pursued by the company. Yeşim Textile considers supporting education as a part of its social responsibility. Şükrü Şankaya Primary School Şükrü Şankaya Primary School which was commissioned in 1951 as the only school in the region, was renewed, repaired and modified in 1990 by the late Şükrü Şankaya, the founder of our company upon the suggestion by Bursa Governor’s office. New sections were added to the school in the academic year 2006-2007. All the needs of the school are met by Yeşim Textile since then. About 1500 children received education in this school. Şükrü Şankaya Anatolian High School This school which was erected and donated to the Ministry of National Education in 1996 by Şükrü Şankaya, is one of the most successful high schools in Bursa. Yeşim has later added a computer laboratory to the school. The company contributes to the needs of the school in every academic year. Yeşim has supplied the sweat suits of the students and had bought a cleaning robot for the school. A budget at the amount of TRY 10.000 was allocated high schools in Bursa. Yeşim has later added a computer laboratory for these expenses. Şükrü Şankaya Anatolian High School This to the school. The company contributes to the needs of the school school which was erected and donated to the Ministry of National in every academic year. Education in 1996 by Şükrü Şankaya, is one of the most successful 62 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 63 TRY 560.000 of the Sharing is total TRY 1.530.177 Corporate Social Responsibility budget of Yeşim Textile was allocated to social responsibility beautiful activities in 2014. We support education in cooperation Yeşim Textile sees sharing resources, opportunities and possibilities with the community as with the Turkish Education Foundation a part of its social responsibility. Yeşim Textile supports the education of successful young individuals in poor financial Blood donation to Red Crescent standing through the “Şükrü Şankaya Education Fund” which is established in the memory of Şükrü Şankaya in cooperation with TEV. Employees in Yeşim donated blood to the Red Crescent in 2014 as it is done every year. People of Yeşim that are willing to TEV Şükrü Şankaya scholarship Aid to Soma donate blood went to the blood donation fund grows every day points, which the Red Crescent established In May, under the initiative of the Ready Wear Department in the health unit of the company, in The cooperation between donations were collected and TRY 5,130.00 was donated to Turkish November and donated blood. Yeşim and TEV in the field of Education Foundation Şükrü Şankaya Education Scholarship social responsibility continues Fund. The money collected was given to Mehmet Çalışkan, steadily since 2006. Chairman of TEV Bursa Branch on May 28th. The donation was You are not alone... used for the education costs of children, who lost their parents at In 2014 a total of TRY the Coal Mine disaster at Soma, in which 301 miners lost their Employees of Yeşim have gathered together 40.928 were donated in their mothers in an organization of LÖSEV of Persons with Disabilities in order lives. for the Mother’s Day fair, organized by BU5 the scope of TEV Happy on May 10th. to overcome obstacles and give people department on May 9th. In the scope of Day Flowers campaign freedom, was supported with the leadership the fair, employees prepared food at their and other donation of Yeşim Textile BU5 Department. homes and sold for donations. The income activities. “Golden Cap” Campaign of generated in the fair, where CEO Şenol In this regard a total of 21 vehicles were Bursa City Council Assembly of Şankaya participated, was used to purchase donated in a ceremony, 8 of these were Persons with Disabilities gifts for the Mother’s Day of 50 students battery operated wheelchairs donated by the who are registered at LÖSEV (Foundation The “Golden Cap” campaign, which was Yeşim family to persons with disabilities. for Children with Leukemia) and given to initiated by Bursa City Council Assembly 64 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 65 Önce İnsan (People First) Magazine disseminates the messages of the company The Önce İnsan Magazine which is the corporate publication of Yeşim Textile disseminates the social compliance and social responsibility initiatives to the society. Additionally it publishes information on social responsibility and environment in each issue to raise awareness among its readers on these topics. Dissemination of the Global Compact 2013 2014 agreement Number Number • The new report was published on the corporate web page Period of news Reach of news Reach of Yeşim. articles articles January 1 75.000 • An article was featured in Yeşim’s corporate magazine Önce İnsan on the publication of the report. The February 2 109.000 magazine was published in digital medium at the web March 1 75.000 6 342.000 site www. onceinsan.com, disseminating this information also on the internet. April 2 336.270 May 8 1.546.086 • It was sent to all customers, subcontractors and suppliers as an e-bulletin. June 1 75.000 4 160.648 • It was shared by the Facebook page of Yeşim, which has July 2 36.000 around 10.000 members. August 1 171.642 • It was published in the intranet portal to disseminate the September relevant information. October 2 112.260 November 5 221.820 December 3 119.976 Total 2 150.000 36 3.231.102 In 2013-2014,36 news articles about Yeşim Textile, SA 8000, social responsibility, social convenience and Global Principles Agreement were published and reached 3.231.102 people. The Önce İnsan newsletter which is published only for Yeşim employees raises awareness of our employees in each issue on the environment, social compliance, occupational health and safety page and gives information regarding the developments. 66 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 67 Information is Dilek Cesur, Yeşim Textile Corporate Communications Director, has published articles at halklailiskiler.com about the activities of Yeşim Textile and Global Compact Turkey to contribute to the the business unit structures and production processes at Yeşim Textile. Tunç Aydoğan, Yeşim Textile Lean and Quality Director, who took the floor after Mr. Kazancıoğlu, made a presentation reproduced by dissemination of the agenda. (Sustainability communication-13 entitled “Sustainable business structure” to inform the visitors about March 2014, You should sign it too to protect your future-10 April the sustainable production processes and lean philosophy model in 2014, If Women are empowered, the society will be empowered – Yeşim Textile. 06 June 2014) sharing Lean Sharing Tunç Aydoğan, Yeşim Textile Lean and Quality Director, has made a Yeşim shares the presentation entitled “Sustainable Development under Lean initiatives it has Management” in the 5th Continuous undertaken under the Development towards Perfection scope of sustainability Conference, which was organized together by Bursa Chamber of for a more beautiful Industry and Commerce (BTSO) world on national and Kal-Der on 23 October at BTSO and international Sustainable Brands Conference Conference Hall. Yeşim Knitting Group Leader Mr. Recep Doruk, platforms. During the Sustainable Brands Conference organized on 28-29 who took the floor after Aydoğan May 2014, Dilek Cesur, Yeşim Textile Corporate Communications has given information about lean Director, has made a presentation on sustainability activities at applications in production. the “Where is the Supply Chain in the Agenda of the Manager?” session. Yeşim Textile and ÜSİGEM cooperation Better work for women The activities that were carried out in a joined effort between Yeşim Textile and Uludağ University Engineering Faculty Textile Emine Demiral, Yeşim Textile Union Representative, participated Engineering Department, in the scope of a protocol signed between in the “Better and More Jobs for Women. Empowerment of Women Yeşim Textile and University Industry Development and Research for Jobs Suitable for People” meeting, which was organized on Center (ÜSİGEM) in 2010, were completed. The research which was March 18, 2014 by İŞKUR and International Labor Organization made with the contributions of Yeşim Textile Knitting Department Yeşim Textile, which stands out with its social responsibility and lean management (ILO) at Almira Hotel, as a presenter and discussed the activities for and by Researcher Senior Engineer Serkan Tezel and Associate Prof. activities in addition to production, participates in events of various institutions to share its women carried out by the company. Yasemin Kavuşturan under the title “Garments Providing Protection experiences. from Electromagnetic Forces” was completed doctoral thesis and An active role in Global Compact Turkey Yeşim Textile, which was the first company in the Turkish garment and textile sector to sign the Global Compact, was elected to the Turkish Management Board of Global Compact in March 2014. Dilek Cesur, Yeşim Textile Corporate Communications Director represents the company in the board. With this duty Yeşim Textile, plays a role in implementing yearly strategies and activities of Global Compact Turkey. The company also has a duty in the Global Compact Empowerment of Women and Gender Equality in Turkey Commission; where it shares its activities on gender equality with other member Visit from London School of Economics companies and contributes to disseminate such activities. Yeşim in the reporting process during the seminar entitled “SMEs in published at the university. In November it was published as two A post graduate group of 41 students from London School of separate articles at Textile Research Journal, which is considered Textile also takes the task of communication leadership in the Sustainability Reporting”, which was organized in Conference Hall Economics, which is considered one of the best ten schools for its as one of the most esteemed textile magazines in the world. This Women’s Empowerment Working Group and plays an important of TÜSİAD in cooperation with Global Compact Turkey Istanbul economy education, has visited Yeşim Textile on May 28th. In the activity carried out in the scope of the protocol, which was the first role in disseminating its activities in Turkey. Office and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) on January 24, 2014. scope of the visit, Yeşim Textile’s Showroom, Cutting and Business one that ÜSİGEM signed with a private company, is a good example Yeşim Textile Corporate Communications Director Dilek Cesur Unit 1 Departments were seen and Mazhar Kazancıoğlu, Business showing how cooperation between university and industry provides has shared the company’s sustainability activities and experiences Unit 1 Director, has given the students detailed information about outcomes. 68 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2013 2014 69 Yeşim Tekstil Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Ankara Yolu, Gürsu Kavşağı Kestel/Bursa/TURKEY Tel : +90 (224) 280 86 00 www.yesim.com 70 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2014 2015
