Progress on implementation of the principles of the UN Global Compact March 2015 ARCADIS is member of the UN Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org) since 2009 and is committed to both its objectives as well as the ten universal principles regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental stewardship and anticorruption. Our values, mission and strategy are fully aligned with the UNGC principles, and our signing of these principles is reflective of our ambition to be a Sustainability leader. We are committed to making the UNGC and its principles part of the day-to-day operations of our company. ARCADIS regards its primary suppliers as partners and collaborates with them to help achieve its ambitions. Because of the nature of our business and the countries in which we operate, we were traditionally rarely faced with human rights and labor standards issues. In recent years ARCADIS has grown strongly and increasingly operates in countries where human and labor rights are a potential issue. Therefore it is important to identify our critical suppliers and our risks in the supply chain. In relation to high risk countries and for the purposes of post-merger/acquisition activities ARCADIS has soft controls in place, which amongst others focus on corruption. The “In Control” statement filed annually by all of the operating companies and subsidiaries to attest to the level and application of controls in their business, also includes information related to corruption. The ARCADIS Annual Report 2014 contains an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact by Chief Executive Officer Neil McArthur on behalf of the Executive Board (page 15) and provides further information on progress made in implementing the principles. The Annual Report is submitted every year to the UN Global Compact Office and forms the substance of our annual Communication on Progress (COP). In April 2014, ARCADIS became a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). This is a CEO-led organization comprising forward-thinking companies that galvanizes the global business community to create a sustainable future for business, society and the environment. ARCADIS CEO Neil McArthur, represents the company as WBCSD Council Member. ARCADIS takes an active role in WBCSD projects on water, sustainable cities and natural capital. In July 2014, ARCADIS supported the Call to action: Anti-Corruption and the Global Development Agenda, an appeal by the private sector urging Governments to promote efficient and effective anti-corruption measures and to implement robust policies that will foster good governance. With this letter, signed by Neil McArthur on behalf of ARCADIS, our company commits to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery, as advanced by the UN Global Compact’s Tenth Principle. The Ten UN Global Principles Principle Description Relevant pages/chapters in ARCADIS Annual Report 2014 Human Rights Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of Chapter Sustainability (p.65). internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Exclusion of human rights abuses. Chapter Sustainability (p. 65). Labour Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the Chapter Sustainability (p. 65). effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and Chapter Sustainability (p. 65). compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Chapter Sustainability (p. 65). Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect Chapter Sustainability (p.47); of employment and occupation ARCADIS General Business Principles http://www.arcadis.com/General_Busi ness_Principles.aspx Environment Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to Mission (p. 2, inside cover); Chapter environmental challenges Sustainability (p. 65). Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Chapter Developments by business environmental responsibility line Environment (p. 45); Chapter Sustainability (p. 65). Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion Chapter Developments by business of environmentally friendly technologies line Environment (p. 45); Chapter Sustainability (p. 65). AntiCorruption Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, Chapter Risk Management (p.60); including extortion and bribery Chapter Sustainability (p.65); Supervisory Board Meetings in 2014, (p. 78); ARCADIS General Business Principles http://www.arcadis.com/General_Busi ness_Principles.aspx
