United Nation Global Compact Communication on Progress Report October, 2015 Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Executive Summary In the mid1990's, the United nations Development Program was involved in providing technological solutions for state modernization in several Latin American companies. After the project completion, this initiative resulted in the formation of IT Synergy, a company dedicated to technology research and technology to market matching. Our core business EvolvE’s around the concept of partnership; we are active participants in the business of open source, and we firmly believe in the marriage of the enterprise and the FOSS paradigm. We have unique insight into both worlds and our vision is, as our company name, SYNERGY. IT Synergy currently operates out of the Smart Village in Cairo, Egypt. We are a registered Egyptian company under investment law number 8; we are proud to be based in the very markets to which we cater. IT Synergy S.A. was incorporated in Peru in 1999, then in the United States in 2001 and, more recently, as an Egyptian company in 2004. Since 2005 all our operations are managed from our Cairo HQ. IT Synergy has provided consulting services in the field of ICT for development to governments, private companies and international organizations in Latin America, Africa and the Middle East. In Egypt we have worked on several projects with the International Organization for Migration with the United Nations Development Program and with the Italian Cooperation. IT Synergy has provided strategic consultancy and project formulation and implementation for several Egyptian ministries as well as conducting numerous FOSS implementations at the public and private sector level. Outside Egypt, the IT Synergy team of experts has developed and implemented a number of unique solutions such as the Paper Chip Secure Code, a security solution for printed document based on Digital Certificate technology, or IT Sentinel, a sophisticated package for remote network monitoring and administration and many other based in the open source concept. It has also implemented a regional Voice over IP network for the United Nations Development Program. IT Synergy has provided IP Telephony solutions to large international organizations such as The United Nations Development Program, Governmental organizations, multinationals and call centers of all size. Always providing an unmatched level of customization to meet the specific needs of its stakeholders. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 CEO Statement I am pleased to confirm that IT Synergy reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr. Vincenzo Puliatti CEO Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 IT Synergy Company continued its effort to implement the ten principles of United Nation Global Compact as the following Human Rights Principle no. 1: • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Human rights policies are an integral part of our policy Principle no. 2: • Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • We never ever had from any human rights abuses claim and strict monitoring and enforcement of this principle is taken into account at all company level to prevent it from happening. Assessment, Policy and Goals IT Synergy has specific rules and policies in which we make sure our business puts people first and that's the reason we are truly proud of our business. In our company we are committed to support Human Rights and this starts from our top management. We also publicly commit this to empower employees and relevant clients with clear guidance on the desired way of doing business. Our Human Resources departments is responsible for this implementation and follow-up. It also provides each new employee that joins our company with guides and procedures, providing them with all information on working conditions, benefits, rights and duties, recruitment policy, etc. The department keeps following up with the managers and supervisors the needs of employees by constantly interacting with them. Our core location is the Cairo Smart Village, where the local environment is healthy, safe, and comfortable also supports the employees’ well-being. Our Commitment Policy IT Synergy supports and respects the protection of international human rights within our sphere of reference. We make sure our daily work takes into consideration the human rights starting from the recruitment of a new employee, through his/her evaluation, appraisals, and annual raises until his/her exit. IT Synergy is an (EEO) Equal employment opportunity company and implements the equity theory in everything related to the employees regardless their religion, color and sex. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Implementation 1. A weekly meeting with the company's top management and employees of all levels allows constantly monitoring the working environment, gathering suggestions, discussing them and putting them into consideration for possible implementation. 2. A company rules and policies and employees rights and responsibilities guide is handed to each new employee that joins IT Synergy. 3. We constantly try to motivate employees and make them feel that their efforts are appreciated and noticed by their supervisors and co-workers. 4. IT Synergy determines the needs of its employees and supports them after the performance appraisal and based on this they take soft skills and motivational courses through our membership in NGOs and other organizations. 5. In Our recruitment process we follow the concept of “There is no good candidate; there is a candidate who is good in doing a certain thing and will be able to quickly learn and evolve . This make us choose our employees with a different perspective than other companies. Measurement of Outcomes Employees are 100% willing to work with high motivation after training courses. The same positive evaluation affects their supervisors, they felt appreciated and noticed when the competition of the Employee of the moth started, they began to compete and this is definitely for the benefit of the company and theirs. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Labour Principles Principle No. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle No. 4 Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle No. 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle No. 6 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Commitment or Policy IT Synergy believes in labor rights as it is an integral part of our internal policy. The continuous growth has made it possible to create job opportunities and increase year over year employment rate respecting employees working rights and believing in their valued contributions to the company. Implementation The Company policies and procedures for recruitment based on qualifications, experience with a full consideration of the Labor law such as working hours, performance appraisal. All employees receive proper social and medical insurance and have no restriction for joining trade unions or organize themselves for supporting collective bargaining. During their first 3 months of employment that are considered a probation period according to the Egyptian Labor Law; they are subjected to two evaluations and a final one to determine whether they will continue in the Company or not. The evaluation is on their attitude, attendance, progress to the goal set to them, this evaluation happens based on observations of HR, supervisors and colleagues, then a one to one meeting is held with the employee to set new goals and informing him/her with the evaluation results. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Environment Principle No. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle No. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle No. 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Commitment or Policy IT Synergy company policy is ensuring workplace health and safety and preventing any of unsuitable environment such as noise in workplace, because most of the technical employees needs a safe and comfortable environment to be able to work and concentrate well in all its activities and projects. Adequate space and privacy is offered at all levels. The choice of Smart Village as IT synergy's workplace was also due to the quite place of Smart village with its green area and prestigious services. Implementation Employees are requested to consider saving the environment while performing their daily tasks, each within his/her work area, i.e., paper recycling, economical printing, energy saving...etc. Company offices are a 100% smoke free area. Measurable Results or Outcomes 100% paper recycling has been achieved. 20% energy saving has been achieved after the implementation of proper measures. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Anti-Corruption Principle No. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Implementation IT Synergy has a high level of interaction with government officials. As per our Company Ethic rule of Conduct and policy, we do not allow any kind of corruption and any type of bribery. IT Synergy has actively collaborated with UNODC Viennathe United Nations Office against Drug and Corruption to develop a Global Anticorruption Portal. We have also supported the UNDP Anti-Corruption unit in Bangkok for the development of a Web based system for the exchange of anticorruption information. Measurable Results or Outcomes IT Synergy is constantly modifying and improving its work policies and strategies to adapt with the ten Principles of the Global Compact and it remains monitoring and evaluating the process of all applied policies and actions in human rights, Labor, environment and anti-corruptions areas like taxes, customs and IT Synergy succeeded this year to achieve zero tolerance on corruption. Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030 Cairo Smart Village, Bldg B115, Alexandria Desert RD, 12577 Giza Egypt. Tel: +20-2-3537 1020 Fax: +20-2-353 7 1030
