UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 ® Great at Control Version 1.0 2015 Contents Statement of Continued Support 3-4 Human Rights Principles 5-6 Labour Rights Principles 7-8 Environmental Protection Principles 9-10 Anti-Corruption Principles 11-12 ® COP 2015 Great at Control Statement of 3-4 Continued Support February 26th, 2015 Mita-Teknik develops, produces and distributes advanced In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our electronic control automation technology for use in the wind actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global industry. Mita-Teknik has a proven track record in the wind Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture industry with more than 30 years of experience, and more than and daily operations. 47,000 control systems in operation worldwide. We also commit to share this information with our customers, I am pleased to confirm that Mita-Teknik reaffirms its support employees, suppliers and other stakeholders using our primary of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in channels of communication. the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. Sincerely yours, Our collected CSR Policy, which includes our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, has been approved by the Mita-Teknik Management Team and the Board of Directors. Our CSR Policy is based on the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues, and have Jesper Andersen initiated the process of optimizing these. We will follow up on CEO, Mita-Teknik our progress on a yearly basis. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. ® Great at Control Human Rights 5-6 Principles Commitment Mita-Teknik respects cultural differences and does not do We have begun collecting information from our global divisions business with a supplier if the supplier practices discrimination in order to ensure complete compliance to international at work based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or minimum standards in regards to ‘Hours, Wages & Leave’. sexual orientation. We will update the Employee Handbook to include guidelines No employee should ever be exposed to any physical in regards to the Human Rights principles. punishment, threats of violence or physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the work place or in work related situations. Performance Evaluation Mita-Teknik actively supports the Universal Declaration of We have published our CSR Policy and Code of Conduct on our Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere website. of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights Mita-Teknik has a dedicated Health and Safety Committee in violations. No incidents or violations of the Human Rights place to regularly assess and evaluate the working environment principles have been reported to the Management Team. in Mita-Teknik. Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. Implementation We have recently begun the work of implementing our CSR Policy and Code of Conduct within our global organization and towards our suppliers, and we will continue this work throughout 2015. We monitor the overall sickness absence in Mita-Teknik on a monthly basis in order to detect employee health issues, and assess if follow-up actions are required. In accordance with the Danish Working Environment Act, MitaTeknik conducts APV (Workplace Assessment Surveys) every three years, and continually carries out follow-up actions. ® Great at Control Labour Rights 7-8 Principles Commitment Performance Evaluation Mita-Teknik commits to provide a competitive salary package, We currently employ more than 230 people from 16 different a safe and comfortable working environment, openly nationalities on 6 global locations. communicated career paths and well established performance and development evaluation tools. In November 2014, we passed the external ISO9001 recertification audit by TÜV Nord. Mita-Teknik respects the right of workers and operates our business with safe and attractive working conditions. We Annual performance reviews has been carried out with all respect the freedom of association and collective bargaining employees globally. and have zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or discrimination. We have published our CSR Policy and Code of Conduct on our website. Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Labour Rights violations. No incidents or violations of the Labour Rights Implementation principles have been reported to the Management Team. We have recently begun the work of implementing our CSR Policy and Code of Conduct within our global organization and towards our suppliers, and we will continue this work throughout 2015. Mita-Teknik’s Management System is certified in accordance with the ISO9001 standard. All Mita-Teknik employees undergo annual performance reviews to set individual plans and targets for advancement. We will update the Employee Handbook to include guidelines in regards to the Labour Rights principles. A system where reports of incidents in relation to Labour Rights can be reported to HR is also being established. ® Great at Control Environmental 9-10 Protection Principles Commitment Performance Evaluation Mita-Teknik supports a precautionary approach to We have published our company CSR Policy and Code of environmental challenges, and undertakes initiatives to Conduct on our website. promote greater environmental responsibility. Also, we encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any friendly technologies. investigations, legal cases or incidents involving violations to the Environmental Protection principles. No incidents or Mita-Teknik actively supports a sustainable environmental violations of the Environmental Protection principles have progress through the development and distribution of been reported to the Management Team. intelligent control solutions for the wind industry, which improves the performance of wind turbines, and the overall competitiveness of ‘clean’ wind generated energy. We recognize that our production and transports have a negative impact on the environment, and we constantly work to minimize these effects. Implementation We have recently begun the work of implementing our CSR Policy and Code of Conduct within our global organization and towards our suppliers, and we will continue this work throughout 2015. We have improved and optimized our headquarters in Denmark to be more energy efficient, and we are continuously upgrading our company car fleet to include more eco-friendly vehicles. Our waste management, including handling of chemicals and dangerous materials, is in compliance with all applicable national laws and regulations, and we continually educate our employees in this area. ® Great at Control Anti-Corruption 11-12 Principles Commitment Performance Evaluation Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to sustainable We have published our company CSR Policy and Code of development and free trade, and Mita-Teknik supports the Conduct on our website. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving AntiGifts and Entertainment Corruption violations. No incidents or violations of the AntiMita-Teknik acknowledges that minor business gifts and Corruption principles have been reported to the Management moderate entertainment, including meals, are accepted ways Team. to build relationships and generate goodwill between business partners. This practice must however always be conducted in a transparent way, and only to an extent appropriate to our integrity guidelines and business ethics. Implementation We have recently begun the work of implementing our CSR Policy and Business Ethics within our global organization and towards our suppliers, and we will continue this work throughout 2015. Guidelines for handling issues of Corruption, Hospitality (Gifts and Entertainment) and Donations are provided to employees through our Business Ethics document, CSR Policy and Code of Conduct. Additional training material is being compiled by HR, and will be introduced as e-learning when ready. ® Great at Control ® Great at Control © 2015 Mita-Teknik. All rights reserved. Content may not be reproduced in any form without written permission from Mita-Teknik Denmark
