07 CSR The Compact Principles CSR Our CSR Facing up to challenges A Global Compact The commitment to Fundamental • Businesses should support and respect the protection Annual Report with maturity of internationally proclaimed Activity Report Rights has no barriers human rights within their area of 2014 influence. • Businesses must ensure that The extent of the Group’s involvecompany with regard to the local they are not complicit in human The Group is actively developing its CSR in ment with regard to its employees features found where it operates. As rights abuses. all of the areas in which it operates is 100%. The company develops part of its internationalisation strategy • Businesses should uphold the its corporate culture by taking into which started more than a decade freedom of association and the account the people who form part ago, Isolux Corsán also endeavours effective recognition of the right The global situation and complexiried out thoroughly, also taking into of it, both at home and abroad. Liketo involve its suppliers in complying to collective bargaining. ty in which Isolux Corsán operates account the peculiarities of the wise, Isolux Corsán has a firm comwith the Principles of Human Rights. • Businesses should support the produces very specific challenges countries where it operates. As has The company’s work ethic mitment to the local places where it In this sense, the corporate Manelimination of all forms of forced for the management of the Group’s been happening for many years, is firmly committed to operates and pays particular interest agement Systems for Quality, the and compulsory labour. Corporate Social Responsibility. the auditing systems used face undertaking its economic, to defending the fundamental rights Environment and Health and Safety • Businesses should support The company’s work ethic is comup to the difficulties associated social and environmental featured in the United Nations Global continue to be consolidated as effithe effective abolition of child mitted to the environment where with the diversity in the standards activities Compact. cient tools for involving local workers labour. it undertakes its economic, social managed by an international Group For the fourth year running, Isolux and suppliers in every country in the • Businesses should support the and environmental activities. such as Isolux Corsán. Likewise, Corsán has ratified the commitment adoption of prevention measures in elimination of discrimination in During 2014, the coordination of the commitment by the members to the Ten Principles of the United occupational health and safety, prerespect of employment and the application of the internationof the company’s human team is Nations Global Compact. The comvention and the reduction of polluoccupation. al standards upon which Isolux fundamental for continuing to make pany’s global vocation has been tion as well as collaboration with the • Businesses should keep a preCorsán’s CSR is based was carprogress in CSR issues. behind increased sensitivity y the communities where we are located. ventive approach which favours The Compact, signed between the the Environment. United Nations and Isolux Corsán, • Businesses should undertake is embodied by working on a daily initiatives to promote greater basis on the commitment to, reenvironmental responsibility. spect for and the dissemination of • Businesses should encourage the following ten principles and efthe development and diffusion fective compliance therewith. These of environmentally-friendly ten principles constitute the greattechnologies. est voluntary initiative for corporate • Businesses should work social responsibility in the world. Its against corruption in all its network is present in more than 130 forms, including extortion and countries and has 10,000 signatory bribery. entities. For four years running, Isolux Corsán has fulfilled its commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 74 75 CSR The challenge of managing employees abroad in our internationalisation Human EuropaAnnual Report Resources Activity Report Asia 2014 tries such as Slovakia, the United Group’s international business and África Geographical mobility Kingdom, Rwanda, Senegal, Tunisia, its evolution means that the distribuAmérica has increased by 35% Oman or Kuwait. With these new tion of human assets has changed countries, and thanks to its projects, with regard to 2013. Africa and Asia the company is already present in are the continents where substantial The increasing role abroad and globn Employees working abroad in 2014 more than 40 countries on four congrowth has taken place. As such, the n Distribution of staff abroad al expansion by Isolux Corsán has Europa tinents. distribution of staff is as shown in the forced the company to overcome Asia An essential aspect, and the one chart enclosed. Europa considerable challenges in Human which gives most value to the interThe growth in the company’s human Asia África Resources management. One of the nationalisation process of people, assets has occurred by virtue of the África main challenges to be overcome is América was the development of a uniform, company’s ethics, with the focus on the geographical mobility of its staff suitable and correct expatriation establishing and implementing diverAmérica on an international level. The Company is present in policy. This is an overall plan which sity and integrity criteria. An example In 2014, the management of staff more than forty countries includes the basic global action paof this is the increase in the recruitabroad, key people in the organion four continents rameters and enables assessing, in ment percentage of women com6 Europe 43 % America sation, rose by 35 %. As part of its 131 America Europa the most ample sense of the word, pared to men. Overall, more than 9% Africa Conocimientos específicos expansion policy, during 2014 Isolux 123 Africa the meaning of international mobility. 75% are employees with permanent 17 % Asia Habilidades Asia Corsán expanded its action to coun98 Asia At the same time, the weight of the contracts. 31 % Europe Prevención de riesgos África Finanzas América Idiomas Conocimientos específicos Otras Habilidades Isolux Ingeniería Prevención de riesgos Grupo Isolux Corsán Finanzas Corsán Corviam Idiomas Otras Otras Isolux Ingeniería Isolux Ingeniería Grupo Isolux Corsán Grupo Isolux Corsán Corsán Corviam Corsán Corviam Otras Isolux Ingeniería Grupo Isolux Corsán Corsán Corviam 76 77 CSR Human Annual Report Resources Activity Report 2014 Europa Training directed at the Asia África development of skills América During 2014, a training plan was consolidated language training. As developed which aimed to take a such, training activities on the prestep forward in relation to contents vention of occupational risks are and modalities. also essential as the result of conEuropa Europa With regard to contents, an ensolidating new topics and technical Asia deavour was made to provide a approaches after recent financial Asia África solution to all existing requirements years during which a strategic plan África derived from, in many cases, the was pursued with exhaustive inforAmérica América company’s international business mation on occupational risks. reality. Along these lines, a variety On a modalities level, Isolux Corsán of training activities were undertakincreased the number of training en and an attempt was made to hours given via online platforms. Conocimientos específicos standardise management practicThe Europa decentralisation of human asEuropa es. As such, during 2014, training sets as occurs in the company proHabilidades Asia Asia was essentially given on five cateduces a change in trend. In 2014, Prevención de riesgos Development of a professional gories of contents. online África training accounted for 32.4% África Finanzas Compared to 2013, the increase of Américathe total training hours given. América in the hours allocated to training on This course format enables stancareer in ISOLUX with Talent Train Idiomas skills (negotiation, leadership, teamdardising the content in such a way work, decision-making and problem that exactly the same information is Isolux Corsán wants to ensure it has with high potential and an excellent guided them and assessed their persolving) and finance (with training conveyed even if the participants Conocimientos específicos Otras the best personnel, the best qualified level of English and other languagformance on a periodic basis. During directed at compliance with interare located in different places. It Europa Habilidades and highly motivated for developing es. The objective of the programme this first phase, they gained experinational standards, as well as the also enables great flexibility when Isolux Ingeniería their career in the Group. To this end, was to give young people the opence in areas such as Management generation of a financial optimisation structuring the time spent by staff Asia Prevención de riesgos Grupo Isolux Corsán throughout 2014 the Human Reportunity to further their professional Control, Corporate Administration, culture) was particularly significant. on training and enables including África Finanzas Corsán Corviam sources Department developed the career in our company, acquiring a Finance, Cost Control, Internal AuLikewise, the company’s sound the maximum number of people América Idiomas Talent Train programme directed at cross-cutting view of it and applying diting and Site/Project Administration. international presence essentially regardless of their circumstances. recent graduates in Economics and the knowledge and skills developed In all of these areas, these young Business Studies with high potential in an international project. After a depeople had to make value contribun Hours of training n Hours of training per company n % of participation per company and an excellent level of English and manding selection process in which tions in order to continue to be part Conocimientos específicos Otras Otras other languages. The objective of more than 100 people participated, of the programme. As such, they inHabilidades Isolux Ingeniería Isolux Ingeniería the programme was to give young the professionals who formed part ternalised the company’s key procepeople the opportunity to further their of the programme developed critical, dures and processes and developed Prevención de riesgos Grupo Isolux Corsán Grupo Isolux Corsán Isolux Isolux Corsán wants to ensure functional skills for business. In the their abilities and skills. Finanzas Corsán Corviam Corsán Corviam it has the best personnel, the best same way, they internalised corpoOnce the learning period had come Idiomas qualified and highly motivated for rate values and learned how a comto an end, all those who had comdeveloping their career in the Group. plex and demanding business, such pleted it successfully, which in this To this end, throughout 2014 the as that of Isolux Corsán, operates. first programme were 70% of the Human Resources Department deDuring a first phase, lasting one year, participants, gained an employment 9.330 Languages 9.220 Corsán-Corviam Otras 25,1 % Corsán-Corviam Otras 3.856 Finance 3.236 Isolux Corsán G 10,7 % Isolux Corsán G veloped the Talent Train programme the professionals selected were position in the structure of countries Isolux Ingeniería 5.404 Prevention Risks Isolux Ingeniería14.012 Isolux Ingeniería 60,9 % Isolux Ingeniería directed at recent graduates in immersed in a training programme such as Tunisia, Angola, India, Ban2.510 Skills 1.481 Others 3,3 % Others Grupo Isolux Corsán Economics and Business Studies under the supervision of tutors who gladesh, Brazil or Spain. 6.849 Spec. abilities Grupo Isolux Corsán 78 Corsán Corviam Corsán Corviam 79 CSR Human Annual Report Resources Activity Report 2014 Continuous improvement of the Employee’s Portal The company is introducing new process applications and tools Our ambition to improve forces us to to Human Resources policies which constantly introduce new functions have gradually been implemented, and applications in our processes the Intranet, via the employee’s porand tools. One of the improvements tal, allows creating and managing introduced in 2014 was related to the CVs of every single person in the employee’s portal, dedicated to the company. boosting the management of interSimilarly, the Intranet also provides nal talent. Apart from offering useful access to the results of the last perinformation on our culture, values, formance assessment carried out, procedures and commitments, as the payroll and other information rewell as good practices with regard garding people management. Compensation and benefits schemes: Flexiplan Over the course of 2014, work continued in order to offer increasingly sophisticated and modern compensation and benefits schemes based on flexible systems which enable enjoying tax advantages. The Group continues offering benefits schemes to its employees 80 81 CSR A clear commitment n Indicators 2011 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Indicators to the prevention of Human Annual Report Resources Training activities 1.508 4.317 3.153 8283 Activity Report 2014 occupational risks Hours of training activities Trained workers 12.054 10.858 14.847 43.606 38.373 35.621 23.823 63.368 Drafted or revised safety plans 1.518 1.246 1.049 1.442 The Isolux Corsán Group’s continued Prevention of Occupational Risks, Business activity coordination meetings 604 689 476 1.369 endeavour to offer the best training based on the international OHSAS Internal audits 600 624 604 434 on Health and Safety to its employ18001:2007 standard. This integraHealth and safety follow-up inspections 2.917 3.217 1.960 2.030 ees continues on the right track. In tion is clear to see in the following arErgonomic studies / hygienic assessments 6 23 20 40 the area of the prevention of occupaeas: fewer accidents, more training Emergency plans 23 34 41 65 tional risks, the company is showing actions both for company staff and a clear upward trend regarding the subcontractor staff, improved comAwareness actions 5.370 19.478 19.534 33.893 actions undertaken with its workers. munication between the company Management indicators show a and its subcontractors, increase n Accident rates 2011 2014 good level of integration for prevenin ergonomic and hygienic studies, tion in the company’s general manhigher number of awareness actions Contents 2011 2012 2013 2014 agement system, both as a group of etc. Total accidents 268 317 328 142 activities and on the different hierarAs such, it is worth highlighting the Incident rate (No. of accidents / No. workers) x 103 36,96 35,07 41,24 23,11 chical levels in the company using effort and dedication by the Isolux Frequency rate (No. accidents / hours worked) x 106 15,78 16,24 19,09 11,67 the implementation and application Corsan Group in order to maintain Severity rate (days off work / hours worked) x 103 0,33 0,23 0,32 0,24 of the Management System for the the different The company is showing a clear upward trend with regard to the actions carried out with its workers in the prevention of occupational risks 82 83 CSR Creation Annual Report of Value Activity Report 2014 The value chain, key for sustainability Communicative transparency The value chain, which conveys soIsolux Corsán treats communication these, 13% were published in the updating, represents a venue for all cial and environmental performance, as a fundamental asset in order to iminternational media, whilst 87% were the Group’s employees, regardless of is underpinned by Isolux Corsán’s Communication is a prove its competitive capacities. For published in Spain. Isolux Corsán, as the country they are in. During 2014, staff. Clients and suppliers also profundamental asset for a global company, transparency and a global company, is aware of the imnew collaborative spaces such as fovide the company with sustainability. improving competitiveness commitment is absolutely essential portance of internal communication. rums, wikis and blogs, were gradually with regard to the information conTo this end, the intention is to use developed so that workers can share veyed to its stakeholders. the Intranet to inform employees of their knowledge. The geographiIn 2014, the company rigorously disthe latest company news, as well as cal scope over which Isolux Corsán closed its challenges and projects. enabling synergies to be established works has been simplified with all of A total of 975 pieces of information amongst all the staff. The Intranet, these 2.0 tools with which the Group were counted in the media. Of all of subject to constant improvement and provides its staff. 84 85 CSR We think of The Purchasing Creation of Value the benefit Department, decisive for Annual Report Activity Report 2014 for the client business development The commitment to improve is always The Purchasing Department at lenges in our relationships with supfocused on satisfying the client’s Isolux Corsán should be yet another pliers, fundamentally in key aspects needs. Direct contact with the client business development instrument, such as financing, opportunities is one of the company’s outstanding as well as a risk control tool. and the control of risks. Anticipafeatures. The follow-up, carried out by In line with the operational efficiency tion is viewed as a fundamental the Commercial and Production Divithat we maintain in our projects, and aspect in project management and sions, gives priority to customer satisas a continuation of the global polin relationships with suppliers. This faction and strengthens those areas icy for preferred suppliers launched subject will continue to be essenin which improvement requirements in 2013, this path continued to be tial over the years to come. Mainare identified. followed in 2014. We were able to taining and developing a portfolio For a good relationship with clients, combine efficiency with local market of preferred suppliers is of no use Isolux Corsán performs satisfaction knowledge and value creation in the without the possibility of anticipating surveys. In these, the client assesses, countries where we operated. This future requirements for projects and amongst other aspects, the quality increased efficiency in the manageoperations. With regard to 2015, of the documentation, the execution ment of suppliers was fundamental the management of purchasing of the project, the completion dates, for the improvement in operations in and suppliers has the fundamencompliance with environmental reour projects and sites. tal objective of becoming a tool for quirements and the prevention of ocThe management of suppliers alcost reduction, increased competcupational risks. Their answers and lowed greater agility in work teams, itiveness, and rigour for the Isolux suggestions help the company to promoting, moreover, teamwork, Corsán supply chain in each and improve and excel itself day after day. communication and transparency. every one of the projects undertakBy using the Quality and Environment In 2014, we faced up to new chalen by the company. Management computing tool, we see a constant improvement in customer satisfaction in each financial year. n Customer satisfaction Increased efficiency in the Year Mark / 100 management of suppliers was fundamental for the 2010 79,57 improvement in operations 2011 81,67 2012 82,13 2013 82,19 2014 82,49 The company continues with an upward trend in customer satisfaction 86 87 CSR Quality management, the Excellence as Our commitments benchmark of our endeavour the company’s flagship Creation Annual Report of Value • The implementation and deveActivity Report lopment of Quality Management 2014 Systems suited to the organiGuaranteed quality is present in all of sation and in accordance with Growth and competitiveness in all our projects. To underpin this princiinternationally established prinQuality Management business areas are closely tied to the ple, Isolux Corsán has incorporated ciples. The adoption of measuSystems have been level of customer satisfaction with our Quality Management Systems in all res which enable continuous implemented in all the products and services. Isolux Corsán of its activities and in all the countries improvement in the efficacy of activities and countries is aware of this and, as such, the where it operates. the implemented systems. where the company Quality Corporate Policy sets forth the • Compliance with the requioperates following commitments. rements applicable to the products and services supplied whilst always taking into account mandatory standards and specifications stipulated by the clients for whom these are carried out. • Optimisation of the management of the working processes and methodologies, information, supplies, resources and capacities, and of internal or external relations implicated in the implementation of the activities. • Control in meeting objectives consistent with this policy and in accordance with the organisation’s capacities. These objectives contribute to improving the quality of our products and services and the efficiency of the quality management system. • Periodic review of this policy in order to ensure that it is in line with the Management’s vision and strategic objectives, and with the requirements detected at any time within the environment of the social environment and inherent in the business activities. • Company management ensures the implementation of the necessary measures in order to guarantee knowledge of the Quality Policy, as well as its implementation throughout the entire organisation. 88 89 CSR Internal Creation of Value Audits Annual Report Activity Report 2014 As part of its objective of constant improvement, Isolux Corsán considers the review and measurement of all its activities as vital. That is why the company monitors all of these. For this task, internal audits represent the best tool for measuring the progress of the company’s activities. Management systems In accordance with in all projects international standards In the countries where Isolux Corsán ress, ascertain requirements and to ISO 9001 (Quality) and ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001:2007 | Health and Safety panding the scope in 2014 to the has operated longest there is a Corimplement preventive and corrective (Environment) External auditing processes allow us design and execution of dams and porate Department for Quality, Health actions in order to work on the conManagement systems are Isolux Corsán implements all its Manto promote the continuous improvehydraulic works based on the three and Safety and the Environment. The stant improvement of the managecompared on an annual agement Systems according to the ment of our Management System. standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001 consolidation of this Department in ment systems. basis by independent international standards ISO 9001 and As a result of this, the certification and OHSAS 18001. 2014 is an example for those counThe task of monitoring these systems certification bodies ISO 14001. These are compared by of different companies in the Group • Isolux Corsán India. It passed its tries where the company has started is performed by site visits, internal independent certification bodies who is encouraged according to the follow-up audits in the Divisions of to work. audits, informative/training camreview the company’s Management specification OHSAS 18001:2007. Construction, Transmission Lines This Department is responsible for paigns, periodic meetings, reports, Systems annually and verify that they Throughout 2014, the certified comand Substations, extending its scothe adaptation, implementation and scorecards etc, always taking into are implemented in accordance with panies in the Group were subjected pe to the Division of Facilities based consolidation of the management account the main values of the polinternational standards. to the corresponding periodic audits, on the three standards ISO 9001, system according to the ISO 9001, icies for Quality, the Environment and both internal and control, or recertiISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 stanHealth and Safety. EMAS Register fication by independent certification • TECNA. The company passed its dards. As such, in new countries Emesa, the factory for metal probodies with internationally renowned follow-up audits for the ISO 9001, QHSE systems and policies have Quality, Environment and cessing, has managed to obtain prestige. ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 cerbeen implemented with the support Health and Safety Values the environmental certification actificates, for the countries, Argentina, of professional technicians from the cording to the EMAS Regulation. Milestones in certifications in 2014 Spain, Ecuador, Bolivia, Peru and actual project. The training of the • Legal compliance This standard, which is applied on The most remarkable milestones in Brazil. technicians is led by the Corporate a voluntary basis in the EU, acthe certifications of management • Concessions. The Concessions Department for Quality, Health and • Integrity and transparency knowledges the implementation systems during the financial year Division successfully completed its Safety and the Environment from by the company of the Environ2014 were: first follow-up audit according to the company’s Headquarters. It is • Efficacy and efficiency mental Management System and • Isolux Corsán Argentina. It passed the three standards ISO 9001, ISO there where all the information from that it has acquired a commitment its follow-up audits in the Energy and 14001 and OHSAS 18001, for its international and national projects is • Safe working environments to improvement. Emesa makes a T&D Division, expanding the scope activities in car park operation. centralised and analysed. Amongst periodic environmental statement in 2014 to the maintenance and • In Spain, follow-up and renewal auits tasks is the consolidation of the • Commitment to quality and custowhich confirms the sound underoperation of wind farms according dits were successfully performed accident indicators, the managemer satisfaction taking by factories in support of ento the three standards ISO 9001, according to the Divisions of Consment of internal audits, etc. The invironmental sustainability through ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. truction, Engineering and Corporate dicators, reflected by the scorecards • Prevention of pollution the control of the impact of all ac• Isolux Corsán Mexico. It passed Services according to the standards enable Isolux Corsán to detect progtivities and processes related with its follow-up audits in the Division ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS their production lines. of Construction and T&D by ex18001. 90 91 the concept of sustainable farming The money collected will be allocaCSR n Armenia and extraction in an environment ted to helping children and adolesCommunity of agricultural biodiversity managecents who have oncological and Annual Report and the Local Isolux Corsán proactively collaboment and management of the land haematological illnesses. Activity Report Environment rates in this country by performing and the Environment. • In the environmental area, the com2014 several actions. One of the most im• The pioneering “Use of Wood” initiamunity initiative of recruiting local portant projects in which the Group tive: The project emerged with the staff has continued for the develohas participated is the “SunChild” objective of guaranteeing a strucpment of cleaning services in the campaign created by the Foundation tured use of wood. The company communities of Ararca and Santa for the Conservation of Biodiversity collaborates in the communities of Ana. and Cultural Values. The intention the Cajari river in extraction techni• The Group is also highly involved with this programme is to educate ques which do not have a negative in fair trade actions. Isolux Corsán new generations on the awareness impact on the surroundings. purchases the cleaning products of environmental values. There are • Finally, environmental education from micro-companies formed by currently nine SunChild Eco-clubs, activities have also been implementhe “Rainbow” women’s associaone in each region of Armenia and ted to provide support for the devetion located in Ararca. approximately 600 children are reglopment of sustainable projects. • As part of social management, the istered on the environmental educacompany is continuing with its potion courses given by the company. licy of establishing ties based on Within the context of the commitn Colombia local manpower. In 2014 approximent to the environment, the commately 230 people from the company continues, just as in previous The company has focused its activity munity were employed in the camyears, to provide support in health ison Puerto Bahía. Amongst the main paign in the different projects active sues for the community and workers. activities are the following: in the area. The Group has also fostered the • Tapatón”: the company has joirecruitment of local emned the initiative created by ployees with the objecthe Fundevida Foundation tive of contributing to for the collection of lids. the community’s economic dynamisation. Isolux Corsán has carried out various informative campaigns in the country on different Responsible for issues: • “Health and safety in the event of scorpion stings and snake bites in our social activity the construction locations”. • “Health and safety and the dangers of prolonged exposure to the sun”. • “Informative courses on HIV”. The Group does its best to provide the greatest social and economic benefits in the areas where it operates n Brazil Year after year Isolux Corsán shows benefits for the local areas in which clear in its commitment to the comAs part of the Amazon project, the its involvement with the area in it executes its projects. munities with regard to the creation various training activities for the local which it operates, particularly in Isolux Corsán undertakes its activof employment. community have been as follows: those countries and communities ities with an increasing vocation to Likewise, Islolux Corsán actively • The social-environmental project with greater social and economic sustainability and commitment to participates in educational and train‘Terra Indígena Trocará’ which is requirements. its suppliers and employees. The ing activities and contributes to imoutstanding by virtue of its innovaThe Group endeavours to provide company, aware of the economy of proving the quality of life of the local tion and modernity. Its objective isto the maximum social and economic scale entailed by its projects, is very population. support the native Asurini people in 92 93 • Holding of the “HSE and Social solidarity campaign “Our best proFinally, Isolux Corsán also made CSR Week”. This event was held in Auject, building health”. The company significant donations. Almost 100 Community gust with the objective of motivacovered 40% of the cost for the pieces of equipment comprised of Annual Report and the Local ting collaborators in the Group on new Hospital Management sofvarious materials were offered by Activity Report Environment conduct relating to self-care, occutware for the hospital’s Immunology the company as part of the social 2014 pational wellbeing and care of the Department. work being undertaken in the counenvironment. • Within the context of the CETB protry. Amongst the beneficiaries are ject, various CSR initiatives were schools, local centres, for the concarried out by Isolux Corsán. Fostruction of stadiums, etc. n Mexico restation activities were implemented with an average reforestation The company made a donation of of 2000 trees per year. Moreover, n Spain office equipment material to the priDiagonal Lighting 74, technical mary school 195 Motolina. It also guided tours and paper, cardboard Just as in the last seven years, Isolux made donations of bags of cement and plastic recycling activities took Corsán continues to collaborate in order to build a civic courtyard in place. with Children’s Villages and other the school for the mobile classroom. organisations with the donation of the amount collected from the recyn India cling of mobile phone terminals in the Project “Cooperation Partnership” | Chile n Chile company. For Isolux Corsán, India represents The Adecco Foundation project in The “Cooperation Partnership” was the Group’s main commitment in which Isolux Corsán contributes the developed within the context of the Asia. As part of its CSR commitment, same as other companies, has manconstruction of the Alto Maipo TransIsolux Corsán is undertaking a social aged to improve its recruitment figmission system. The relief of the tercampaign of extreme importance in ures. Adecco, as part of this project, rain, along with the vast quantity of the country. The company is comcontributed to the creation of 5,161 vegetation existing in the project area mitted to the local environment and jobs for those at risk of exclusion of made access and the work in the the community and, as such, tries which 2,859 were for those with disarea difficult. The company collaboto participate in all activities where abilities. rated in a strategic cooperation partpossible. The Family Plan, a project included nership with the fire fighters of San Isolux Corsán India collaborated within the Adecco Foundation frameJosé de Maipo. The mutual support with the cleaning units which were work, in which Isolux Corsán started between Isolux Corsán, which colheld in December 2014 in collaboto participate in 2011, is dedicated laborates with the transfer of safety ration with Ryan International School, to equality, diversity and integration in Informative campaigns on the POR | Armenia elements, and the fire fighting team CBSE, Dumas. Approximately 150 its Human Resources management providing technical service, aims to students participated in the activity policies. During 2014 Isolux Corsán improve the work and rescue activwhich, amongst other Group memprovided support for 10 families. ities. bers, was attended by Ajay Kumar For the fourth year running, Isolux Pashine, our Project Manager in the Corsán employees contributed to area. the “Solidarity Hamper” campaign n Argentina As part of the activities undertakat Christmas. This voluntary initiative en in India, road safety training was is increasing its impact as the result The Group’s branch in the country also given to children, maintenance of being supported by the compaundertook various activities, the most activities for public works, works for ny which matches the contribution relevant being: the maintenance of water supply fadonated by its employees. In total, cilities close to the project execution 7 tonnes of staple foods were col• In 2014, Isolux Corsán Argentina site, as well as celebrating Indepenlected. The company contributed collaborated with the Children’s dence Day and Labour Day during approximately 45 kg of staple foods Hospital “Ricardo Gutiérrez” in the which various prizes were awarded. for each hamper donated. Social-Environmental Project “Terra Indígena Trocará | Brazil 94 95 CSR Environment We work for Annual Report environmental Activity Report 2014 protection Respect for the natural environment, one of our flagships The prevention of pollution, legal compliance in environmental issues and continuous improvement in the management of the environment are the commitments made by Isolux Corsán in the Group’s Environmental Policy. This policy is disseminated to all levels in the organisation and is included in all its activities, regardless of the country in which it is being applied. 96 97 CSR Environment Annual Report Activity Report 2014 An efficient environmental The future depends management system on environmental protection Isolux Corsán outlines its acquired The integration of environmental pollution, atmospheric pollution, inAs a global Group, Isolux Corsán is plementation of execution checks commitments through its Environaspects in Isolux Corsán projects ert waste, hazardous waste, urban making progress in consolidating the and internal audits in all ongoing mental Policy as follows: Isolux Corsán guarantees the strictwaste and the use of raw materials. existing corporate structure in each projects. • It implements and develops Enviest compliance with all legal requireThe latter refer to accidents and incountry to improve the implementa• Monitoring of the environmental ronmental Management Systems ments in relation to the integration cidents. Within the category of “real” tion and monitoring of environmental objectives and compilation of the adapted to the company and which and identification of environmental aspects, the highest percentage cormanagement during projects. The benefits obtained. are in line with the principles set aspects in all its projects. responds to the generation of inert Environmental Management System • Setting of new objectives, the moforth in the international ISO 1401 Environmental aspects are classified waste (30%), followed by the generwith which the company works, connitoring and review of systems. standard. Likewise, the company as real and potential. The former reation of urban waste (19%) and haztrols and minimises the environmenadopts the measures required for fer to the impact on water, the conardous waste (15%), along with the tal risks entailed by its activities. Isolux Our greatest commitment lies with continuous improvement in the effisumption of natural resources/prodconsumption of natural resources/ Corsán is working on environmental renewable energy cacy of the implemented systems. ucts, damage to the earth, sound products (13%). prevention and on the adaptation to Isolux Corsán considers renewable • Meeting objectives and environlegal regulatory variations which are energy to be a real and efficient almental targets are set forth and detected in these countries. ternative in the fight against climate controlled by the Group coherently Isolux Corsán focuses on the followchange and, as such, in achieving and in accordance with the organiing principles: a reduction in energy dependence. sation’s capacities. • Development of good environmenT-Solar, one of the Group’s subsid• It ensures that these objectives tal management practices in all the iaries, is clear proof of the application and targets contribute to gradually countries where the company opeof sustainable development prinincreasing good environmental conrates. ciples in all of its activities. In 2014, duct and the efficiency of the mana• Strengthening of the standardisathe photovoltaic power plants which gement system. tion in the identification and assessare managed and operated by T-So• Aware of the negative effects of poment of environmental aspects. lar generated 421 GWh of energy, llution, the company applies prac• Minimisation of the environmental equivalent to the annual average dotices aimed at the prevention and risk by adopting the necessary memestic electricity consumption of a reduction of the most significant enasures. population with more than 731,000 vironmental impacts. • Strengthening of training on enviinhabitants. The clean electricity gen• Isolux Corsán complies with the ronmental topics for project teams. erated by T-Solar in 2014 prevented applicable environmental legislation • Reporting and monitoring of indithe emission of more than 150,00 and requirements that the organisacators for consolidating the infortonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere, tion endorses related to its environmation originating from the different which is equivalent to planting 9 milmental aspects. countries where we operate Imlion trees. • Updated information is essential for fulfilling the Environmental Policy. Moreover, the periodic review of this policy helps to maintain the vision The Environmental and strategic objectives issued by Management System with Management in line with the requiwhich the company works, rements of the local environment controls and minimises the where it undertakes its activity. environmental risks entailed by its activities 98 99 CSR Environment Annual Report Activity Report 2014 Efficiency and energy control Isolux Corsán works with the objeccalculated using the emitting sourcculate the emissions associated with jectives and adopt measures directn Tonnes of CO2 eq. tive of optimising energy consumpes (machines, equipment, processelectricity consumption the 2014 ed at greater efficiency and control of tion. As such, its focus is on the foles, etc.) existing in permanent cenemission factor is used provided by consumption levels. Permanent lowing steps to be taken: tres, factories and sites. the Spanish Electric Network for the During forthcoming periods, the calProject HQ Factories Centres, Total Sites/Services electric mix in the Spanish mainland culation for scope 3 will include other • Improvement in the energy efficienScope 2: Indirect emissions derived system. indirect emissions which are the conDirect emissions (Scope 1) 61,56 510,02 4.578,83 5.150,41 cy ratio from energy sequence of the company’s activities, Indirect emissions due to energy • Improvement in the water conGreenhouse gas emissions assoScope 3: For the total calculation, this however which are not owned, or consumption (Scope 2) 818,95 423,47 1.237,70 2.480,12 sumption efficiency ratio ciated with energy consumption in scope includes the trips and railway controlled, by Isolux Corsán. Emissions due to national trips by air and rail (Scope 3) 189,85 • Minimisation in waste generation the various Group centres originating and aeroplane journeys by employees. and improvements in its managefrom the generation of the electricity The compilation of these data is used TOTAL 7.820,38 ment produced externally in plants. To calby Isolux Corsán to set reduction ob• Integration of environmental aspects in all activities Carbon footprint Since 2013, the Group has been compiling and consolidating data in order to obtain the carbon footprint for all its permanent centres, factories and projects in Spain following the guidelines indicated by the standard UNE-ISO 14064-1: 2006. Greenhouse gases Part 1: “Specification with guidance on an organisation level, for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals”. In the inventory of greenhouse gas emissions the following scopes have been taken into account: Scope 1: Direct emissions This refers to controlled emissions pertaining to the organisation: Emission of greenhouse gases originating from sources of greenhouse gases. The estimate of these emissions was 100 101 CSR R&D&I Annual Report Activity Report 2014 A boost for technological development Committed to research The experience acquired by Isolux • The development and implemenR&D&I objectives, their evolution Corsán in research, developtation of the R&D&I Management and measurement. ment and innovation projects is System in accordance with the • Knowledge and analysis of the labased on the Management Sysprinciples stipulated in the UNE test technological advances in our tem with which the company 166.002 standard and which enasector, as well as how to obtain works based on the standard UNE bles the continuous improvement and guarantee the resources for 166.002:2014. This standard has of its efficiency. meeting the R&D&I objectives. fomented the execution of R&D • To foment cooperation in our busi• The detection of new ideas which and Technological Innovation projness areas with external organisaenable the development of new ects within the Group’s Business tions who provide knowledge, meproducts and services. Units. The Corporate R&D&I Policy thodologies and resources. • The search for new business niches reinforces the commitment to inno• The provision of a specific space to improve the overall position of the vation as follows: in the organisation for setting the company and its competitiveness. 102 103 CSR R&D&I Annual Report Activity Report 2014 Innovation in the Construction Division The Construction Business Diviultimately certified according to the sion’s strategic priority is the certistandard UNE 166001:2014. fication of the technical innovations During 2013 and 2014, four new implemented on site. These are R&D&I projects obtained their cerreflected in an R&D&I project retification. These are related to the port which is drawn up according technological areas for energy effito the requirements stipulated in ciency in hydraulics, reinforced conthe R&D&I Management System crete structures, geotechnics and implemented in the organisation in foundations, materials technology accordance with the standard UNE (concrete), execution of viaducts 166.002. The reports are the suband the mitigation of greenhouse ject of an independent audit in order gas emissions in construction infrato ensure that these projects are structures, both road and rail. 104 105 Isolux Corsán holds a City of CSR Energy, Ponferrada | Spain leading position in the R&D&I Annual Report Activity Report 2014 research and development of new technologies The company is involved in the acThe importance of water in R&D&I financed by the Ministry of Scientivities of the Spanish Technology investments ce and Innovation through the Platform for Construction (PTEC), in The Environment Division made a INNPACTO sub-programme. The which Corsán-Corviam Construcconsiderable investment in R&D&I for objective is to develop Catalytic tion participates, which is comprised projects linked to water, at the same Bioelectrolysis technology in order of the most important institutions, time as Isolux Corsán reinforced the to apply it to the biological treatpublic research bodies, universities R&D&I Division in engineering to opment of wastewater and companies in the construction timise its activities on a global scale. • ANAGUA. Strategic Nanotechnosector. Amongst its main commitments in logy applications in Wastewater, fiCorsan-Corviam works to find this area are: nanced by the Centre for Industrial solutions for safety and to reduce • Energy optimisation in water treatTechnological Development throuthe negative effects on workers’ ment, regeneration and desalinagh FEDER INNTERCONECTA. The health. tion. objective is to develop “nano” teMore specifically, Corsán-Corviam • Development of new technologies chnology in order to apply it to the Construction is executing and leadfor water treatment, regeneration regeneration of wastewater. ing projects focused on health and and desalination. • TREFO. “Treatment and Regenesafety. These projects are the recip• Energy recovery from water treatration of Wastewater Backflow ients of subsidies from the INNPACment plant waste. using new Forward Osmosis and TO Programme by the Ministry for • Recovery of brine waste. Microbial Fuel Cell Technologies” is the Economy and Competitiveness, • Reduction in greenhouse gas a FEDER INNTERCONECTA GALIMINECO: emissions, an aspect of particular CIA Programme. importance in water treatment inIn 2014, within the railway sector, the • New Intelligent Collective Prevenfrastructures. company concluded a framework tion Systems in Dynamic Environcollaboration agreement with the Adments with Linear Infrastructures Main projects ministrator of Railway Infrastructures (PRECOIL). The most representative projects in in Spain (ADIF) for joint collaboration the integrated water treatment cycle in research, technological devel• Integral Structural Monitoring Sysare: opment and innovation activities in tem for Buildings based on Holistic • ADECAR. Application for the Capathe Centre for Railway Technologies Salamanca WWTP Technologies (SETH). citive Deionization of Wastewater, which ADIF has in Malaga. | Spain financed by the Ministry of ScienThe collaboration includes the exeLikewise in 2014, the SEIRCO projce and Innovation through the cution of research projects and proect was executed. This is an intelliINNPACTO sub-programme. The grammes, mutual advice, the training gent expert system for the assessobjective is to develop Capacitive of research and technical staff and ment and formation of risks in various Deionization technology in order to the creation of public/private consorenvironments in the construction apply it to the regeneration of wastia. Cooperation in R&D&I projects sector which has the support of the tewater. has the objective of increasing the Feder-Innterconecta Galicia Pro• ABECAR. Application for the Cacompetitiveness of Spanish compagramme. talytic Bioelectrolysis of Wastewater, nies with regard to the railway sector. 106 107
