Period covered for Communication Progress (COP) From : May 1 2013 To: April 30 2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) To our stakeholders, I am pleased to declare that Myanma Computer Co., Ltd (MCC) reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. In this annual Communication Progress, we will describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principle into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We have also shared this information with our stakeholders and continually commit to share this information using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Chaw Khin Khin, Cindy Chief Executive Officer Our Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Policies and Goals We do not prohibit our Employees from anything that could compromise their Human Rights. We exercise Grievance Channel which is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure everyone has the right to express their opinion with protections for them. Implementation We ensure that all company policies do not violate Human Rights of all Stake Holders. Our Employee Handbook (as attached) includes expressive clauses to ensure their claims and grievances are properly addressed. Measurement of Outcomes Our review processed identified no Human Rights Violations issues encountered during this reporting period. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our Policies and Goals  Our company policies uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination.  We have written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits Implementation Concrete actions are taken by our company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. Some Implemented actions are as follows: • Suggestion box in combination with grievance mechanisms.  Awareness raising or training for employees on labour rights and policies in accordance to our Employee Handbook. • Health and safety of all employees is ensured in accordance to Section 6.4 of ISO9001:2008 requirements for enabling working environment. • Consultation with employees and other stakeholders as required. • Human Resource policies and procedures supporting the Labour principles. • For participation in international framework agreements and other agreements with labour unions, we were one of the first 22 signatory for the upholding of Business Code of Conduct. (as attached) Measurement of Outcomes Our review processed identified no Violations of issues encountered in this reporting period. As our company is ISO9001:2008 certified, regular External Audits are carried out in respect of maintaining our Quality Management System and for continual improvement. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our Policies and Goals With respect to the relevance of environmental protection for the company, we fully fund and supports a registered Non-Profit Organization named Environmental and Economic Research Institute(EERi) an entity which is also a founding consortium member of Green Economy and Green Growth Initiative for Myanmar. Through EERi we aid in the Assessment of the environmental footprint and impacts, prevention and management of environmental risks and awareness building initiatives such as conducting of seminars and workshop. Implementation Through EERi we initiate awareness raising and training of employees on environmental impact and sustainability. Measurement of Outcomes Our review processed identified no Violations issues encountered in this reporting period. Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Policies and Goals Our Employee Handbook expressly states that our Employees should refrain from corruption in all of its forks including extortion and bribery. Reference to the statement of support for UN Global Compact initiative in conjunction with the UN Convention Against Corruption and other international instruments. All employees faced with such situation with reference to carrying out their work duty are informed to contact the HR Department if and when they are confronted with extortion or bribery. Implementation Through our Employee Handbook, the HR Department conducts Awareness raising or training of employees about company's policies regarding anti‐corruption and extortion and is also assigned to take responsibilities for reporting of anti-corruption within the company. The management also takes part in seminar and workshop conducted to initiate or other actions with regards to anti-corruption measures. Measurement of Outcomes Our review processed identified no Violations issues encountered in this reporting period for the business activities carried out by the company.
