Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Toward a Sustainable Future for Thais 01 About this Report 06 CEO Statement 08 PTT Group 10 PTT Group Sustainability Performance 14 16 Sustainable Governance Sustainable Development 24 Value Chain 30 Operational Excellence 38 Knowledge Organization 44 Corporate Citizenship 49 PTT Performance Summary 63 Awards and Recognitions 65 GRI and UNGC Content Index 69 Assurance Statement CONTENTS Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 01 ABOUT THIS REPORT This seventh Corporate Sustainability Report covers PTT Group’s performance in economic, environmental and social aspects during January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. This report presents the information more briefly and focuses on material aspects. PTT has expanded our online content which will be more frequently updated on the website for our stakeholders to have access to up-to-date information throughout the year in addition to the past data. Reporting Approach (G4-18) This report has been prepared “in accordance” with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Guideline and Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures, Version 4 for Core Level. This report PTT Group Sustainability Management Project also contains the Communication of Progress on the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)’s 10 Principles. PTT Public Company Limited 555 Vibhavadi Rangsit Road, Chatuchak, Bangkok 10900 Tel: +66 (0) 25371636 Email: sustainability@pttplc.com 02 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Reporting Scope (G4-17, G4-23) Materiality Assessment Process (G4-18) The reporting scope is based on the material 1. Issue Identification aspects which affects PTT’s business sustainability. The scope covers businesses Sustainability issues are considered and identified with inputs from under PTT’s own operation which consists Subject Matter Experts (SMEs). Issues are selected based on alignment of Gas Business Unit, Oil Business Unit, with strategic direction, corporate risks, and stakeholders’ interests International Trading Business Unit and and expectations. Infrastructure Business Group which was formed in 2014 as a result of organizational 2. Reporting Boundaries restructure. This year PTT has extended the reporting scope to include flagship Impacts of each material aspect are identified along the value chain, companies; namely, PTT Exploration and including, PTT Group companies, suppliers, customers, and consumers, Production Public Company Limited (PTTEP), etc. PTT Global Chemical Company Limited (PTTGC), Thai Oil Public Company Limited (TOP), and IRPC Public Company Limited 3. Materiality Assessment (IRPC). This year reporting scope excludes Identified material aspects are prioritized by opportunities and Global Power Synergy Public Company impacts to the organization (business case) and the stakeholders’ Limited (GPSC), a recently established interest and impacts to them. The content in this report covers the company, due to its readiness in collecting “high” and “medium” material aspects. and reporting data. To provide a clearer picture of PTT’s 4. Verification performance, the scope of the performance PTT Group Sustainability Alliance Committee is responsible for indicators disclosed in the back of this monitoring and verifying the report development by reviewing the year’s report include PTT’s operated results of the materiality assessment and report content, approving businesses only. PTT Group performance the content for disclosure and providing guidance to ensure report’s is presented throughout the report. Detailed completeness, balance, and coverage. In addition, an external party performance of each flagship company is is engaged to verify materiality assessment process, stakeholder disclosed in respective company’s Corporate engagement process, collection and analysis of data, and Sustainability Report. performance indicators to ensure completeness, accuracy, reliability and transparency. In the future, PTT plans to expand its data collection to include other subsidiaries and 5. Continuous Development companies in which PTT holds 100 percent share. For a complete list of all subsidiaries, In order to improve the completeness of the report, the previous year associates, and related companies included Corporate Sustainability Report had seek readers’ feedbacks and in PTT’s consolidated financial statements, suggestions from multiple channels such as interview of sustainability please refer to the 2014 Annual Report. experts and participation in the Sustainability Report Award by Securities and Exchange Commission’s and Thaipat Institute. This report presents interviews of PTT’s executives and representatives of stakeholders on material aspects to reflect their views of PTT’s operation. In addition, reader’s feedback survey has been included both in the printed report and on PTT’s website. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 03 Materiality Matrix (G4-19) Sustainable Governance • Sustainable Governance • Fair Operating Practice • Risk Management Value Chain • Supply Chain Management High • Product & Customers Stakeholder Interest and Impact Operational Excellence • Environment • Safety Medium • Capital Project Management Knowledge Organization • High Performance Organization Low • PTT Research & Technology Institute, Vidyasirimedhi Institute, Kamnoetvidya Science Academy Impact/Opportunities on PTT’s Business Corporate Citizenship • Corporate Citizenship Material Aspect Boundary Within and Outside of the Organization (G4-20, G4-21) Material Aspects Boundary of Relevant Internal Impact External Stakeholders Sustainable Governance PTT Group Country, Community, Society, Shareholders Governance Fair Operating Practice PTT Group Country, Community, Society, Shareholders, Business Partners, Customers Risk and Crisis Management PTT Group Country, Shareholders, Customers, Community, Society Value Chain Supply Chain Management PTT Group Business Partners, Customers, Community, Society Products & Customers PTT Group. Customer, Society, Community Operational Environment PTT Group Business Partners, Customers, Community, Society Excellence Safety PTT Group Business Partner, Customers, Community, Society Capital Project Management PTT Group Community, Society Knowledge High Performance Organization PTT Organization PTT Research & Technology Institute PTT Group Country, Business Partners, Customer, Community, Vidyasirimedhi Institute Society Kamnoetvidya Science Academy Corporate Corporate Citizenship PTT Country, Community, Society Citizenship Restatement (G4-22) PTT has modified data from the previous report. For details on the changes related to people, safety, and environment data, please refer to pages 50-51, 52-54, and 55-62, respectively. 04 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited TOWARD A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE FOR THAIS Striving hard for economic prosperity of the kingdom, PTT integrates knowledge leading to self-reliance for Thais. Most constructive questions we ask bring energy innovations to Thais. Our technologies fit harmoniously with life, nature, and the surroundings. Our ongoing efforts strive for sustainable co-existence for all of us. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 05 INNOVATION BETTER SEED OF HERALDS ENVIRONMENTAL KNOWLEDGE CHANGES QUALITY FOR A VIABLE THROUGH FUTURE Competition today happens in an all-new arena. INTEGRATED That’s why PTT is promoting knowledge-based innovation KNOWLEDGE Because today’s world with a focus on science is knowledge-driven, and technology addressing Lush forests herald a viable future PTT supports mental exercise day-to-day needs for quality. for our children’s children and beyond. on the basis of scientific For it is quality that That’s why we must keep on and technological knowledge fosters caliber for strides reforesting and passing on in search of total self-reliance. into future decades. reforestation knowledge to them, To this end, we’ve established while planting green areas academies for new-generation in their hearts. keen minds, idealism, and virtue. For in one way or another, human beings do rely on forests. 06 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited In the past year, PTT was honored with a personal visit from His Majesty the King to the Sirinart Rajini mangrove Ecosystem Learning Center in Pranburi District, Prachuap Khiri Khan Province where His majesty observed the progress of the forest project. The Learning Center is a joint collaboration project between PTT and our network to restore abandoned shrimp farms to a learning center of ecologically abundant mangrove. H.M. the King told all relevant parties to work together and promote public awareness in preserving the forests according to the royal concept of sustainable natural resource conservation for the public benefits. This visit has inspired and recommitted our forest conservation and restoration efforts. In addition, PTT has also received the grace of Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn in graciously bestowed the name of Rayong Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (RAIST) and Rayong Science Academy to be Vidyasirimedhi Institute and Kamnoetvidya Science Academy, respectively. Both academic institutions, to be opened in 2015, were established by PTT to develop human resources and research projects in science and advanced technology that will raise the body of scientific and technical knowledge in our country. We have seen a number of key sustainability issues come to the fore. The global trends of political and government instability, environmental degradation, and poverty are as relevant as ever while regional integration that fosters inclusive growth and increases economic competitiveness is becoming more important as we enter the ASEAN Economic Community in 2015. In light of these challenges, PTT Group needs to operate by considering sustainability issues from all dimensions. Since 2011, PTT has chosen the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Corporate Sustainability Assessment as the benchmark criteria to assess the sustainability performance and shape our sustainability programs. In 2014, PTT retained our membership in DJSI World Oil and Gas Industry for the third consecutive year. In addition, our flagship companies, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC were also included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. This recognition reflects PTT Group’s commitment in creating long-term values for our employees, customers, shareholders, communities, and society. Organizational resilience is vital in a fast-changing and dynamic environment where PTT Group operates. The political situation last year and the decline in oil prices have affected many of our PTT Group businesses. We were able to continue our operations and ensure energy supply to the country during the political disruption by implementing our business continuity management plan and rigorous risk management process. Last year, two additional operations, our Gas Separation Plant (GSP) and Gas Transmission Pipeline (GTM) have been certified with ISO 22301: 2012 – Business Continuity Management System. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 07 CEO STATEMENT Environmentally, PTT is a founding member of the CCAC Oil and Gas Methane Partnership under the United Nation Environment Program (UNEP) and joined the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s (USEPA) Natural Gas Star Program which is one of the mechanisms to reduce overall methane emission under the Global Methane Initiative. PTT has set a goal to zero methane emissions in 2020 to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases into the environment on top of saving operating cost. In addition, we have registered over 185 Rai of forest in Rayong under Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization’s Thailand Voluntary Reduction Program to exchange knowledge and innovation in carbon reduction monitoring and to help support the government’s efforts in reducing greenhouse gases. I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks to all stakeholders for their continued support to PTT. I am fully confident that PTT will continue to operate for the benefit of the country and the energy security according to our missions. We are ready to grow our business alongside social and environmental responsibilities for the long-term vitality and sustainability of all. Pailin Chuchottaworn Chief Executive Officer & President 08 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited PTT GROUP PTT Public Company Limited or PTT is a state-owned enterprise under the supervision of the Ministry of Energy with the Ministry of Finance as a major shareholder. PTT is a listed company in the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET). CANADA UNITED STATES PTT Group Value Chain As a state-owned enterprise, PTT’s policy and business strategy are in line with the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Finance. PTT, therefore, plans to ensure the country’s energy security by providing adequate energy supply at a fair and competitive price, investing to expand energy network BRAZIL and becoming a leader in offering quality products and services to meet customers’ diverse needs as well as to add value to natural gas. PTT operates through PTT owned operated business PTT Group and PTT Group companies including operates along the entire five flagship companies: PTTEP, hydrocarbon value chain. Primary PTTGC, TOP, IRPC, and energy is converted into useful GPSC. energy for direct consumption such as in the transportation sector and into valued added products in the petrochemical industry. PTT Group is a resource owner and value creator in different segments of the value chain. The International Trading Business Unit acts as the optimizer for PTT Group. In addition, PTT Group operates and invests in green energy segment to become a leader in clean energy innovation. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 09 PTT Group has Investments are made in both upstream and downstream investments in 23 petroleum businesses through countries PTT own operations and PTT Group globally. companies. Head Office, Bangkok, Thailand FRANCE CHINA UAE THAILAND VIETNAM ALGERIA EGYPT LAOS OMAN MYANMAR CAMBODIA PHILIPPINES MALAYSIA KENYA SINGAPORE BRUNEI MADAGASCAR INDONESIA MOZAMBIQUE AUSTRALIA PTT Group Employees 30,234 www.pttplc.com/th/about/ 10 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited PTT Sustainability Performance GROUP PTT and flagship companies were listed as members of Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Capacity In 2014, a total of 45 procurement staff from 13 flagship Development companies participated in PTT Group’s Procurement Pioneer Project. The project aims to improve procurement practice and supplier selection process by equipping procurement staff with knowledge and skills to analyze and plan for strategic sourcing of products and services as well as to integrate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) criteria in order to reduce environmental, social, and economic impacts. It is estimated that this project enabled PTT Group to reduce cost for approximately 99 million baht per year. In addition, PTT Group also provided suppliers trainings on PTT’s policies and strategic direction, guidelines to sustainable business and green procurement to raise awareness and encourage future collaborations. PTT Group Employees and Contractors Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) of employees Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) of contractors PTT Group’s Target PTT Group’s Performance PTT Group’s Target PTT Group’s Performance 2020 2012 2013 2014 2020 2012 2013 2014 0.066 case 0.18 0.086 case per 0.12 per 0.22 200,000 hours 0.08 200,000 hours 0.16 0.12 Remark: • The scope covers operations of PTT and flagship companies i.e. PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC. • 2012 and 2013 information do not include IRPC performance Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 11 Reforestation Project to Honor His Majesty the King To honor His Majesty the King on the auspicious occasion of 50th year accession to the throne, PTT has participated in the Reforestation Project to celebrate HM the King’s Golden Jubilee since 1994 and has continually carried on the mission until now. Researches have shown that the 1 million-Rai forest from the project has created benefits including: Reforestation Project to Honor 30.27 24.22 the release of 7,830 1 His Majesty the King million tons million baht of carbon dioxide million tons worth of benefits absorption of oxygen to gained by the atmosphere the communities 5,480 at the average of million Rai million baht worth of carbon capture 391.5 million baht per year and improvement in quality of life of the surrounding communities to nurture and protect the forested areas. Carbon captured 1.89 million tons of carbon dioxide per year PTT Group’s accumulated forest areas 1,110,000 Rai 1,173,600 Rai 2013 2014 Moreover, PTT Group sees opportunities to use knowledge in reforestation to build the PTT Forestry Institute with the main mission to enhance sustainable forest management. PTT has revised the target to add in another 1 million Rai of reforested area by the year 2024 which will be able to adsorb 2.1 million tons of carbon dioxide per year along with building awareness about the value of forests and stakeholder engagement through initiatives such as planting trees to increase greenspace. Forest in the Park at Vachirabenjatas Park 12 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited PTT Group’s Reduce emission intensity 2020 Goal for 5 percent compared to GHG Emission 2012 level PTT Group’s direct and indirect GHG emissions GHG intensity (million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent) (kilograms of carbon dioxide equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent) 30 27.08 27.99 100 91.9 26.28 89.6 87.8 25 80 20 60 15 40 10 5 20 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Remark: The scope covers operations of PTT and flagship companies i.e. PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC. Reduction from 2013 to 2014 Carbon Intensity Reduction by Business Type 27.31% 31.77% 5.22% Oil and gas production Refinery Petrochemical Remark: The scope covers operations of PTT and flagship companies i.e. PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 13 Water Use Reduction Energy Consumption within the Organization PTT Group is committed to reducing water consumption in high risk areas and controlling water usage in areas with (Gigajoules) high water consumption. 250 212.20 Total water consumption reduced 200 174.53 156.43 150 100 142.33 million 133.90 million 50 cubic meters cubic meters 0 2012 2013 2014 2013 2014 Remark: The scope covers operations of PTT and flagship companies i.e. PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC. Reduction of Hazardous Waste to Landfill (Tons) PTT Group continually works to reduce hazardous waste to 2,000 landfill and aims for 1,500 1,563.50 1,359.95 907.62 zero hazardous waste to landfill 1,000 by 2020. 500 0 2012 2013 2014 2020 Remark: The scope covers operations of PTT and flagship companies including PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC. In 2013, the scope was extended to PTTGC and IRPC. By 2014, TOP was included in the scope. 14 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Sustainable Development PTT’s vision is to become a Thai Premier Multinational Energy Company. As Thailand’s national oil company, PTT’s missions are to strengthen Thailand’s energy security by placing the utmost importance in the benefits of all stakeholders. Our responsibility is to produce, innovate and provide energy-related products as well as instill the spirit of energy conservation and environmental responsibility to the wider public. PTT’s business covers the entire value chain, from upstream to downstream, covering both domestic and international. We grow our business by adding value to hydrocarbons and innovating new energy solutions through our own operated business as well as our investment businesses within the PTT Group. PTT’s strategic framework aims to balance three dimensions to create a sustainable organization. The three dimensions are High Performance Organization (HPO); Corporate Governance (CG), and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). HPO High Performance Organization Power for Sustainable CG Future CSR Corporate Corporate Governance Social Responsibility PTT STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 15 Strategic Direction PTT Group’s strategic direction is TAGNOC (Technologically Advanced and Green National Oil Company) which aligns our business directions and efforts to develop a knowledge-based business from our current position as a resourcebased business. set direction for PTT Group collaboration in technological development that support future growth from research and development to engineering and production; from upstream oil and gas production to downstream petroleum business and including shared basic infrastructure. The effort is supported by research and development budget to develop new business opportunities. set a framework for an integrated environmentally TA responsible business. The effort is focused on three aspects: 1) Product development 2) Process management 3) Public awareness. Key initiatives Technologically include a push to develop Thailand into a bioAdvanced G plastic and bio-energy center and management of energy optimization in production process. Green NOC National Oil Company set expectations to provide energy security and economic prosperity for the country. Key activities include integrated gas supply management, Creating Shared Value for the society, preparing PTT Group for the ASEAN Economic Community, expanding investment in Myanmar, managing PTT Group portfolio, and pursuing operational excellence. • PTT Group Creating Shared Value (CSV) effort aims to develop a business model that closely aligns community development effort with business strategy and direction. • Integrated gas supply management sets to create continuity between exploration and production and natural gas and raw material sourcing to support the country’s demand. • PTT Group portfolio management seeks to manage investment in both upstream and downstream business to achieve four ends: growth, energy security, credit rating, and return on invested capital. 16 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 17 The Infrastructure Business Group was established in October 2013 to support PTT’s business expansion and Establishment of enhance PTT Group’s management. The establishment the Infrastructure of the Infrastructure Business Group provides a new growth story for PTT, in which we can create new Business Group opportunities and add value to the existing business. The Business Group is built upon the existing knowledge base as well as expertise of PTT’s personnel, and Surong Bulakul allows for a more comprehensive development of the Chief Operating Officer Infrastructure infrastructure business. Moreover, it also helps PTT to meet stakeholders’ demand for greater transparency especially in the asset management with regards to infrastructure such as the separation of natural gas transmission system. The Infrastructure Business Group’s operation can be divided into two main business areas which are Infrastructure and Utility Management Functional Group and Operational Management for Sustainability Functional Group. The Infrastructure and Utility Management Functional Group aims at strengthening stability within PTT Group as they are responsible for asset management including natural gas transmission system and natural gas management for vehicles. This is achieved by grouping the management of companies in PTT Group, which provides infrastructure services to PTT Group such as Global Power Synergy Company Limited (GPSC) and PTT AIE Industrial Land, in order to identify new opportunities for value creation in the asset management businesses. Similarly, the Operational Management for Sustainability Functional Group is responsible for the development of effective and sustainable operation systems as well as the provision of engineering and construction services to PTT. They are, therefore, tasked with managing companies in PTT Group which are responsible for such services. We hope to develop the Infrastructure Business Group to become the center of excellence in engineering, management system and professional project management in the future, as we seek new opportunities and business for growth in Thailand and overseas. This is in addition to our aim to manage PTT’s assets, which are essential to Thailand’s energy security, with effectiveness, transparency and clarity so that our stakeholders may remain fully confident in our operation. 18 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Good Corporate Governance PTT Group Sustainability Governance PTT adheres to the principles of good The overall responsibility of PTT Group’s sustainability performance governance, transparency, accuracy, lies with the Group Sustainability Committee, which was renamed and international standards to build a the Sustainability Alignment Committee (SAC) in 2014 to better framework of leadership accountability and more closely integrate sustainability management within PTT Group. amongst the PTT Board of Directors and The Senior Executive Vice President of the Sustainability Management Executives. This leads to an increase in and Project Engineering serves as the Chair of the Committee, with competitive capacity, prevents conflicts committee members from various Business Units and from flagship of interest that may arise, and builds companies – PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, IRPC, and GPSC. The Committee meets stakeholders’ and investors’ confidence. regularly at least once every quarter to jointly establish sustainability-related plans and strategies and to monitor the progress. The PTT Group adopts the PTT Group Sustainability Management Framework (PTT Group SM Framework) in its overall sustainability management. As part of the 3-year assessment cycle, in 2014, PTT conducted an external assessment of the 10 Elements within the Framework for 12 operational areas. The 2014 external assessment results can be found on pages 69-70 of this report. PTT Group Sustainability Management Framework rg anizational Governance O People Safety, Health and Environment Human Fair Rights Operating Practices Stakeholder Engagement Reporting Corporate and Citizenship Reputation Product Supply Stewardship Chain Management Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 19 Corporate Governance ensuring commitment and effectiveness across the organization. and Code of Ethics Handbook Moreover, anti-corruption management and investigation procedures will be presented in all processes. PTT was endorsed by the Under the guidance of the Corporate Private Sector Collective Action Coalition against Corruption Council Governance and Code of Ethics (CAC) on October 3, 2014 to be a member in the Private Sector Collective Handbook, PTT trains all employees Action Coalition. This recognition signifies that PTT has put in place policies on issues related to: governance, and process to ensure against corruption risks. During the past year, dealing with information disclosure, no significant conflicts of interest were found, and no major grievances transparency, and leadership related to unethical conduct were confirmed after investigation. accountability; and business ethics, concerning anti-corruption, corporate Human Rights social responsibility, international human rights principles and conflicts of Beyond respecting international human rights principles as indicated in the interest. All employees are expected to CG Handbook, Human Rights constitutes an Element of the PTT Group SM acknowledge that they have read and Framework, which further consists of: Human Rights Guidelines; Training, understand the content in CG Handbook Monitoring and Reporting, and Public Consultation and Resettlement. in writing prior to performing their duties. PTT Group conducts business by adhering to labor laws at the minimum, They must comply with the standards and also operates according to the UN Universal Declaration of Human indicated and submit a PTT’s Conflict of Rights, UN Global Compact Principles 1 and 2, and the UN Framework and Interest Disclosure Form annually. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Ruggie Framework). In 2014, we announced the PTT and In 2014, human rights performance and processes were assessed as PTT Group Anti-Corruption Policy part of the sustainability management external assessment to ensure governing the proper conduct of PTT alignment with the international principles and PTT Group SM Framework. personnel for the purpose of creating Furthermore, PTT will conduct human rights risk assessments for its confidence among stakeholders, operations in Thailand and overseas in 2015. 20 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Stakeholder Engagement (G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27) PTT engages with its stakeholders in a variety of ways throughout the year to encourage improvement in its operations, reporting, and information disclosure. The table below presents examples of PTT’s stakeholder engagement activities in 2014 based on PTT’s six stakeholder groups. For more information on our stakeholder engagements, please visit PTT’s website. Stakeholder Stakeholder Interest and PTT Response • Published White Paper entitled “Vision and Policy of Thailand’s Energy Reform,” to present to the Deputy Economic Chief of the National Council for Peace and Order (NCPO), on 28 May, 2014. • Prepared important issues related to PTT to present to the NCPO Platform, and participated in various meetings by NCPO concerning energy reform direction and issues, to be followed-up Country by relevant PTT divisions. • Various grievance channels for communities in areas surrounding operations were established. Those receiving direct impacts on the ground were informed of the appropriate channels to report their grievances or impacts from construction-related issues by their community leaders, civil servants, or local media. In 2014, the majority of grievances occurred during construction and Community were reported via telephone to the Customer Relations Center (Call Center 1365). PTT has resolved and Society all grievance issues and continues to communicate with relevant parties to ensure their satisfaction with the process. • Organized an Annual Shareholders General Meeting as required by the AGM Checklist, which was established by the Thai Investors Association to raise the quality of the conference by encouraging businesses to factor in the equal rights of all shareholders while complying with Shareholders international standards. In 2014 PTT received the maximum 100 score for the AGM Checklist assessment – in the “Excellent” range. • Conducted customer satisfaction surveys to improve customer relations management and ensure that their needs and expectations are met. Received grievances through numerous channels Customers such as the Customer Relations Center. • Organized Supplier Relationship Seminar to train and communicate policy, business direction, Partners guidelines to sustainable business, and green procurement, etc. • Improved the operational efficiency of state enterprises, supported and developed labor relations, revised rules and regulations of the PTT Joint Consultant Committee to better serve employers, employees, and state enterprises; conducted consultations on employee or union grievances, including issues related to disciplinary action, and held monthly consultations to evaluate ways of continuously improving the hiring process. Employees • Evaluated all suggestions and grievances from management and employees on issues related to the hiring process, benefits, and risk management through the Joint Consultant Committee, which was established in provincial operations areas such as the Gas Separation Plant in Rayong and Khanom, and the Gas Transmission Pipeline in Chonburi. Membership in the Committee consists of highest-level managers who act as the Chair and employee representative in their respective areas of operations. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 21 Risk and Crisis Management Managing Risk for Business Sustainability PTT believes in the utmost importance of risk management given that risks associated with changing business conditions may impact the company’s ability to achieve its business targets and objectives. PTT has put in place a comprehensive risk management system to not only manages business risks, but also to respond to stakeholder’s needs and identify opportunities to increase business value. In 2014, PTT carried out the risk Managing Price Volatility of Raw Materials and Products management activities as follows. The price of raw materials and products such as natural gas, condensates, crude oil, and refined oil and petrochemical fluctuates according to market conditions, which in turn affects the operations of PTT Group. To manage the price fluctuations, PTT Group has established the Price Strategy and Risk Management Working Group to analyze global oil prices and to manage risks related to the price of raw materials and products. PTT manages product purchase and sale costs through derivative contracts with suppliers as stipulated by PTT’s policy. PTT Group conducts business plan based on scenario planning by running different scenarios of economic expansion and oil price levels, to prepare appropriate response plans for future changes and uncertainties. Additionally, the PTT Group Financial Stress Test assesses risks by running various possible scenarios factoring in uncertainties, such as global economic conditions, Thailand’s political and economic situation, exchange rates, energy demand, and calls for energy policy reform, to suitably prepare for and manage potential risks and disruptions. 22 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Managing Investment Risks Investment Management Committee, comprising executives with expertise for Sustainable Growth in different areas to evaluate and screen investments prior to approval by PTT Management Committee and the Board of Directors. Furthermore, Investing in new energy sources and the Investment Management Committee is responsible for monitoring renewable energy to increase the nation’s investments and changes in various factors that impact investment objectives. energy security, leveraging existing These processes allow PTT to quickly and effectively resolve problems that business and finding new sustainable may arise from investment risks. growth opportunities all run the risks that return on investment may not achieve Managing Natural Gas Supply to Ensure Energy Security the targeted level. Uncertainties of the domestic and global economy, price volatility of oil PTT manages risks associated with and liquefied natural gas (LNG), unexpected changes in future natural investments through the Strategic gas demand, decreases in Thailand’s natural gas reserves, regional Investment Management (SIM) Process natural gas procurement negotiations, the inability to meet increased which is broken down into four stages: demand and to deliver natural gas according to the amount required by Investment Planning, Investment Analysis, production contracts – all have the potential to affect demand for natural Investment Process, and Commercial gas as well as PTT’s financial performance. Processes. In addition, PTT established the To ensure energy security and manage against these risks, PTT follows movements in the sourcing process and demand for natural gas, and closely collaborates with suppliers and buyers to establish an effective short-term and long-term natural gas procurement plan, where crisis resolution strategies are also included in these discussions. Building Public Trust Social, economics, and political uncertainties; energy policy, regulations, and governance mechanism; changing stakeholder expectations and negative media attention – all have the potential to impact public perception and erode their confidence in PTT which could impact PTT’s operations as well as future expansions. Accordingly, PTT reviews its current business operations and specified business directions to create balance and shared value between business, society, and the environment under the Creating Shared Value (CSV) concept. Branding and reputation are managed in line with business direction, which emphasizes analysis and forecasting; mass communications via main media channels and online platforms, service stations and Café Amazon; and public performance disclosure through participation in seminars and press events to foster genuine and factual understanding of energy issues, products, services, and PTT’s business operations amongst the public. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 23 Environment and Climate Change Risks PTT works to reduce our environment and climate change related-risks by adhering to the precautionary approach as defined by the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). PTT Group’s Quality, Security, Safety, Health, and Environment (QSHE) Policy and the PTT Group Security, Safety, Health, and Environment Management Standards (SSHE MS) serve as the minimum basis upon which all business units and PTT Group subsidiaries must operate in this regard. In addition, we have set strategic targets to reduce the environmental footprint of our products throughout their entire life cycle and to improve our operational eco-efficiency. Regarding climate change, our assessment of risks and opportunities for long-term business operations include factors such as potential legislations on greenhouse gas emissions, changes in consumer behaviour, water shortages for production and consumption, and the increase in frequency and intensity of natural disasters. While these risks may only affect financial and physical aspects of the company at a low level, we nevertheless aim to contribute to global climate change efforts by declaring our commitments, through the CDP, to manage its greenhouse gas emissions as follows: Continuous Responsibly Integrate carbon public disclosure engage policy maker pricing into of greenhouse gas on climate change investment decisions emissions data policy In reducing our environmental impacts, we considered the cost effectiveness of each mitigation activites as well as the potential risks to the environment. Business Continuity Management In addition to corporate risk management, PTT has established a Business Continuity Management Plan (BCM) to prepare for any emergencies and crises that may occur. During the political demonstrations in 2014, PTT employed the BCM Plan for a period of 113 days – the longest since the Business Continuity Management System has been developed. Nevertheless, PTT was able to continue its business operations as normal, ensuring sufficient and reliable supply of energy for our suppliers and the country during the entire period of political disruption. 24 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited VALUE CHAIN Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 25 From the small State Owned Enterprise with little capital and limited knowledge of petroleum business, Conducting Business as PTT has gradually created and collected the the National Energy Company knowledge assets necessary to build an integrated petroleum business without being a burden on the Government. PTT builds energy security for the nation, Sarun Rungkasiri reduces foreign currency loss and regularly generates Chief Operation Officer, income for the country. Downstream Petroleum Business Group Most people know PTT from our oil business, which is our main touch point with the consumers. In this market, we are only one of the 40 players who have registered with the Department of Energy Business in accordance with Section 7 regulation. Our market share in the retail market is around 39 percent. Our goal is not to maximize market share but to maintain a large enough market share to ensure energy security of the nation. We operate throughout the value chain from sourcing, storing, transporting, to retailing to ensure that everyone can have equal access to quality products and services, even in remote areas. Moreover, we aim to respond to stakeholders’ needs in the Government sector; Industrial sector and consumers through research and development of a diverse range of quality and environmentally friendly products and services, such as unleaded gasoline, gasohol, biodiesel, and PTT HyForce Premium Diesel. For business development, we hope that PTT service station is the preferred consumer’s choice. We, therefore, developed our service stations to meet the different needs of all customers. Not only creating a clean and safe area with less environmental impact, we also extend our offerings to other businesses including lubricating products, Café Amazon, and supporting local community careers by providing service stations as channel to distribute local products in order serve various needs of consumers through our PTT Life Station. In conclusion, we work to maintain the balance between serving our mission to provide energy security and operating in a highly competitive market in order to grow sustainably along with the community, society, and environment. 26 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Supply Chain Management were assessed to identify high-risk suppliers. The Assessment Tool was introduced to employees through training, whereas suppliers were informed PTT works to manage our supply chain about sustainable supply chain management via supplier seminars. The by reducing the potential impacts to the assessment process enabled PTT to manage our high-risk suppliers much business, society and the environment more efficiently. In 2014, there were no cases of suppliers who were not in from the goods and services we procure compliance with labor laws. and from the operations and governance of our buyers and suppliers. We also Furthermore, to strengthen supplier operational efficiency, PTT organized encourage our suppliers to improve a Supplier Relationship Seminar to communicate its business policy their operational performance in order to and direction, and organized a workshop to improve collaboration with manage reputational risks and enhance suppliers. As a result, supplier satisfaction towards the procurement unit our long-term competitiveness. was measured at 86.55 percent. In 2014, the Environment Social and We continue to find ways to optimize our supply chain to reduce costs, Governance Risk Assessment Tool and and generate new business opportunities by focusing on collaboration risk evaluation criteria were revised to between PTT, our suppliers and subsidiaries on various projects, such as the include the likelihood and impacts of Petrochemical and Refining Integrated Supply Chain Management (PRISM) sustainability-related risks from suppliers and PTT Group Logistics Master Plan (GLM). We focus on the collaboration and buyers, namely environmental, among PTT, suppliers, and oil refineries and petrochemical plants in our safety, and reputational risks. Suppliers Downstream Business that emphasizes efficiency improvement, value were classified according to product creation for PTT Group companies, costs reduction, and customer and service type. In total, 284 suppliers satisfaction improvement through process improvements across the entire supply chain to create competitive advantage on the supply side. Managing Risks in Sourcing Petroleum to Ensure Energy Security for the Country An important mission of the International Trading Business is ensuring the country’s energy security both in terms of supply and quality. Among other petroleum products, we are tasked with sourcing crude oil, fuel oil, and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) to meet the country’s demand. This mission is wider than PTT’s operations, on behalf of the government, we also source energy products that other suppliers deem uneconomic so that consumers are not affected by shortages. We work closely with partners within and outside of PTT Group, from forecasting demand; Boobpha negotiating contracts; and monitoring, analyzing, and managing risks. We Amornkiatkajorn manage risks by putting in place systems that ensure we only deal with suppliers with solid reputations, managing price volatility, reducing risks Senior Executive Vice President, associated with freight transport using PTT Group Ship Vetting System that International has the same rigorous standard as leading international oil companies. Trading Our ship vetting process ensures the expected product quality, safe freight Business Unit transport and safeguards against potential environmental impacts to communities around the ports. We have working committees to continually monitor and assess risks and report the situations to the Enterprise Risk Management Committee on a monthly basis to ensure that we successfully complete our mission to provide energy security under normal condition and even in times of crisis. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 27 In 2014, PTT together with our suppliers and Downstream Businesses involved in ASEAN Economic Community (AEC) the PRISM Project collaborated to refine the petrochemical outlook forecast used PTT Group is moving to expand our market in ASEAN by in business strategy planning within the establishing a customer base and creating brand loyalty in the retail PTT Group. The estimates were found market in Cambodia, Laos, and Myanmar. As part of our objectives to be closely aligned to real prices, and of becoming a leading brand in the region, we are installing fuel therefore the margin of error was reduced service stations offering the same standards as those in Thailand from 10 percent to 5 percent for greater through our oil refinery networks. Additionally, we are producing accuracy. PTT subsequently organized petroleum products and oil for export to Indo-China countries, a knowledge sharing seminar on oil aiming to obtain 2 percent market share in each country. In 2014 prices, petrochemical outlooks, and the amount of oil exports to Indo-China countries have increased global market trends for suppliers and from previous years. PTT Group personnel. This is considered a mean of skill development to build Oil Exports to Indo-China Countries 470 suppliers and personnel awareness for the changing market conditions. To create new business opportunities, the Bio-Hub Group under the PRISM Million Project is working to generate demand by Liters co-developing new uses of bioplastics with customers, while working on creating economy of scale in the supply of bioplastics. Simultaneously, Bio-Hub has pushed to turn the PTT Research and 2011 650Million Technology Institute into a Bio Solution Center, to encourage bioplastic use and community awareness on environmental impact reduction. 590 Million Liters 2013 For the GLM Project, PTT has initiated a Green Logistics initiative that aims to reduce carbon dioxide from transportation and encourages contractors to consider Liters 2012 656Million the environmental and social impacts of Liters their operations. Consequently, in 2014 PTT reduced logistical costs by 414 million baht and decreased its carbon 2014 dioxide emissions from transportation Regarding logistics, the GLM Project has organized an by approximately 20,834 tons. This AEC Logistics Master Plan Initiative to prepare for regional is equivalent to reducing fuel use by competitiveness. The Plan focuses on understanding the approximately 5.4 million baht per year, particular country’s logistics and ways to appropriately facilitate and by extension, creates satisfaction the petroleum and petrochemical business in Indo-China. In 2014, amongst customers, suppliers, and study was conducted for Cambodia. We will conduct studies for relevant contractors throughout the Laos and Myanmar in 2015. entire logistics process. 28 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited nd Re Products and Customers d s a iftness of c spo n sw us h Respondi ma n d s Products and Services n rious de providing ser g to de to va onsumers vice ma ing and c nd mers Delivering quality products and services is sw Speed Flexibility one of PTT Group’s main missions. PTT is it committed to offering products and services to with responsibilities towards the society and environment, in addition to innovating new products and services to meet the customers’ Responsibility changing demands and lifestyles. This is achieved by placing an emphasis on Speed, Resp ards Flexibility and Responsibility. the so onsibility tow nment ciety and enviro With the rapidly changing customers’ behaviors, PTT has to consistently adjust to new situations, by recognizing, understanding, and anticipating consumer demands Drive Awake before other service providers. Having the largest market Application share is partly the result of PTT’s effort and dedication in understanding the consumers by meeting various 72,800 demands with speed and responsibility. These include being the leader in launching environmentally-friendly products, implementing self-certified environmental the number of labelling, the PTT Group Eco-Label for Products and downloads for Drive Services, and providing a One Stop Service in our service Awake Application as of stations. For instance, our service station is equipped with the end of December 2014 different facilities and amenities such as convenience stores, banking branches, food stalls, etc. depending on the suitability and conditions of each area. In order to meet the need of the modern consumers, PTT has developed a Drive Awake mobile application which enables a smartphone to detect the driver’s eyes and sound an alarm when the driver’s eyes are closed for more than 2 seconds. The application will also guide the driver to the nearest Amazon Café to rest or stop for a 7 awards received for mobile application development from 4 countries coffee, preventing potential car accidents due to fatigue. Not only is such initiative carried out to meet the modern lifestyle, it also serves as one of many ways that PTT has added value to its products. In terms of product stewardship, PTT has studied and conducted a life cycle assessment (LCA) and water footprint assessment of PTT’s essential products and products with high water-related risks. These essential products are the organization’s well known main products, which are considered based on external perception, stakeholder’s opinions and the acceptance level with respect to the expertise and income received from the products/services. As for the products with high water-related risk, they are considered based on the impact level and likelihood of water Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 29 shortage in the production process. These life cycle and water footprint assessments have helped PTT to track the products’ environmental impact throughout their life cycle Customer Management along the supply chain. The results obtained are also used for planning of eco-efficiency programs for management of other In order to maintain the confidence and satisfaction environmental issues, leading to a sustainable development of customers, PTT listens to the opinions and in the future. feedbacks from customers (Voice of Customer) by establishing channels that can be accessed at Performance in 2014 Implementation plan for 2015 all times such as website, social media, customer service centre, etc. The information received is Completed the life cycle Conduct the water footprint daily tracked for problem-solving and responsive assessments of products assessment of products including communication with the customers. Moreover, in 2014, including Methane, Ethane, Methane, Ethane, Propane, Propane, Butane, Natural Gas Butane, Natural Gas Liquid (NGL), PTT has introduced the Knowledge Management Liquid (NGL), Liquid Petroleum Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) and System to manage the feedbacks received, where Gas (LPG) and High Density High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) the Service Station Development and Management Polyethylene (HDPE) for a total for a total of 27 product grades Department is responsible for compiling repeated of 27 product grades grievances, problem-solving results, long-term solutions and customer satisfaction to be stored in To drive stakeholders in the supply chain to be more aware the Knowledge Management System. Moreover, the System encourages effective exchanges of of green products and services, especially those that contain information between different functions, partners, plastics, PTT has created PTT Group Green for Life label to suppliers, retailers as well as service stations in order enhance marketing and environmentally-friendly image. This to accomplish further improvement. also helps customers in distinguishing environmentally-friendly products, which will result in more sales of green products. Products and Services which have received Customer PTT Green for Life labels Satisfaction Products Survey Natural International PTT Racing Formula Biosyn (Percent) Oil Gas Trading Lubricant oil for the environment, for speedboat’s two stroke engine. Up to 67 percent biodegradable within Target in 2014 89.5 > 89.0 90.0 28 days Satisfaction level in 2014 88.4 89.4 91.4 LPG Composite Tank Target in 2015 95.0 91.2 90.0 LPG Composite Tank reduces environmental impact throughout its life cycle by more than 42.5 percent. Its Low Carbon Fuels lifespan is longer as compared to iron tank and also designed to be dismantled for disposal where up to 50 (million liter) Biofuels in Thailand percent of the material is reusable Sales volume in Bio Gasoline High Speed Services (Gasohol) Diesel Nawanakorn Chiang Karn Ladkrabang Service Station Service Station NGV Service Station 2012 1,569 6,161 Environmentally Environmentally Reduced electricity 2013 2,540 6,331 friendly and able to friendly by recycling consumption by 29.68 save energy by more its discharged water percent; Achieved 0.004 2014 2,748 6,538 than 30 percent of all by over 40 percent percent of energy use activities in the office from renewable sources; Reduced waste to be Estimated sales disposed by 58.44 percent; volume in 2015 2,981 6,890 Reduced greenhouse gas emission by 10.29 percent as compared to other PTT NGV service stations Estimated reduction of indirect greenhouse gas emission at 1.8 million tons carbondioxide equivalent 30 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 31 Environment PTT is aware of the limited natural resource and determined to protect and maintain the invaluable environment. Thus, PTT commits to improve the environmental management by setting short and long-term targets and monitor performance through indicators that cover all aspects of the environmental issues in order to reduce impacts on stakeholders arising from PTT Group’s activities. Integrated Water Management Water is a basic need for communities, society, and environment as well as an essential component for business operation. PTT effectively REDUCE manages water in order to prevent risks that would create impacts on all stakeholder groups. One of the issues relates to the need of water REUSE for consumption and industrial usage is the increase in water demand in Chonburi and Rayong provinces which is estimated to increase 12 RECYCLE percent per year. PTT Group Water Management Team cooperates with government and private sectors to develop long-term water management projects that mitigate impacts of droughts and floods for the individuals from agriculture sector and PTT Group. One of the long-term projects is Network of Reservoir Project which consists of water reservoirs that are linked by pipelines provided by the government and private sectors. The Project reserves water for stakeholders in Chonburi and Rayong and secures the water for community’s basic need within the area. PTT initiated the project since mid-2014 and encouraged relevant government and private sectors to get involved in the water distribution policy through War Room Committee in the Eastern Region. PTT applies 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle) approach to our water management. In 2014, we were able to reduce fresh water consumption in areas of PTT’s and PTT Group’s operations with high water related risks and implementation by reducing and recycling 0.17 million cubic meters. Total water consumption per product (cubic meters per ton production) Target less than 0.31 Total water consumption continued to reduce as a result of water consumption 0.28 0.27 0.21 reduction awareness programs and improved process efficiency initiatives such Year as boiler system, cooling tower system, etc. 2012 2013 2014 32 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Climate Change and Energy Management PTT has developed Green Roadmap which is a long-term plan for PTT to become a low carbon and environmental friendly organization. We have set targets to reduce GHG emissions from PTT Group’s activities to 1.1 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent and reduce carbon intensity by 5 percent by 2020 compared to the 2012 baseline. In 2014, PTT Group reduced GHG emissions by 100,000 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent and revised PTT Energy Efficiency Master Plan. The target is set to reduce energy consumption at the average rate of 1.9 percent per year based on business as usual to mitigate impacts from GHG emissions. Carbon Intensity (kilograms of carbon dioxide 2015 per barrel of oil equivalent ) Target 88.6 Target 89.1 Energy Efficiency Improvement Project at Rayong Gas Separation Plant 91.9 89.6 87.3 PTT has invested over 1,500 million baht in the Waste Heat Recovery System at the Onshore Compressor Station Unit Year 3 to recover waste heat for use in the 2012 2013 2014 hot oil system where it is directed to Remarks: Gas Separation Unit 5 and Gas Pipeline • In 2014, PTT revised target setting method from BAU to actual carbon intensity. • Scope covers PTT operational control assets and is in accordance with Processing Plant in order to improve PTT Group SSHE Governance Policy. energy efficiency in the production process. The project’s total energy saving is estimated at 520,800 megawatt-hours per year or the equivalence of GHG Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Target emissions reduction of 98,000 tons of (million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent) less than carbon dioxide per year. This is 33.92 translated into cost saving from reduced fuel consumption of 500 million baht per year. PTT plans to extend the project Direct greenhouse by connecting the hot oil system with gas emissions Gas Separation Unit 6 where we plan to 32.4 31.8 31.8 Indirect greenhouse expand the production capacity from gas emissions 800 million cubic feet per day to 880 Year 1.9 2.4 2.4 million cubic feet per day. The project 2012 2013 2014 will be fully implemented by the second quarter of 2015 with the expected fuel GHG emissions exceeded target. Due to the sudden drop in oil price, consumption reduction of 184,800 PTT needs to reconsider the type of fuel used in the production process megawatt-hours per year or the cost in order to maintain economic and environmental balance. saving of 150 million baht. The investment Remarks: budget for the project at Gas Separation • Scope covers PTT operational control assets and is in accordance with Unit 6 is 80 million baht. PTT Group SSHE Governance Policy. • Target for direct and indirect GHG emissions. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 33 Oil and Chemicals Spill PTT holds regular emergency drills both internally and in cooperation with external agencies in order to efficiently manage emergency situations. For instance, the spill of Jet A-1 oil at Chiangmai’s aviation fuelling station which resulted in 26,000 liters of oil spilled into public waterway. We took immediate actions to mitigate environmental and social risks including immediately ceasing oil delivery to prevent further spill and establishing Emergency Management Center chaired by the Senior Executive Vice President of Oil Business Unit. The Center monitored, oversaw and supported the coordination with local organizations and authorities until the situation was back to normal. The area of exposure was controlled and limited and the oil-contaminated waste was disposed by the waste disposal system in accordance with relevant standards and regulations. In addition, the water quality was monitored continuously for certainty until the quality was restored to its normal condition. Waste Management Hazardous waste to landfill 2015 (tons per year) Target less than 227 Target Amount of hazardous waste to less than 480 landfill decreased as the result of 3Rs initiatives e.g. Green 1,006.95 611.40 436.31 turnaround/Waste to worth where Year wastes are reused. 2012 2013 2014 VOCs, NOx, and SOx Emissions VOCs emissions Target Target Nitrogen oxide emissions 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 (ton per year) LPG Terminal 0.280 0.262 0.276 0.280 VOCs Target (tons of VOCs emission per emissions less than1,977.13 million liter of production) per Oil Terminal 0.346 0.283 0.257 production 0.346 not to (tons of VOCs emission per exceed million liter of production) 2012 level 1,279.89 Gas Separation Plant 0.173 0.163 0.172 0.173 969.46 970.33 (kilograms of VOCs per ton of product) VOCs emissions from LPG Terminal increased from 2013 as PTT extends the scope of reporting and revised data collection method to be more accurate. Year 2012 2013 2014 VOCs emissions from Gas Separation Plant increased from 2013 due to increased fuel used and flaring. PTT’s operations are in compliance with environmental laws and regulations where compliance assessment is conducted annually at every operation. In 2014, PTT received no fines or sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 34 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Safety 2012 2013 2014 PTT’s safety management extends No Lost Time 25 A total of eight cases in 2014; to both personal safety and process Accident six occurred in the office safety with the objective to achieve (cases) 7 8 setting, while only two were zero accident target. To gain the from activities in the main production processes in PTT’s stakeholders’ confidence, PTT supports Target zero operation area. employee and contractor engagement in safety issues to cultivate a safety culture 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 throughout the organization under the Security, Safety, Health and Environment Target Management System (SSHE MS). Target 0.15 0.08 Therefore, strategic and annual targets 0.17 0.16 0.19 have been set to consistently manage 0.07 0.09 0.13 and monitor performance for all Total Recordable Incident Rate Total Recordable Incident Rate operations under PTT Group. per 200,000 hours Employee (TRIR) per 200,000 hours Contractor (TRIR) Transportation Accidents In 2014, most accidents occurred were land transport accidents which resulted in two fatalities. After the investigation and evaluation, drivers’ behaviours were identified as the cause of the accidents. PTT has, therefore, published the PTT Group Road Safety Management Guideline which comprises governance, SHE management, driver management, route management and vehicles & parts management. The guideline is also applied to the procurement contracts for Natural Gas and Oil Business Units. We also conducted training on PTT Group Road Safety Management Guideline for 66 external transport companies. Other projects aimed at cultivating safe behaviours include PTT Zero Accident Fleet Project and random safety inspection of six fleet operators to ensure the application of safety standards devised. Moreover, PTT has started utilizing the In Vehicle Monitoring System in transport vehicles under the Oil Business Unit for 2015, in which over 1,300 vehicles are now implementing the system. The system helps to record driving data which will be used to improve the behaviour for greater road safety. Accidents PTT Target PTT Performance from 2014 2013 2014 Corporate The number of land transport accident Vehicles in 2014 was higher than the target. It is, however, lower than that of 2013 and the 0.10 0.12 0.11 decreasing trend is likely to continue. The number of land transport accidents For transport of natural products, there per 1,000,000 km were no accidents that have resulted in lost time incident for all parties involved in the accidents. The number of accidents from using less than the corporate vehicles is lower than the target. It has dropped by more than 50 12 19 8 percent when compared to the previous The number of accidents from using year. There were no injuries for all parthe corporate vehicles ties involved in the accidents. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 35 Occupational Health Risk Prevention clean-up after the Jet A-1 leakage incident at an aircraft refueling station in Chiang Mai. This is to ensure that all operators do not receive any health PTT manages occupational health & impacts from contact with oil vapors from the leakage. From the health safety risks of all employees and assessment, there were no cases of abnormalities from the operation. operators by conducting a work-related health risk assessment in order to prioritize Process Safety and devise control measure, lowering the risks. All operators are to receive At all operation areas, PTT manages the process safety in accordance intensive training before performing their with PTT Group SSHE Management Standards and Operational Excellence assigned tasks. As for the operators who Management System to prevent accidents in the production processes. work with hazardous chemicals, PTT has Furthermore, the Process Safety Management Taskforce has been set set fixed operating duration and requires up to drive safety management in PTT Group’s production processes, the use of appropriate personal protective in order to achieve zero Tier 1 Process Safety Events (PSE) as well as to equipment at all times. For examples, exchange information within the organization, thereby preventing similar there has been health monitoring for incident in the future. operators who worked on the oil spill Process Safety Improvements In August 2013, the Waste Heat Recovery Unit (WHRU) of Gas Separation from the Gas Separation Plant Plant Unit 5 was damaged from lightning incident and caused operations Unit 5 Incident to shut down. By October 2013, PTT was able to start production back up to 50 percent capacity. A Temporary Fire Heater Exchanger was installed in April 2014 which enabled the GSP Unit 5 to operate at 100 percent capacity. From the incident, we have reviewed, analyzed and conducted the Hazard and Operability Study (HAZOP) in order to find the root cause and develop a solution to prevent reoccurrence. All risks were accessed and used as inputs to modify engineering design that takes into account undesirable events in accordance with safety standard. Twelve months later in September 2014, a new WHRU was installed and operation resumed at full capacity. In addition, we have documented the lessons learned from this incident in PTT Knowledge Management System and organized Knowledge Sharing events within the PTT Group including PTTGC, TOP, IRPC, GPSC, PTTLNG, and PPCL so that the lessons learned from this incident can be accessed by anyone within PTT Group and be used to improve process safety in the future. Charcrie Buranakanonda Senior Executive Vice President, Gas Business Unit 36 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Capital Project Management For the Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline Projects, we have in place a stakeholder engagement process to inform and listen to concerns of local Sustainable co-existence with the residents, local government organizations, and relevant private sector. In environment and communities is the 2014, there were three major capital projects: Onshore Gas Transmission ultimate goal for PTT. Thus, we give the Nakornsawan Project, Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline No.4 (Rayongutmost care to address the possible Khaeng Khoi), and Onshore Gas Transmission Nakornratchasima Project. community and environmental impacts Complaints and grievances from these capital construction projects include from our construction projects by damages to homes, dust pollution, traffic inconvenience, noise disturbance mandating that Environmental Impact and loss of business opportunities. Most complaints and grievances were Assessment (EIA) and grievance received via telephone and the tripartite committee comprising of PTT, process are conducted and established representatives of relevant stakeholders and representatives of government for all our projects as well as build sector. For all major capital projects, we are committed to addressing all good relationships with surrounding complaints and grievance. In addition, we have set a target to achieve at communities through stakeholder least 60 percent of acknowledgement and project acceptance from the engagements. respondents surveyed during the EIA study. In 2014, the acknowledgement and project acceptance are 76.08 percent and 73.51 percent, respectively. Onshore Gas Natural Gas Onshore Gas Transmission Transmission Transmission Nakornsawan Pipeline No.4 Nakornratchasima Project (Rayong-Khaeng Khoi) Project Target “All complaints resolved” Number of Complaints 15% 69% 20% Being Addressed 38 70 1 Complaints Resolved 222 85% 32 31% 4 80% Total Complaints Total Complaints Total Complaints and Grievance 260 and Grievance 102 and Grievance 5 Community 96 94 86 Engagement Score (%) PTT’s operations, particularly our natural gas pipelines, are located on large tracts of land that provide habitat for a diverse range of plant and animal species. We recognize our responsibility to minimize the impact of our operations on these habitats. Consequently, we have conducted the biodiversity risk assessment for all PTT Group operations in Thailand. The assessment has identified Khanom Gas Separation Plant as having potentially high risk on biodiversity values; in 2014 we completed a Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) for that operation. The initial assessment has identified PTTEP S1 Project in Sukhothai, Phitsanulok, and Khampangphet Province as having potential high impacts to biodiversity. However, we have reviewed the risk assessment in 2014 and found that impacts to biodiversity for these projects are low due to the fact that the surrounding National Forest areas have been converted to agricultural lands. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 37 To raise stakeholders’ trust and acceptance in PTT’s management of biodiversity and ecosystem services, we have publically communicated and publicized our biodiversity process and management at the international level. PTT presented the performance of our biodiversity policy and biodiversity-related corporate citizenship projects of PTT Group under the topic “How Businesses Implement the Aichi Biodiversity Targets: Green Farm, Green Development?” at the Twelfth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity during 6-17 October, 2014 in Pyeongchang, South Korea. PTT WEcoZI Eco-Industrial Zone Development PTT has developed the Eco-Industry Project in the Asia Industrial Estate since 2012 under the name PTT Wanarom Eco Zone Industries or PTT WEcoZI. The Project is a prototype of sustainable business that is environmentally friendly. The Project also aims to create engagement and business opportunities to the surrounding communities so that community, industry, and the environment can sustainably co-exist under the Eco-Industry concept. The PTT WEcoZI includes: • Environmentally focused industrial spaces including high-tech bio-industry and petrochemical industry. • Basic infrastructure that optimize resource sharing and operating cost saving such as industrial water plant that uses membrane The Chestnut-flanked system, Eco PTT Central Utilities, Solar Cell White-eye (Scientific name Lightning System. Zosterops Erythropleurus), the migratory birds, one of four • LEED certified green office space. The building species of white-eye, was found is opened for the PTT Group’s companies and the first time in the PTT Group Wanarom companies in that area to use as the co-working Eco Forest, Rayong Province. space, enabling the optimization of resources and invested capital. • PTT Group Rayong Wanarom Eco Forest is a natural protection strip in eco-forest form which Green Industry Zone similar to the natural forest that has biodiversity 460 Rai Green of plant, wild animal and insect. PTT established Industry the PTT Group Wanarom Eco Forest Learning Zone 200 Rai Center in 2013 so that it can be used as R&D a natural classroom which is opened to the 70 Rai interested public to come and learn about ecoPublic Utility 60 Rai forest and biodiversity. Biochemical and High PTT Group is committed to making industry, Eco Support community and environment sustainably Technology Industry Zone Building Center 425 Rai 10 Rai and co-exist. The technologies employed in the PTT Future WEcoZI coupled with eco-industry concept Complex will raise the standard of Eco Zone Industries 17 Rai so that all parties in the areas can benefit from industrial developments. 38 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited KNOWLEDGE ORGANIZATION Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 39 Increasing Competitiveness PTT aims to become more self-reliant in developing innovative and environmentally friendly technologies in order to enhance by Promoting Innovation and its business competitiveness based on institutional knowledge. To that end, we are investing in developing our capabilities in Technological Development two complimentary areas. First, the PTT Research and Technology Institute (RTI), which Nuttachat Charuchinda for over 30 years, has played a significant role in innovation Chief Operation Officer, and technological development for PTT. The RTI has generated increased innovation outputs and revenues, and managed the Upstream Petroleum and optimal use of shared technological resources within PTT Group. Gas Business Group The PTT Innovation to Commercial Gate: PTT I2C Gate was further developed to prioritize research projects and establish connections with business objectives for both technical and investment efficiency. Beginning with the Idea stage, to Scoping, R&D, Pilot, and finally Commercialization, the PTT I2C Gate prevents the loss of valuable resources into research projects that have low probability for success, and leads successful research towards commercialization. Second, our employees are among whom we wish to instill a sense of courage for innovation and creativity. Indeed, innovation comprises one of PTT’s SPIRIT Values. Our mechanisms to support innovation range from management through the Innovation Committee, to organizing an Innovation Development and Screening Process, integrating these issues into employee training curriculums, all the way to sharing knowledge and experiences, and innovation showcases and exhibitions. Given this, employees throughout the organization have the opportunity to contribute to all aspects of innovation development. They are encouraged to present their ideas from concepts to real-life application. Outstanding concepts could connect to potential considerations for future investments in research in the RTI. For more than two years since PTT has seriously committed to stimulating innovation within the company, our employees have submitted an extensive and impressive range of ideas. Innovations do not only originate from the PTT Research and Technology Institute, but from other divisions as well. Some examples include Café Amazon Drive Awake Application, which serves as a warning system for drivers to prevent sleeping while driving, and a method to grow cold-climate flowers by using carbon dioxide. Many innovations have even received external recognition, both in Thailand and overseas. Overall, this leads us to believe that PTT will be able to use the foundation of Knowledge Organization to drive sustainable innovation and technologies and can continuously bring value to society and the environment. 40 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited High Performance Organization SPIRIT Commitment Score Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain talented and skilled employees. We are constantly working to find new ways to develop and manage our most important resource – our employees – so that they and our business will thrive. PTT Group’s SPIRIT values, “SPIRIT”, is therefore paramount to our continued success; as such we conduct annual SPIRIT Commitment surveys for all of our Commitment Score 80 employees, design activities to enhance these values throughout the organization, and aim to foster a “SPIRIT” work culture. We believe Score that these efforts have helped to create a rewarding and collaborative 66 2014 workplace, resulting in a low employee turnover rate of 3.01 percent. 58 2013 We measure our progress towards becoming a great workplace S SYNERGY 46 2012 through the annual employee engagement survey. In 2014, the employee engagement score was at 4.09 percent, lower than the previous year owing to issues related to employee growth P PERFORMANCE EXCELLENCE opportunities. We are, therefore, committed to focusing on these areas to improve our overall engagement by organizing a “Success I INNOVATION Profile” that specifies the qualifications of every position along a career path. This will not only provide a good foundation for our R RESPONSIBILITY FOR SOCIETY employees, but also pave a way for them to move forward in developing their skills, advancing their careers, and fundamentally I INTEGRITY AND ETHICS improving our company’s human resources to better serve the diverse needs of our employees. T TRUST AND RESPECT 85 percent of employees participated in the Employee Engagement Survey in 2014 Employees at all levels receive annual performance assessments to monitor their Employee Engagement 4.06 4.11 4.09 progress towards their individual targets. 2012 2013 2014 Feedbacks from these assessments are used as Survey Results inputs in developing employee capabilities. PTT has in place Individual Development Plan (IDP) COR and Career Management processes as well as EB training programs to support employee learning US PTT OE GAS and skill development. In 2014, PTT invested ER Functional CARE HR OIL 55,435 baht per person in employee training. On SS TURE CARE Acadamy ASTRUC average, an employee received 34.68 hours of SUPPORT P&R INE training per person. ER PTT FR PROCUREMENT FUNCTIONAL TRADING IN ACADAMY To support the Employee Development Strategy, PR&CSR LAW PTT has also established the PTT Functional UNIQ Framework 14 Academy, along with the PLLI AUDIT R&D UE CFO CA Course Catalog, to develop non-managerial CSLI R employee qualifications – emphasizing capability REE readiness and technical expertise along the 14 career paths. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 41 Course: Financial Analysis for Retail Network Expansion and Optimization Performance PTT has developed a course to analyse the financial returns of retail network Management expansion and optimization, which directly meets the needs and scope of the business. The Course provides business advice to sales representatives “In 2014, the Performance Management related to retail expansion; selecting businesses to be included in service System (PMS) was improved to facilitate stations based on investment returns; and establishing strategies in data entry, which meant that employees selecting business investors. A total of 88 employees, or 34 percent of could better understand and visualize employees and mid-level managers in the Retail Division, participated in the relationships between the tasks that the training course. Those who received training were afterwards able to they received and the tasks of their line apply their knowledge back into their roles, which in the future would build managers. This painted a larger overall a foundation for knowledge sharing among employees to generate high picture of how employees helped to drive working standards. Business-related achievements from this course are reflected in the increase in retail sales volume from 7,968 million liters in the business, and eased communications 2013 to 8,307 million liters in 2014 – a 4 percent increase. between line managers and employees by enabling them to compare whether their work progress met established In terms of succession, PTT’s management procedures and leadership targets. If not, what could be done to pool ensures that the company will have capable employees ready to take meet them.” the reins on a position and continue to grow within the organization. The succession plan is prepared by considering the demand-supply ratio within Witchulada Petnumkieo a 5-year period, and setting a 1:1 target. In 2014, the demand-supply ratio Analyst for managers was at 1:2. PTT underwent organizational restructuring in 2014 and established an Knowledge Management Infrastructure Business Group to meet business demand. This consequently led to an increase in the number of new career paths to support the types of PTT promotes the PTT Group Knowledge work under the new business. A new Chief Operating Officer was selected Management System for employees to under the PTT Group Leadership Development Program – a mechanism exchange knowledge on Best Practices within PTT’s management and managerial development procedures that and Lessons Learned, and to increase has continuously been used in selecting executives. The Program allowed for the restructuring to proceed with ease, and aided the communication of knowledge resources and develop internal restructuring such that no employees were dismissed in the process. expertise within the PTT Group. In 2014, knowledge resources increased by 99 Furthermore, PTT acknowledges and supports the activities of the State percent from 2013 – higher than the 10 Enterprise Employees Union of PTT Public Company Limited. The number percent target. Organizing knowledge in a of employees who are members of union increased to 2,764 people in systematic way increases business value 2014, or 64.03 percent of the total number of employees. by bringing existing knowledge resources within the Group towards financial and 10,639.87 other forms of values. PTT Group Knowledge 261 Management Performance 3,504 Number of Best Practice 6,168 4,122 Number of Practice 154 Year 2014 Year 2014 Business Value (Million Baht) 1,738 490 experts 1277 experts 107 Year 435 2012 2013 2014 42 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited PTT Research and Technology Institute, Vidyasirimedhi Institute and Kamnoetvidya PTT Innovation Park Science Academy With the commitment to form the full cycle research and development, PTT has established the PTT Innovation Park As the nation’s youth and human capital which consists of a pilot area for farming development is considered key to business using renewable energy, competitiveness, PTT is dedicated to Advance Engine Lab supporting education and research for operation area and other new innovation such as developing pilot production plants environmentally-friendly products, refining for the production of production processes, reducing costs renewable energy of production and alleviating the and development environmental impacts. In order to face o f p r o d u c t s/ the challenges and find new business technology that are opportunities, PTT recognizes the commercially feasible importance of building the technological and environmentallyfoundation together with developing the friendly. employees’ capabilities. PTT, thus, places great emphasis on science and technology by establishing an educational institute. This is to drive business sustainability as well as to create a shared value with the PTT Diesel CNG society in stimulating frontier innovations in the private, industrial and social sectors in PTT Research and Technology Institute further expands fueladdition to uplifting education in Thailand saving innovation by developing PTT Diesel CNG equipment with respect to international standards. that is able to use natural gas together with diesel, increasing complete combustion rate while reducing diesel consumption PTT Research and Technology by 60 percent as compared to conventional engines. This helps Institute to reduce combustion soot and emission of carbon dioxide, and has led to over 4 million baht of revenue for PTT from sales PTT has established the first national-level of the technology patents. The revenue is further expected to research and development center with increase to 50 million baht from 2015 to 2018. PTT Diesel CNG is specialized capabilities in petroleum and indeed PTT’s first successful step in developing the organization petrochemicals. The center benefits from towards excellence in knowledge management and innovation. academic excellence of PTT’s management, researchers and employees in order to drive environmentally-friendly innovation and conduct research supporting PTT Group to become a leader in all aspects of operations. From the consistent development of technology and innovation, PTT recognizes the importance of human capital development in the country with regards to science and technology related knowledge. PTT Group has been most honored as the Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn has granted royal names, ‘Vidyasirimedhi’ to Rayong Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and ‘Kamnoetwit’ to Rayong Science Academy. Vidyasirimedhi Insitute means an institute of the knowledgeable scholar in science, while Kamnoetwit School means a school of knowledge origin and science personnel. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 43 Vidyasirimedhi Insitute Vidyasirimedhi Insitute is a tertiary institute with an emphasis on knowledge development combining theoretical research with applications for industrial demands. This is to enhance the competitiveness and elevate science and technology knowledge in the country, which will also allow PTT to build on the knowledge base and research work of the institute, answering the industry’s challenge in knowledge management. Kamnoetwit School Kamnoetwit School is an upper secondary school, which focuses on cultivating and strengthening potentials for students with talents in mathematics and science, preparing them for tertiary education. The school offers scholarship for talented students in order to support development of researchers and scientists who have the potential to contribute to national development in the future. 44 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 45 Corporate Citizenship His Majesty the King’s Sufficiency Economy On an auspicious occasion, January 9, 2014, His Majesty King Bhumibol Philosophy has guided our social and made his royal private visit to the Sirinart Rajini Ecosystem Learning Center community development initiatives toward in Paknampran, Pran District, Prachuap Khiri Khan Province to monitor the sustainable development. PTT has progress of the center. It was his first visit since 2002 when PTT offered contributed 1,830 million baht to corporate one-million Rai project in Honor of H.M. the King on the occasion of his 50th citizenship activities through initiatives that Anniversary of the Accession to the Throne. This area was successfully we lead as well as through collaborations restored from abandoned shrimp farms into healthy mangrove with alliance with networks and various foundations. between PTT and our network. PTT’s social and community investment strategy focuses on three main areas: Today, this mangrove serves as the learning center for ecosystem, marine environmental conservation, educational nursery habitat, as well as food source for the interdependence of humans, support, and community development. animals and the forest. H.M. the King observed the fruitfulness of the forest PTT’s key contributions in 2014 are trail, a distance of 600 meters, and delivered a royal advice for all parties summarized below. to work together to preserve the forest and cultivate the public awareness based on the concept of sustainable natural resource conservation, Natural Resources and which everyone can share its value. This auspicious occasion brought the the Environmental Conservation highest honour to the community of Paknampran and relevant persons to be granted a royal audience with H.M. the King “Restoring, conserving, and protecting The sustainable management of forest resources has contributed the natural resources and the environment ecological balance and address the problem of climate change. The PTT as well as creating and strengthening Reforestation Institute has joined the network of reforestation volunteer network of communities to promote ranger (known as Ror.Sor.Tor.Por) to monitor this reforestation project in environmental conservation” honor of H.M. the King. For the occasion, the project was expanded from 46 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited T-VER reforested area at 185.24 Rai: 128.15 Rai of artificial natural forest, 43.05 Rai of four forest models, and 14.04 Rai of mixed forests. the 50-year reign on 1 million Rai of original forest covering 48 provinces and a total new area of 15,072 Rai covering 11 provinces. This reforestation project was also registered as the first project in the Thailand Voluntary Emission Reduction Program (T-VER) for the forest sector. The project is located in Pa Yup Sub-district, Wang Chan District, Rayong Province. This reforestation project is estimated to absorb carbon at a minimum of 176 tons per year or equivalent to the forest cost at 1,800 million baht in the next 30 years. To promote the conservation of soil and water, PTT has started the Vetiver Development and Campaign following the H.M. the King’s royal initiative through the vetiver cultivation contest which has continued for eight consecutive years. The vetiver cultivation contest in the eighth consecutive year This project has been expanded to knowledge following the H.M. the King’s royal initiative building in various aspects including local product development and product design. Fifty-eight marketing courses were conducted for 2,780 participants within the community and our network to drive the production of high-quality products and strengthen existing network. The program has generated over 4,390,322 baht of income for participating households since its inception. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 47 Human Resources Development “Improving all aspects of education by supporting basic infrastructure, educational materials, curriculum development, educator quality improvement, and youth skill development” In addition to opening the Kamnoetvidya Science Academy and Vidyasirimedhi Institute in 2015, PTT continues supporting basic educational needs for children and youth in the local communities. In 2014, PTT contributed in the construction of a two-story, eight-classroom school building construction for the Ban Tha Muang School, Nakhon Si Thammarat Province, which marked the 25th building from PTT contribution. We opened the 33rd PTT Thai-Power-for-Thai library at Wat Rath Charoen Tham School, Ratchaburi Province. We granted 2,549 scholarships totaling approximately 10.7 million baht to students from elementary school to the higher education across the country. In addition, we hosted the second professional development for teacher event to the teachers of Hin Kong School (Pibun Anusorn), Nong Khae District, Saraburi Province. To promote the understanding of petrochemical and refinery knowledge from young age, PTT has for ninth consecutive year, organized “Petro Camp to Petro Champ” youth. This year, 91 students from 13 schools around Thailand attended the program. Moreover, PTT together with King Mongkut’s University of Technology Thonburi (KMUTT) select 8 students per year for scholarship support to study in Chemical Engineering and Environmental Engineering programs. To date, 32 students have received the scholarships, and 4 have graduated. Communities and Society Development PTT integrates our expertise in energy with community engagement to sustainable learning by collaborate with Ban Khanun Klee Community, Thong Pha Phum “Improving quality of life and Distric, Kanchanaburi Province which is a pioneering community to implement strengthening communities energy self-reliance. The initiative contributed to electricity generation and water production for community by installing of a weir to generate electricity. sustainably” The system can generate 1,500 watts of electricity and help to reduce GHG emissions of 11,000 kilograms carbon dioxide equivalent per year. As a result, 48 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited more than 22 households and the local PTT also contributes via PTT established foundations such as Rayong school now have access to electricity and Institute of Science & Technology Foundation to support the operation clean water from the weir. of Vidyasirimedhi Institute, RASA foundation to support the operation of Kamnoetvidya Science Academy, and Sustainable Energy Foundation to Energy for Community Project in collaboration support natural resource, environment and energy conservation including with communities established 60 pilot educational opportunities for students via Green Globe Institute, Learning renewable energy plants in 24 sub-districts, Institute For Everyone, Teacher-honored Project and research studies, etc. 18 provinces. The technology adopted in each area corresponded to the availability of local resources such as construction Volunteer and installation of biogas production and transportation system from swine farm totaling 120 households to replace LPG use in Tha Manao Sub-district, Chai Badan District, Lopburi Province. Volunteer during Moreover, PTT has implemented local waste work hour management, in collaboration with the Division of Public Health and Environment of Mab Kha Municipal Office, Rayong 23,473hours Province. The initiative included training and site visit to the Zero Waste Management Learning Centers at Sra Song Hong Volunteer during Community and Chan Wechakit Community personal time in Pisanulok Province. The event had over 100 participation of staff from Village Health Volunteer (VHV) and Mab Kha Municipal 2,155 hours with the aim of becoming the local trainer for communities. Furthermore, PTT supported medical instrument for Mab Tha Put Hospital in order to increase its capacity to service locals through a budget of 10 million baht per year (2014-2018). Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 49 ECONOMICS GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 PTT PTT PTT Economics EC1 Sale revenues Million Baht 2,793,833 2,842,408[1] 2,834,732 Operating costs Million Baht 2,561,135 2,618,182[1] 2,607,491 Employee wages and benefits[2] Million Baht 7,615 8,086 8,785 Dividend payments for the performance of the year Million Baht 37,123 37,116[1] 39,985 Payments to government Million Baht 3,516[3] 815[1] [4] 3,572[4] EC4 Tax privileges from the Board of Investment, Million Baht 7,384 5,492 6,315 Thailand Remarks: Million Baht [1] Revised number [2] Employee wage and benefit for employees 2,900,000 2,842,408 2,834,732 managed under PTT include PTT’s 2,793,833 employees, PTT’s secondment and 2,800,000 employees in subsidiaries under PTT financial management. The scope does 2,700,000 not include chief executive officers and top executives include salary, bonuses, contributions to the provident funds, etc. 2,600,000 2,618,182 (if applicable). 2,607,491 [3] Tax base changed from 30 percent to 23 2,500,000 2,561,135 percent. [4] Tax base changed from 23 percent to 20 2,400,000 percent. 2012 2013 2014 Sale revenues Operating costs 50 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited PEOPLE GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 Male Female Male Female Male Female G4-10 Permanent employees Manpower 2,851 1,376 2,953 1,441 3,009 1,507 Outsource workers[1] Manpower 1,932 1,945 2,029 Workforce[2] Manpower 6,159 6,339 6,545 Employees by area • Bangkok[3] Manpower 1,540 1,210 1,550 1,264 1,593 1,313 • Others[4] Manpower 1,293 159 1,359 164 1,370 181 • Overseas[5] Manpower 18 7 44 13 46 13 G4-LA12 Employees by age • Over 50 years old Manpower 717 343 651 317 677 341 • 30 50 years old Manpower 1,440 729 1,591 810 1,665 837 • Below 30 years old Manpower 694 304 711 314 667 329 Employees by level • Executive (Level 13 18) Manpower 136 46 146 56 141 58 • Middle management (Level 10 12) Manpower 319 213 334 220 342 240 • Senior (Level 8 9) Manpower 738 464 761 475 812 470 • Employee (Level 7 and below) Manpower 1,658 653 1,712 690 1,714 739 G4-LA1 Total new employees Manpower 357 317 270 New employees Manpower 217 140 196 121 154 116 New hire rate % 7.61 10.17 6.64 8.40 5.12 7.70 New employees by area • Bangkok Manpower 106 116 120 110 114 95 % 3.72 8.43 4.06 7.63 3.79 6.30 • Others[4] Manpower 111 24 76 11 40 21 % 3.89 1.74 2.57 0.76 1.33 1.39 New employee by age • Over 50 years old Manpower 0 0 2 0 2 0 % 0.00 0.00 0.07 0.00 0.07 0.00 • 30 50 years old Manpower 15 16 29 18 22 19 % 0.53 1.16 0.98 1.25 0.01 0.01 • Below 30 years old Manpower 202 124 165 103 130 97 % 7.09 9.01 5.59 7.15 4.32 6.44 Total employee turnover[6] Manpower 172 156 136 Employee turnover[6] Manpower 109 63 93 63 89 47 Employee turnover rate % 3.82 4.58 3.15 4.37 2.96 3.12 Employee turnover by area • Bangkok Manpower 76 58 62 59 67 47 % 2.67 4.22 2.10 4.09 2.23 3.12 • Others[4] Manpower 33 5 32 4 25 1 % 1.16 0.36 1.08 0.28 0.83 0.07 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 51 GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 Male Female Male Female Male Female Employee turnover by age • Over 50 years old Manpower 79 32 72 28 64 25 % 2.77 2.33 2.44 1.94 2.13 1.66 • 30 50 years old Manpower 11 14 11 15 18 18 % 0.39 1.02 0.37 1.04 0.60 1.19 • Below 30 years old Manpower 19 17 11 20 10 5 % 0.67 1.24 0.37 1.39 0.33 0.33 G4-LA3 Number of employees Manpower 0 1,376 2,953 1,441 3,009 1,507 entitled to parental leave[7] Number of employees Manpower 0 22 0 21 0 27 taken parental leave[8] Number of employees returned Manpower 0 22 0 21 0 21 to work after parental leave[9] Number of employees returned Manpower 0 22 0 15 0 Not Available to work after parental leave who is still employed for the next 12 months[10] Retention rate % 0 100.00 0 71.43 0 Not Available G4-LA9 Average hours of training Hour per employee 55.16 67.92 37.52 47.87 32.44 39.15 per employee[11] Remarks: [1] Outsource workers mean contractors who deliver tasks specified in the annual TOR and not include short-term outsource worker during the year e.g. sub-contractors, consultants, housekeepers, etc. [2] Workforce = Permanent employees + Outsource workers. [3] The data of number of employees by area in 2012 2013 has been adjusted after including oversea employees in 2014. [4] Others mean the provinces where PTT office is situated except Bangkok. The data of number of employees by area in 2012 2013 has been adjusted after including overseas employees in 2014. [5] Overseas employess include employees working abroad (Cambodia, China, Dubai, Laos, Myanmar, Malaysia, Phillipines, Singapore). [6] Total employee turnover in 2013 has been adjusted. [7] Number of male employees entitled to parental leave in 2013 has been adjusted to include parternity leave benefits. [8] Number of employees taken parental leave in 2012 2013 has been adjusted. [9] Number of employees returned to work after parental leave in 2012 2013 has been adjusted to include personnel who took parental leave in the previous year and return in the next year. 2014 data includes personnel who took parental leave and return between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014. [10] Number of employees returned to work after parental leave who is still employed for the next 12 months in 2012-2013 has been adjusted to include personnel who has returned to work for 12 months in the previous year and return in the next year. 2013 and 2014 data cannot be calculated since personnel who took parental leave in 2013 and 2014 has not returned to work for 12 months. [11] Hours of training and further study are included in the average hours of training per year per employee. 52 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited SAFETY PTT Operated Business PTT Building Terminal Head Office Prakanong Office Research & Technology Institute Rayong Office Gas Separation Plant (GSP) 2014 Coverage (%) Gas Transmission (GTM) Gas Deposit Oil Terminal Aviation Retail Lubrication Reporting Scope Year Transportation NGV Near miss report Total workforce and 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor Total workforce and 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor Total workforce and 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor Occupational illness Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • frequency rate (OIFR) Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NR NA Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NR NA Total workforce 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NR NA Fatalities Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Absentee rate (AR) Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Total workforce 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Lost workday case Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • (LWC) Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 53 PTT Operated Business PTT Building Terminal Head Office Prakanong Office Research & Technology Institute Rayong Office Gas Separation Plant (GSP) 2014 Coverage (%) Gas Transmission (GTM) Gas Deposit Oil Terminal Aviation Retail Lubrication Reporting Scope Year Transportation NGV Lost day rate Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • (LDR) Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR NA Total recordable injuries case Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR NA Total recordable injuries rate Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • (TRIR) Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR NA Lost time injury frequency rate Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • (LTIFR) Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR NA Remarks: NA: Not available NR: Not relevant 54 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 PTT PTT PTT LA6 Lost workday case (LWC) • Total workforce Person 24 5 7 Lost workday case(LWC) • Independent contractor Person 1 2 1 Total recordable injuries case • Total workforce Person 24 13 17 Total recordable injuries case • Independent contractor Person 2 4 7 Total recordable injuries rate (TRIR) Person per • Total workforce 200,000 hours worked 0.21 0.11 0.13 Total recordable injuries rate (TRIR) Person per • Independent contractor 200,000 hours worked 0.08 0.14 0.10 Lost day rate (LDR) Lost days per • Total workforce 200,000 hours worked 3.98 0.79 0.46 Lost day rate (LDR) Lost days per • Independent contractor 200,000 hours worked 0.79 1.23 0.45 Absentee rate (AR) • Total workforce % 1.26 1.54 1.32 Absentee rate (AR) • Independent contractor % NA NA NA Lost time injury frequency rates (LTIFR) Person per • Total workforce 200,000 hours worked 0.16 0.07 0.05 Lost time injury frequency rates (LTIFR) Person per • Independent contractor 200,000 hours worked 0.04 0.07 0.01 Occupational illness frequency rate (OIFR) Person per • Total workforce 200,000 hours worked 0.40 0.01 0 Occupational illness frequency rate (OIFR) Person per • Independent contractor 200,000 hours worked NA NA NA Fatalities • Total workforce Person 0 3 0 Fatalities • Independent contractor Person 0 0 0 Near Misses • Total workforce and Independent contractor Case 418 134 154 Remarks: NA: Not available • TRIR, TROIR, LDR, Absentee Rate are not broken down by provinces or Thailand’s regional level because PTT’s reporting boundary covers domestic peration only. OH & S data is not broken down by gender because PTT gives equal importance to the safety of all employees in accordance with PTT’s code of business ethics. • TRIC, TRIR, OIFR, LTIF data do not include first aid case. • LWC data are tracked based on calendar day. Record begins the next day. • Working hours of contractors at service stations include only stations in which PTT owns and operates. Reporting includes on PTT employees and supervised contractors only. Reporting excludes independent contractors. • Working hours of NGV Service Station covers NGV Mother Station and PTT’s own and operate only. • PTT’s OH & S reporting scope does not include the operation of contractors in project during the period prior to delivering the area back to PTT. • In 2013, recording and reporting requirements for contractors’ hours were expanded to increase the coverage. • OH & S data excludes contruction contractors for contruction projects which have not been handed over to PTT such as transmission pipeline project and Vidyasirimedhi Institue and Kamnoetvidya Science Academy. • Absentee Rate of Total Workforce includes PTT employees only. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 55 ENVIRONMENT PTT Operated Business PTT Building Terminal Head Office Prakanong Office Research & Technology Institute Rayong Office Gas Separation Plant (GSP) 2014 Coverage (%) Gas Transmission (GTM) Gas Deposit Oil Terminal Aviation Retail Lubrication Reporting Scope Year Transportation NGV Direct GHG (Scope 1) 2014 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • 100 2012 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • Indirect GHG (Scope 2) 2014 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • 100 2012 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • Direct energy consumption 2014 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • 100 2012 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • Direct energy consumption 2014 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • 100 2012 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • Water withdrawal 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • 100 2012 • • • • • • • • • NA • NR NA Effluent 2014 NR NR NR NR • NR • • • • • NR • 2013 NR NR NR NR • NR • • • • • NR • 100 2012 NR NR NR NR • NR • NA • • • NR NA Produced water 2014 NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 2013 NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 2012 NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR Waste Disposal 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • NR NA 100 2012 • • • • • • • • • NA NA NR NA 56 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited PTT Operated Business PTT Building Terminal Head Office Prakanong Office Research & Technology Institute Rayong Office Gas Separation Plant (GSP) 2014 Coverage (%) Gas Transmission (GTM) Gas Deposit Oil Terminal Aviation Retail Lubrication Reporting Scope Year Transportation NGV Oil and Chemical spills 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 2012 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Oxides of nitrogen (NOx) 2014 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 2013 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 100 2012 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 2014 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 2013 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 100 2012 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 2014 NR NR NR NR • NR • • NA NA NR NR NR 2013 NR NR NR NR • NR • • NA NA NR NR NR 78 2012 NR NR NR NR • NR • • NA NA NR NR NR Volume of methane (CH4) emitted 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • 100 2012 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • Direct methane (CH4) emission 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • 100 2012 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • Remarks: NA: Not available NR: Not relevant Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 57 WATER GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 PTT PTT PTT EN8 Total water withdrawal Million m3 2.38 2.92 2.74 • Surface water Million m3 0.01 0.01 0.19 • Seawater Million m3 0.00 0.01 0.01 • Water supply Million m3 2.36 2.74 2.42 • Groundwater Million m3 0.01 0.17 0.11 • Rainwater Million m3 NA NA 0.01 Total salt/brackish water (Seawater + Once through cooling) Million m3 0.00 0.01 0.01 Water from all other sources (Surface water + Groundwater) Million m3 0.01 0.18 0.30 EN10 Recycle & Reuse water Percentage of water withdrawal 0.90 0.99 5.91 Million m3 0.02 0.03 0.17 Water intensity Million m3/ 0.006 0.008 0.007 million barrel oil equivalent Remarks: NA: not available • Volume of surface water consumption increased due to the improvement of collection and reporting process. In 2014, volume of surface water consumption from PTT Research and Technology Institute’s building was added in surface water quantity report. • Volume of recycled water increased due to the improvement of collection and reporting process. In 2014, volume of recycled water from PTT Research and Technology Institute’s building was added in recycled water quantity report. 0.39% 4.05% Rainwater Groundwater 0.28% 6.78% Seawater Surface water Water Withdrawal 88.50% Water supply 58 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited EFFLUENCE GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 PTT PTT PTT EN22 Total water discharge Million m3 0.832 1.202 1.262 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) Ton 12.610 105.277 121.284 Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) Ton 1.318 3.824 3.848 Remarks: • Total water discharge and COD increased as PTT expanded scope of reporting PTT own and operate service station from 76 stations in 2013 to 85 stations in 2014. EMISSION GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 PTT PTT PTT EN21 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Ton 6,883.57 7,251.70 7,895.33 VOCs intensity Ton per million barrel 18.40 19.00 21.39 oil equivalent Oxides of nitrogen (NOx) Ton 1,373.04 1,165.34 1,080.84 NOx intensity Ton per million barrel 3.67 3.05 2.93 oil equivalent Sulphur dioxide (SO2) Ton 75.45 121.00 138.56 SO2 intensity Ton per million barrel 0.20 0.32 0.38 oil equivalent Remarks: • VOCs emissions increased since 2012 as PTT expands scope of reporting to include Oil Terminals, Gas Terminals and Petroleum Terminals from 12 terminals in 2012 to 14 and 17 terminals in 2013 and 2014, respectively. • VOCs emissions in 2012-2014 were revised to include emissions from Rayong Gas Seperation Plant. • VOCs emissions does not include PTT own and operating service station. PTT is studying and improvement of collection and assessment methods to be more completed that is expected to be completed in 2016. • VOCs emissions since 2012 increased due to: Collection and reporting scope was expanded to include Oil Terminals, LPG Terminals and Petroleum Terminals from 12 terminals in 2012 to 14 and 17 terminals in 2013 and 2014 respectively. • VOCs emissions in 2012-2014 were revised to include emissions from Gas Separation Unit at Rayong Province. • VOCs emissions are not include Fuel stations in the PTT own and operate. PTT is under studying and improvement of collection and assessment methods to be more complete and will be reported in 2016. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 59 WASTE GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 PTT PTT PTT EN23 Waste from routine operations Ton 5,300.50 13,117.03 13,303.74 Total hazardous waste disposal Ton 4,417.29 4,943.52 2,933.41 • Secure landfill Ton 1,240.13 895.03 513.03 • Reuse Ton 18.05 3.55 7.05 • Recycle Ton 33.94 167.72 202.03 • Recover Ton 2,344.43 2,852.56 1,905.22 • Others: incineration, compositing, deep well inject Ton 780.75 1,024.67 306.07 Total non-hazardous waste disposal Ton NA 8,173.51 10,370.33 • Landfill Ton NA 52.27 116.12 • Reuse Ton NA 1.63 540.51 • Recycle Ton NA 2,169.23 458.40 • Recover Ton NA 0.00 8.47 • Domestic waste Ton NA 5,950.38 9,246.82 Waste from non-routine operation Ton NA 2,503.81 3,136.40 (e.g. construction waste, spill clean-up waste, crisis management waste) Total hazardous waste disposal Ton NA 37.18 1,899.74 • Secure landfill Ton NA 23.30 99.39 • Recycle Ton NA 0.00 110.84 • Recover Ton NA 12.88 724.58 • Others Ton NA 1.00 964.93 Total non-hazardous waste disposal Ton NA 2,466.63 1,236.67 • Landfill Ton NA 0.00 68.51 • Reuse Ton NA 2,450.00 1,080.20 • Recycle Ton NA 0.00 78.99 • Domestic waste Ton NA 16.63 8.96 Waste on-site storage Ton NA 60.19 64.77 Remarks: NA: not available • Volume of hzardous waste to secure landfill from routine operations decreased due Secure landfill 513.03 to segregation of waste at source. As a result,waste can be disposed by appropriated Reuse 7.05 method which aligns with PTT Group target is zero waste to landfill by 2020 target. • Volume of domestic waste from routine operations increased due to scope expandsion Recycle 202.03 to include PTT own and operating service station from 76 stations in 2013 to 85 stations and 15 NGV mother stations in 2014. • Volume of waste from non-routine operation includes waste generated from large Reover 1,905.22 constrution of capital projects, spill clean-up and crisis management. 2014 boundary does not include waste from construction and natural gas pipeline project. Others: 306.07 • Volume of waste on site storage includes hazardous and non-hazardous waste which incineration, Waste from remain in operation area until 31 December, 2014. 2014 scope includes Gas compositing, Routine Operations Separation Plant. Collection and reporting systems are under development for other deep well inject (Ton) opearations and are expected to be ready for report in 2015. • There is no threshold for hazardous waste since every operation must report total volume of hazardous waste. Total non-hazardous waste disposal 10,370.33 60 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited SPILLS GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 PTT PTT PTT EN24 Oil and Chemical Spills From PTT operational boundary • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 1 1 1 • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 1.52 6.00 0.30 • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 0 0 0 • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 From 3rd party (transportation): truck transportation • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 8 8 6 • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 63.90 40.95 42.03 • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 0 0 0 • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 From 3 party (transportation): ship and barge transportation rd • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills NA NA NA • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 NA NA NA • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills NA NA NA • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 NA NA NA Significant spill (Volume ≥ 100 barrel) From PTT operational boundary • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 0 0 1 • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 0.00 0.00 26.00 • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 0 0 0 • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 0.00 0.00 0.00 From 3rd party (transportation): truck transportation • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 1 3 3 • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 41.00 90.80 83.00 • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 0 0 0 • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 From 3 party (transportation): ship and barge transportation rd • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills NA NA NA • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 NA NA NA • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills NA NA NA • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 NA NA NA Remarks: NA: not available • Volume of hydrocarbon and non-dydrocarbon spills include spills which occurred from truck and marine transportation in operational areas that result in more than 1 barrel of spill released to the environment. PTT manages oil spills by executing spill response procedures to control the spills in the shortest time possible and to minimize the envirnmental impacts. For example, booms and skimmers are used to minimize environmental impacts. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 61 ENERGY GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 PTT PTT PTT EN3 Total direct energy consumption GJ 41,703,350 47,992,403 49,446,447 Total indirect energy consumption GJ 2,570,237 2,676,817 2,817,088 Electricity purchased GJ 2,570,237 2,676,817 2,817,088 GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 PTT Group PTT Group PTT Group EN3 Total direct energy consumption • PTT operational control GJ 329,831,237 281,660,693 319,481,452 Total indirect energy consumption GJ NA NA 24,400,429 EN5 Direct energy intensity • Oil and gas production GJ/mboe 215,725 228,497 165,510 Direct energy intensity • Refinery throughput GJ/tonnes 1.85 1.53 1.13 Direct energy intensity • Petrochemical throughput GJ/tonnes 5.19 3.76 11.20 Remarks: NA: Not Available Total Direct Energy Consumption • PTT does not use fuel oil, recycled by-product, coke, and steam. Therefore, GJ only electricity purchased is counted as indirect energy consumption. • PTT began reporting energy consumption based on boundary of 60,000,000 operational control approach similar to GHG inventory in 2012. 50,000,000 • Intensity of Oil & Gas Production, Refinery and Petrochemical follows GHG intensity reporting. 40,000,000 • Reduction in energy intensity was partly due to the implementation PTT 30,000,000 Group Energy Management System Project in 2013. • Energy intensity in 2013 changed as IRPC’s Refinery and Petrochemical 20,000,000 plants were included in system as planned. 10,000,000 • Boundary of energy consumption reported is in line with scope of GHG inventory of PTT Group for operation control assets. 0 2012 2013 2014 Total direct energy consumption Total indirect energy consumption Electricity Purchased 62 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited GHG AND METHANE (CH4) EMISSION GHG emission GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 PTT PTT PTT Total GHG emissions Ton CO2 equivalents 11,331,920 10,922,073 11,677,560 EN15 GHG scope 1 Ton CO2 equivalents 10,947,530 10,539,849 11,272,486 EN16 GHG scope 2 Ton CO2 equivalents 384,390 382,224 405,074 EN17 GHG scope 3 Ton CO2 equivalents 121,457,738 122,310,077 122,819,319 EN18 GHG intensity • Oil and gas production Ton CO2 equivalents/Million Barrel Oil Equivalent 46,941 48,995 35,617 • Refinery Ton CO2 equivalents/Ton refinery throughput 0.1395 0.1286 0.0877 • Petrochemical Ton CO2 equivalents/Ton petrochemical product 0.6748 0.6817 0.6461 EN15 GHG Scope 1 • PTT operational control Ton CO2 equivalents 32,424,531 31,822,632 31,776,471 • PTT equity share Ton CO2 equivalents 21,553,568 21,002,012 21,433,120 EN16 GHG Scope 2 • PTT operational control Ton CO2 equivalents 1,938,993 2,356,345 2,406,097 • PTT equity share Ton CO2 equivalents 1,164,257 1,375,305 1,400,866 Remarks: 60,000 NA: Not Available Greenhouse Gas Intensity from Oil 50,000 • The Organizational boundary of PTT based on operational control approach is complied 40,000 with PTT Group SSHE Governance Policy. and Gas Production 30,000 • The Organizational boundary of PTT based on equity share approach includes every 20,000 domestic companies that PTT directly owns more than 20% shares or indirectly own 100% Oil and Gas Production (Ton CO2 equivalents/ 10,000 share. Million Barrel of Oil Equivalent) 0 • In 2014, PTT has decided to report GHG emissions for PTT only instead of PTT and PTTEP 2012 2013 2014 to be consistent with GHG inventory. • Scope 3 emissions include the combustion of fuel sold by PTT only. Greenhouse Gas • The GHG intensity reporting boundary of Refinery Business includes TOP, IRPC, PTTGC Intensity from Refinery and BCP. and Petrochemical 0.8000 • The GHG intensity reporting boundary of Petrochemical Business includes IRPC, HMC, 0.7000 PTTGC and PPCL (before merged to become one facility under PTTGC ). GHG Intensity Refinery 0.6000 (Ton CO2 equivalents/ 0.5000 Ton refinery throughput) 0.4000 0.3000 0.2000 GHG Intensity Petrochemical 0.1000 (Ton CO2 equivalents/ 0 Ton petrochemical product) 2012 2013 2014 Methane (CH4) Emitted and CH4 Emission GRI Required Data Unit 2012 2013 2014 PTT Group PTT Group PTT Group Volume of methane emitted (leakage, venting, and flaring) m3 NA 49,252,604 67,356,513 Direct CH4 emissions (extracted from GHG) Ton NA 48,142 60,305 OG6 Volume of flared hydrocarbon m3 NA NA 5,493,003.65 Volume of vented hycrocarbon m3 NA NA 25,788.41 Remarks: • PTT carries out methane leakage analysis from various cases. Continuous reporting and preventive measures of future leakage are also considered. • The volume of methane emitted includes leakage (fugitive), venting from CO2 separation process, methane emitted from process and vented emission, and flaring. • The direct CH4 emissions include those from aforementioned sources, as well as direct CH4 emitted from combusion sources. • Increase in Methane emission in 2014 was due to the partnership under Natural Gas Star Program, resulting in better accuracy and completeness in quantification of Methane leak. PTT is under the process of recalculating previous year’s emission and is expected to be reported in next year’s publication. Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 63 AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS In 2014, PTT received 64 awards and recognitions from 32 institutions as follows: National Awards Prime Minister’s Industry 31 Award Category: Energy Management from Rayong Gas Separation Plant Awards Given by Ministry of Industry 20 Sustainability Report institutions Award 2014 Thailand Energy Award 2014 Given by Thai Listed Companies Association, The Category: Energy Management Team Securities and Exchange Given by Department of Commission, and Thaipat Alternative Energy Institute. Development and Efficiency, Ministry of Energy Best of the Best Machinery Outstanding Brand Image Technology Award of Thailand Automotive Category: Energy and Environment Quality Award 2014 Machinery from the research and Category: Outstanding products development of the transparent related with vehicle solar cell. 2 Awards as follows: • Outstanding Satisfaction for Fuel Given by National Innovation Agency • Outstanding Satisfaction for Gas Station SET Awards 2014, Given by Inter-Media Consultant 2 Awards in the following categories: Co., Ltd., Custom Asia Co., Ltd. • Outstanding Corporate Social and Manager Newspaper State-owned Enterprise Excellence Awards 2013 Responsibility Awards for the 5th Award 2014, consecutive year Given by Thailand Management • Top Corporate Governance The Most Powerful Brands 3 Awards in the following Association Report Awards of Thailand 2014 categories: • Best Organizational Given by The Stock Exchange Category: Gas station for the 2nd Management Award CSR Recognition Award of Thailand, Thai Institute consecutive year • Best Innovation Award from 2014 of Directors and the Money Green Amazon Bio Cup for and Banking Magazine Given by Chulalongkorn the 5th consecutive year Given by the Stock Exchange University, Faculty of Commerce • Best Organizational of Thailand and Accountancy Leadership Award for Mr. Pailin Chuchottaworn, Chief Executive Officer and President Given by Ministry of Finance 64 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited AWARDS AND PTT is ranked 180th RECOGNITIONS International Awards on Forbes Global 2000 Ranking 2014 33 Given by Forbes Magazine Awards In 2014, PTT received 64 awards and recognitions from 32 institutions as follows: Institutions 12 Platts Top 250 Global Energy Company Rankings for 2014 Category: Overall Global Performance ranked 24th Given by Platts R&D 100 Award 2014 The Asset Corporate Awards 2014 Category: The Platinum Award Winner for the 6th consecutive year Given by The Asset Magazine Oil & Gas Award 2014 For PTT DIESEL CNG Category: Best Fully Integrated Designed by PTT Research Company Asia Technology Institute in Given by World Finance cooperation with Sammitr Magazine PTT maintains the status as 2014 member in Green Power Co., Ltd. Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) Given by American Industrial Oil and Gas Industry (OIX) for the 3rd consecutive year Research, R&D Magazine PTT is ranked 84th on the Fortune Global 500 Given by Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Given by Fortune Global 500 Magazine Asian Excellence Recognition Awards 2014 4 Awards as follows: • Best Investor Relations for the 4th consecutive year • Best Environment Responsibility for the 4th consecutive year • Best CSR for the 2nd consecutive year • Best Corporate Communications Team Given by Corporate Governance Asia Magazine 10th Corporate Governance Asia Recognition Awards 2014: The Best of Asia 2 Awards in the following • Asia’s Icon on Corporate Governance • Asian Corporate Director of the Year Awards 2014 for Mr. Pailin Chuchottaworn, Chief Executive Officer and President Given by Corporate Governance Asia Magazine Further details of awards and recognitions are available in the Annual Report 2014 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 65 GRI AND UNGC CONTENT INDEX Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) General Standard Disclosures Profile Page/Link External Assurance Strategy and G4-1 CEO statement 6-7 Analysis G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6-7 Organizational G4-3 Name of the organization 8 Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 8 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 9 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 8-9 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 8 G4-8 Markets served 8-9 G4-9 Scale of the company 8-9 G4-10 Employee by catagories 50-51 G4-11 Employees coverd by collective bargaining agreements 41 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 8 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 17 G4-14 Precautionary approach 23, 31 www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Environment/ Climate-Strategy/Pages/default.aspx G4-15 Externally developed intiatives www.pttplc.com/th/Sustainability/PTT-Sustainability/ Pages/Collaboration.aspx G4-16 Membership of associations www.pttplc.com/th/Sustainability/PTT-Sustainability/ Pages/Collaboration.aspx Identified G4-17 Organization’s consolidated financial statements 2 71 Material G4-18 Process for defining report content 2 71 Aspects and G4-19 Material aspect identified 3 71 Boundaries G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 3 71 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 3 71 G4-22 Restatement of information 3 71 G4-23 Significant changes in the scope and aspect boundary 2 71 Stakeholder G4-24 List of stakeholder group 20 71 Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 20, www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTT-Sustainability/ 71 Stakeholder-Engagement/Pages/default.aspx G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 20, www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTT-Sustainability/ 71 Stakeholder-Engagement/Pages/default.aspx G4-27 Stakeholders’ topics and concerns 20 71 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 1 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 1 G4-30 Reporting cycle 1 G4-31 Contact point 1 G4-32 GRI Content Index 1, 65-68 G4-33 External assurance 69-72 Governance G4-34 Governance structure www.pttplc.com/en/About/Organization/Pages/ Organization-Chart.aspx G4-35 Process for delegating authority www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTT-Sustainability/ Governance/Pages/Corporate-Governance.aspx G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed a position with 18 responsibility for sustainability G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body www.pttplc.com/en/About/Organization/Pages/ PTT-committee.aspx www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTT-Sustainability/ Governance/Pages/Corporate-Governance.aspx Annual Report 66 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Profile Page/Link External Assurance G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is www.pttplc.com/en/About/Organization/Pages/ also an executive officer PTT-committee.aspx www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTT-Sustainability/ Governance/Pages/Corporate-Governance.aspx G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest Corporate Governance Handbook Page 30 governance body ‘Composition, Qualification and Appointment of the Board’ G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure Corporate Governance Handbook Page 32 conflicts of interest are avoided and managed ‘Independece of the Board’; Page 84 ‘PTT’s Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form’ G4-44 Evaluation of the highest governance body’s www.pttplc.com/en/About/Documents/CG%20 performance Handbook%202013%20EN/01%20Corporate%20 Governance%20Policy.pdf G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing www.pttplc.com/en/About/Documents/CG%20 the organization’s risk management processes Handbook%202013%20EN/01%20Corporate%20 Governance%20Policy.pdf G4-48 Position that formally reviews and approves 2 the organization’s sustainability report Ethics and G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms www.pttplc.com/th/About/Pages/Vision-MissionIntegrity of behavior Values.aspx G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice www.pttplc.com/en/About/Pages/complaint-andon ethical and lawful behavior whistleblowing-policy.aspx G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting www.pttplc.com/en/About/Pages/complaint-andconcerns about unethical or unlawful behavior whistleblowing-policy.aspx Specific Standard Disclosures: Aspects DMA Economic Material Aspects Page/Link Economic Performance 14-15; www.pttplc.com/en/About/Pages/Vision-Mission-Values.aspx Indirect Economic Impact 14-15, 36-37, 45 www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Economics/Project-Management/Pages/default.aspx www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Social/Good-Corporate-Citizenship/Pages/Society-and-Community.aspx Environmental Material Aspects Page/Link Energy 32; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Environment/Stewardship/Pages/default.aspx Water 31; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Environment/Stewardship/Pages/default.aspx Biodiversity 36-37; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Environment/Biodiversity/Pages/default.aspx Emission 32-33; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Environment/Climate-Strategy/Pages/default.aspx www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Environment/Stewardship/Pages/default.aspx Effluent and Waste 33; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Environment/Stewardship/Pages/default.aspx Products and Services 28-29; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Environment/Product-Stewardship/Pages/Product-Safety.aspx Transport 33-34; www.pttplc.com/th/Sustainability/Social/Security-Safety-Health/Pages/default.aspx Supplier Environmental 26; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Economics/Supply-Chain-Management/Pages/default.aspx Assessment Social Material Aspects Page/Link Employment 40-41; www.pttplc.com/en/Career/Sustainable-Human-Resource-Management/Pages/Sustainable-HumanResource-Management.aspx Occupational Health and Safety 35; www.pttplc.com/th/Sustainability/PTT-Sustainability/Governance/Pages/sshe-management.aspx Training and Education 40-41; www.pttplc.com/en/Career/Sustainable-Human-Resource-Management/Pages/Sustainable-HumanResource-Management.aspx Supplier Assessment for Labor 26; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Economics/Supply-Chain-Management/Pages/default.aspx Practices Assessment 18 Supplier Human Rights Assessment www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Economics/Supply-Chain-Management/Pages/default.aspx Local Communities 36; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Economics/Project-Management/Pages/default.aspx Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 67 Material Aspects Page/Link Anti-corruption 19; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Social/Fair-Practice/Pages/default.aspx Supplier Assessment for Impacts www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Economics/Supply-Chain-Management/Pages/default.aspx on Society Asset Integrity and Process Safety 35; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Social/Security-Safety-Health/Pages/default.aspx Product and Service Labelling 29; www.pttplc.com/th/Sustainability/Environment/Product-Stewardship/Pages/Product-Safety.aspx Fossil Fuel Substitutes 29 Specific Standard Disclosures: Indicators Economic Profile Page/Link Comments G4-EC1 (OGSD) Direct economic value generated and distributed 49 G4-EC2 (OGSD) Implications of climate change 23 G4-EC4 Financial assistance 49 G4-EC7 (OGSD) Development and impact of infrastructure investments and 45-48 services supported G4-EC8 (OGSD) Significant indirect economic impacts 45-48 Environmental Profile Page/Link Comments G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption 13, 61 G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption 61 G4-EN5 (OGSD) Energy intensity 13, 61 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 32 G4-EN8 (OGSD) Water withdrawal 57 G4-EN9 (OGSD) Water sources affected by with water drawal 31 G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused 57 G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts on biodiversity 36 G4-OG4 Operating sites with biodiversity risk assessment 36 G4-EN15 (OGSD) Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 62 G4-EN16 (OGSD) Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 62 G4-EN17 (OGSD) Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 62 G4-EN18 (OGSD) GHG emissions intensity 62 G4-EN21 (OGSD) NOx, SOx, and other emissions 58 G4-EN22 Water discharge 58 G4-EN23 (OGSD) Waste 59 G4-EN24 (OGSD) Spills 60 G4-OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon 62 G4-EN27 Environmental impacts of products and services 29, 42 G4-EN29 Environmental fines and sanctions 33 G4-EN30 Environmental impacts of transporting 33 G4-EN32 Suppliers screen using environmental criteria 26; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Economics/Supply-ChainManagement/Pages/default.aspx Social Profile Page/Link Comments G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover 50-51 G4-LA2 Benefits for employees www.pttplc.com/th/Career/Sustainable -Human-Resource-Management/ Pages/Sustainable-Human-ResourceManagement.aspx G4-LA3 Return to work after parental leave 51 G4-LA6 (OGSD) Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 52-54 absenteeism, fatality G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or risk 35 G4-LA9 Training hours 51 G4-LA11 Employee performance review 41 68 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Profile Page/Link Comments G4-LA12 Breakdown of employees 50 51 G4-LA14 Suppliers screen using labor practices criteria 26; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Economics/Supply-ChainManagement/Pages/default.aspx G4-LA15 Negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain 26 G4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices No labor practices complaints in 2014 G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No case of employee discrimination was reported in 2014 G4-HR4 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 41 G4-HR9 Human rights review 19 G4-HR10 Suppliers screen using human rights criteria 26; www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Economics/Supply-ChainManagement/Pages/default.aspx G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact assessments, 36 and development programs G4-SO2 (OGSD) Negative impacts on local communities 36 G4-OG10 Number and descriptioin of disputes with local communities 36 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies 19 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption 19 G4-SO6 Political contributions Political contribution is prohibited under PTT’s regulations G4-SO8 Laws and regulations fines and sanctions 33 G4-SO9 Suppliers screened using criteria for impacts on society 26 G4-OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement took place None of our projects required relocation G4-OG13 Process safety events, by business activity 35 G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning health and safety No incidents of nonimpacts of products compliance concering product health and safety in 2014 G4-PR4 Incidents of non-compliance concerning products and No incidents of nonservice information and labeling compliance with products labelling in 2014. G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction 29 G4-OG14 Volume of biofuels produced 29 (OGSD) means indicators with added commentary in GRI Oil and Gas Sector Supplement means indicator was verified by external assurer United Nations Global Compact Principles (UNGC) UNGC Principles Page Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 18-19 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 19 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 41 collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 19 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. 19 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 19 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 23, 28 29, 32, 57 58, 62 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 23, 45 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 42 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 19 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 69 Sustainability Management Framework Assurance Statement PTT Public Company Limited (PTT) appointed ERM-Siam Company Limited (ERM) to provide external assurance in relation to the implementation of the PTT Group Sustainability Management (SM) Framework, as set out below. Scope The assurance was based on whether PTT Group’s performance is in accordance with the 10 elements of the PTT Group SM Framework. The PTT SM Framework is presented at http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTTSustainability/Governance/Pages/Sustainability-Governance-and-Framework.aspx Our Approach We planned and performed our work to obtain the information and explanations that we believed were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusion. Between October and December 2014, ERM’s multi-disciplinary team of sustainability, environment, health and safety and assurance specialists performed the following tasks. • Visited the following 12 businesses to assess the status of implementation of PTT Group SM Framework: 1. Gas Separation Plant (GSP); 2. Gas Transmission Pipeline (GTM); 3. Global Power Synergy Company Limited (GPSC); 4. HMC Polymers Company Limited (HMC); 5. IRPC Public Company Limited (IRPC); and 6. PTT Asahi Chemical Company Limited (PTTAC); 7. PTT Exploration and Production Public Company Limited (PTTEP); 8. PTT Global Chemical Public Company Limited (PTTGC); 9. PTT LNG Company Limited (PTTLNG); 10. PTT Phenol Company Limited (PPCL); 11. PTT Polymer Logistics Company Limited (PTTPL); 12. Thaioil Public Company Limited (TOP). • Performed desk-based screening of PTT Group’s SM Elements comprising: Leadership and Accountability; Organizational Governance; Human Rights; People; Safety, Health and Environment; Fair Operating Practices; Corporate Citizenship; Supply Chain Management; Product Stewardship; Reporting and Reputation; Stakeholder Engagement for 12 businesses to identify sustainability elements material to their business and a sample of selected underlying controls to test in terms of content, deployment, conformance, and performance; • Conducted face-to-face interviews with participating business senior management and functional units representatives to assess leadership accountability and company’s direction on sustainability; • Reviewed selected management processes (i.e. ‘control’ mechanisms) in place to comment its consistency with requirements of PTT Group SM Framework; • Reviewed selected 2014 non-financial performance data and information and on a risk basis; and • Identification of opportunities for continual improvement. Assurance Standard ERM based our assurance assessment based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) and PTT Group’s Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) Maturity Assessment program. Assurance Level Limited assurance. Limitations The assessment results are subject to inherent uncertainties, given the reliability of the reported information and available methods for determining maturity level and the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. 70 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited Our scope did not include: • Testing the information technology (‘IT’) systems used to collect and aggregate site data. We did not perform procedures relating to checking the aggregation or calculation of data within the IT systems; • Testing and verification of source data; • Any comparisons made against historical data, with the exception of specific sustainability targets; • Any site visits or physical inspections of activities or operations of any of the participating businesses; or • Attending any stakeholder engagement activities. Our Independence and Assurance Team ERM’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is applied across our businesses to ensure that all our staff maintain high ethical and legal standards in their day to day business activities. We are particularly vigilant in the prevention of conflicts of interest and the maintenance of confidentiality and ethical walls. During 2014, ERM worked with PTT on a range of consulting engagements. ERM operated strict conflict checks to ensure that the independence of individuals involved in our assurance activities was not compromised. Therefore, we do not consider there to be a conflict between the other services provided by ERM and those performed by our assurance team for PTT Group. Our Conclusions Based on the assessment conducted in 2014, the overviews of the implementation of the PTT Group SM Framework are summarized as followings: Observations: • To a varying degree, the businesses assessed had generally demonstrated that they had in place or were implementing, internal controls to deliver conformance with the PTT Group SM Framework. However, for some businesses that were not implementing Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) or setting themselves against Global Sustainability Initiatives were generally not as familiar with PTT Group SM Framework requirements. We found that for these companies the practical interpretation of the sustainable development concept was not fully defined, with formal programmes and strategies at an early stage of development. • The majority of the businesses we reviewed had appropriate controls in place to maintain compliance with PTT Group SM Framework and to manage the non-financial risks they face in particular with regards to Safety, Health and Environment, Corporate Citizenship and People Elements. Common barrier for most companies in advancement to the next level of sustainability performance is sharing and extending of companies’ same level of commitment to business partners, contractors and suppliers. Overall Recommendations We recommend that PTT: • Provides more support to smaller businesses to help them understand the sustainability issues material to their businesses and enable them to develop practical solutions to manage their sustainability challenges. • Provides additional corporate level guidance for businesses to take action and engage with their business partners, contractors and suppliers to develop more sustainable practices. To ensure that PTT continues to improve, ERM has provided recommendations and suggestions that have been outlined in a detailed report presented to PTT management. Environmental Resources Management (ERM) is a leading global provider of ERM-Siam Company Limited (ERM) environmental, health, safety, risk, and social consulting services. ERM is Bangkok, Thailand committed to providing a service that is consistent, professional and of the highest quality to create value for our clients. 17 February 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited 71 LRQA Assurance Statement Relating to PTT Public Company Limited’s Corporate Sustainability Report for the calendar year 2014 This Assurance Statement has been prepared for PTT Public Company Limited in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. Terms of engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by PTT Public Company Limited (PTT) to provide independent assurance on its ‘Corporate Sustainability Report 2014’ (“the report”) against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier using LRQA’s verification approach. LRQA’s verification approach is based on current best practise and uses the principles of AA1000AS (2008) inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness and reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE3000. Our assurance engagement covered PTT’s operations and activities in Thailand and specifically the following requirements:  Confirming that the report is in accordance with: GRI G4’s reporting guidelines and core option GRI G4’s oil and gas sector disclosures  Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of data and information for only the selected specific standard disclosures listed below: Environmental : energy consumption within the organization (G4-EN3), energy intensity (G4-EN5), water withdrawal by source (G4-EN8), direct and indirect GHG emissions (G4-EN15-16), NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions (VOC) (G4-EN21), water discharge by quality and volume (G4EN22), total weight of waste by type and disposal method (G4-EN23), number and volume of significant spill (G4-EN24), volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon (G4-OG6), and Social : type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days (G4-LA6) and average hours of training per employee (G4-LA9). Our assurance engagement excluded data and information of PTT’s operations and activities outside of Thailand and its suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the report. LRQA’s responsibility is only to PTT. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. PTT’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the report is derived. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of PTT. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that PTT has not:  Met the requirements above  Disclosed reliable performance data and information  Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this report. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier. Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. LRQA’s approach LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with LRQA’s verification approach. The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement:  Assessing PTT’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured correctly. We did this through interviewing PTT’s employees who are directly engaging with stakeholder groups, and reviewing associated records.  Reviewing PTT’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were included in their report. We did this by benchmarking reports written by PTT and its peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. This document is subject to the provision on page 2. 72 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 PTT Public Company Limited We also tested the filters used in determining material issues to evaluate whether PTT makes informed business decisions that may create opportunities that contribute towards sustainable development.  Auditing PTT’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or misstatements in the report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling procedures, instructions and systems, including those for internal verification. We also spoke with those key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the report.  Reviewing supporting evidence made available by a representative facility of each of PTT’s business operations at: the head office and petro station in Bangkok a gas pipeline construction project in Northern Route, Nakornsawan an oil and gas terminal in Khonkhen, and the NGV mother station and gas pipeline operation in Khonkhen. Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are:  Stakeholder inclusivity: We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from PTT’s stakeholder engagement process. However, we believe that future reports should provide more information about PTT’s challenges in and strategies for engaging with local communities and the public sector.  Materiality: We are not aware of any material issues concerning PTT’s sustainability performance that have been excluded from the report. It should be noted that PTT has established extensive criteria for determining material aspects and that these criteria are not biased to the company’s management.  Responsiveness: PTT has processes for responding to various stakeholder groups. However, we believe that future reports should explain how PTT reviews and addresses environment and social impacts associated with its gas pipeline construction projects. This is particular to focusing more on relevant construction engineering and quality management guidelines to further minimize these impacts.  Reliability: PTT uses a well-defined and centralized system to collect and calculate its data and information associated with the selected specific standard disclosures listed above. PTT also carries out its own internal data verification process to ensure the reliability of its reported data and information. LRQA’s competence and independence LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. This verification is the only work undertaken by LRQA for PTT and as such it does not compromise our independence or impartiality. Signed: Dated: 5 March 2015 Opart Charuratana LRQA Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance 14th Floor, Sirinrat Building, 3388/46 Rama IV Road Klongton, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 THAILAND LRQA Reference: BGK6021339 Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2014. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. Survey of Reader’s Opinion Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 Please mark X in the box and provide your views in the space provided Please fill in Please specify your relationship with PTT 01 the basic information Investor/ Shareholder Customer Communities around PTT’s operations Supplier Academic Government Media Student Gender Male Female Others (please specify).................................................................... How did you receive the report? What is the reason for your interest in 02 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Seminar/Lecture/Exhibition 03 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014? To gain information about PTT PTT’s operations To obtain investment information PTT’s website In purpose of research and education Other websites (Please specify)...................................... To prepare your own Sustainability Report Others (Please specify)................................................... Others (please specify)........................ .................................................................. 04 Please rate your satisfaction of the presentation of High Medium Low Improvement Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 Language Supporting graphics, graphs and tables Report design Overall satisfaction with the report 05 Please rate your satisfaction in the completeness and reliability of information in the Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 Understanding of PTT’s material aspects High Medium Low Improvement Relevance of performance results to PTT’s sustainability strategy Completeness and reliability of contents Contents in line with your expectations 06 Does this report include all PTT’s sustainability material aspects? Yes No If not, please specify which aspects should be added to the future Corporate Sustainability Report ............................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................ 07 Which additional aspects do you think should be considered in PTT’s implementation of sustainability? ............................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................ 08 Please provide other comments and suggestions for the improvement of the future Corporate Sustainability Report. ............................................................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................................................................................................ Survey of Reader’s Opinion Your views and suggestions will be Corporate Sustainability incorporated to improve our business Report 2014 performances and future reporting. PTT Public Company Limited PTT appreciates your valuable feedbacks. บริการธุรกิจตอบรับ ใบอนุญาตที่ ปน. (น.) 12 ปทจ. จตุจักร ถ้าฝากส่งในประเทศไม่ต้องผนึกตราไปรษณียากร PTT Group Sustainability Management Project PTT Public Company Limited 555 Vibhavadi Rangsit Road, Chatuchak, Bangkok 10900 Thailand Tel: +66 (0) 25371636 Email: sustainability@pttplc.com 555 Vibhavadi Rangsit Rd., Chatuchak, Bangkok 10900, Thailand Tel. +66 (0) 2537-2000 www.pttplc.com This report has used recycled paper and soy-based ink.
