Global Responsibility 2015 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Table of contents 1 Chairman’s letter 2 INTRODUCTION 12 HEALTH & WELLNESS 40 SOURCING 70 ENVIRONMENT 13 Overview 41 Overview 71 Overview 14 Our approach: invest and innovate 42 Our approach: assess and transform 72 Our approach: measure and reduce 17 Our strategies and actions 43 Our strategies and actions 74 Our strategies and actions 17 Provide quality nutrition and wellness 44 Increase sustainability of ingredients 74 Increase sustainability of ingredients 32 Champion global food safety 63 Collaborate to improve global 75 Improve environmental performance 36 Educate consumers water stewardship of our operations and beyond 66 Advance socially responsible supply chains 86 WORKPLACE 106 COMMUNITY 120 APPENDIX 87 Overview 107 Overview 120 Environmental data summary 88 Our approach: inspire and win 108 Our approach: connect and lead 121 Commitments 89 Our strategies and actions 109 Our strategies and actions 127 Global Reporting Initiative index 89 Maintain a safe workplace 109 Alleviate hunger and advance 139 United Nations Global Compact index 94 Build a strong workplace culture nutrition wellness 99 Respect, develop and invest in employees 114 Improve education 116 Strengthen communities ©2015 General Mills. To our stakeholders: At General Mills, our goal is to stand are helping to improve the sustainability Through collaboration with businesses, among the world’s most responsible food of food supply chains. At General Mills, governments and nongovernmental companies. We are committed to creating we are making great strides toward our organizations, we work to advance economic, social and environmental commitment to sustainably source 100 systemic improvements in the areas value around the world as we pursue percent of our 10 priority ingredients by of health, sustainable agriculture and our mission of Nourishing Lives. 2020 – representing more than 50 percent community investment. We collaborate of our annual raw material purchases. with external partners and are signatories As a key step to enhance our global Through our sustainable sourcing work, to a number of key global efforts, such responsibility strategy and to promote we are advancing sustainable agriculture as the United Nations Global Compact, transparency, we conducted a and strengthening responsible practices. which we continue to endorse. We materiality assessment in 2013. This are encouraged by the progress we’re assessment included input from both Our focus on health and wellness extends making and remain committed to our internal and external stakeholders beyond the people who make and consume pursuit of continuous improvement. regarding the most relevant economic, our food. Through our consumer education social and environmental issues to and philanthropic efforts, we promote In this, our 45th year of reporting back to Ken Powell our business. We identify and address healthy lifestyles that balance consumption our communities and stakeholders, we Chairman, Chief Executive Officer these issues throughout this report. and activity. Our work to alleviate hunger provide updates across five key focus General Mills and improve nutrition includes our areas in this report: Health and Wellness, Meeting diverse consumer needs is one of support of Partners in Food Solutions, Sourcing, Environment, Workplace and our priority issues. Increasingly, consumers a nonprofit organization we founded Community. We have focused on providing worldwide are interested in the connection to help raise living standards, address transparency and insights into the topics between food, health and wellness. General chronic food supply issues and respond that are important to our stakeholders Mills puts consumers first by delivering a to extreme hunger in sub-Saharan Africa. and to our business. Our continued broad range of products that meet varying progress in these areas helps move us consumer needs and preferences. One Leading with safety – both the safety toward our goal of being one of the most example is the growing demand for organic of our employees in the workplace and sustainable food companies on the planet. and limited-ingredient products. Today, the food they make – is one of the key General Mills is the fourth-largest natural operating principles that guides our Thank you for your interest. As always, we and organic food producer in the U.S. work. At our facilities around the world, welcome your questions and comments. we are committed to food safety and Our customers, partners, consumers Sincerely, strictly adhering to the processes and and other stakeholders also want to standards we have pioneered and led know more about where and how the since our founding. One hundred percent ingredients in our foods are grown and of our facilities are audited using globally processed. As the global food business recognized food safety criteria. We balances increased demand with the need WATCH VIDEO also share our best practices across the G4-1, 15 to conserve natural resources, efforts industry, including training suppliers to aimed at transparency and traceability meet international food safety standards. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 01 INTRODUCTION General Mills has been fulfilling our mission of Nourishing Lives – making lives healthier, easier and richer – for 148 years. Our values Everything we do reflects our strong core values, and we live these values every day around the world. Play to win Jogar para ganhar 战而必胜 Participer pour gagner Actuar para ganar Grow and inspire Crescer e inspirar 成长与激励 Grandir et inspirer Crecer e inspirar Act boldly, Agir com ousadia 大胆实践、快速行动 Faire preuve d’audace, Actuar con audacia, move quickly e rapidamente agir rapidement moverse rápido Win as a team Ganhar como equipe 众志成城，团队致胜 Gagner en équipe Ganar como equipo Do the right thing, Fazer o que é certo, 始终做正确的事 Toujours prendre Hacer lo correcto, all the time o tempo todo une décision juste en todo momento GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 02 Company overview General Mills at a glance General Mills aims to be one of Fiscal 20143% 12% GLOBAL12%NET3% SALES: 22% $17.9 billion* the world’s most responsible food 22% 14% 12% 3% companies. We are committed to our 14% 22% U.S. RETAIL Net sales by division 17% mission of Nourishing Lives and putting 14% 15% 15% 17% $10.6 billion 17% consumers first everywhere, every day. 15% 17% 17% 22% 17% Big G Baking Products 17% 17% Snacks We produce and market more than 15% 14% Frozen Foods Meals 100 consumer brands in over 100 12% 3% Yoplait Small Planet Foods countries on six continents. 18% 18% INTERNATIONAL 41% Net sales by region 18% 41% 19% $5.4 billion 19% 41% 41% Europe* 19% 22% Canada 22% 19% Latin America 22% 18% Asia/Pacific** *Includes Australia and New Zealand 22% **Includes the Middle East and Africa 14% 14% CONVENIENCE STORES AND FOODSERVICE 14% Net sales by brand type 31% 55% $1.9 billion 31% 55% 55% Branded to foodservice 31% 55% operators 31% Branded to consumers 14% Unbranded For additional overview information, see our value chain graphic, map of key brands, map of production sites and key sourcing geographies. *Consolidated net sales, excludes joint ventures. G4-4 15% GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 03 15% Highlights in fiscal 2014 10x20 850+ $151 68% 84% progress on our commitment to products nutritionally improved since we million+ of packaging volume improved of U.S. employees said General Mills sustainably source implemented our U.S. given to charitable since 2009. is a great place 100 percent of our Health Metric in 2005. causes in fiscal 2014 – to work. 10 priority ingredients General Mills and its by 2020. Foundation have given more than $1.5 billion since 1954 (US$). 50 million 87% 100% 17% $543 meals provided through global food of all solid waste from our North of General Mills facilities audited using reduction in global total injury rate million donations since 2013. American operations globally recognized at General Mills spending in fiscal 2014 is reused or recycled. food safety criteria. production facilities. with qualified, diverse suppliers (US$). GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 04 Oversight The General Mills leadership team has Board of Directors Public Responsibility SUSTAINABILITY ultimate accountability for the company’s Committee provides oversight and receives GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY CEO, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD global responsibility programs and regular updates from the operating teams. CEO COMMITTEE CFO performance. The team includes Ken SVP, EXTERNAL RELATIONS The Chief Executive Officer also Powell, Chairman and Chief Executive EVP, INNOVATION, convenes the Sustainability Governance TECHNOLOGY & QUALITY Officer; Kim Nelson, Senior Vice President EVP, U.S. RETAIL Committee three times per year. The of External Relations and President of SVP, SALES role of the Committee is to approve EVP, INTERNATIONAL EVP, SUPPLY SVP, EXTERNAL EVP, INNOVATION, SVP, HUMAN the General Mills Foundation; Jerry EVP, SUPPLY CHAIN CHAIN RELATIONS TECHNOLOGY & QUALITY RESOURCES and monitor strategy, policy and key Lynch, Chief Sustainability Officer; and investments related to sustainability. John Church, Executive Vice President of Supply Chain. The team meets regularly See GeneralMills.com/Investors to GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY GENERAL MILLS HEALTH & NUTRITION and receives input from internal and learn more about the company’s FOCUS AREAS CENTER OF EXCELLENCE FOUNDATION CENTER OF EXCELLENCE WORKPLACE external experts. During 2014, the main broader corporate governance issues addressed included sourcing, water structures and processes. This graphic outlines governance and management of global responsibility stewardship and climate change. The G4-36, 42, 46, 47, 48 focus areas at General Mills. Materiality* In 2013, General Mills partnered environmental trends relevant to the food academics – as well as numerous leaders and frame the most material topics as they with Forum for the Future, a leading sector. It also involved interviews with from across our company. The assessment, relate to General Mills’ global responsibility nonprofit sustainability organization, to more than a dozen external partners and which analyzed the relevance of each issue strategy and reporting. conduct a materiality assessment. The experts – including suppliers, customers, to our internal and external stakeholders as G4-18, 20, 21, DMA process included analysis of social and nongovernmental organizations and well as to our business, helped us identify *In this report, the terms “material” and “materiality” refer to topics that reflect General Mills’ significant environmental and social impacts or that substantially influence our global responsibility strategy. We are not using these terms as they have been defined by securities laws in the United States or in the context of financial statements and financial reporting. “At General Mills, we focus on material issues related to our business – such as health and nutrition wellness, climate change, commodity availability and water stewardship. This is where we can create the most value for shareholders and other key stakeholders.” – Jerry Lynch, Chief Sustainability Officer, General Mills GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 The following table summarizes the issues determined to be most material to our global responsibility strategy. We include information about our approach to and our progress on these issues in the report, as noted. See the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index to learn about the relevant GRI Aspects and boundaries. ISSUE DESCRIPTION MORE INFORMATION Access to new markets Enter new markets responsibly, and take into account regulatory, political and infrastructure considerations Health & Wellness, Workplace Animal welfare Ensure the ethical treatment of animals raised by suppliers Sourcing Biodiversity Conserve biodiversity through sustainable sourcing practices Sourcing Biotechnology Work to educate the public on use of genetically modified organisms and meet consumer demands for Introduction increased information Business consolidation Adapt to a changing food system landscape that includes consolidation among retailers, distributors Health & Wellness, across the food sector and growers Sourcing, Workplace Climate change, deforestation Advance strategies to help mitigate and adapt to the effects of climate change in agricultural Sourcing, Environment and changing land use and food production systems Commodity pricing and availability Maintain reliable access to key commodities and inputs Introduction, Sourcing Diverse consumer needs Meet changing consumer needs and diversify our product offerings based on geography, culture, Health & Wellness values and economic means Energy costs Manage energy usage and costs throughout the value chain, including agriculture, production, Sourcing, Environment transportation and distribution Food safety Set and maintain high standards for food safety and quality Health & Wellness, Community Food security Improve access to healthy, affordable food for the world’s growing population Health & Wellness, Community Food waste Address food waste and loss from field to table Environment, Community Health and nutrition wellness Improve the health profile of products and engage in public discussions on healthy and nutritious lifestyles Health & Wellness, Community Human rights in the supply chain Respect the human rights of all workers Sourcing, Workplace Packaging footprint Reduce the environmental impact of packaging Environment Responsible marketing Adhere to internal and industry guidelines regarding consumer communications Health & Wellness Smallholder farmers Support smallholder farmers’ capability and capacity to maintain viable operations Sourcing, Community Soil fertility Maintain and foster healthy soils through improved land management and agricultural practices Sourcing Supply chain relationships Build and strengthen supplier partnerships across the value chain Sourcing, Community Traceability Increase the ability to track the origin and movement of ingredients, packaging and other inputs throughout Sourcing the value chain Transparency Communicate openly with key stakeholders on material issues, including through brands All sections Water stewardship Manage water resources strategically throughout the value chain Sourcing, Environment We plan to periodically update this assessment in the future to ensure it continues to reflect our company and industry as well as our stakeholders’ expectations. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 06 Material issues across our value chain We also assess our material issues in the context of our value chain. This helps us to better understand and communicate how those issues connect to our business and where risks and opportunities reside. G4-12 AGRICULTURE TRANSFORMING CONVERTING* PACKAGING** SHIPPING SELLING CONSUMING Growing crops (planting, Turning crops into food Making products Producing packaging Moving food to Making food available Enjoying food tending and harvesting) ingredients (cleaning, from food ingredients materials (making stores (transporting for purchase (stocking, (making and eating) milling and preparing) (mixing and cooking) and transporting) and delivering) promoting and shopping) GHG emissions e 41% 7% 8% 14% 4% 12% 14% (% of total) Water consumption 82% 3% 1% 14% 0%*** 0%*** 0%*** (% of total) TRANSPARENCY CLIMATE CHANGE, DEFORESTATION, AND CHANGING LAND USE**** FOOD SAFETY DIVERSE CONSUMER NEEDS HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN RELATIONSHIPS Material issues ANIMAL WELFARE HEALTH AND NUTRITION WELLNESS HEALTH AND NUTRITION WELLNESS ENERGY COSTS ACCESS TO NEW MARKETS WATER STEWARDSHIP RESPONSIBLE MARKETING COMMODITY PRICING AND AVAILABILITY COMMODITY PRICING AND AVAILABILITY TRACEABILITY BIODIVERSITY FOOD WASTE FOOD WASTE PACKAGING FOOTPRINT PACKAGING FOOTPRINT PACKAGING FOOTPRINT FOOD SECURITY FOOD SECURITY SMALLHOLDER FARMERS SOIL FERTILITY Health & Wellness, Learn more Sourcing, Environment Sourcing, Environment Health & Wellness, Environment Sourcing, Environment Environment Health & Wellness Environment, Community *This is the only phase of the value chain that General Mills controls directly. **Includes packaging-related impacts from across the value chain due to the lack of disaggregated packaging data for each value chain phase. ***Water consumption in the Shipping, Selling and Consuming phases was considered to be immaterial; the bulk of water use is in Agriculture. ****Deforestation and changing land use apply only to the Agriculture and Transforming phases of the value chain. Climate change applies to all phases. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 07 Detail on Association and the British Royal Society also found no health risks associated with For more information about our position in this area, see our web and disclosing progress also motivates ongoing improvement of the systems and material issues genetically modified (GM) ingredients. pages on GMOs and GMO labeling. capabilities that underpin our performance. We discuss most of our material At the same time, numerous studies Examples include the following: Commodity pricing issues related to global responsibility have identified benefits related to global nM aterial issues: This year, we published in detail in other sections of this food security and the environment: and availability the full list of social and environmental report. The following issues do not In recent years, trends such as increased n F armers planting GM crops tend issues that we determined to be material map directly to specific sections, so demand due to population and income to generate more stable, and for the purpose of this report, and we we provide more information here. growth and the use of food crops to produce sometimes higher, yields. increased disclosure on several of those biofuels have raised the prices of and put Biotechnology n G M crops generally need less pressure on the availability of key ingredients items. See the table on page 6 for details. One in eight people in the world insecticide and may enable the nS ustainable ingredients: In this report, that we use in our products. Sustainabilitytoday – more than 900 million people use of less harmful herbicides. related factors also play an increasingly we describe progress toward our worldwide – do not have enough to eat. n G M crops often require less energy important role. For example, water scarcity commitment for our top 10 ingredients And by 2040, the world’s population is use by farmers and are associated has the potential to impact the price of to be 100 percent sustainably sourced projected to increase to about 9 billion with reduced greenhouse gas ingredients as well as the feasibility of by 2020 and palm oil by 2015. See people. Global experts project that to (GHG) emissions, improved agriculture in some regions. Declining yields the Sourcing section for details. meet the growing needs of an increasingly water quality, improved nitrogen for some crops and extreme weather events nR atings and rankings: We have hungry world, we will need at least 50 retention, improved water filtration brought on by climate change can increase participated in CDP (Carbon Disclosure percent more food, 45 percent more and erosion reduction in soil. volatility in ingredient supply and pricing. Project) every year since its inception energy and 30 percent more water. in 2000 and increased our disclosure We understand that consumers have Ensuring long-term access to these inputs Biotechnology shows promise to strengthen score from 68 in 2012 to 80 in 2014 different views on these topics and at reasonable prices is fundamental to crops against drought and extreme (performance band B). See our past we are committed to respecting these our ability to provide quality, affordable temperature and deliver more nutritious submissions. We also participate in consumer values and offering products foods to our consumers and to the health food, even in poor soil conditions. We other disclosures, such as the Dow that do not contain ingredients produced of our business. In 2013, we announced agree with the U.N. World Health Jones Sustainability Indices, Newsweek’s using biotechnology. We offer organic a commitment to sustainably source Organization (WHO) that the development Green Rankings (#37 of 500 largest and non-GMO alternatives in most of our 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients of genetically modified organisms publicly-traded U.S. companies by market major categories in the United States. by 2020, representing more than 50 (GMOs) offers the potential for increased capitalization) and the Global 100 Index of percent of the company’s annual raw agricultural productivity or improved Policy most sustainable corporations (#49 of all material purchases. Developing the nutritional value that can enhance We oppose state-based labeling of GMOs publicly traded companies with a market supplier relationships and sustainable human health and development. in the United States, which would result capitalization of at least US$2 billion). practices to achieve this will strengthen in a patchwork of different labels and We communicate our programs and Safety is our highest priority, and we find our business while enhancing our increase product costs for consumers and performance through other channels broad global consensus among food and environmental performance. As we make companies. Consistent with this position, as well, such as responses to customer safety regulatory bodies that approved progress on those key ingredients, we are in 2014 we opposed state-based GMO requests, blogs and social media, speaking GMOs are safe. The following organizations also improving the sustainability of other labeling ballot measures in Colorado and engagements, media interviews, and have determined biotech crops to be as ingredients in our products. Learn more. Oregon, and we contributed US$1,515,000 conferences and other events. safe and acceptable as their conventional counterparts: WHO, Food and Agriculture to ballot measure campaigns. This was Transparency To promote comparability, we align our publically reported, and we disclosed and Communicating openly about our social Organization of the United Nations, disclosure with external frameworks such as discussed this information transparently on and environmental commitments, European Food Safety Authority, U.S. Food GRI and the United Nations Global Compact. our website. We support national standards programs, products, performance and and Drug Administration, U.S. Department This year, for the first time, we have aligned for labeling of non-GMO products in the challenges is essential to building and of Agriculture, U.S. Environmental Protection our report with the GRI G4 Sustainability United States to provide greater confidence maintaining stakeholder trust inside Agency and Health Canada. The National Reporting Guidelines. See External reporting to consumers seeking to avoid GMOs. and outside of General Mills. Analyzing Academy of Sciences, American Medical standards for more details. G4-PR6 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 08 Stakeholder engagement At General Mills, we engage with ultimately, identify innovative solutions we work with other companies and have the greatest positive impact. When stakeholders to accelerate our progress on that create shared, sustainable value. organizations to shape standards across engaging with stakeholders, we consider social and environmental initiatives. We do The issues we are working to address are the consumer packaged goods industry their expertise and insights as well as their this through open dialogue, collaboration complex – such as sustainable sourcing, on a range of issues. This helps to raise capacity, level of influence and willingness to and transparent disclosure. This strengthens responsible marketing, climate change, the performance of the industry overall. collaborate. This table illustrates the range of our ability to balance business interests food waste and water stewardship – so We determine areas for engagement based our engagement activities. with those of society; build robust, collaboration is essential to achieving on issues that are material to our global G4-24, 25, 26, 27 global relationships across sectors; and meaningful progress. In many cases, responsibility strategy and where we can STAKEHOLDER GROUP CHANNELS OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES Customers n Customer surveys In 2014, General Mills and Walmart co-sponsored a global innovation challenge to support innovators and farmers who n Innovation collaboration demonstrate the most promise to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through nitrogen management. Learn more. n Industry partnerships Consumers n C  all center We engage with consumers throughout the year in numerous ways. For example, our organics team has used an online n S  ocial media (website, Facebook) platform to interact with an advisory group of approximately 1,000 consumer “brand champions” 3-4 times each month n F ocus groups to gain feedback on new products and packaging and to better understand how our products fit in to their lives. Employees n E  mployee Climate Survey In 2011, the General Mills Foundation launched the International Volunteer Council. The group, composed of more than n D  iscussion forums 30 people across 17 countries, provides a forum for our employees with a passion for volunteerism to exchange best n I nternal social media community practices, success stories and insights. n E  mployee action groups Investors n R  atings/rankings and indices We discuss our programs, progress and relevant issues with interested shareholders throughout the year. n I nput on the Global Responsibility Report Regulators and public n P  ublic policy activities General Mills engages with the FDA, the USDA, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) and the U.N. World Health Organization policy makers n A  dvocacy on issues related to the food industry and regulation. n C  onsultation on regulatory matters During 2014, General Mills joined the Business for Innovative Climate & Energy Policy coalition to work with other n P  articipation in coalitions businesses and policymakers to advocate for innovative and impactful climate and clean energy policies. Local communities n D  onations to local organizations At our plant in Arras, France – home to one of our primary Häagen-Dazs facilities – the Community Action Council (CAC) n E  mployee volunteers dedicates a portion of its philanthropic efforts each year to supporting farmers and villagers in Belambo, Madagascar, where we source the majority of our vanilla. From organizing book drives to collecting supplies for local schools, the CAC is committed to creating a positive impact on the Belambo community. Learn more. NGOs n C  ollaboration on the ground We engage with non-governmental organizations that contribute expertise and capabilities related to various aspects n S  urvey responses of our business: CARE (smallholder farmers), Ceres (corporate responsibility reporting), Oxfam America (smallholder n P  olicy initiatives farmers), The Nature Conservancy (water stewardship), the U.N. CEO Water Mandate (water stewardship), and World n C  o-presentations at conferences Wildlife Fund (sourcing). Industry associations, n M eeting participation We are active members in key industry coalitions such as Bonsucro, The Consumer Goods Forum, Field to Market, alliances and roundtables n B est practices on key issues Grocery Manufacturers Association, Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), The Sustainability Consortium, the are developed and shared World Cocoa Foundation, and International Food and Beverage Alliance (IFBA). Suppliers n S upplier audits In 2014, we joined the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX), further demonstrating our commitment to driving n C ode of Conduct improvements in responsible and ethical business practices across our supply chain. Learn more. n S upplier surveys n F ield to Market program GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 09 Public policy At General Mills, we engage in public n E ducation: We believe that education our policy, disclosure of corporate political U.S. public policy-focused organizations, policy issues that are important is fundamental to strong communities contributions, membership in major such as the Grocery Manufacturers to our company and stakeholders. and economic growth. General trade associations, and independent Association and the Business Roundtable; We conduct these activities in an Mills supports education reform, political expenditures (although the and state or provincial agencies, local accountable and transparent manner. especially in our headquarters’ state company has not made any). chambers of commerce and manufacturing of Minnesota. For example, we are a organizations, such as the Minnesota Some of our public policy focus During 2014, we made US$10,850 in leading member of Generation Next, Chamber of Commerce and the areas include the following: direct political contributions in addition which works to close the achievement Minnesota Business Partnership. We n C  limate change and renewable energy: to the contributions related to GMO and opportunity gaps for students of report additional details about our largest During 2014, General Mills joined the state ballot measures discussed earlier color in Minneapolis and St. Paul. U.S. trade association memberships Business for Innovative Climate & Energy in the Biotechnology section. For more We are also active in the area details and historical information, see our annually. We do not belong, or make Policy coalition to work with other any payments, to any tax-exempt of food labeling policy in the 2005-2014 Civic involvement reports. businesses and policymakers to advocate organizations in the United States that United States. Learn more. for innovative and impactful climate The General Mills Political Action write and endorse model legislation. and clean energy policies. Learn more. We comply with all lobbying regulations Committee (GPAC) is run by employees where applicable. General Mills is n Accountability: In 2014, the Center for n P  ackaging: General Mills promotes and uses employee funds to make registered as a lobbying entity at political contributions to federal and, Political Accountability rated General policies to effectively and efficiently Mills as tied for seventh in its CPAthe U.S. federal level for the House in limited cases, state candidates. No increase packaging recycling rates. In Zicklin Index of Corporate Political of Representatives and Senate and corporate treasury funds are used for the United States, we are a leader in the Disclosure and Accountability, the in the states of Minnesota and federal candidate contributions, but as American Institute for Packaging and organization’s annual ranking of the top California. We file regular reports on allowed by law the company pays GPAC the Environment (AMERIPEN), which 200 companies in Standard & Poor’s our lobbying activity (see links). administration costs. Information regarding conducts research and advocates for 500 index. This ranking equaled our policy changes to achieve this goal. GPAC transactions is available on the Political contributions Federal Election Commission website. performance in 2013, and once again we n Health and wellness: As a member ranked first in the consumer goods sector. of the International Food and and memberships General Mills also advances its mission G4-15, 16 Beverage Alliance (IFBA) and other Our civic policy describes our approval by partnering with trade associations organizations, we support efforts to process for corporate political contributions. and other independent organizations that advance self-regulatory frameworks The Public Responsibility Committee share our goals, such as Food & Consumer related to health and wellness. of our board of directors oversees the Products of Canada and the Food and company’s political activities, including Drink Federation of the United Kingdom; At General Mills, we strive to be among the world’s most socially and environmentally responsible food companies. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 10 About this report Report scope Stakeholder input this input and have incorporated much of this feedback into the report. United Nations Global Compact This report describes our commitments, on report General Mills has endorsed the principles of programs and performance across a broad range of global responsibility For the last several years, General Mills has External reporting the United Nations (UN) Global Compact since 2008. This report serves as the issues during fiscal 2014. The report engaged Ceres – a coalition of investors, environmental organizations and other standards company’s annual Communication on scope includes global operations Global Reporting Initiative Progress in the areas of human rights, labor, public interest groups working with except where noted otherwise. environment and anti-corruption. See the companies to advance their environmental This year, General Mills considered and social performance – to provide the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting UN Global Compact index for details. Report ownership input on the annual Global Responsibility Guidelines in the development of this The General Mills leadership team Report. This year, nine stakeholders, Feedback report, including the Food Processing (see page 5) has responsibility for including investors, NGO representatives Sector Supplement. This document We welcome your comments about the development of this report. and industry experts, provided feedback contains standard disclosures from that this report. Please send any feedback to on a detailed report outline. We value framework. See the GRI index for details. Corporate.Response@genmills.com. G4-28, 31, 32, 33 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community We provide people with Our goal is to sustainably source Our goal is to continually We foster a safe, ethical, diverse Our goal is to build strong convenient, nutritious food that – the raw materials we use in our reduce our environmental and inclusive workplace communities. Our philanthropic when combined with exercise products. We are committed to footprint. We concentrate on where our more than 42,000 work ties closely to our core and activity – can help them sustainably sourcing 100 percent areas where we can have the employees can thrive. We business and reflects our mission live healthier lives. We believe of our 10 priority ingredients by greatest positive impact, with a respect, develop and invest in of Nourishing Lives. We work in that a variety of foods made 2020 – representing more than focus on agriculture. Among our our employees and continue innovative ways with partners with quality ingredients play an 50 percent of our annual raw suppliers, we work to sustainably to improve workplace safety locally and around the world to important role in people’s diets, material purchases. At the same source the ingredients we use through our efforts to prevent harness our collective impact in providing nutrition, taste and time, we are improving water in our products. Across our injuries and illnesses. We support key target areas, while engaging convenience at a reasonable stewardship and reinforcing global operations and beyond, our employees in being active, employees through volunteerism. cost. Improving the health and socially responsible practices we focus on reducing our eating healthy and staying well. wellness profile of our products across our extended supply chain. GHG emissions and natural over time and promoting healthy resource consumption. lifestyles that balance nutrition and activity are fundamental to our mission of Nourishing Lives. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 HEALTH & WELLNESS At General Mills, our mission is OUR GOAL is to provide people with Nourishing Lives – making lives convenient, nutritious food that – when combined with exercise and activity – can help healthier, easier and richer. them live healthier lives. We believe that a variety of foods made with quality ingredients play an important role in people’s diets, providing nutrition, taste and convenience at a reasonable cost. Improving the health and wellness profile of our products over time and promoting healthy lifestyles that balance nutrition and activity are fundamental to our mission of Nourishing Lives. Our strategies Provide Champion Educate quality nutrition global food consumers and wellness safety GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 12 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Overview Improving nutrition, health and wellness: Consumers around the world seek nutritious, convenient and affordable food for themselves and their families every day. There are many challenges to achieving this simple, daily imperative – ranging from hunger and malnutrition to obesity. Balanced diets are part of the solution and can help prevent many non-communicable diseases, such as heart disease and diabetes. We believe proper nutrition is essential for overall health and wellness. Performance dashboard (fiscal 2014) 240+ billion grams shipped by U.S. retail operations 57 billion grams shipped by Whole grain and 166 billion grams produced by Cereal Partners Fiber U.S. retail operations. Worldwide, our joint venture with Nestlé. 1.8 billion servings (1 serving = 1/2 cup) 190+ U.S. retail products offered with at least Vegetables shipped by U.S. retail operations. Protein 10 percent daily value of protein per serving. 2 billion servings (1 serving = 1 8-ounce cup) 850+ gluten-free products Dairy shipped by U.S. retail operations. Gluten-free offered in the U.S. Cumulative* health metric achievement U.S. RETAIL PRODUCTS 73% 76% 64% 68% “Everything we do starts with our consumers and is 60% rooted in our commitment to giving them food that 45% 33% 40% meets their values and their needs” 21% – Ken Powell, General Mills Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 16% FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 *products are counted only one time even if improved more than once GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Holistic view of nutrition, health and wellness Our products: Unique portfolio, global impact Our practices: Promote healthy lifestyles n H ealthy: General Mills products – We promote healthy lifestyles that balance consumption and activity in including vegetables, cereal, yogurt, our workplaces and communities around the world. We communicate soup and grain snacks – contribute to responsibly about our products. overall health and wellness. Workplaces: We invest in our n A ccessible: We make nutritious employees’ health and wellness foods convenient and accessible (learn more in the Workplace to consumers in more than 100 section of this report). countries on six continents. Communities: We raise awareness n E xpertise: Our more than 50 and invest in helping children years of nutrition expertise drives continued achieve a balance of good enhancements to our product portfolio. nutrition and physical activity. Learn more on page 36 and in the Community section of this report. Our approach: invest & innovate Our focus on health, nutrition and wellness helps drive business growth Investment in research: We invest preferences – are at the center of everything Glen, LÄRABAR, Food Should Taste Good – have been sold in research and development (R&D) to we do. Our consumer-first approach drives Food Should Taste in Canada for some time, Cascadian Farm help improve the health profiles of our General Mills’ focus on expanding our Good, Immaculate is new to the Canadian products. Since 2004, we have increased portfolio to meet diverse consumer needs Baking, Liberté and market. We continue to R&D spending on health and wellness by and make healthy food more accessible. Mountain High brands. look for opportunities to 59 percent. Our nutrition science research Expanding the variety of our product General Mills is now the fourth-largest make a variety of foods helps us better understand the relationship offerings is one way we put consumers U.S. natural and organic food producer.• available to consumers between food, health and wellness as first. In October 2014, we completed our around the world. In May 2014, we expanded our Small we enhance our product portfolio. acquisition of Annie’s, Inc., a leading U.S. Planet Foods business in Canada, bringing producer of branded organic and natural r Cascadian Farm’s Canadian debut includes a growing portfolio of organic and natural food products. Annie’s joins General Mills’ seven products: Two cereals and five granolas, Investment in new businesses: foods to Canadian consumers. While two including two flavors of protein granola – the U.S. natural and organic products portfolio, Consumers – with their varying tastes and Small Planet Foods brands – LÄRABAR and first organic pea-protein products in Canada. which includes the Cascadian Farm, Muir *Based on SPINS NPI (Natural Products Industry) food products in combined channels, 52 weeks ending December 18, 2014. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 14 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community History: General Mills has a long history found the most successful approach to Committee of the Board of Directors, two times per year to provide input. Its of health and nutrition stewardship. We improved nutrition is a series of small, which oversees the company’s health and members bring their perspectives from established a nutrition department more incremental changes. We continue to wellness strategy. Health improvements academia and research institutes and than 50 years ago to strengthen the apply this approach across our business. to our product portfolio are included in challenge us to continually advance company’s expertise in nutrition science. the performance objectives for our Chief health and wellness strategies and Since 1963, our nutrition team has led Executive Officer and his direct reports. practices. We have had an external Leadership and governance: the formulation of General Mills’ health We benefit from the guidance of our scientific advisory council since 1989. Operationally, responsibility for product strategy. In 1998, we launched the Bell development and marketing lies within global Health and Wellness Advisory Institute of Health and Nutrition (see the R&D and marketing organizations. Council, a group of leading external health story below) as a resource for research The Executive Vice President of Supply and nutrition experts. The council meets and communications both within our Chain, and the Executive Vice President company and across the food industry. of Innovation, Technology and Quality are responsible for consumer health “Consumers are broadening their perspective and thinking Quality: We use only quality ingredients, and safety, and product and service more holistically about the role that food plays in their which contribute to good tasting, nutritious labeling. Responsibility for marketing food. Taste and quality are key drivers communications is held by the Chief overall health and wellness. General Mills is innovating of consumer food consumption. While Marketing Officer. The Bell Institute to deliver products that link nutrition with health and consumers are focused on health and reports directly to the Executive Vice wellness, they will not accept compromises President of Innovation, Technology and promote wellness while providing great taste.” to the great taste they have come to Quality. The Bell Institute also reports – Maha Tahiri, Vice President, General Mills Chief Health and Wellness Officer and leader expect from General Mills. We have regularly to the Public Responsibility of the Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition Global Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition The Global Bell Institute of Health backgrounds in nutrition science, Global scientific research: topics, including: whole grains, and Nutrition influences General public health, clinical nutrition Members of the Bell Institute digestive health, vascular Mills’ product development and food science, Bell Institute collaborate with leading scientists health, weight management, and leads our global health experts provide guidance to from universities around the micronutrients and breakfast. and nutrition strategy. The General Mills business teams globe to further research in Global health communications: Bell Institute is comprised of and health influencers around the nutrition and health. From foodservice professionals. The Bell Institute develops doctorateand master-level world. This team brings together 2004-2014, the Bell Institute The Bell Institute also helps science-based educational scientists and registered capabilities in scientific research contributed to over 100 scientific ensure that all of General Mills’ materials for health influencers dietitians who are committed and health communications for publications. The Bell Institute health and nutrition claims about health and wellness topics. to the development of quality the benefit of our customers, contributes to the advancement are accurate and comply with It also sponsors continuing products that nourish lives and consumers, the food industry of scientific understanding on government and corporate education programs to advance contribute to healthy living. With and nutrition communities. a variety of important health nutrition regulations and policies. the knowledge of health and GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community General Mills key brands around the world General Mills produces and markets more than 100 consumer brands in more than 100 countries on six continents. Listed here General Mills key brands around the world are many of our key brands in major markets around the world. The General occurMills majority of our sales produces in developed and markets economies; more than 100 consumer brands in more than 100 countries on six continents. Listed below are many according of our key brands in major markets to the United Nations, developed regions and countries include around the world. The majority of our sales occur in developed economies; according to the United Nations, North America, Europe, Japan, Australia anddeveloped regions and countries include North America, Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. New Zealand. Western Europe n Betty Crocker n Green Giant n Häagen-Dazs n JusRol n Knack & Back n Nature Valley n Old El Paso n Pillsbury China n Yoplait Häagen-Dazs North America n n V. Pearl n Annie’s n Wanchai Ferry n Betty Crocker n Bisquick n Bugles n Cascadian Farm n Cheerios n Chex n Cinnamon Toast Crunch n Fiber One India n Food Should Taste Good n Pillsbury Atta n Fruit by the Foot n Parampara n Gold Medal n Green Giant n Green Giant n Häagen-Dazs n Helper Latin America n Betty Crocker n LÄRABAR n Betty Crocker n Nature Valley n Lucky Charms n Diablitos Underwood n Muir Glen n Frescarini n Nature Valley Australia n Green Giant n Old El Paso n Latina n Häagen-Dazs n Pillsbury n Betty Crocker n La Salteña n Progresso n Nature Valley n Yoki n Total n Old El Paso n Bugles n Totino's/Jeno’s n Wheaties n Yoplait GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 16 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Our strategies and actions 1 Provide quality nutrition and wellness 2 Champion global food safety 3 Educate consumers A D eliver nutrition to millions of consumers A Expand food safety leadership A Promote wellness B I mprove product health profiles and B P  artner to increase food safety B Support responsible marketing offer nutritious new products C C  ontribute to wellness and meet diverse consumer needs 1 Provide quality nutrition and wellness 1A Deliver nutrition to Benefits across our global product portfolio millions of consumers Vegetables Other products Cereal nW hole grain Provide products that boost nutrient intake n V itamins & minerals nV itamins & minerals n F iber nF iber General Mills has a long history of Our role: Our portfolio offers a range of n G luten-free nG luten-free providing a broad array of convenient, products that deliver key nutrients and food nP rotein affordable, nutritious foods to help groups. General Mills has been an industry Baking products consumers meet key health and nutrition leader in enriching foods with nutrients nF iber recommendations. We believe food plays in the United States since the 1940s. nG luten-free a key role in overall health and wellness. Dough Research shows that enriched and fortified nG luten-free Snacks Challenge: Many people’s diets are foods make a substantial contribution nW hole grain lacking in key nutrients and food groups. to the nutrient intakes of consumers. Ice cream nF iber nG luten-free Yogurt nP rotein nC alcium w Our global product portfolio includes a variety of foods that V  itamins & minerals Meals n contribute to consumers’ health and wellness. Within each P  rotein nG  luten-free n product segment, we offer options containing varying levels of nP  rotein n G  luten-free the benefits indicated. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 1B Improve product health profiles and offer nutritious new products Increase nutrients in key food groups while reducing sugar, sodium, fat and calories Europe, Australia and Asia: Since 2010, Progress our efforts to improve the profile of foods sold in our Europe and Australasia region U.S.: 76 percent of U.S. retail sales have resulted in 48 percent of the total volume nutritionally improved since portfolio being health improved, not 2005 (18.5 percent in fiscal 2014). including CPW and Yoplait products. In 2014 alone, total and saturated fat were International: 170+ products reduced in the category leading brands nutritionally improved in fiscal 2014. Old El Paso, Latina Pasta and Betty Crocker, Canada: 208 products while sodium was reduced in Old El nutritionally improved since Paso, Green Giant vegetables and Latina 2010 (70+ in fiscal 2014). Pasta. At the same time we continue r Around the world, we improve the health profiles of our products and introduce nutritious new products. to expand our range of whole grain and healthier snacks via the Nature Valley Australia: As part of the Healthier Australia Challenge: During the past three decades, brand. Demonstrating our commitment Commitment, General Mills and other rates of obese and overweight adults to clear nutrition labeling, we continue companies have made a voluntary pledge and children have increased dramatically. to voluntarily provide nutrition highlights to collectively reduce sodium, saturated The fundamental cause of obesity is on the front of all packages, where space fat and energy (calories, measured by an energy imbalance between calories allows, across Europe and Australia. kilojoules, to address calorie consumption) consumed and calories expended. The nutrient content per portion is in products. The commitment also Our role: Around the world, we are compared to guideline levels for the includes educating consumers about r Some of the many products in Canada that reformulating our recipes and making entire day, helping people understand balanced diets and healthy, active lifestyles we have improved or launched with strong progress toward our healthier product how these foods fit within their total and promoting employee wellness. nutrition profiles. commitments. We believe nutritious daily diet. Learn more on pages 37-38 Canada: We continue to make portfolio qualified for our “health improved” foods made with quality ingredients about our commitment to providing clear improvements to our product portfolio. criteria in Canada, with meaningful contribute to overall health and wellness. nutrition information on our packaging. In 2010 we began to carefully map out a increases in nutrients targeted for increased U.S.: More than 850 of our products U.K.: As part of our pledge associated plan to add nutrients of importance and consumption or decreases in nutrients have been nutritionally improved since with the Public Health Responsibility reduce nutrients of concern across all of that are over-consumed in the Canadian 2005; see the “U.S. Health Metric: A Deal, a set of voluntary agreements our recipes. Since 2010, 208 products – population. These achievements help decade of nutritional improvements” covering food, physical activity and representing 45 percent of our 2014 sales improve diet quality in areas such as whole graphic on the next page for details. health at work that was developed and volume and 39 percent of our total product grain, fiber, sodium and heart-healthier fats. International: We completed nutritional is managed by the U.K. Department portfolio – have been nutritionally improved improvements to more than 170 active of Health, our products do not contain or launched with a strong nutrition products in fiscal 2014 – nearly double the artificial trans fat and we are proceeding profile. In fiscal 2014 alone, 71 products amount of products reformulated in 2013. with our sodium reduction program. representing about 13 percent of our GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 18 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community U.S. Health Metric: A decade of nutritional improvements 76 percent of our fiscal 2014 U.S. 850+ products – about half our 200+ products have demonstrated *Along our Health Metric journey of continuous, step-wise improvements, more than 200 products were included more retail sales volume was comprised current U.S. retail products – continuous nutritional improvement than once in the Health Metric from 2005-2014, typically by of products that have been meet Health Metric criteria. by undergoing more than one undergoing more than one reformulation. A product’s volume is nutritionally improved since 2005. reformulation over 10 years.* counted only one time, even if it was improved more than once. Inclusion in the Health Metric Drivers of nutritional improvements Products meet guidelines for increasing positive nutrients, U.S. retail products FY05-FY14 decreasing limiter nutrients or both. 16% Both 3% Protein 44% Decreasing limiter nutrients 3% Health/nutrition claim**** 2% Total fat/ 8% Vitamins/minerals 40% Increasing positive nutrients saturated fat 3% Fiber 20% Trans fat <1% Fruits/vegetables 9% Whole grain Increasing positive nutrients** Decreasing limiter nutrients*** 14% Sugar 10% Calories/ Whole grain: 125 products Calories/portion control: 122 products portion control Dietary fiber: 90 products Sodium: 324 products 28% Sodium Vitamins & minerals: 198 products Trans fat: 211 products **New products that meet Health Metric Sugar: 98 products ****health/nutrition claims include gluten free, heart health claims formulation guidelines, or positive nutrients ***New products that meet Health Metric increased by 10 percent or more. formulation guidelines, or limiter nutrients decreased by 10 percent or more. U.S. Health Metric product improvement guidelines Reducing Increasing Formulating Formulating/reformulating Reducing calories, fat, saturated Increasing beneficial nutrients – Formulating products to include at Formulating/reformulating products to meet specific internal fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium including vitamins, minerals and least a half-serving of whole grain, fruit, requirements, including limiting calories, and meeting health or nutrition by 10 percent or more. fiber – by 10 percent or more. vegetables, or low or nonfat dairy. claim criteria as defined by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). G4-PR1, FP6, FP7 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Improve health with whole grains Challenge: Nine out of 10 Americans management and diabetes management U.S.: In fiscal 2014, General Mills shipped Impact do not get the recommended three while reducing the risk of some cancers. more than 240 billion grams of whole servings of whole grain each day. On grain in our U.S. retail products. That’s U.S. – 100 percent: Every Big General Mills products deliver whole average, most Americans consume less more than 15 billion 16-gram servings. G cereal contains more whole grains to consumers around the world, than one serving of whole grain daily. Whole grain contributions came primarily grain than any other single including the examples below. Whole grain benefit: Research shows that from cereal and grain snacks, but whole ingredient and at least 10 grams of whole grain per serving; more eating whole grains as part of a healthy 39g than 20 General Mills cereals diet can help improve heart health, weight 33g deliver at least 16 grams. 24g 23g International: Most global v Among the cereals 19g 18g packed with whole grains 16g cereal brands offered by CPW 15g 14g introduced in 2014 were 12g 12g 12g now have at least 8 grams of gluten-free Vanilla Chex 9g 10g 9g 9g 10g 9g 10g 6g whole grain per serving; CPW with 10 grams of whole v In Canada, 2g is working to increase levels grain and 8 grams of 1g each of our sugar and MultiGrain breakfast cereals of whole grain so it is the main Cheerios Dark Chocolate has more whole ingredient in all CPW cereals. Crunch with 15 grams of grain than sugar whole grain and 9 grams in each recipe. of sugar per serving. Whole grain per serving Sugar per serving Why eat cereal? Weight management: People who including more than 20 percent of 4 percent of the dietary intake Cereal provides key nutrients for children eat cereal tend to have healthier body the recommended daily value of of sugar of American children. Percent of daily intake of selected nutrients provided by cereal, weights and lower cholesterol levels. folate, vitamin B6 and iron intake. Fifteen percent of Americans skip children ages 4-12 Whole grain: Cereal is a leading People who eat cereal have better breakfast on a typical day, yet 15% intake of key nutrients, including fiber, breakfast – including ready-to23% source of whole grain for Americans, 20% 30% including children. Since 2003, our calcium and vitamin D. More than eat cereal – contributes less than 13% 17% 14% Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) 30 percent of the milk consumed 20 percent of daily calories. by children ages 4-12 is consumed joint venture with Nestlé has increased Value: A serving of cereal with 3% global consumption of whole grain with cereal. For children, cereal and milk costs about US 50 cents on by more than 3.4 billion servings. milk deliver more than 10 percent Calories Vitamin A Thiamin Niacin Vitamin B6 Folate Iron Zinc average, making cereal one of the Research has shown that people who of calcium and 20 percent of most inexpensive and efficient Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). National Center for Health eat cereal consume more whole grain vitamin D to their diets each day. ways to get key vitamins and Statistics (NCHS). National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey data. Hyattsville, MD: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers and eat less cholesterol and fat. Low fat: Most cereal is low in fat. minerals into people’s diets. for Disease Control and Prevention, 2011-12 http.cdc.gov/nchs/nhanes. Nutrients: Cereal contributes vital Low calorie: Cereal accounts for only Learn more about the nutrients to the diets of children, 3 percent of caloric intake and only benefits of cereal. Source: National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) data 2009-2010 and 2011-2012; NHANES Food Patterns Equivalents Database, 2009-2010. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 20 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community grain was also provided by flour, certain serving. Whole grain outweighs the baking mixes, granola-topped yogurt and amount of sugar in each recipe. some of our refrigerated baked goods. CPW: In 2014, CPW increased Improving school meals Canada: All our the whole grain in its recipes by more At General Mills, we recognize the more than 96 of our products meet breakfast cereals than 3.4 billion servings. CPW has importance of healthy school meals the whole grain-rich requirements. contain at least 10 introduced more whole grains than and their role in improving student In 2014, we introduced new school grams of whole any other ingredient in 95 percent achievement. Hunger and malnutrition menu items, including Nature Valley™ grain in each of the volume of its cereals targeted have negative effects on students’ Crisps. In addition to food, we to children and teenagers. ability to concentrate, learn and provide school foodservice staff with perform as well as their behavior and educational material and training. v We offer foods containing whole grains participation in the classroom. That’s Alternative breakfasts for students: in many of our product categories. why our foodservice business is For the past six years, General Mills passionately committed to providing Foodservice has helped schools healthy, balanced foods that meet boost breakfast participation through school nutrition standards and appeal the National Dairy Council Fuel Up to kids, since the food can’t nourish Breakfast grant program, which has them if they don’t eat it. In the U.S., we awarded US$425,000 to more than updated some of our products to meet 150 schools since 2009. Schools use revised U.S. Department of Agriculture Adding whole grains the funds to add alternative ways (USDA) standards for K-12 school to serve breakfast outside of the We continue to introduce new products with meals, effective July 2012. Under these cafeteria, giving more kids access to a more whole grains. General Mills introduced standards, school meals must include healthy breakfast and Multi-Grain Cheerios Ancient Grains containing more fruits, vegetables and whole improve opportunities quinoa, oats and two wheat varieties, spelt and grains, items with zero grams of trans for learning. kamut. The product was launched in Canada fat, and meet specific calorie ranges in July 2014 and in the U.S. in January 2015. and sodium targets. All of our products v Nature Valley™ Crisps for the school market contained meet USDA school meal standards. zero grams trans fat per serving, and Cereal Partners Worldwide nutritional improvements Our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) announced specific targets in October progress against this commitment, joint venture with Nestlé makes and 2012 for nutritionally improving about with 88 percent of global sales volume markets cereals such as Fitness, Cheerios, 5.3 billion portions of breakfast cereals achieving the commitment criteria. Chocapic and Nesquik globally outside in more than 140 countries by boosting North America. CPW is the second-largest the amount of whole grain, increasing w CPW is increasing whole grain and calcium in cereal provider in the world. As part of calcium, and reducing sugar and salt in cereals while reducing sugar and sodium. its Global Nutrition Commitment, CPW its recipes. CPW has made significant GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Improve health by increasing beneficial nutrients Cascadian Farm and Progresso products – Impact 1.5 billion through our Green Giant products alone; and more than 2 billion Why consume vegetables? Fiber: Our Fiber One brand offers 8-oz. (227-gram) servings of low Nutrients: American adults 45 fiber-added products, including fat and nonfat yogurt products. get more than 20 percent of cereal, snacks and baking mixes. France, Belgium, U.K., Ireland and daily fiber, potassium and Protein: More than 190 U.S. Sweden: Calin+ yogurt available in France, vitamin C from vegetables. retail products contain at least Belgium, U.K., Ireland and Sweden, is Low in calories: Vegetables r Fiber One products help consumers add 10 percent of the daily value of more fiber to their diets. enriched with calcium contribute less than 10 percent of total protein per serving – 12 percent of and vitamin D to daily calories. enough calcium. Calcium promotes U.S. retail products in fiscal 2014. support bone health. healthy bones and teeth, yet almost 60 Need: Less than 10 percent of people Calcium: Calin+ yogurt is percent of U.S. women do not get the v Calin+ yogurt get the recommended amount fortified with calcium. recommended amount of calcium. of vegetables each day. CPW: CPW is increasing calcium in cereals Our role: We increase beneficial nutrients for kids and teens to at least 15 percent of Challenge: Many people lack key nutrients in our product portfolio, including the recommended daily allowance (RDA) in their diets. Most Americans do not vitamins, minerals and fiber. Our of 800 milligrams (based on the RDA in get enough calcium or vitamin D. Studies products also include whole grain, fruit, the EU and considered the most commonly show that about nine out of 10 American vegetables, and low-fat or nonfat dairy. accepted level around the world). As of kids do not consume U.S.: In fiscal 2014, we shipped December 2014, 88 percent of CPW enough vitamin D, approximately 57 billion grams of dietary cereals for kids and teens had achieved and about four out of fiber through our U.S. retail products, the committed target of at least 15 percent 10 do not consume including cereal, snacks, flour, fruits and of the RDA of calcium per serving. vegetables; 1.8 billion 1/2 cup servings v Fiber One of vegetables through our Green Giant, Why eat yogurt? Nutrients: Yogurt provides contains 20 percent of the Healthy weight: Research more essential nutrients protein, calcium, potassium daily value of calcium and indicates that adults who such as calcium, vitamin and other important vitamin D in each cup. eat yogurt are less likely to D and potassium.* nutrients. Yoplait® Original be overweight and consume v Learn more about the benefits of yogurt. *Source: U.S. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, 2009-2010, adults ages 19 and above. Yoplait is a registered trademark of YOPLAIT MARQUES (France) used under license. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 22 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Deliver healthy, portable snacks Impact 60 percent of grain snacks offered by our U.S. retail operations in fiscal 20% 2014 contained at least 10 percent of the daily value of dietary fiber per serving. People who snack have higher nutrient intakes compared to 41 percent of those snacks non-snackers. Snacks can be a contained at least 8 grams of whole grain per serving. source of important nutrients. More than 20 percent of the 23 percent of those snacks daily fiber, calcium, potassium contained both – at least 10 percent and vitamin C Americans of the daily value of dietary fiber consume comes from snacks.* r Nature Valley snacks – including granola bars, protein bars, nut bars and breakfast biscuits – provide and at least 8 grams of whole grain convenient, portable nutrition for consumers. per serving. foods – particularly snacks with a perceived Our role: General Mills offers betterhealth benefit – in between and at main for-you snack products around the Challenge: Consumers seek snack foods meals. Snack foods eaten at main meals world. Examples of our healthy, portable more than ever, yet the nutritional value are expected to grow approximately 5 snacks are featured below. of snacks varies widely. Increasingly, percent over the next five years, especially consumers look for snacks with protein, in better-for-you categories such as v Yoplait® yogurt is a good fiber, whole grains, or a full serving of a source of calcium. refrigerated yogurt, bars and fresh fruit. fruit or vegetable. According to a recent When enjoyed in moderation, snacks can market research study by NPD Group, contribute to a healthy, balanced diet. U.S. consumers eat traditional snack r LÄRABAR blends fruits, nuts and spices. All 16 LÄRABAR flavors are free of gluten, dairy and soy. r All Nature Valley r New Nature Valley Greek r Nature Valley Oatmeal r All regular size Fiber r All Fiber One 90 Crunchy Bars have at least Yogurt Protein Bars contain Squares all contain more One Chewy Bars contain calorie brownies contain 8 percent of the daily at least 10 percent of the than 5 percent of the daily 35 percent of the daily 20 percent of the daily value of dietary fiber and daily value of dietary fiber. value of dietary fiber, value of dietary fiber value of dietary fiber and contain at least 8 grams of and at least 10 grams of and at least 6 grams of 90 calories per serving. whole grain per serving. whole grain per serving. whole grain per serving. *Source: U.S. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2011-2012. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Reduce sugar Challenge: USDA Dietary Guidelines for Impact Americans recommend that consumers Food sources of total sugar CHILDREN AGES 4-12 reduce calories from added sugars. Big G cereals: 100 percent of Global food and beverage companies General Mills cereals marketed 8% All other foods 7% Flavored milks are being challenged to reduce the to children contain 10 grams 2% Yogurt amount of sugar in products. of sugar or less per serving. 12% Candy and sweets 3% Meat, poultry, fish and mixtures Our role: General Mills continues to reduce 10% Other grains (non-cereal, non-dessert) CPW cereals: 91 percent of CPW’s sugar across our global product portfolio. 12% Fruit drinks volume of brands popular with 5% READY-TO-EAT CEREAL U.S.: Since 2007, we have lowered sugar kids and teens has achieved the levels in Big G kid cereals by 16 percent. 10% Soft drinks 12% Grain desserts committed sugar reduction targets. In fiscal 2014, 43 Big G cereals and 13 Cascadian Farm cereals had single-digit 8% Fruit and vegetable juices 11% Fruits without juices Yogurt: We have reduced the levels of sugar per serving. More than average amount of sugar across r Ready-to-eat cereals account for a relatively small amount of children’s sugar consumption. 75 percent of our cereals have 9 grams or our kid yogurt products by more United States Department of Health and Human Services. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. less of sugar per serving and 100 percent National Center for Health Statistics. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), 2009-10. than 25 percent since 2007. of our children’s cereals have 10 grams Snacks: We reduced sugar of sugar or less per serving.* CPW: As of December 2014, 91 percent reducing sugar content by up to 30 percent by 17 percent in Betty Crocker Canada: We achieved a sugar reduction of CPW cereals targeted for children and in brands such as Nesquik, Chocapic, Honey Fruit Gushers and Betty Crocker of at least 10 percent in 2014 across teens had achieved the committed sugar Cheerios, Lion and Milo as well as more than Fruit Shapes in fiscal 2014. the line of Nature Valley Trail Mix reduction target of 9 grams or less of 15 other Nestlé branded breakfast cereals. Chewy Granola bars, Oatmeal Crisp sugar per serving. In 2014, CPW removed Granola bars: We reduced sugar cereal, Pillsbury Toaster Strudel, Pillsbury more than 17,400 tons of sugar from its by 30 percent across our line of Turnovers, Betty Crocker Fruit Gushers children’s and teenagers’ breakfast cereal Nature Valley Chewy Trail Mix bars. and Fibre 1 Chocolatey Fudge brownies. brands included in the commitment. CPW is Cereals at single-digit sugar levels 9g 9g 9g 9g 9g 9g 9g 8g 8g 6g 6g 5g 5g 4g 3g 2g 1g *Children’s Cereals: Sugar by the Pound, Environmental Working Group, May 2014; see EWG.org GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 24 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Improve health by snacks. Many of our product categories have made significant progress and percent in Green Giant sweet corn varieties in Australia. We reformulated our Old El Paso tortillas to reduce sodium by reducing sodium exceeded this goal. General Mills continues containing added 32 percent while improving softness working toward this commitment with salt. We also lowered and flexibility. These improved tortillas Commitments sodium reductions across our product sodium levels in our tortillas, including were launched in December 2014. We portfolio. For example, we reduced sodium reducing sodium by at least 30 percent also reduced sodium significantly in U.S. commitment: Reduce sodium by 10 to 20 percent in 33 of our Pillsbury in Old El Paso corn and whole wheat approximately two-thirds of our Latina by 20 percent across top 10 retail refrigerated biscuits tortillas; and reducing sodium, total fat pasta products – 17 products now have product categories by 2015. and sweet rolls. and saturated fat by at least 20 percent from 10 to 40 percent less sodium. in our Old El Paso flour and salsa tortillas. U.K. commitment: Reduce sodium v We reduced sodium in food to help consumers reach in our Pillsbury biscuits v We significantly the 2.4 grams per day maximum and many other U.S. reduced sodium products. levels in our Old recommended daily intake. El Paso tortillas in UK: We continue to reduce sodium in Europe and Australia. Australia commitment: Reduce sodium by 25 percent by 2015 our products as part of the Public Health Australia: We continue to make (collective industry goal as part of Responsibility Deal. In fiscal 2014, we sizable reductions in sodium across r Many of our Latina pasta products contain Healthier Australia Commitment). reduced sodium content in our foods, several of our key Australian brands, less sodium. including tortillas and vegetables, by 63 including Old El Paso and Latina, which percent from the previous year. As of 2014, represent 80 percent of our business Challenge: USDA Dietary Guidelines we have achieved the following Public for Americans recommend that Health Responsibility Deal compliance: consumers reduce their sodium intake to less than 2,300 milligrams – about 100 percent of our Old El Paso tortilla Sodium reduction cereal chips; 64 percent of our Jus Rol and Old 1 teaspoon of salt – per day. El Paso breads and rolls; 33 percent of our 280 mg 270 mg Our role: General Mills has a broad Jus Rol and Betty Crocker morning goods; commitment to reducing sodium in and some of our Green Giant products 220 mg 210 mg 200 mg our products around the world while meet sodium reduction guidelines. We 180 mg have removed 178,650 kilograms of 170 mg meeting consumer taste requirements. We have a team of researchers sodium from the market since 2012. 160 mg 160 mg 160 mg 115 mg 110 mg dedicated to reducing sodium in foods through gradual reductions. v We have reduced the sodium content 05 14 05 14 05 14 05 14 05 14 05 14 U.S.: In 2008, General Mills committed of many of our Jus-Rol v In Canada, we to trim sodium by 20 percent in our top products in the U.K. have reduced 10 product categories by 2015, including Europe: We have made significant sodium the amount of cereals, frozen pizza, refrigerated dough sodium in many reductions in our major European product of our cereals. products, canned vegetables, dry dinners, brands. We reduced sodium by at least 25 2005 Sodium per serving 2014 Sodium per serving baking mixes, side dishes, soups and savory GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Canada: We reduced sodium by at least 10 Biscuits and Flaky Rolls; and Betty Crocker the committed sodium reduction target percent in our Old El Paso Taco Sauces and Low Fat Fudge Brownies. In our Pillsbury of 135 milligrams or less of sodium per Seasoning Mixes; Cheerios Cinnamon Rolls, we reduced total fat and serving. CPW removed more than 590 cereal; Honey Nut Cheerios sodium by 10 percent. In six varieties of metric tons of salt from its children’s or cereal; Pillsbury Hamburger Helper and Tuna Helper, we teenagers’ breakfast cereals in 2014. Pizza Crust, Country decreased sodium, total fat, saturated fat and trans fat by at least 10 percent. v We reduced sodium CPW: As of December 2014, 100 percent in these cereals across Canada. of cereals for kids and teens had achieved Improve health polyunsaturated fatty acids) and keep trans fatty acid consumption as low as possible Refrigerated Peanut Butter Cookies are now Canada: We have achieved significant reductions in trans fat, saturated fat and by reducing fat by limiting foods that contain synthetic labeled zero grams total fat in our products. Examples of 2014 sources of trans fats, such as partially trans fat per serving. reductions include: trans fat reduced by at Impact hydrogenated oils, and other solid fats. least 60 percent in two varieties of Betty v Totino’s Pizza Rolls Crocker Brownie Mix with Frosting; total Our role: General Mills has successfully 93 percent of U.S. retail products fat and sodium reduced by at least a 10 reformulated a number of products to U.K.: We have achieved our goal of labeled as zero grams trans fat, percent reduction in Pillsbury Cinnamon reduce or remove trans fat, saturated removing trans fat (partially hydrogenated 57 percent contain less than 1 Rolls; total fat and saturated fat reduced by fat and total fat while maintaining the oils) from our products, meeting the gram saturated fat per serving at least 10 percent in Pillsbury Crescents; quality and taste consumers expect. trans fat elimination target of the and 50 percent contain less than saturated fat reduced by 10 percent in U.S.: In fiscal 2014, more than 1,400 of U.K. Public Health Responsibility Deal 3 grams total fat per serving. Pillsbury Ready to Bake! Cookies; and our U.S. retail products (93 percent of our pledge. In addition to these ingredient selection and reformulation efforts, we total fat reduced by 25 percent and sugar 100 percent of U.K. products portfolio) were labeled zero grams trans have put in place nutrition standards reduced by 20 percent in Fibre 1 Brownies – contain zero grams trans fat from fat per serving, about 950 products (57 ensuring continued absence of trans Chocolatey Fudge. As noted in the sodium partially hydrogenated oils. percent of our portfolio) contained 1 gram fat from our products in the U.K. section of this report, we also decreased or less of saturated fat per serving and total fat, saturated fat, trans fat and sodium more than 800 products (50 percent of Europe: We reduced total fat and saturated by at least 10 percent in six varieties Challenge: While dietary fats are essential our portfolio) contained 3 grams or less fat by at least 12 percent in three Betty of Hamburger Helper and Tuna Helper. for energy, nutrient absorption and to of total fat per serving. Since 2008, more Crocker cookie and muffin products. As support cell growth, many people consume than 300 General Mills U.S. retail products noted in the sodium section of this report, more fat than they need. USDA Dietary have undergone trans fat reductions of at we also reduced total fat, saturated fat, and Guidelines for Americans recommend that v In Canada, we reduced least 10 percent per serving. We continue sodium by at least 20 the amount of fat and adults ages 19 and older limit their total to reduce our use of partially hydrogenated percent in our Old El Paso sugar in our Fibre 1 fat intake to 20-35 percent of their daily oils. For example, all Betty Crocker Rich & flour and salsa tortillas. Brownies. calories. The guidelines also recommend Creamy Frosting, Totino’s Party Pizzas and that people consume less than 10 percent Pizza Rolls snacks, Pillsbury Refrigerated v Betty Crocker Chocolate of calories from saturated fatty acids (by Sugar Cookies, Pillsbury Refrigerated Chunk Muffin Mix replacing them with monounsaturated and Chocolate Chip Cookies and Pillsbury GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 26 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Improve health by Challenge: Rising levels of obesity around the world are driven by the energy times the protein of regular yogurt at 100 calories and a Weight Watchers reducing calories imbalance between calories expended PointsPlus® value of 2 points per serving. and calories consumed. Reduction Impact of calories in foods and beverages Soup: Progresso Light soups also carry an endorsement from Weight can contribute to the solution, along Watchers. The 22 varieties contain 575 General Mills U.S. retail with increased physical activity. 100 calories or less per serving. products (35 percent) have 100 Our role: From Green Giant vegetables calories or less per serving. Cereal: More than 50 of our U.S. retail to Fiber One bars to Yoplait® Light r General Mills offers a variety of low-calorie cereal products have 130 calories or 990 General Mills U.S. retail yogurt, General Mills offers a variety of products that help consumers manage their less per serving. caloric intake. products (60 percent) have 150 options for meals or snacks throughout calories or less per serving. the day that are lower in calories. We v A serving of also offer smaller portion options Fiber One cereal 6.4 trillion calories trimmed and single-serving packages for contains 80 calories. from U.S. food by a coalition of consumers seeking portion control. partners, of which General Mills Yogurt: We offer a variety of loweris a part, through the Healthy calorie dairy options, including 21 flavors Weight Commitment Foundation. of Yoplait® Greek 100, that provide two Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation impact: Sales of lower-calorie foods General Mills is part trillion calories represent a 78-calorie nutrition through our membership in Calorie reduction of a multi-year effort reduction per person, per day in the U.S. the Partnership for a Healthier America to help reduce obesity, In October 2014, a study released by the (PHA), which we joined in 2009, and the 7 6.4 TRILLION especially among Clinton Global Initiative (CGI). PHA brings 6 Hudson Institute showed that 99 percent of children. Along with 15 other leading together public, private and nonprofit 5 sales growth for leading consumer packaged (TRILLIONS) food and beverage companies that make leaders making meaningful commitments 4 goods companies came from lower-calorie up the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation (HWCF), we pledged to foods. Over a period of five years ending Dec. and developing strategies to end childhood obesity. CGI convenes global leaders to 3 2 1.5 TRILLION 31, 2012, 16 HWCF companies, including reduce the number of calories in the U.S. create and implement solutions to the 1 General Mills, increased their sales of marketplace by introducing lower-calorie world’s most pressing challenges. To lower-calorie products, made those items Calorie Actual calorie product options, changing recipes to reduce help address childhood obesity, HWCF commitment reduction more available in grocery stores and retail calories in existing products and reducing launched an early childhood education outlets, and promoted them more in-store. families through a network that includes portion sizes of single-serve items. grant program called Smart from the While there is still more work to be done, 14,000 schools with pre-kindergarten and In just five years, HWCF members removed this study reveals that consumer preferences Start, in partnership with National PTA® Head Start programs. General Mills and 6.4 trillion calories from the marketplace are changing and companies are making and Discovery Education, as part of a other corporate partners are helping to – more than four times the 1.5 trillion more lower-calorie options available. 2013 CGI commitment. The program will promote this program to consumers via reduction goal, which was exceeded award more than $500,000 in grants, Commitments: We also have made social media and online communications. three years ahead of schedule. Those 6.4 training and awards as well as healthy commitments to support health and living resources to preschoolers and their GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Improve health by Cereal offering nutritious new products Impact General Mills delivered healthful new product options across a broad range of categories in a Chocolate Toast Fiber One Protein Cranberry & Nature Valley Protein Cascadian Farm Buzz variety of markets in 2014. Crunch Almonds and Maple Brown Sugar Crunch Cranberry Almond Crunch Honey Almond 12 grams of whole grain, 17 grams of whole grain, 5 grams At least 16 grams of whole 12 percent daily We continue to introduce new products 9 grams of sugar of fiber, 6 grams of protein grain, 8 grams of protein value of fiber containing more whole grains, more (10 percent daily value), 10 U.S. U.S. U.S. calcium, more vegetables and fruit; grams of protein with milk and reduced sodium, less fat and fewer U.S. calories. Five percent of total company sales were from new products in fiscal 2014. We believe a variety of nutritious foods made with quality ingredients are Dairy essential for overall health and wellness. G4PR1, FP6, FP7 40+ General Mills International Yoplait® Greek 100 Yoplait® Light yogurts with toppings Liberte Greek Coconut Liberte Mediterenee yogurt (three new (three new varieties: Key Lime Pie (two new flavors: released more than Good source of calcium, flavors: apple pie, with Graham Cracker Crumbles, Lime, Orange Mango) 40 new products blueberry, strawberry Boston Cream Pie with Chocolate excellent source of vitamin D, with nutritionally cheesecake) Crumbles, Coconut Cream Pie excellent source of protein Good source of calcium, advantageous profiles with Graham Cracker Crumbles) U.S. excellent source of in fiscal 2014.* 100 calories, 2 Weight vitamin D, excellent Watchers Points Plus®,, good Good source of calcium, excellent source of protein source of calcium, excellent source of vitamin D U.S. source of vitamin D, U.S. excellent source of protein U.S. *Nutritionally advantageous products include those with more beneficial nutrients, such as vitamins, minerals and fiber, and/or lower amounts of sodium, sugar, fat and/or calories. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 28 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Meals Progresso Heart Progresso Light Progresso Light Pillsbury breakfast Pillsbury breakfast Betty Crocker Latina fresh pasta Healthy Southwest Chicken & Cheese Chicken Corn product line: product line: pancake mix meal products Style Black Bean & Enchilada Soup Chowder Rice Dosa Rice Idli (two varieties: Vegetable Soup 9 grams of protein Low-Fat Pumpkin 100 calories per serving, 100 Calories per Rice and lentil Rice and lentil per serving Ricotta Spinach 30 percent less sodium 2 Weight Watchers serving, 2 Weight crepes contain dumplings contain INDIA Cannelloni, Low-Fat than standard soup, Points Plus®, at least 33 Watchers Points Plus®, 3 grams of protein 4 grams of protein and Australian Lean Beef 110 calories, low fat percent fewer calories at least 33 percent per serving and no 9 percent daily value Vegetable Lasagna) and 55 percent less fat fewer calories than saturated fat, trans of fiber per serving U.S. than the leading chicken, the leading chicken fat or cholesterol 97 percent fat-free, INDIA cheese enchilada flavored corn chowder readysingle-serve portion INDIA ready-to-serve soup to-serve soup AUSTRALIA U.S. U.S. Snacks Healthier indulgences NEW COLOUR LOGO Chex Mix Popped Fiber One Fruit Fiber One 90 Calorie Nature Valley Häagen-Dazs Sweet & Salty Shapes (all flavors) Lemon Bars Breakfast Biscuits Blueberry Spoon Vege vegetablefruit blends Contains 50 percent 10 percent daily value 20 percent daily 26 grams of whole grain, long less fat than regular of fiber, 100 percent of value of fiber lasting energy claim, good source Contains vegetables potato chips vitamin C, 80 calories of fiber with 4 grams of fiber and and fruit U.S. 5 grams of protein per serving U.S. U.S. JAPAN U.S. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 1C Contribute to wellness and meet diverse consumer needs Provide products that offer natural, organic and wellness benefits Impact Organic Protein General Mills offers a variety of products in our organic portfolio, More than 50 percent of U.S. consumers want to add more protein to Organic: 300+ certified which includes Cascadian Farm, Muir Glen and some Annie’s and Green their diets. General Mills offers protein-rich foods across a variety of organic U.S. retail products. Giant products. Examples of our organic product offerings include: product segments, including the examples below. Protein: 190+ products with at least 10 percent daily value of protein (12 percent of U.S. retail products). Gluten-free: 850+ gluten-free Cascadian Farm Muir Glen U.S. retail products. Cascadian Farm Organic Graham Crunch Halley Diced Tomatoes Cheerios Protein Cascadian Farm Nature Valley U.S. U.S. Protein Granola Protein bar First-ever protein-fortified General Mills puts consumers first as we work Cheerios product; each 10 grams of protein per 11 grams of protein to offer a broad range of products to meet serving offers 11 grams serving, first mainstream per serving; good diverse consumer needs and preferences. of protein with milk organic protein granola source of fiber Consumers globally are increasingly focused Annie’s Green Giant U.S. made from pea protein CANADA, U.K. (JUNE 2014) U.S., CANADA (U.K. IN JANUARY 2015) on the role of food in their overall health and Organic Macaroni & Cheese Organic sweet corn (CANADA IN JULY 2014) wellness. Definitions of wellness vary by U.S. FRANCE consumer – some seek foods that are glutenfree or rich in protein, while others want products that contain fewer ingredients or Gluten-free Allergen focus foods that are certified organic, for example. More than 25 percent of U.S. adults and up to 28 percent of Australians are trying to cut back on the G4-PR1, FP6, FP7 amount of gluten in their diets. General Mills will be expanding our leadership in gluten-free products with the introduction of gluten-free Cheerios in September 2015. Lactose-free Nature Valley lunchbox granola bars Made in a peanut-free Gluten-free Cheerios LÄRABAR RENOLA Food Should Taste Good Betty Crocker glutenfacility; meets Canadian Yoptimal yogurt Brown Rice Crackers free baking mixes nutrition standards for New gluten-free varieties First nationally Probiotic; low in fat and saturated fat; snacks brought to school include Cheerios, Honey distributed, grain-free Made with simple Contains no artificial good source of calcium and vitamin D Nut Cheerios, Multigranola; made with ingredients, including colors, flavors or CANADA CANADA Grain Cheerios, Apple simple ingredients, gluten-free grains preservatives; products Cinnamon Cheerios including nuts, like sesame, quinoa have endorsement and Frosted Cheerios fruit and seeds and amaranth from Coeliac Australia U.S. U.S. U.S. AUSTRALIA (SEPTEMBER 2015) (JUNE 2014) (JUNE 2014) (SEPTEMBER 2014) GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 30 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Expanding General Mills’ organic practices Increased focus on health and and respected organic foods where our presence across more wellness has become a driving providers brought valuable than 100 countries provides force in consumer culture.* Along perspective, insights and practices much greater scale and market Scaling up with the growing emphasis on that have influenced the rest of access. Our teams that work on With the addition of Annie’s in the role food plays in overall our business. For example, organic organic brands and practices 2014, the scale of our natural and health and wellness, consumers farming methods for growing incubate ideas that are then organic businesses has grown: want to know more about the Cascadian Farm vegetables are adopted and scaled up by the n G  eneral Mills is now the ingredients in their foods – where now being used with some of our rest of our business with an eye r Organically raised blueberries fourth-largest U.S. natural and grow on these bushes at the original they come from and how they are Green Giant products (see page for simplicity, process expertise Cascadian Farm in Skagit Valley, organic food producer.** grown and processed. Demand 62). We have continued to expand and distribution networks. Washington. n G  eneral Mills is now among for organic and limited-ingredient our organic, limited-ingredient the top five organic ingredient We also listen to our consumers needs and industry trends. Our products has moved into the and non-GMO offerings by adding purchasers – and the secondand to the voices of our partners goal is to provide an expanded mainstream along with evolving LÄRABAR, Liberté, Mountain largest buyer of organic fruits – retailers, suppliers and industry range of products to meet diverse consumer preferences. High, Food Should Taste Good, and vegetables – in the North thought leaders. All of these preferences in the marketplace. Our commitment: Over the Immaculate Baking and, in 2014, American packaged foods sector. voices help influence how General past 15 years, General Mills has Annie’s (see details below). n G  eneral Mills purchased nearly Mills thinks about food, consumer steadily expanded our portfolio Broader impact: We believe US$250 million in natural to provide more choices for these pairings are a recipe for and organic ingredients in consumers and improved the success – for people and for the Deeper insight 2014, representing about 8 sustainability of environmental planet. The mission and vision For some consumers, the desire to know more about their food includes percent of the ingredients practices in our supply chain. that drove the founders of our better insight into where and how the ingredients were grown. Learn more for our U.S. retail business. We now offer a mix of certified organics businesses are alive in the Sourcing section of this report about our commitment to sustainably n W  e have doubled the organic organic and limited-ingredient and well today. Now they are source the raw materials used in our products – including the environmental, acreage we support since 2009. cereals, yogurt, vegetables, thriving inside General Mills, economic and social impacts of our sourcing efforts around the world. fruit products, snacks, meals and baking products. Our 2000 2012 commitment to these businesses 1936 1976 1991 Cascadian Farm and Muir Glen 2008 Food Should 2014 Liberté founded Mountain High Muir Glen joined General Mills, becoming the LÄRABAR joined Taste Good joined Annie’s joined runs deep – we recently created “Small Planet Foods” division General Mills founded founded General Mills General Mills an organic Center of Excellence to advocate for the community of consumers, partners, suppliers and farmers of our organic foods. 1972 1989 1993 2000 2006 2011 2013 Through this resource, we are Cascadian Annie’s Immaculate LÄRABAR Food Should Taste Liberté and Mountain Immaculate Baking Farm founded founded Baking founded founded Good founded High joined General Mills joined General Mills connecting and learning together, expanding our organic practices, and advancing our capabilities. Our brands: In 2000, General Mills acquired Cascadian Farm and Muir Glen. These established *According to a 2013 report by The Hartman Group, a market research consulting firm. **Based on SPINS NPI (Natural Products Industry) food products in combined channels, 52 weeks ending December 18, 2014. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 2 Champion global food safety 2A Expand food safety leadership Set high standards for prevention, quality and investment Commitment Legacy of food safety leadership Hazard Analysis and Critical Control US$14.5 million food safety 1950s spending in 2014 (10 percent Points (HACCP) process Established raw of essential capital investment More than 50 years ago, The Pillsbury Company (prior to acquisition by General material vendor on average each year for food Mills) developed the HACCP approach with NASA for ensuring food safety. The management program 1960s safety-related projects). HACCP approach identifies key stages in production where food safety risks can be minimized or eliminated. Today, HACCP has become the food industry’s Established food 600+ trained quality professionals safety, quality and and 50+ certified quality engineers gold standard and the backbone of many countries’ food safety regulations 1970s regulatory policies around the world. and standards monitoring food safety worldwide. Developed food safety program for Hazard Analysis 100 percent of our facilities quality engineers at and Critical Control audited using globally recognized culture. Leading with safety – both the Collaboration: Our investment in food production facilities (HACCP) process safety of our employees in the workplace safety education around the world includes developed food safety criteria. and the food they make – is one of the key our suppliers, partners, industry peers 1980 88 percent of our facilities operating principles that guides our work. and regulators. Food safety leadership is worldwide audited and/or a differentiator for General Mills, but not Established food certified by third parties. Building global capacity an area of competition. We freely share safety regulatory affairs role 1996 Expectations: As General Mills’ operations our best practices, emerging areas of expand around the world, we carry concern and regulatory activities to help Pioneered food Challenge: Keeping food safe in a global allergen labeling raise standards industrywide. We work economy poses challenges. Public with us our commitment to food safety 2006 on all products and strict adherence to the food safety with industry consortiums, partners and awareness around food safety increased processes and expectations we have been government agencies to advance food Established internal in the aftermath of high-profile incidents safety. For example, in Brazil (where we food safety training of tainted food, such as peanut butter in developing for more than half a century. acquired the Yoki food business in fiscal academy 2008 the U.S. and baby food in China. While Our standards are the same in developed and developing countries, though the 2013), we helped build local food safety Initiated global food those incidents were unrelated to General food safety challenges vary widely across capacity by piloting the Global Food safety supplier schools Mills, we know that consumers want locations. We tailor our training accordingly, Safety Initiative (GFSI) global markets 2013 assurance that the food we provide is safe. building the capacity to ensure globally program to help suppliers in Brazil Priority: Safety is a priority focus area for Surveyed employees harmonized food safety standards. prepare for future GFSI certification. In about global food our company leadership and part of our 2014, we partnered with the Grocery safety culture GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 32 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Manufacturer’s Association (GMA) to principles. In fiscal 2014, the Sanitation subject matter experts in areas ranging recognized food safety schemes. More launch and chair a Food Safety Training Center of Excellence provided sanitary from microbiology to consumer product than 88 percent of our facilities worldwide Share group focused on best practices design principles training internally and usage. This board provides guidance and – including our company-owned plants among all food manufacturers. We believe externally via multiple venues. More than risk management review to ensure that and co-production sites – are audited and/ that food safety is non-competitive 650 General Mills sanitarians, engineers and we design food safety into our products. or certified by an independent third party, and that we will raise the quality and food safety leaders globally received sanitary according to publicly available standards. Surveillance: We are committed to consistency of food safety training across design principles training in a variety of GFSI certification is a voluntary endeavor, mitigating and eliminating potential the industry by discussing current best learning formats. Externally, we partnered managed by the Consumer Goods Forum, food safety risks. Our surveillance approaches, leveraging common materials with the American Frozen Food Institute undertaken by food industry leaders programs monitor risk and provide and sharing successful methodologies. (AFFI), Association of Food and Drug to promote a harmonized approach to early detection to minimize any impact In 2013, we partnered with DuPont – a Officials (AFDO) and GMA to help provide managing food safety across the industry. when food safety issues are identified. globally recognized leader in workplace training about General Mills standards The certification of General Mills’ facilities safety – to conduct a survey to assess promoting sanitation best practices. Internal verification and validation: We is an additional assurance that our existing, human and food safety at our facilities conduct internal risk-based surveillance robust food safety systems continue worldwide. Now we are expanding our work Global systems and food safety testing at each General to evolve and improve. Across General with DuPont and regulators to develop a Mills facility. Our processes also undergo Mills, we have achieved GFSI certification Expertise: Our food safety systems common language for ranking facility risk. many layers of review. Our Global Internal of 63 percent of our company-owned focus on prevention, intervention and Sanitation: Proper sanitation is a foundation response. We apply this approach Audit team periodically audits the production facilities, indicating they of food safety and an area where General systematically on a global scale. effectiveness and efficiency of Quality and meet global standards for food safety Mills has developed significant expertise. Regulatory Operations’ internal controls management recognized in more than Planning: We integrate food safety into all 150 countries. We will continue to pursue Our Global Sanitation Center of Excellence and operating procedures. This risk our processes, beginning with R&D and GFSI certification with a goal of certifying trains General Mills teams as well as our assessment is reported to the company’s extending across our supply chain. Our all General Mills-owned facilities by 2020. suppliers and co-producers. Sanitation is a Global Governance Council and Board 1,500 R&D employees incorporate food Globally, 71 percent of our co-production key focus area for all stakeholders, so we of Directors. General Mills’ rigorous safety considerations when planning for sites and 43 percent of our ingredient also share our expertise with customers, internal review of food safety procedures new products to evaluate and eliminate supplier sites also are GFSI certified. regulators and others in the food industry. exceeds standard industry practices. potential food safety risks. Our Food Safety Our sanitation efforts extend from the Board includes senior leaders from across External verification and certification: Traceability: Our inventory control and proper design and construction of facilities our supply chain, R&D, legal and quality All General Mills facilities (excluding supplier management systems include and equipment to promote thorough and regulatory organizations as well as Yoki sites) are audited under globally the ability to trace the sources of our cleaning to the rigorous sanitation processes ingredients, which is key to and validation procedures necessary to isolating risks in the event of food v Our incidentensure safe food. At our frozen foods free focus applies safety concerns. We evaluate facility in Belvidere, Illinois, for example, to the safety of our suppliers’ systems to ensure our Sanitation Center of Excellence team our food and they meet our traceability our employees. worked with plant employees to create a Learn more about streamlined, cost-effective solution that employee safety v Our international supply chain, improves sanitation while reducing damage in the Workplace quality and regulatory teams focus section of this on employee leadership to achieve to equipment and production downtime, report. zero losses in the areas of food helping to increase production capacity. safety and employee safety. Learn We emphasize and invest in training more in the Workplace section of focused on sanitation and sanitary design this report. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community requirements. Our approach to selecting, Consumer response: All General Mills action when needed. We also use this by our Chief Executive Officer. This auditing and training suppliers helps ensure products around the world contain labeling consumer response system to help deliver corporate policy is further supported by the safety of the raw materials we use with basic nutrition facts, and almost all the products consumers want – we first an additional set of 16 detailed policies to make our products (see story 2B). branded products provide General Mills identified interest in gluten-free products, with accompanying standards and Action: As a prevention step, we regularly contact information, including phone for example, based on consumer inquiries. guidance documents providing more conduct mock recalls at our warehouses, numbers, web sites and addresses. When In 2014, we continued the global expansion granular requirements. These food safety production facilities and co-production sites consumers contact us with questions of our consumer feedback system. policies are developed by a global team worldwide. Results are shared annually or concerns, that data is systematically involving subject matter experts relevant as part of a global report. We conducted collected and tracked, offering a powerful Governance to the policy. Policies are signed by the five voluntary recalls in fiscal 2014: two early warning system for any food safety and auditing senior leader(s) in the functions primarily in the United States, two in Australia and risks. We monitor that data daily and responsible for assuring compliance. These respond rapidly when food safety questions Detailed policies: Governance of General global policies cover a broad range of one in Canada, all of which were limited in Mills’ food safety and regulatory matters scope and amount of product impacted. arise. We work with regulatory agencies food safety areas, including: regulatory and local governments to take appropriate begins with a corporate policy signed compliance; trace and recall; labeling; “As the leader of our Global Supply Chain organization, I expect every employee to Lead with Safety – that means protecting the safety of our employees and the safety of our food. With every package of every product in every market where we operate, we are making a promise to our consumers to deliver safe and wholesome food. I believe that we need to continually earn that trust and every employee across our Global Supply Chain shares that same commitment.” – John Church, Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain, General Mills Food safety academy launched in China General Mills China established training to internal General Mills a Food Safety and Public Science functions – including R&D, quality, Education Academy in July 2014 marketing, logistics, purchasing, General Mills recognized in cooperation with the Chinese plant and shop operations and with food safety award Institution of Foods Science and audit – and to external partners, In 2014, General Mills received the Outstanding Technology. The academy offers a including suppliers, co-packers and Contribution in Food Safety and Public Health in China comprehensive curriculum aimed logistic partners. The breadth of award. Award organizers included China Capital Business at strengthening applied technical this training emphasizes that food Daily and Ecolab Inc. with technical support from the knowledge in core food safety, safety is essential part of every job at Chinese Institution of Foods Science and Technology. quality and regulatory topics within General Mills and beyond – touching China. The academy provides all parts of the food supply chain. v The General Mills R&D center in China contributes to food safety improvements. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 34 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community claims; physical, chemical and biological Leadership: The Vice President of food safety professionals – supported Chinese, Portuguese and Spanish. In hazards; transportation; and good Quality and Regulatory Operations has with adequate resources and guided by fiscal 2014, we conducted the first manufacturing practices and sanitation. direct accountability for food safety. The clearly defined processes. From board Auditor Academy within our Quality These policies form the framework Global Internal Audit team periodically certified toxicologists to quality engineers, and Regulatory Operations team to help for internal audits conducted by our validates that our food safety processes our people have the expertise to make improve our ability to identify and fix Global Internal Audit team. We set high and controls are in place and operating informed food safety decisions from issues and prevent food safety problems standards and we have one set of policies effectively. The company’s Global product design through consumer use. from occurring; a second session took and standards across the globe. Our Governance Council conducts a quarterly place in Brazil in November 2014. Training: We continually refine our training target is ensuring our food is defect-free review of risk, which includes food safety. approach through our global centers of Global reach: In addition to onsite food and achieving 100 percent compliance. excellence focused on key food safety safety teams at each of our facilities Verification is a key component as we Strategy: People requirements, such as sanitation, quality and global centers of excellence, we audit against a single set of standards and processes engineering and auditing. We provide deploy additional resources when and strive to be fair and firm on ratings. Expertise: Our food safety formula begins comprehensive, consistent training through needed from across our network. Our metrics drive common standards with people – our team of experienced our global online training academy with G4-FP5, PR1, PR2 and speak to the desired outcome. materials in English, French, Mandarin 2B Partner to increase food safety Increase supplier and co-producer audits, training and awareness The General Mills Quality and Regulatory facility sanitization. We have offered 22 topics. The audits we conduct of supplier Impact Operations team performs direct training webinars since 2012, reaching facilities provide additional opportunities audits and also encourages thirdmore than 1,000 individuals and covering for individual food safety training. 772 supplier audits conducted party audits and/or certification, such a range of food safety and sanitation FP2, FP5, GR4-PR1 in 2014. as through GFSI, as an additional 139 co-producer audits conducted preventive control measure. Reducing supplier risk globally in 2014. Supplier training: Our products are only as safe as the ingredients they include, 35 percent reduction in ingredient so General Mills brings together our Audits Education suppliers classified as high risk suppliers around the world to share food and training from 2013 to 2014. safety knowledge and communicate food safety expectations. We conduct supplier Safety by 635 suppliers trained through design schools in classroom settings tailored to Supply supplier schools and webinars Supplier risk chain the needs of each market. In 2014, we in 2014. reduction visibility held a supplier school in India, building on the success of our supplier schools Approving Audits: To help ensure the safety of the conducted in Spain in 2013, China and and delisting raw materials (ingredients and packaging) Thailand in 2012, and the U.S. in 2011. suppliers 3rd party audits/ we use in our products, we continue Those seminars addressed topics such as Leverage GFSI to expand the number of supplier and biological and physical hazard controls, industry organizations co-producer audits we conduct globally. allergen management and production GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 3 Educate customers 3A Promote wellness Educate consumers around the world about nutrition and fitness consumers about nutrition and fitness. helps cultivate lifelong skills and healthy Projected impact To combat the problem of childhood habits in the fight against childhood obesity and help children form good obesity through school fitness programs. Nearly 1 million youth reached lifelong habits, we support programs Playworks: We provided US$282,500 through Champions for Healthy Kids at the community level, in schools and in 2014 to increase the number of U.S. initiatives since 2002. through early childhood learning centers. schools with Playworks, a program that brings trained coaches to schools in 50 million students and 90 percent of U.S. schools reached by 2020 Promoting nutrition/ low-income communities to facilitate through the Presidential Youth activity balance healthy recess and active play. Fitness Program. In the U.S., we support initiatives that Nemours: Our partnership with Nemours, raise awareness about the importance a nonprofit children’s health organization, 300+ schools with Playworks r Helping young children build healthy habits of balancing good nutrition and physical is helping to reduce the prevalence of provides the foundation for more active, programs. activity through healthy lifestyle childhood obesity and increase healthy healthier lives. 30,000 children and 305 programs choices – especially for children. targeted through early childhood Champions for Healthy Kids: Through partnership with Nemours. this signature program, we promote healthy nutrition and fitness for America’s Challenge: Consumers around the youth through community organizations. world are focused on improving their General Mills’ investment has helped overall health and wellness. Challenges nearly 1 million kids with health and include obesity and other nonfitness education since 2002. communicable conditions, such as Presidential Youth Fitness Program: diabetes and cardiovascular disease, We helped launch this program in 2012 that are influenced by lifestyle choices. with the President’s Council on Fitness, Our role: We believe that healthy lifestyles Sports and Nutrition and our commitment include not only a balanced diet but also of US$10 million over six years – the largest exercise and activity. For this reason, we single grant in the history of the General take a holistic approach to educating Mills Foundation. Our ongoing support r Active play contributes to children’s overall health and wellness. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 36 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community eating and physical activity in young children through programs at early childhood centers. Fewer than 10 percent of Americans ages 19 and older get the recommended reached has reached 33.2 million people, including 1,200 who have registered Provide nutrition Learn more about these partnerships in amount of vegetables each day. To help for the pledge and more than 8,000 information the Community section of this report. encourage consumption of vegetables as who have engaged in a live chat with a General Mills’ product packaging provides part of a balanced diet, especially among nutritionist online or interacted with the clear nutrition information for consumers Dietary guidelines: General Mills helps children, General Mills invests in information program through likes, clicks or shares. who want access to information that promote Dietary Guidelines for Americans 33.2 million campaigns through our Green Giant and will help them construct a healthy through our strategic partnership with Cascadian Farms brands that go beyond diet. As a member of the International the USDA Center for Nutrition Policy and product marketing efforts and encourage Food and Beverage Alliance (IFBA), Promotion. As part of this combined effort families to become more active and make people reached by the General Mills has made a commitment between government and industry, our positive changes to improve their diets. Green Giant “One Giant to adopt a new common global Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition helps Pledge” in the U.K. U.K.: Introduced in approach to nutrition information on equip health professionals and consumers January 2014, the pack, including the labelling of calories with practical nutrition tips in the context Green Giant “One on front-of-pack, to be implemented of Dietary Guidelines for Americans to Giant Pledge” by the end of 2016 (see separate help encourage healthy eating habits. program promotes the commitments listed by geography). Learn more at ChooseMyPlate.gov. development of healthy Promote vegetable habits. The program is a partnership with Change4Life, a public health consumption campaign that promotes making “smart Vegetables are a valuable source of nutrients. swaps” toward a healthier lifestyle. The American adults get more than 20 percent campaign encourages families to make of their daily fiber, potassium and vitamin C healthy choices about nutrition and r U.K. front-of-pack labeling. from vegetables, but vegetables contribute increase activity levels to reduce obesity. less than 10 percent of total daily calories. The One Giant Pledge program has r One Giant Pledge asks consumers to Europe: Fulfilling the requirements of the make just one small change to their routine to eat better or become more active. Pledge new European food labeling regulation participants receive recipes and tips with – the Food Information to Consumers ideas for eating more vegetables and Regulation – every General Mills package controlling portion sizes, along with coupons and prizes. has been reviewed and updated. In 2014, 98 percent of General Mills products U.S.: Through our Green Giant brand, included dietary reference intake we have committed to investing information on the packaging. General US$550 million to promote vegetable Mills aims to provide the highest level of consumption over a three-year period consistency and transparency possible (2014-2017) – with efforts targeted working within packaging constraints. toward encouraging kids ages 2-5 to Where space on packages permits, the fiveeat vegetables. The campaign includes icon format – including energy (calories), an online resource for parents called fat, saturated fat, sugar and sodium – is “the green room” offering kid-friendly displayed. As a minimum on smaller recipes, advice and inspiration. packages we include the energy icon. r Increasing vegetable consumption boosts intake of valuable nutrients. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Australia: To provide consumers with October 2010. The purpose of NFEC was approach to help increase consumers’ helps them meet dietary recommendations. clear, fact-based nutrition information, we to increase the usage and understanding understanding and use of serving size General Mills was the first to use a “contain” are implementing front-of-pack labeling of the Percent Daily Value on the Nutrition information together with the Percent statement to highlight allergen information consistent with IFBA requirements. In Facts table. Four years later, the NFEC is Daily Value on the Nutrition Facts table. boldly on our product information panels. 2014, more than 68 percent of our taking a new form with participation from G4-EC1, FP4, FP8, PR3 U.S.: The majority of our U.S. products products displayed nutrition reference retailers through the Retail Council of now feature front-of-package labeling. The intake information on the front of the Canada and the Canadian Federation of Nutrition Keys are a set of icons adopted package. We continue working to meet Independent Grocers working with General by the packaged food industry that provide the 2016 labeling commitment. Mills and Health Canada to support one information about calories, saturated fat, Canada: As a member of Food & Consumer consistent set of messages that will amplify sodium and sugars – designed to make Products of Canada (FCPC), General Mills the campaign’s impact and increase it easier to make informed food choices and 33 other food companies in partnership engagement with Canadian consumers. in the grocery aisle. All our Big G cereal r U.S. Nutrition Keys front-of-package labeling. with Health Canada launched the Nutrition This next phase of the NFEC, set to launch boxes also display grams of whole grain per Facts Education Campaign (NFEC) in in May 2015, will have a simple, focused serving so consumers can see how cereal 3B Support responsible marketing Address advertising to children around the world Philosophy: We believe children popularity of social media. The guidelines Commitment should be encouraged to consume cover both general marketing and child low-calorie, nutrient-dense foods. marketing inside and outside of the U.S. Global: Commitment to Our marketing guidelines and Review: General Mills has had child International Food and Beverage commitments support this philosophy. marketing guidelines in place for more Alliance pledge. Guidelines: General Mills’ marketing than 30 years. The guidelines are reviewed U.S.: Compliance with Children’s guidelines underscore our commitment to and updated annually by the company’s Food and Beverage Advertising responsible marketing and advertising by Child Marketing Review Council. These Initiative guidelines. stating that all marketing should respect guidelines are reviewed annually with three key steps to healthier living: balance, the company’s Chief Executive Officer Europe: Compliance with moderation and physical activity. We take and the Chief Operating Officers of r We have made commitments around the EU Pledge. particular care around advertising directed the company’s U.S. and International world supporting responsible marketing and advertising to children. to children – including prior review by the operating units. We adhere to strict internal Canada: Compliance with Canadian Better Business Bureau’s Child Advertising and industry guidelines in producing the Director General of the U.N. World Children’s Food and Beverage Review Unit in the United States. We and reviewing ads to ensure they are Health Organization in September 2014 Advertising Initiative guidelines. update our marketing guidelines annually appropriate for the intended audience. communicating a set of enhanced global Singapore: Compliance with to reflect current standards and practices. commitments that include responsible Global commitment: As charter Singapore Food and Beverage In August 2014, we introduced new marketing and advertising initiatives. These members of the International Food and Industry Responsible Advertising marketing guidelines for fiscal 2015 that new standards encompass commitments Beverage Alliance (IFBA), we joined to Children Initiative. feature changes tied to the increasingly around product reformulation and other leading food and non-alcoholic global nature of our business and continued innovation as well as a common global beverage companies in a public letter to GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 38 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community approach to providing nutrition information Mills applies our nutrition standards to nutrition criteria to kids under 12. In 2014, communications targeted at children 12 and on packaging, at the point of sale and products that we advertise to children participants in the EU Pledge implemented younger to meet common nutrient criteria. through other channels by the end of under the age of 12 everywhere that we uniform category-level nutrition The guidelines apply to all media platforms. 2016. The new commitments include an operate around the world, including Europe, standards and introduced enhanced Australia: General Mills is a signatory of expansion of IFBA’s global marketing policy, Latin America, North America and Asia. commitments, which are applicable as of the Responsible Child Marketing Initiative in place since 2009, which specified that December 2016. These new EU Pledge U.S.: General Mills has been at the forefront of the Australian Food and Grocery members would only advertise products commitments, presented to the European of efforts to strengthen the Children’s Food Council. While our Australian brands that meet better-for-you criteria or refrain Commission and key EU stakeholders and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) do not specifically appeal to children, from all product marketing to children in November 2014 at the EU Platform child advertising nutrition standards. The we nevertheless adhere to the terms under 12 years old. The enhanced 2014 for Action on Diet, Physical Activity and company is in full compliance with the of the code around non-advertising in commitments strengthen that policy in Health, cover additional media and, in CFBAI guidelines, which took effect in media primarily directed to children. three core areas: media, marketing and addition to placement criteria, address the December 2013. These category-level G4-PR6, FP8 harmonized criteria. The new policy covers content of marketing communications. guidelines apply rigorous nutrition virtually all media and certain marketing standards for specific food groups, such Canada: In Canada, we participate in the techniques directed at children under as yogurt and cereal, consistently across Canadian Children’s Food and Beverage 12. Members commit to working toward the U.S. food and beverage industry. Advertising Initiative (CAI), a voluntary harmonizing global nutrition criteria Europe: As a founding member of the EU initiative by 18 of Canada’s leading food to ensure that better-for-you foods are Pledge, a voluntary initiative by leading and beverage companies to promote and based on robust common standards. food and beverage companies, General support healthy dietary choices and lifestyles Compliance with IFBA commitments is to children under 12 years of age. General Mills and other signatories, including monitored independently and publicly Mills supports the new CAI nutrition criteria our cereal joint venture CPW, agree to reported by Accenture annually. General announced in October 2014 that establish advertise only products that meet specific a single set of guidelines for advertising only better-for-you products in eight food and beverage categories. The new criteria include maximum calories, nutrients to limit and other nutrients to encourage. The new criteria come into effect on Dec. 31, 2015. Singapore: As a signatory to the 2012 Singapore Food and Beverage Industry Responsible Advertising to Children Initiative, General Mills supports the new advertising guidelines effective January 2015 that build upon the industry pledge. Developed through a public-private consortium, the new guidelines require all food and beverage products promoted in marketing r We believe children should be encouraged to consume low-calorie, nutrient-dense foods. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 SOURCING OUR GOAL is to sustainably source the raw materials we use in our products. We are committed to sustainably sourcing 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020 – representing more than 50 percent of our annual raw material purchases. We partner with multi-stakeholder groups to advance sustainable sourcing frameworks, then pilot scalable solutions and share our findings so others can refine their efforts. At the same time, we are improving water stewardship and reinforcing socially responsible practices across our extended supply chain. Our sustainability mission is to Our strategies conserve and protect the natural Increase Collaborate Advance resources and communities upon sustainability to improve socially which our business depends. of ingredients global water responsible stewardship supply chains GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 40 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Overview Sustainable sourcing commitment: In support of General Mills’ long-term, sustainable sourcing strategy, we are making progress toward our commitment to sustainably source 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020. These ingredients represent 50 percent of General Mills’ total raw material purchases. We work with smallholder farmers in developing economies and larger-scale growers in developed economies to address challenges and pursue opportunities unique to each growing region. Through our focus on sustainable sourcing, we are tackling the areas of greatest environmental impact in our supply chain. Nearly two-thirds of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and 99 percent of water use occur outside General Mills’ operations, primarily in agriculture. We also advance responsible sourcing practices that respect human rights and protect animal welfare. Our efforts extend beyond our priority raw materials. We hold all our suppliers to the same standards we require of our own operations, as detailed in our updated General Mills Supplier Code of Conduct. In October 2014, we joined the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, further demonstrating our commitment to driving improvements in responsible and ethical business practices across our supply chain. Performance dashboard (see sustainability definitions on page 123) FY2020 target (% of spend Progress through FY2014 (% of Ingredient Primary challenges sourced sustainably) spend sourced sustainably***) Vanilla Smallholder farmer incomes, food security, quality of ingredients 100% 45% Smallholder farmer incomes, community economic/social Cocoa development, education (child labor), deforestation/environment 100% 10% Deforestation (biodiversity, endangered species, Palm oil environmental impact), indigenous peoples’ rights 100%* 83% Labor rights (child & forced labor, working conditions); Sugarcane lack of origin visibility due to supply chain complexity 100% 42% Oats Declining supply due to profitability vs. other crops 100% 35% U.S. wheat GHG emissions, water usage, biodiversity 100% 15% U.S. sugar beets GHG emissions, soil loss 100% 34% U.S. corn (dry milled) GHG emissions, nutrient utilization, biodiversity 100% 6% Dairy (fluid milk)** GHG emissions, water usage, water quality, animal well-being 100% 20% Fiber packaging Deforestation 100% 99% * Palm oil 100% by 2015; baseline year FY2014 for all ingredients except palm oil (baseline year FY2010) G4-FP2 ** Excludes Yoplait International *** Progress numbers may vary from year to year due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data tracking methodology. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Progress PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 Assessment Strategy Transformation Monitoring formation & evaluation WHEAT SUGAR VANILLA PALM OIL FIBER BEETS PACKAGING CORN DAIRY COCOA OATS SUGARCANE Our approach: assess & transform Improve the environmental, economic and social impacts of sustainable sourcing We help move our raw material supply chain toward more addition to WWF, General Mills partners with a range of health and safety of workers, indigenous peoples’ rights, sustainable solutions using a range of approaches, including industry groups, including Field to Market: The Alliance deforestation, economic sustainability, fertilizer (nitrogen) certification, verification, continuous improvement and for Sustainable Agriculture and Bonsucro as well as nonuse, GHG emissions, soil loss, water quality and water use. origin-direct investment. Our approach is tailored for each governmental organizations (NGOs) like The Nature ingredient and geography, whether we are working with Conservancy (TNC) and the international humanitarian 2. Strategy formation: We identified the smallholder farmers in developing economies or commodity organization CARE to improve sustainability. 10 priority raw materials where we can have the agriculture in developed economies. We measure and greatest impact from a sourcing standpoint and are General Mills follows a four-step sustainable sourcing manage the use of water and energy throughout our supply pursuing strategies for sustainably sourcing these model – assessment, strategy formation, transformation chain; improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers materials: palm oil, fiber packaging, wheat, oats, sugar and monitoring/evaluation – to improve the sustainability and their communities through our creating shared value beets, vanilla, cocoa, dairy, corn and sugarcane. of the raw materials we use to make our products. strategy; and advance responsible sourcing practices by respecting human rights and protecting animal welfare. 1. Assessment: Working with WWF and the Rainforest 3. Transformation: We achieve the greatest sustainability We have worked with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) impact by working with industry partners and NGOs across Alliance, we completed a comprehensive, in-depth since 2010 to integrate sustainability into General Mills’ the supply chain to devise and implement solutions. We assessment of all the raw materials we buy worldwide. Each supply chain. We conducted a supply risk analysis of pilot projects and communicate the results so we – and raw material was measured against dozens of potential risk our agricultural sourcing and a water risk assessment. In others in the industry – can continue to refine our approach. categories, including animal welfare, child and forced labor, “What began at General Mills as an incremental approach has burgeoned into a wider embrace of environmental accountability and more sustainable sourcing. General Mills’ decisions have been a wake-up call to corporate peers, challenging them to realize that sustainable sourcing is not only good practice, but absolutely vital for their future.” – David McLaughlin, Vice President of Agriculture, World Wildlife Fund GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 42 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 4. Monitoring and evaluation: Our efforts to monitor and Financial Officer; Executive Vice President of Innovation, Technology General Mills raw evaluate our progress are ongoing. When necessary, we involve and Quality; Executive Vice President of U.S. Retail Operations; Senior Vice President, Sales and Channel Development; and Executive material sourcing third-party auditors to help measure and analyze our results. Vice President, International. Board oversight occurs through regular sustainability updates to the Public Responsibility Committee. The Leadership and governance: Within General Mills, General Mills Director of Sourcing Sustainability plays a leadership responsibility for sustainable sourcing lies with the Vice President role in key industry initiatives, and serves as Chair of the board of and Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) and the Director of Sourcing Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture. Additionally, Sustainability, who reports to the CSO and the Vice President and members of the General Mills sustainable sourcing team participate Chief Purchasing Officer. The CSO reports into the Executive Vice in other initiatives, such as the Sustainability Council of the Innovation President of Supply Chain and the Senior Vice President of External 80% developed economies Center for U.S. Dairy, the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), Relations. In addition to the aforementioned leaders, our Sustainability 20% developing economies Bonsucro and the Sustainability Consortium. Governance Committee includes: the Chief Executive Officer; Chief G4-15, 42 r More than 80 percent of the raw materials General Mills purchases are sourced from developed economies – countries with higher per capita income, AGRICULTURE TRANSFORMING CONVERTING PACKAGING SHIPPING SELLING CONSUMING literacy and life expectancy, greater Growing crops (planting, Turning crops into food Making products Producing packaging Moving food to Making food available Enjoying food export diversification and integration into from food ingredients materials (making stores (transporting for purchase (stocking, (making and eating) tending and harvesting) ingredients (cleaning, (mixing and cooking) and transporting) and delivering) promoting and shopping) the global financial system. According to milling and preparing) the United Nations, developed regions include North America, Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. r The content in this section relates primarily to the Agriculture and Transforming phases of our value chain. For a more detailed view of our value chain, see page 7. G4-12 Our strategies and actions 1 Increase sustainability of ingredients 2 Collaborate to improve global water stewardship 3 Advance socially responsible supply chains A P  romote sustainable practices A Foster and engage in watershed stewardship A Respect human rights in our supply chains with smallholder farmers in B I ncrease supplier diversity developing economies C Protect animal welfare B E  ncourage sustainable agricultural practices C E  xtend sustainability efforts beyond priority raw materials GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 1 Increase sustainability of ingredients 1A Promote sustainable practices with smallholder farmers in developing economies Increase sustainability and improve livelihoods through origin-direct investment In developing economies, we work Farmers’ typically sell their vanilla beans to CARE and Madagascar-based NGO The majority of the vanilla we purchase is with smallholder farmers, NGOs and local traders; these collectors encourage Fanamby to improve farmer incomes grown and cured in Madagascar’s Sava region. industry partners to pursue sustainable early harvesting, which negatively affects as well as the quantity, quality and development that addresses economic, vanilla quality. As a result, farmers receive traceability of vanilla. Madagascar is environmental and social challenges a lower price for their crop. Creating the world’s leading producer of vanilla, through our creating shared value direct links between vanilla growers’ responsible for more than 90 percent strategy. Using this model, we help associations and international buyers of of production, and the primary source ensure sustainable sourcing of raw vanilla beans is key to assuring long-term of the premium vanilla used in Häagen1 materials while boosting the incomes viability of the crop and economic security Dazs ice cream. By purchasing directly of smallholder farmers and raising for farmers. Vanilla grows under the from farmers, we provide economic living standards in their communities. forest canopy, so maintaining vanilla as a incentive for them to produce high-quality 1 Madagascar viable crop helps prevent deforestation. vanilla beans and encourage future Vanilla Strategy: In Madagascar, we are working generations to continue growing vanilla. with vanilla supplier Virginia Dare, the Progress: In 2013, we launched a program using a mobile phone app, providing international humanitarian organization in the village of Belambo, located in the security and accessibility in a region Commitment: General Mills northern part of Madagascar’s Sava without a formal banking infrastructure. will source 100 percent of our region, to support Fanamby’s training of In 2013, this farmer co-op represented vanilla by 2020 through origin325 farming families, benefiting more approximately 10 percent of General direct investment, improving the than 1,900 people. The program teaches Mills’ vanilla purchases. In 2014, we incomes of smallholder farmers horticultural practices and trains farmers extended the program to Antananambo and the quality of ingredients. to expand their skills – and incomes – by and Ampohibe, two communities in Status: 45 percent of the vanilla the southern section of the 200-mileGeneral Mills purchased was learning to cure the vanilla they grow. Vanilla curing expertise helps farmers long Sava region. Farmer associations in sustainably sourced in fiscal 2014. Belambo, Antananambo and Ampohibe significantly increase their earnings. Farmers represent 900 growers and their 3,600 Challenges: The primary risk to the world’s are paid for their crop family members. Combined, these sites long-term supply of vanilla is economic: have the capacity to fulfill General Mills’ r Cured vanilla sourced from smallholder vanilla sourcing needs, positioning us to the ability of smallholder farmers to earn w We use high-quality vanilla farmers in Madagascar. enough from the crop to feed their families. in Häagen-Dazs ice cream. meet our vanilla sourcing commitment GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 44 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community prior to 2020. Virginia Dare procured 13 to measure progress, including the effort to improve food security in Belambo. vanilla to purchase rice at lower prices metric tons of vanilla beans from these economic impact to smallholder farmers We funded construction of a storage throughout the year, helping improve farmers in 2013 and projects that volume and the community and improvements warehouse that provides local families farmer livelihoods. We will expand the to increase to 16 metric tons from the 2014 in the yield and quality of vanilla beans. access to rice year-round, regardless program in 2015 to include farmers in crop. Fanamby is collecting data that will of market availability. Farmers use Ampohibe and Antananambo villages. Food security: The General Mills be used to create a standardized scorecard their premium payments from cured Foundation also supports a CARE-led “At Fanamby, we’re very proud to have connected a large company, such as General Mills, and local farmers to partner and work together toward the sustainable production of vanilla. We’re proud that this partnership contributes to poverty alleviation.” – Serge Rajaobelina, Executive Secretary, Fanamby Employee engagement: connecting communities in France and Madagascar In 2014, employees from our Two employees traveled from for the new school building that students in primary and Working with the school director, Häagen-Dazs production facility Arras to Belambo in October will accommodate 120 additional secondary grades. Employees employees are helping to link in Arras, France, provided 2014 to help organize books students from the surrounding also donated four computers for the Belambo primary school donations to help build a new and inaugurate the library for area. The three existing school the school and provide ongoing with a primary school in Arras to library and expand the village community use. They joined 100 buildings need upgrading, as support to maintain equipment, deepen the connection between school in Belambo, Madagascar. people in digging the foundation they serve more than 900 books and school supplies. these two communities. r Isabelle Panckoucke and Pascal r Pascal Hochedé from Arras r Isabelle Panckoucke led French r Enjoying the sweet result of this r Arras employees helped sort Hochedé, employees from our helped dig the new school building grammar and vocabulary lessons connection: Häagen-Dazs ice cream cured vanilla beans. Learn more in Häagen-Dazs production facility in foundation. for students, who learn the made with Madagascar vanilla. this blog post from December 2014. Arras, France, helped open the new Malagasy and French languages library in Belambo village. at school. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Progress: In Ghana, West Africa, we Cocoa are working with cocoa supplier Cargill More than 70 percent of the cocoa we purchase is grown in Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana. and CARE to form village co-ops in 20 Commitment: General Mills communities as part of a three-year will source 100 percent of our commitment. The goal is to help improve cocoa by 2020 through originthe lives of 2,000 smallholder farmers direct investment, improving the and the quality and sustainability of the 1 incomes of smallholder farmers cocoa they grow. General Mills’ investment 2 and the quality of ingredients. provides farm automation and equipment, Status: 10 percent of the cocoa training by local agronomists to increase r More of the cocoa used in General Mills General Mills purchased was yields sustainably, and grants to improve products is sourced from smallholder farmers. 1 Côte d’Ivoire education and health in these communities. 2 Ghana sustainably sourced in fiscal 2014. In Côte d’Ivoire, West Africa, we partner The program tracks cocoa from the farm to with cocoa supplier Barry Callebaut to Code of Conduct prohibits the use of forced the production facility where it is processed help smallholder farmers grow cocoa more Challenges: Economic viability – ensuring labor and child labor, we understand that and its delivery to General Mills for use as sustainably, increase yields, and improve smallholder farmers earn enough from the it will take industrywide collaboration an ingredient in our products. Cocoa yields their incomes and livelihoods. In November crop to feed their families – is the major to make improvements. In addition to for the 20 participating communities are 2013, we began sourcing all of the cocoa for challenge to securing the world’s longdirect work with our suppliers, General expected to grow from 600 tons of cocoa our Häagen-Dazs operations in France from term supply of cocoa. Low productivity, Mills is a member of the World Cocoa beans in 2014 to 2,500 tons in 2017 –­ more a sustainable supply program managed by crop loss due to pests or disease and Foundation (WCF), which encourages than a 400 percent increase in three years. Barry Callebaut. The program strengthens degraded soil fertility must be addressed socially, economically and environmentally In the future, CARE will report progress farmer cooperatives and trains farmers to to improve farmer livelihoods and food responsible and sustainable cocoa using a scorecard to consistently measure increase productivity, manage pests and security in cocoa farming communities. farming, reaching more than 540,000 the impact on each community, including diseases, and improve the quality of their Helping families keep children in school cocoa farmers in Africa, Asia and the improvements in smallholder farmer cocoa. The program also educates farmers rather than working on cocoa farms Americas. WCF builds partnerships incomes, farm productivity and cocoa about the importance of biodiversity and also is essential. Cocoa grows under the with cocoa farmers, governments and yields, women’s empowerment, children’s sound labor practices, including child labor forest canopy, so maintaining cocoa as a environmental organizations; supports education and awareness of child labor issues. In addition, the program may help viable crop helps prevent deforestation. and applies research that improves crop issues, nutrition and health, and community improve access to education, healthcare and yield and quality; and supports training Strategy: General Mills partners with services, such as water, clean water in cocoa farming communities. and education for cocoa farming families. the suppliers from whom we source sanitation and roads. Collaboration: Cocoa farming is an our cocoa ingredients to help improve intensive process. General Mills recognizes the economic, environmental and social w Many General Mills that there are systemic labor issues in the sustainability of cocoa production. baking products contain cocoa. cocoa supply chain and while our Supplier “We can make a difference, get more profit to cocoa farmers and help them create a more sustainable business model, which will improve the sustainability of the cocoa supply chain.” – Carson Funderburk, Director, Supply Chain Leader Convenience & Foodservice, General Mills GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 46 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community unsustainable palm oil production process. Representatives from Proforest Palm oil practices can also threaten the rights have communicated with all of our palm Most of the palm oil we purchase comes from Malaysia and Brazil. of indigenous peoples. Development oil suppliers to ensure they are aware of Commitment: General Mills approaches that include economic and fully understand our palm oil sourcing will source 100 percent of our opportunities for smallholder farmers policy. Our suppliers have agreed to provide palm oil from responsible and around palm refineries have the information relating both to the traceability sustainable sources by 2015. potential to improve farmer livelihoods of their palm oil and the measures that 1 3 Status: 83 percent of the palm and encourage sustainable farming they are taking to ensure compliance 2 2 oil General Mills purchased practices while protecting biodiversity. with our sourcing policy. All palm oil was sustainably sourced in Strategy: General Mills is committed purchased by General Mills must be fiscal 2014; at the end of 2014, supplied in line with these commitments. 1 Malaysia to sourcing palm oil in a socially and 2 Brazil 69 percent of our palm oil environmentally responsible manner. We At the end of 2014, 69 percent of our palm 3 Indonesia volume was categorized as continue converting our palm oil supply to oil volume was categorized as traceable traceable to the extraction mill sustainable sources in order to reinforce the to the extraction mill and responsibly and responsibly sourced. development of certified sustainable palm oil production. Our initial commitment in 2010 included compliance with our Supplier Purchasing of Roundtable on Sustainable Challenges: The world’s increasing demand Code of Conduct as well as prevention and Palm Oil (RSPO) certified volumes in 2014 for palm oil has led to the expansion of palm plantations and contributed to the resolution of social and/or land conflicts Amount of mass deforestation of the world’s rainforests. This consistent with the principle of free, prior Purchasing region Total General Mills balanced palm and informed consent. We recognize and and certificate use palm purchased (MT) deforestation is having a negative impact purchased (MT) on biodiversity, endangered species and the are very concerned about the ongoing broader environment. Deforestation is a deforestation in palm growing regions. To North America 35,603 7,030 major contributor to global climate change, ensure our purchases do not contribute Brazil 13,432 8,412 accounting for an estimated 15 percent to deforestation of the world’s rainforests, we updated our initial 2010 commitment Europe 9,486 9,486 of global greenhouse gas emissions. Despite being a highly productive crop in our palm oil policy during 2014. China 2,000 0 that can offer a path out of poverty, Progress: We are on track to meet our Australia 423 239 2015 commitment. In 2014, 83 percent of our palm oil was sourced through India 204 0 sustainable purchases. General Mills also South Africa <1 0 is helping lead the industry toward greater Argentina <1 0 sustainability by moving with our supplier base toward a more traceable supply. Subtotal: mass balanced 25,167 In 2014, we began working with Proforest Green palm certificates 25,389 to trace our palm oil supply chain, identify sustainability risks and ensure responsible Total: sustainably sourced 61,148 50,556 sourcing. Proforest has conducted r General Mills is addressing GHG emissions due to land use change through sustainable sourcing r We continue to increase the percentage of efforts in key supply chains and growing regions. Our aim is to achieve zero net deforestation in sustainably sourced palm in our products. traceability mapping of our supply chain high-risk supply chains by 2020. Learn more in our Climate Policy. © Proforest and commenced the supplier assessment GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 47 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community sourced. The mills identified so far are this commitment. Our top three palm oil source palm oil only from suppliers whose located in Southeast Asia and Latin suppliers are ADM, Agropalma and Bunge. operations meet the following principles: America. After identifying the relevant  nly legal sources. Principles: Although General Mills is n O supply chains, we are working with a relatively minor user of palm oil, we n  o development on high conservation N Proforest to ensure that each supplier believe our purchasing practices can value landscapes or high carbon can continue to verify that its palm oil help move the industry forward on this stock (HCS) forests. While the HCS supply complies with our palm oil policy. issue. General Mills is a member of and methodology is being refined by We will continue working with Proforest supports the principles of the Roundtable field testing and science review, new to ensure third-party verification of our on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and RSPO plantings should only be established r We are committed to achieving zero net palm oil supply. We expect all our palm efforts to encourage and certify sustainable in low carbon stock areas. deforestation in our high-risk supply chains. oil suppliers to confirm their commitment palm oil production practices. To reinforce © Proforest to our palm oil policy by year-end 2015 those principles, General Mills purchases n  o development on peat lands N regardless of depth, and use of Collaboration: As part of our commitment, and to achieve 100 percent traceability palm oil only from RSPO members – with best management practices for General Mills has integrated responsible of our palm oil supplies by the same preference for purchasing RSPO-certified, existing plantations on peat. palm oil procurement guidelines into date. We are currently on track to achieve sustainable palm oil. In addition, we will n  ompliance with the General Mills C our sourcing strategies. As a principled Supplier Code of Conduct, which purchaser, General Mills engages its describes our expectations in food suppliers in direct review of their palm oil safety, forced labor, child labor, abuse production and sourcing practices – and of labor, freedom of association and will continue to do so. If an audit or other collective bargaining, discrimination and highly credible source reveals or confirms harassment, wages and benefits, work that a supplier is seriously violating the hours and overtime, health and safety, stated principles, and if that supplier does environment, and anti-corruption. not acknowledge and immediately move to acceptably remediate the concern, General n  revention and resolution of social P Mills will move to suspend or eliminate and/or land conflicts consistent palm oil purchases from the supplier in with the principle of free, prior question. We support transparency relative and informed consent. to palm production and expansion and  n Traceability to the extraction mill and will regularly update our progress. We will r We are working with Proforest to trace our palm oil supply chain. © Proforest validation of fresh fruit bunches. encourage our suppliers to do the same. “Proforest is partnering with General Mills in order to ensure that the company’s palm oil sourcing commitments are implemented. That work includes mapping palm oil supply chains to origin, wherever possible, and understanding any sustainability risks. These insights will help General Mills meet its commitment to exclude palm oil from unacceptable sources and source only from responsible and sustainable sources.” – Neil Judd, Director, Proforest GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 48 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community chain into the United States, which Progress: In 2014, we began to identify Sugarcane accounts for 85 percent of General the numerous potential sugarcane More than 80 percent of the sugarcane we purchase comes from refineries Mills’ global sugarcane purchases. U.S. origin locations in our supply chain and in North America. Commitment: General Mills regulations require certain amounts of assign a risk rating. General Mills is a will source 100 percent of our sugar to be sourced from specific countries. relatively small purchaser of sugarcane 3 sugarcane by 2020 from from any one market. We work with Strategy: We are increasing our 2 responsible and sustainable Bonsucro and AIM-PROGRESS to knowledge about the origins of the sources. strengthen the sugarcane supply chain. sugarcane we purchase through our Status: 42 percent of the membership in Bonsucro, an international Together, we are encouraging suppliers 1 2 sugarcane General Mills purchased organization focused on improving the to conduct gap analyses as the first step was sustainably sourced in environmental, social and economic toward certification using the Bonsucro fiscal 2014. sustainability of sugarcane production production standard. This standard 1 Brazil focuses on legal compliance; biodiversity 2 Mexico and processing, including certification 3 United States using the Bonsucro standard. General and ecosystem impacts; human rights; Challenges: Labor rights are a major Mills joined Bonsucro in 2013. and the production and processing of sugarcane. Our major sugarcane suppliers concern in the sugarcane supply chain, include Cargill, Domino and Imperial. including issues of child and forced labor as well as working conditions related Collaboration: In March 2014, General to worker health, safety and hours. Mills joined a group of AIM-PROGRESS Sugarcane is produced predominantly members to better understand recent in tropical and subtropical geographies improvements in labor conditions in the around the world. In Brazil, the origination Dominican Republic. The Dominican point for approximately two-thirds of all Republic has a high quota under sugar global sugarcane exports, agricultural regulations that control the amount of raw development during the last decade has sugar imports into the U.S., which affects resulted in large-scale operations with our sugarcane supply chain. We continue increased mechanization. In many other to evaluate opportunities for advancing parts of the world, however, poor labor industrywide initiatives for sustainable practices persist. Another challenge is sugarcane, including improving production the lack of origin visibility due to the methods and conserving natural resources. r We focus on improving the environmental, social and economic impacts of sugarcane production and complexity and regulations of the supply processing in our supply chain. G4-EC7, EC8, EC9, LA15, HR5, HR6, HR8, HR11, SO1, FP4 “General Mills actively engages with Bonsucro. By embracing our partnership, we work collaboratively to create positive action plans within the supply chain to achieve a sustainable sugarcane sector.” – Natasha Schwarzbach, Head of Engagement, Bonsucro GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 49 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 1B Encourage sustainable agricultural practices Collaborate with growers to increase sustainability of North American row crops Strategy: We work with industry groups, our suppliers and North American growers Increasing crop sustainability in key growing regions to increase the sustainability of row crops, including the following General Mills’ priority ingredients: oats, wheat, sugar beets and WESTERN North American growing corn. We are increasing sustainability by CANADA regions and rotation crops: reducing the environmental impact of Red River Valley: sugar beets, RED agriculture through continuous improvement, NORTHERN RIVER corn, soy, wheat PLAINS VALLEY demonstrated by measuring year-on-year Snake River: wheat, potatoes, improvements compared to baseline data. SNAKE barley, sugar beets RIVER EASTERN Framework: In the U.S., we partner with WISCONSIN Northern Plains: wheat, corn, canola EASTERN Western Canada: oats, wheat, Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable CORN BELT canola, pulses (peas and lentils) Agriculture and our suppliers to help growers SOUTHERN leverage the Field to Market framework PLAINS Southern Plains: wheat, sorghum, corn for gathering data about how their farming Eastern Corn Belt: wheat, practices influence natural resources and corn, soybeans outcomes on their farms (see map on this Eastern Wisconsin: dry-milled corn, General Mills priority ingredients sourced from these regions: soybeans, alfalfa, vegetables page for details about growing regions Oats U.S. wheat U.S. sugar beets Dry-milled corn (for canneries) and rotation crops). Using this framework, farmers collect information about efficiency of land use, soil conservation, water use, to sugar beets to potatoes. We connect from the European-based ISEAL (a global make the connection between sustainability energy use and GHG emissions. We have a with farmers and other industry leaders association for sustainability standards) and profitability necessary to drive changes similar partnership with Serecon in Canada. to include rotational crops that are not methodology. We are adjusting this protocol in farming practices. While our industry As of 2014, more than 100 growers were part of our focus on priority ingredients for North America and using the five years partners provide agronomic expertise participating across North America. for General Mills products, including of robust data collected by Idaho farmers to improve sustainability, those supply Rotational crop analysis: We work with lentils, peas, canola and potatoes. within the Field to Market framework chain engagements reach approximately farmers to increase sustainability of the to create a sustainability verification 20 percent of North American growers. Scalability and verification: To expand the entire crop rotation in each key growing claim in 2015. This claim will be the first To expand the scope of agricultural sustainability impact of this approach, we area. In six of the seven regions, grower using a growing region’s full rotational sustainability improvements, we need the partner with 10-25 progressive farmers participation ranges from 10-25 growers crop analysis (rather than focusing on a involvement and leadership of agricultural and several supply chain partners across and 50,000-125,000 acres per region. We single crop). We will refine this approach retailers and independent agronomists seven key North American growing regions are in the process of recruiting growers and then replicate it for other regions. collectively called Certified Crop Advisors (noted in the map above) to build a scalable in our newest region, Eastern Wisconsin, Networks: We are leveraging existing (CCAs). Field to Market is helping build national program and verification protocol. where we are targeting 20 corn farmers. networks of local farm advisers to boost a sustainability curriculum that will The Field to Market verification team, This approach enables measurement farmer participation across key growing become part of the certification process including General Mills and Syngenta, is of the same fields each year as farmers regions. These agronomic advisers help for CCAs across the United States. developing a sustainability protocol adapted rotate crops, such as from wheat to barley GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 50 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Expand Field to Market reach, reduce environmental impact Using Field to Market tools, farmers can Land Use “In a resource-constrained world with increased demands on food evaluate their land use, soil conservation, soil and water, the entire agricultural supply chain must work together carbon, energy use, GHG emissions, water quality and use of irrigated water. The resulting Water Quality Soil Conservation to pursue solutions to address environmental challenges while Fieldprint® Score, like the example pictured meeting the needs of a growing population. General Mills has here, captures metrics across seven key growing demonstrated leadership by partnering with Field to Market to dimensions. The score enables benchmark comparisons with district, state and national help farmers identify opportunities for continuous improvement averages, so farmers can evaluate their results in the sustainability of commodity crop production.” along with data from other growers in the same Energy Use Soil Carbon – Rod Snyder, President, Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture district who share similar growing conditions. General Mills is actively working with Field to v The Fieldprint Score shown for a selected crop plots performance against seven Market: The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture environmental indicators on this spidergram. The spidergram axes are relative indices representing resource use or impact per unit of output in each of the seven indicators. to engage growers in measuring continuous Lower values closer to the center indicate a lower impact on each resource. A grower’s improvement of outcomes-based metrics. Greenhouse Gas Irrigation results (blue) are compared to the state (orange) and national (green) averages. Emissions Water Use Sustainability benefits: Oats are an Oats environmentally friendly crop requiring Oats: sourced from Western Canada less irrigation, fertilizer, chemicals and Commitment: General Mills will other inputs to grow – making oats more Rotation crops in the Western source 100 percent of our oats WESTERN Canada growing region: sustainable compared with other row crops. CANADA by 2020 from growing regions Oats have a fibrous root system that reduces n Oats that demonstrate continuous n Wheat soil erosion, improves the soil’s organic n Canola improvement against industrymatter and increases water absorption. n Pulses (peas and lentils) based environmental metrics. Oats also are naturally disease-resistant, Status: 35 percent of the oats reducing the need to apply fungicides. General Mills purchased was Strategy: In Canada’s Manitoba and sustainably sourced in fiscal 2014. Most of the oats we purchase are grown in Manitoba and Saskatchewan, Canada. Saskatchewan growing regions, we implemented the Western Canada November 2014, the Canadian Fieldprint Progress: We are on track to continue Challenges: The supply of oats has Sustainability Pilot in 2013 to measure Initiative had collected data from 50,000 expanding pilot participation in order to steadily declined over the past decades sustainability for oats and other rotational acres representing 540 fields across scale the program. In 2014, additional because farmers earn greater profits crops, including wheat, canola and pulses Western Canada for the partners joined the pilot program, growing other, more resource-intensive (peas and lentils). General Mills collaborated 2012 and 2013 crop years. including the Prairie Oat Growers crops. General Mills is one of the largest with several partners to launch the pilot Association, the University of Manitoba North American buyers of oats. We program, including Serecon, Pulse Canada, v Cheerios and other General and two precision agriculture consulting are working to improve the profitability the Canadian Canola Growers Association, Mills products made with companies – Farmers Edge and AgriTrend CropLife and Ducks Unlimited. As of oats contain beta glucan, a and sustainability of oat production. source of soluble fiber. – which are helping expand the amount GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 51 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community of sustainability data coming into the a public-private collaborative effort to oats. We are developing better-performing worked to demonstrate proof of seed project. The Canadian government advance understanding of oat genetics. non-GMO oat varieties with higher yields, performance and increase the quantity contributed significant funding for the pilot We are working with the North American improved disease resistance and higher of seed for the most advanced varieties program through the involvement of Ag Millers’ Association (NAMA) to share levels of soluble fiber. Our research includes to ensure sufficient quantities of seed for Canada. Participating growers continued knowledge from a collaborative oat genetics many oat varieties in various stages of the 2015 growing season in Canada. gathering baseline data about yield, soil program General Mills funded with the development. During 2013 and 2014, we carbon, energy use and GHG emissions. A U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to minimum of three years of baseline data help U.S. and Canadian public sector oat is needed to account for crop rotations, breeders be more competitive – and make then growers in the program can begin growing oats more attractive to farmers. making sustainability improvements. Performance: We also continue our Collaboration: This sustainable oats pilot partnership with the North Carolina WATCH VIDEO program complements developments in oat Research Campus (NCRC) to further genetics research. Through our leadership expand knowledge about oat genetics r Oats require less irrigation and fertilizer than r Hear one Canadian farmer’s perspective on growing and investment, General Mills convened and improve the nutritional qualities of other row crops. oats and see how we use them to make Cheerios. “The Canadian Fieldprint Initiative represents companies, associations and farmers working together to improve the sustainability of Canadian agriculture. This initiative will help farmers identify and adopt practices that improve the efficiency of their entire crop rotation, including oats.”– Denis Trémorin, Director of Sustainability, Pulse Canada Challenges: Sustainability challenges Wheat in the wheat supply chain include GHG U.S. wheat: sourced from across North America emission reduction and the need to reduce Commitment: General Mills will water usage while increasing biodiversity. Rotation crops in North source 100 percent of our U.S. NORTHERN PLAINS American growing regions: Strategy: General Mills is a large buyer wheat by 2020 from growing Northern Plains – hard red spring of U.S. wheat; the Snake River growing SNAKE wheat, corn, canola regions that demonstrate RIVER region in eastern Idaho represents 10 Eastern Corn Belt – soft red winter continuous improvement using EASTERN wheat, corn, soybeans percent of General Mills’ total wheat CORN Southern Plains – hard red winter the Field to Market framework or BELT purchases. We began partnering with SOUTHERN wheat, sorghum, corn comparable environmental metrics. PLAINS Snake River – soft white wheat, Field to Market and Idaho wheat farmers potatoes, barley, sugar beets Status: 15 percent of the wheat in 2010 as part of a three-year pilot General Mills purchased was project. During that time, approximately The majority of the wheat we purchase comes from North America. We also source some sustainably sourced in fiscal 2014. 20 local growers collected information to wheat from Argentina, Brazil, France and Australia. establish baseline data for 50,000 acres GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 52 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community of wheat during the 2010, 2011 and 2012 are working with farmers in the Northern a regional baseline. As noted earlier in River growing region and at that point will growing seasons. We expanded the base Plains growing region of North Dakota, this report, we are partnering with Field to submit the sustainability verification – the in 2013 to include more farmers and all South Dakota and Minnesota as well as Market to develop a regional sustainability first in the industry for all rotational crops. rotation crops in the Snake River growing the Eastern Corn Belt growing region verification protocol based on ISEAL This claim is an important step toward region, including potatoes, barley and of Michigan and Indiana. The program (a global association for sustainability demonstrating continuous improvement sugar beets, through collaboration with includes all rotation crops in these standards) methodology. In 2014 we began using the Field to Market framework. other food and beverage companies. growing regions: spring wheat, winter working to create pro-forma sustainability Our goal is to replicate this sustainability Analysis of the 2013 data compared to the wheat, potatoes, sugar beets, barley and verification using data collected by claim by 2020 for the seven growing baseline helped measure sustainability corn. Now we are exploring opportunities Idaho farmers within the Field to Market regions where we source U.S. wheat, oats, improvements, allowing farmers to to expand into the Southern Plains in framework. In the spring of 2015, we will U.S. sugar beets and dry-milled corn. make decisions to further increase Kansas, the largest growing region for hard have five years of robust data on the Snake sustainability and profitability in 2014. red winter wheat. In Idaho, we continue Progress: In 2014, we expanded the Field to conduct grower workshops to help to Market program to reach 60 growers farmers increase sustainability as they covering 300,000 acres across three analyze data compared to the baseline to wheat growing regions. In addition to the measure improvements. Farmers in the General Mills uses different wheat varieties from Snake River growing region in Idaho, we Northern Plains and Eastern Corn Belt multiple growing regions to make our products are collecting baseline data for all crops. Verification: We are pursuing sustainable verification of the Snake River growing region using data collected by Idaho farmers since 2010. This verification will be a measurement claim substantiated by four to five years of data demonstrating continuous improvement across six r Hard spring wheat r Soft red winter r Hard red winter r Soft white wheat environmental metrics – land use, soil from Northern Plains wheat from wheat from Southern from Snake River conservation, water use, energy use, region Eastern Corn Plains region region r We work with farmers across key growing Belt region regions to improve the sustainability of U.S. wheat. nitrogen use and GHG emissions – against “From a sustainability standpoint, the program has really changed the picture for us as far as how we’re doing on our farm. It helps us identify our strengths and weaknesses on an energy consumption basis and recognize our more profitable areas.” – Jason Cook, Moss Farms, Rupert, Idaho GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 53 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community largest sugar beet growing region in the Sugar beets U.S. – we launched a sustainability pilot U.S. sugar beets: sourced from the Red River Valley program in 2013 with Field to Market, Commitment: General Mills Syngenta, American Crystal Sugar and Rotation crops in the Red will source 100 percent of River Valley growing region: local growers. The program includes all our U.S. beet sugar by 2020 rotational crops in the Red River Valley: RED n Sugar beets RIVER n Corn from growing regions that sugar beets, corn, soy and wheat. VALLEY n Soy demonstrate continuous Progress: In 2014, we expanded n Wheat improvement using the Field to participation in the program to 24 farmers Market framework or comparable and 108,000 acres (sugar beet portion environmental metrics. covers 27,000 acres). Farmers in the Red Status: 34 percent of the We source sugar beets in the U.S. primarily from Minnesota and North Dakota. River Valley growing region are collecting beet sugar General Mills baseline data that will be used to measure sustainability. Farmers in Idaho’s Snake sustainability of sugar beets as part of purchased was sustainably River growing region also are using the the program launched there in 2010. sourced in fiscal 2014. Field to Market framework to improve Challenges: Sustainability challenges in the “It is American Crystal Sugar Company’s goal to supply a quality sugar beet supply chain are similar to those for growing wheat, including the need to product for our customers while responsibly managing our reduce GHG emissions and soil loss. production practices to protect our natural resources, ensuring Strategy: In the Red River Valley of r We collaborate with farmers and industry a high quality of life for future generations.” Minnesota and North Dakota – the partners to improve the sustainability of growing – Todd Cymbaluk, Field to Market Team Lead, American Crystal Sugar Company sugar beets. Challenges: Sustainability challenges Corn in the dry-milled corn supply chain Dry-milled corn: sourced from Eastern Wisconsin include the need to reduce GHG Commitment: General Mills emissions and nutrient utilization Rotation crops in Eastern will source 100 percent of Wisconsin growing region: while increasing biodiversity. our dry-milled corn by 2020 n Corn from growing regions that Strategy: We launched a Field to Market n Soybeans demonstrate continuous pilot program targeting 20 Eastern n Alfalfa EASTERN Wisconsin corn growers in October 2014. WISCONSIN n Vegetables (for canneries) improvement using the Field to Market framework or comparable The pilot includes all environmental metrics. rotation crops, including dry-milled corn, soybeans, Status: 6 percent of the dry-milled corn General Mills purchased was The majority of the dry-milled corn we purchase comes from the U.S. states of Illinois, v We use dry-milled corn Indiana and Wisconsin. sustainably sourced in fiscal 2014. in Bugles and other General Mills products. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 54 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community alfalfa and vegetables (for canneries). oats, and compared to the amount of General Mills’ use of dry-milled corn is corn used by other food and beverage relatively small compared to our use of companies. For that reason, we also other raw materials, such as wheat and support the Field to Market corn pilot programs led by other industry partners to advance sustainable sourcing. Progress: We are partnering with Didion Milling in Wisconsin and the growers that supply corn to this specialty dry mill. The farmers will begin gathering data using the Field to Market framework with the 2015 crop. Corn from this mill is used in r Our work with farmers in Eastern Wisconsin Bugles snacks and some of our cereals. r We are working with industry partners and farmers to increase the sustainability of the dry-milled includes corn as well as other rotation crops, corn that we use in our products. including alfalfa, soybeans and other vegetables. Challenges: Dairy sustainability of yogurt production being conducted Dairy challenges include the need to reduce by the Dairy Research Institute. The majority of our directly sourced fluid milk comes from Michigan, U.S. and France. GHG emissions while controlling water Progress: The U.S. dairy sustainability Commitment: General Mills will usage and improving water quality. The pilot program, launched in 2013, is still purchase 100 percent of our industry also is addressing issues of 1 2 underway. Milk producers are using directly sourced fluid milk by animal well-being, such as dehorning. Farm Smart online software, and General 2020 from producing regions Strategy: General Mills is collaborating Mills is using the companion Plant Smart that demonstrate continuous with industry partners to measure the software to collect data and calculate 2 improvement as measured by the environmental footprint of dairy production the sustainability impact from farm to Dairy Sustainability Framework and identify sustainability improvements. production facility. These tools measure in the U.S. and other comparable 1 United States We continue working with the Michigan the carbon footprint of milk production environmental metrics (globally). 2 France Milk Producers Association to pilot and processing as well as animal care. Status: 20 percent of the directly the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy Introduction of a new version of the Farm sourced fluid milk General Mills increase farmer participation in the Sustainability Council Framework starting Smart tool is expected to purchased was sustainably program. We will continue collecting data, at the producer level and continuing sourced in fiscal 2014. then meet with milk producers to identify through to the General Mills yogurt v We use milk to make opportunities for continuous improvement. facility in Reed City, Michigan. We also yogurt at our facilities in the We are sharing details about this pilot are participating in a lifecycle analysis U.S. and France. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 55 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community project across the U.S. and the European production from farm to consumer (similar with Ingredia, a dairy supplier for our The second project in France involves Union. This effort supports the U.S. Dairy to the group’s previous lifecycle analyses for Häagen-Dazs business, the French in-depth analysis of the GHG emissions, Innovation Center’s voluntary, industrywide fluid milk and cheese). Specialists from the Breeding Institute and a group of farmers energy consumption and gross margins goal to reduce the dairy carbon footprint University of Arkansas are collecting and who are conducting farm assessments on participating farms, conducted by the by lowering GHG emissions for fluid milk analyzing the data. Results are expected in using an online tool named CAP2ER. The Grignon Experimental Farm. In 2014, the production by 25 percent by 2020. 2015 and will be used to identify risks and tool’s quick calculations, based on 15 pilot program analyzed six farms that are In 2014, General Mills and other companies establish a framework for improvement. field indicators, measure GHG emissions representative of the dairy production participated in the U.S. Dairy Research In France, we are pursuing two dairy and provide farmers with deeper insight system in northern France, taking into Institute’s lifecycle analysis benchmarking sustainability pilot projects. In the first about their farming practices. Twenty farm account geographical and technological the environmental footprint of yogurt project, launched in 2013, we are working audits were completed in 2014; the team variations on the farms. The analysis will plans to conduct 200 audits by the end of be used to identify actions for decreasing 2015 in northern France near our Häagenthe carbon impact of milk production. Dazs facility. So far, 11 main issues have been identified for improving the dairy carbon footprint, including the need for a standard method for evaluating progress and consideration of economic and environmental factors, such as biodiversity and water. Next, the team will construct an action plan with stakeholders. w In France, we work with dairy farmers in the region around our Arras facility, where we make r We collaborate with milk producers and industry groups to improve the sustainability of the fluid milk Häagen-Dazs ice cream. used in General Mills products. “General Mills has been a leader in the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy’s Sustainability Commitment. In 2014, they worked with dairy farms and companies to test sustainability metrics and tools for continuous improvement. Their feedback was extremely helpful and will advance our shared goal to provide the public with nutritious, high quality and sustainable foods and beverages.” – Chad Frahm, Vice President, Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 56 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Fiber packaging Ninety percent of the fiber we use in our packaging comes from the United States and Meeting our zero deforestation commitment: Canada – areas at low risk for deforestation. fiber packaging Commitment: General Mills will source 100 percent of our fiber % of General Mills Deforestation Location Verification packaging by 2020 from recycled 2 fiber purchases risk 1 material or from virgin wood fiber North America 90% low regions that are known to not be contributing to deforestation Europe 4% low 2 (any high-risk regions will be Forest Stewardship Brazil 2% low Council (FSC) independently verified). Status: 99 percent of the 1 United States Australia 1% low 2 Canada fiber packaging General Mills Argentina <1% low purchased was sustainably Progress: We have investigated the India <1% low Rainforest Alliance sourced in fiscal 2014. remaining 1 percent of our fiber packaging, which is sourced from countries considered South Africa <1% low Challenges: Deforestation is the at high risk for potentially contributing to China <1% high Rainforest Alliance primary supply chain risk posed deforestation. One of those countries was by sourcing fiber for packaging. India, where we worked with the Rainforest r More than 99 percent of the fiber we purchase is from regions at low risk for deforestation. Our aim is to achieve zero net deforestation in high-risk supply chains by 2020. Learn more in Alliance in 2013 to review our fiber sources, Strategy: Using sustainable sourcing our Climate Policy. confirm sustainable sourcing practices guidelines for fiber, pulp and paper and verify that the fiber we source from production, we conducted an analysis of our That analysis revealed that 20 percent of “As a consumer of paper and paper India poses a low risk of contributing to fiber packaging supply chain. This analysis the fiber sourced from China is compliant deforestation. In 2014, we board packaging, General Mills revealed that 99 percent of our supply with sustainable sourcing criteria, 40 partnered with Rainforest can influence the way the world’s is considered at low risk for contributing percent is considered medium risk and to global deforestation because the Alliance to investigate productive forests are managed. fiber sourced from China. 40 percent is at higher risk of contributing packaging uses either recycled materials Rainforest Alliance applauds to deforestation. We are taking action or virgin fiber that is sourced from regions v We use fiber in the to address those sources of higher risk. General Mills’ commitment to where deforestation is not occurring. packaging of our products. sustainable sourcing of fiber packaging, and their efforts to avoid potentially controversial Pulp, paper and packaging sourcing guidelines sources and increase responsibly We are using guidelines n  erify supply from high-priority V Virgin wood fiber sourcing independently verified for low managed sources by implementing developed by the Consumer countries that have a low n  nown and compliant sources: K risk of controversial sources a program that emphasizes supply Goods Forum in conjunction with risk of controversial sources Sources of virgin wood contributing to deforestation. chain transparency and active the Rainforest Alliance as the contributing to deforestation. fiber will be known, free of foundation of our commitment. communication with their suppliers.” n  isclose goals and progress D corruption and compliant with Approach applicable legal requirements. – Mark Comolli, Director of Markets – to avoid controversial sources  void controversial sources Forestry Division, Rainforest Alliance n A of pulp, paper and packaging n  erification: Supply from V of pulp, paper and packaging contributing to deforestation in suppliers and sources in G4-EC2, EN19, EN27, EN28, FP1, FP12 contributing to deforestation. their individual supply chains. high-priority countries will be GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 57 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 1C Extend sustainability efforts beyond priority raw materials Collaborate with partners across supply chains Strategy: Our efforts to encourage expect to finalize that list in 2015 and begin committed to sustainable soy production supplier sustainability extend beyond our applying our four-step sustainable sourcing practices. We adhere to the Consumer 10 priority ingredients. We collaborate model – assessment, strategy formation, Goods Forum soy sourcing guidelines to with partners across all our supply chains transformation, and monitoring and help meet industry commitments to stop to improve the manner in which the raw evaluation – to improve the sustainability of deforestation by 2020. We also support materials we use are grown and produced. those raw materials. Because nearly twothe Soy Moratorium commitment to not We support sustainable development thirds of GHG emissions and 99 percent of purchase soy from lands that have been approaches that address environmental, water use in our value chain occur outside deforested in the Amazon biome after July economic and social challenges. General Mills’ operations, we consider the 2006. The majority of the soy General Mills environmental impact of our supply chain, purchases is sourced from the U.S. – not an r We work with farmers and our suppliers to Progress: Using environmental, economic increase the sustainability of raw materials and social criteria as a guide, we are including our suppliers’ GHG emissions, area at risk for deforestation. We use soy used in our products. Soy is one example of evaluating the remaining raw materials energy use, water use and waste generation. as an ingredient in many of our products, an ingredient that is part of our sustainable including snacks, baked goods and meals. sourcing efforts extending beyond our 10 used in our processes and products to Soy: Soy is one example of our extended priority raw materials. G4-EN27, FP1 identify our next priority ingredients. We sustainable sourcing focus. General Mills is “It is rare to find charismatic leadership and vision combined with processing innovation and long-term commitment across a complex global supply chain. General Mills’ collaboration with AgroMantaro, CARE and artichoke growers in Peru exemplifies the best in what we call system leadership – the willingness of a group of leaders to take risks in service of a greater vision to improve the lives of employees and small farmers – and the commitment to stay at it long enough to overcome the inevitable challenges of establishing a new way of doing business.”– Hal Hamilton, Co-Director, Sustainable Food Lab Supporting smallholder artichoke farmers in Peru We are helping smallholder farmers in farmers grew significantly more artichokes benefit from the program, which creates Peru’s Sierra region increase their incomes per hectare – achieving a productivity additional harvesting jobs. The program by growing artichokes sustainably. In 2013, increase of 71 percent in May 2014 compared also provides microloans to purchase General Mills committed US$1.1 million as with the previous year’s crop. Learn more. artichoke shoots and seeds; guidance part of a four-year collaboration with supplier The farmers can earn more growing about forming farmer cooperatives; and AgroMantaro and CARE to provide artichoke artichokes than the region’s typical financial planning education and information farmers – more than half of whom are women crops of potatoes and grains. Artichokes about formulating business plans. – with training on crop management and from Peru’s central Junín region are The program was visited in 2014 by the post-harvest practices, helping them increase destined for Green Giant products in Sustainable Food Lab and recognized yields and improve profitability. During Europe. Together, we are helping create during the group’s leadership summit. the first year of the program, participating shared value – more than 160 families G4-EC1, SO1, FP4 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 58 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Improving pollinator health and increasing biodiversity Challenge: Agriculture depends on Research: General Mills supports improve honeybee health. Researchers honeybees and other native pollinators. three pollinator research projects will collect data at the site through Thirty-five percent of crop production through our partnership with the 2015, then share the results with others around the world relies on pollinators to University of Minnesota’s Bee in the scientific community to help help plants produce fruits and seeds. Each and Pollinator Research Lab: build the research base to support year, bees pollinate more than 100 U.S. n  ollinator plot: We created a pollinator P addressing the collapse of bee colonies. agricultural crops, valued at nearly US$15 plot at General Mills’ agricultural n  ourishing Bees: In 2014, we provided N billion. Unfortunately, honeybees, wild bees research farm in Le Sueur, Minnesota, an additional US$100,000 to the and other native pollinators are at risk. An in November 2011 and worked with University of Minnesota to fund r A wildflower meadow planted by The Xerces average of 30 percent of honeybee colonies Society for Invertebrate Conservation using a Dr. Marla Spivak, MacArthur Fellow two new projects: “Nourishing Bees” process perfected at our Muir Glen pollinator have been dying every winter since 2006. and Distinguished McKnight Professor and “Mite Not.” Nourishing Bees project site. Colony collapse disorder is a very complex in Entomology at the University of focuses on the relationship between $1 million challenge caused by multiple factors, Minnesota, and her students in 2012 to good floral nutrition and immunity in including expanded agricultural acreage, place 10 honeybee colonies at the site to honeybees. Researchers are comparing fatigue, mites, pesticides and other factors. investigate colony collapse disorder – a the nutritional value of pollen from major threat to the honeybee population. flowers with pollen substitutes fed General Mills has invested We have invested US$160,000 toward by beekeepers to determine which nearly US$1 million since this four-year research effort to better sources of protein are more effective 2011 to support pollinator understand bee habitats. University of in helping bees fight off diseases and and biodiversity efforts. Minnesota and General Mills researchers live longer as a colony. Researchers collect data from the site to monitor are monitoring the health of bees and n I nvestment: In 2014, General Mills bee health, determine what the bees measuring colony loss after the winter committed US$400,000 to The are eating and how far they are foraging, season across the honey-producing Xerces Society. In addition to corporate r We support University of Minnesota funding, several of our consumer and monitor their honey production. regions of upper U.S. Midwest states, pollinator research projects. One aspect of the research focuses including North Dakota and Minnesota. brands have invested in this effort as Strategy: Many of our products contain on whether native plant species that part of our commitment to improving n  ite Not: Parasitic mites on bees M honey, fruits, vegetables and other produce high protein pollen content help biodiversity, including Honey Nut are often believed to be a significant ingredients that require pollination, so Cheerios, Nature Valley and Cascadian contributor of colony loss. The healthy and abundant bee populations Farm. Xerces will use the funds to: Mite Not project is exploring are a priority for General Mills. We provide increased assistance to innovative ways to remove mites collaborate with leading researchers and farmers in restoring habitat for bees from bees and their colonies without conservationists to improve the health on agricultural lands throughout the harming the bees, which could and quantity of pollinators. We fund United States; reduce the impact of have worldwide implications. research to better understand colony pesticides on bees while providing “Bee-safe” farming: General Mills effective control of crop pests using collapse disorder in honeybees, invest has been working with The Xerces innovative approaches to integrated to conserve and expand bee habitats, Society for Invertebrate Conservation pest management; and expand bee-safe and work with our suppliers to improve to increase pollinator habitats and farming education around the world. the health and effectiveness of bees as r Wildflowers provide bees and other expand bee-safe farming practices: pollinators for almonds and tomatoes. pollinators the nutrition they need. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 59 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community n  lmond orchards: In 2014, we A Native bee totals: bumblebee numbers 2013, 20 acres of wildflowers and grasses continued working with an almond Muir Glen project are declining due were planted at 10 sites in Minnesota supplier and The Xerces Society for 40 to habitat loss, to provide adequate sources of food, Invertebrate Conservation to integrate disease and pesticide shelter, clean water and nesting sites 35 July 2013 use. In California, we are working with for native pollinators. In 2014, four flowering habitats into California 30 July 2014 almond orchards. The habitats attract our supplier for Muir Glen tomatoes more pollinator habitat sites were wild, native pollinators and help 25 along with researchers at the University added, primarily in central Minnesota. improve the health of bee colonies of California, Davis, and the Xerces 20 Neonicotinoid impact: While the precise transported to almond orchards for Society to improve pollinator habitat causes of declining bee populations are crop pollination. The project, launched 15 and increase tomato yields. In 2012, unknown, a combination of factors is in 2013, includes installation of Xerces planted a mile-long hedgerow of 10 thought to be at work, including loss of flowering hedgerows as perimeters flowering plants at our Muir Glen facility 5 bee habitat, viral and parasitic diseases, around the orchards, development of to improve bumblebee habitat and raise overuse, or bees and pesticide exposure – native wildflower meadows in areas 0 awareness among tomato growers. In possibly to neonicotinoid insecticides. without trees and planting of flowering Control site Muir Glen 2014, University of California researchers hedgerow site While neonicotinoids may be only one groundcover around trees. An almond observed nearly three times as many part of a larger and more complicated r Pollinator habitats planted in 2012 at our Muir bees at the Muir Glen site compared to a ranch with more than 800 acres was combination of factors, we would be Glen facility in California attracted nearly three selected in 2014 to serve as a model for control site. We use this demonstration times as many bees in 2014 as the control site. concerned if this class of insecticide was integration of pollinator habitats – 4.8 site to educate growers and collect negatively impacting pollinator populations. miles of wildflowers and hedges were data about the quantity and variety of General Mills supports immediate, further planted within and around the ranch. In bumblebees and other pollinators. We study of this important issue. We advocate addition to increasing native habitats, continue to expand our outreach efforts for the responsible use of neonicotinoids this collaborative effort includes to additional growers of organic and and expedited U.S. Environmental monitoring bee abundance and diversity conventional tomatoes to increase the Protection Agency review to assess while limiting pollinators’ exposure to sustainability of tomato production. and address the question of whether pesticides and fungicides, resulting in Pollinator habitat expansion: neonicotinoid insecticides are substantially more sustainably grown almonds. General Mills has invested impacting pollinator populations. n  umblebees and tomatoes: Bumblebees B US$50,000 to help expand are the most effective native pollinators and conserve bee-friendly r The hedgerow at our Muir Glen facility offers bees a varied menu of pollen and nectar from – and the only type of bees able to habitats in partnership with flowering plants. pollinate tomatoes. Unfortunately, Conservation Marketplace. In “Bees need good nutrition – they depend on nectar as their source for carbohydrates and pollen for protein. One aspect of our work with General Mills focuses on which flowering plants provide the best nutrition for honeybees and native pollinators. By increasing the diversity of habitats, we are helping equip honeybees to fight off diseases and effects of pesticides, which may be associated with colony collapse disorder.” – Dr. Marla Spivak, MacArthur Fellow and Distinguished McKnight Professor in Entomology, University of Minnesota GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 60 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Cascadian Farm organics business helps protect pollinators and educate consumers Ninety percent of Cascadian Farm’s product volume depends on bees. Cascadian Farm has helped lead the way in General Mills’ efforts to reverse the decline of pollinator populations. In 2014, Cascadian Farm v In April 2014, Cascadian Farm introduced Buzz Crunch Honey Almond provided funding to help plant wildflowers cereal exclusively at Whole Foods Market stores nationwide. For every WATCH VIDEO and protect pollinator habitats, fund bee package sold, Cascadian Farm is donating US$1 to The Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation. We have targeted US$100,000 for this research activities, support pollinator initiative. The cereal’s packaging also educates consumers about the r Cascadian Farm’s “Bee Friendlier” campaign is education efforts and educate consumers. importance of bees. supporting pollinators by planting wildflowers – and encouraging consumers to do the same. Our Bee Friendlier campaign donated US$8,000 in Some of the many Cascadian Farm products that rely on bees for pollination, honey or both: 2014 to support the planting of wildflowers as well as bee research activities and pollinator education efforts by The Xerces Society and the University of Minnesota’s Bee Pollinator Research Lab. Bee Friendlier will continue through the end of 2018 with a maximum donation of US$1 million based on online code redemptions to fund additional planting and research. How bees contribute to General Mills products Products pollinated by bees Products containing honey Green Giant broccoli Muir Glen Almonds for LÄRABAR Fruit for Yoplait® Fruit for HäagenHoney Nut Nature Valley and cauliflower tomatoes bars and Nature yogurt* Dazs ice cream Cheerios cereal granola bars Valley granola bars *Yoplait is a registered trademark of YOPLAIT MARQUES (France) used under license. “The Xerces Society is fortunate to have the support and involvement of General Mills in addressing the complex issues faced by bees and other pollinators. They are helping us spread the word to farmers and the general public about the importance of these insects. With their help, the Xerces Society has engaged tens of thousands of people in efforts to protect this vital resource and restored over 165,000 acres of wildflower-rich habitat for bees and other pollinators across America.” – Scott Hoffman Black, Executive Director, The Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 61 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Integrated pest management At General Mills, our holistic approach In Mexico, our Irapuato team has been to sustainable agriculture includes working on IPM for more than 20 years. reducing environmental impacts and Our approach to IPM is to do things improving the overall value chain. as close to nature as possible, so all Integrated pest management (IPM) pest control tools are evaluated and is one component of our broader used as appropriate. We use beneficial focus on sustainable agriculture. organisms to prevent soil diseases, for example, by inoculating our grower soils As part of our long-term sustainable to reduce the presence of disease. This agriculture strategy, we share our practice reduces the need for chemical knowledge about IPM with peer companies pesticides. We also inoculate seedlings and work with our suppliers and before they leave the greenhouse so they conservation organizations to minimize are protected during the first 30 to 40 the use of pesticides on the crops and r Our use of high efficiency irrigation systems in Irapuato, Mexico, helps reduce application days in the field, avoiding two or three ingredients we source. Our suppliers of fungicides. broad applications of pesticides during utilize their own IPM programs. Through this period. As a result, we significantly Seven years ago, we began using a broader Our Irapuato team also is in the process of our work with Field to Market, we are reduce applications of chemicals. application of compost instead of chemical converting all of our contracted growers helping growers capture information about fertilizers. We use this approach on more to the use of high-efficiency irrigation pesticide use, including energy used by We also manage our pest control than 80 percent of our total cropping systems. So far, 63 percent of our total farmers in the application of pesticides and by regularly scouting Irapuato fields contracted acreages on average. The fields are under high efficiency irrigation GHGs (embedded in the manufacturing of to identify the level, species and compost substitutes 100 percent of the systems, increasing yields while reducing pesticides). In 2014, we provided funding maturity of any pests. These insights chemical fertilizers based on phosphorous, water use and disease presence due to The Xerces Society for Invertebrate help determine whether, where, when potassium and calcium and at least 35 to controlled water distribution, so we Conservation to pursue IPM innovations and how much protection to apply to percent of the nitrogen needed for the crop. can also consequently reduce the use (learn more about our work with The Xerces obtain the desired level of pest control The compost also improves soil organic of fungicides to prevent diseases. Society on pages 59-61 of this report). rather than complete eradication. matter and reduces the presence of pests. General Mills has a long history of working closely with farmers around the world to promote responsible pesticide use. Our Green Giant brand, From Cascadian Farm to Green Giant: Applying insights from organic farming for example, was among the first to use best-in-class pesticide management Cascadian Farm was founded in 1972 more broadly across our business. For in the 1940s. Beginning in 1980, Green to grow crops in a way that preserves example, the broccoli grown for our Giant agronomists implemented a series the soil while safeguarding rivers and Green Giant brand in Irapuato, Mexico, of measures and practices for reducing streams – working in harmony with the is grown using compost rather than pesticide use across all crops. We continue land. As Cascadian Farm grew beyond chemical fertilizers. Using organic to collaborate, educate where needed and its original farm, the business became composting methods has reduced the encourage IPM wherever it makes sense recognized as a pioneer in converting amount of synthetic fertilizer and water for our business and the environment. conventional farms to organic. Since necessary to grow the broccoli. General joining General Mills in 2000, some of Mills continues to look for viable ways G4-EC1, EN12, EN13, EN27 Cascadian Farm’s organic agricultural to scale organic-inspired agricultural practices have been incorporated methods across our business. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 62 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 2 Collaborate to improve global water stewardship 2A Foster and engage in water stewardship Identify watershed issues and conserve water resources throughout our supply chain. Approximately access to meet the needs of our facilities by introducing a new water policy Water 99 percent of the water consumed to create also support demands from agriculture, and signing the CEO Water Mandate, and distribute our products occurs outside municipalities, other industries and joining a group of business leaders, Commitment: General Mills is our direct operations. The watersheds we ecosystems, so improving the health of governments and other stakeholders committed to improving the these watersheds requires significant working together with the United sustainability of water use collaboration. To begin addressing these Nations to advance water stewardship. throughout our supply chain. larger watershed issues, we are partnering with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) to PHASE 1 Assessment Challenge: Agriculture uses 70 percent formulate and implement our collaborative, Objective: A study of key operation of the world’s fresh water. Conserving global water stewardship strategy. and growing region watersheds water resources is crucial for the In April 2014, General Mills became In partnership with TNC, we have environment and for our business. a founding partner of the Alliance for completed our global water risk assessment Approach: In addition to reducing the Water Stewardship (AWS) as part of of all General Mills production facilities amount of water we use in our operations our effort to promote the application and growing regions, begun in 2012. Those (see the Environment section of this of the AWS standard. We further assessments build on our supply chain risk r General Mills supports protection of the report), we continue to apply our fourdemonstrated our commitment to analysis work with World Wildlife Fund in watersheds shared by agriculture, our facilities, phase approach to sustainable water use municipalities, industries and ecosystems. water stewardship in November 2014 2010. We now have a clear picture of the Performance dashboard PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 Assessment Analysis and action planning Collaboration Transformation YANGTZE/ LOS ANGELES, YANGTZE/ EL BAJIO, BEIJING, CHINA; SAN JOAQUIN, U.S. SHANGHAI, MEXICO CENTRAL HIGH CHINA PLAINS, U.S. ALBUQUERQUE, U.S. SNAKE, U.S. Analysis Strategy optimization GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 63 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community General Mills facilities and growing regions: basin water depletion KEY WATERSHEDS Based on results from TNC’s global water risk assessment and a business materiality analysis, we are developing watershed health strategies in the areas listed below. Geographic location Location type Water risk* Albuquerque, New Mexico, Facility 5.0 United States Beijing, China Facility/Growing region 5.0 (includes Sanhe facility) Los Angeles, California, United States Facility 5.0 (includes Carson and Vernon facilities) Shanghai, China Facility 4.3 San Joaquin Valley, California, Growing region 4.1 United States El Bajio, Mexico Facility/Growing region 4.0 Facilities Growing regions (includes Irapuato facility) Central High Plains, United States Growing region 3.1 Snake River Valley, United States Growing region 2.5 r This Water map pinpoints depletion index the watersheds we access around the world for our own operations or through our supply chain, Facilities 1 including agricultural use. Areas of greatest water stress appear in red. * Score based on TNC analysis of water risk considering quantity, quality, regulatory 2 Growing regions 3 and other stresses (with 5.0 considered at highest risk). 4 5 most 6 at-risk watersheds within our supply n In a key wheat growing region 7 chain and are proceeding with Phase 2. Where 1 = lowest risk and 7 = highest risk of Idaho, United States, we have We are targeting the most material and conducted an in-depth review of the at-risk watersheds where we can have Snake River watershed. We shared significant impact, focusing on those this detailed analysis with regional with challenges in the areas of water stakeholders in July of 2014 and are quantity and non-point source pollution exploring next steps in collaboration. from agriculture. We take an iterative n In China, an important growth area approach to prioritization, using insights for General Mills where we currently gained during the analysis phase. As a make Wanchai Ferry dumplings and result, we will add or remove a watershed are building a new Yoplait® yogurt r At the Global Water Summit sponsored by r We are developing plans to conserve water in from our focus list as needed. Irapuato, Mexico, where we grow and package production facility, we are assessing The Nature Conservancy in November 2014, Ken broccoli and other vegetables. the Yangtze River watershed. We will Powell reinforced General Mills’ commitment to PHASE 2 Analysis and water stewardship. In Irapuato, Mexico, where some action planning n of our Green Giant vegetables are “As a food company, food security is important to us, and we’re Objective: Deep-dive analysis grown and packaged, we have of at-risk growing areas completed our in-depth analysis and tied tightly to nature. We know that without healthy water for Working with TNC hydrologists, we are are now developing action plans to land, ecosystems and wildlife, agriculture simply does not work.” conducting deep analyses of our key enable stabilization and eventually – Ken Powell, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, General Mills at-risk facilities and growing areas: improvement in watershed health. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 64 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community complete the analysis for the Shanghai area of this watershed by April 2015. n In California, we are tapping into existing analyses of water needs and engaging with industry and NGO stakeholders to understand where we can provide the most impactful action during this time of historic drought. n W e have begun an analysis of the r Representatives from local water management watershed surrounding our Albuquerque, organizations and General Mills discuss groundwater use in Idaho’s Snake River basin. New Mexico, United States, facility, working closely with local TNC staff to plans with others who use the watershed understand the unique challenges of through educational outreach and advocacy a municipality that sources water far activities. We are beginning to collaborate beyond city, and even state, boundaries. r We work with farmers to conserve water in the El Bajio growing region of Mexico, which supports our with other food and beverage companies Irapuato facility. n W e will continue to expand the focus about improving watershed health. Next, of our deep-dive analyses to include we plan to expand those conversations our remaining priority watersheds to include a broader mix of private and PHASE 4 Transformation “The U.N. CEO Water over the next several years. public entities in each watershed area. Objective: Implement water Mandate provides a platform Outcomes from these deep-dive analyses stewardship program for companies to address include: understanding the current and PHASE 3 Collaboration Transformation efforts include developing and advance corporate water projected future health of the watershed; Objective: Establish multi-stakeholder a global freshwater stewardship program understanding major uses and contributors with public education and advocacy, stewardship practices – for water stewardship plan to watershed degeneration and creating We are beginning to meet our goal of and funding, as well as monitoring and the benefit of communities, mitigation plans; and sharing findings and finding the right partners and working reporting on the positive impact of the economies and ecosystems. with others to implement changes based strategy implementation. We also will Companies joining and on our Phase 2 analyses in high-risk areas work with others to apply the principles of the Alliance for Water Stewardship. taking part in the CEO in 2014 and beyond. We are currently working with FEMSA Foundation G4-EN9, EN27, SO1 Water Mandate are showing and TNC to model a specific action true business leadership plan for the watershed surrounding and commitment, while our Irapuato, Mexico, facility. We plan contributing to broad U.N. to include stakeholders, including local communities, in that effort in objectives.” 2015. We anticipate our collaborative – Gavin Power, Deputy Director, United actions will include: on-the-ground Nations Global Compact conservation initiatives; applying water r The balance between surface and groundwater plays a critical role in supplying water for nature, stewardship best practices; and setting r Use of drip irrigation helps save water when agriculture and industry in the Snake River basin. companywide sustainability targets. growing Green Giant sweet corn in Mexico. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 65 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 3 Advance socially responsible supply chains 3A Respect human rights in our supply chains Source responsibly and maintain accountability environmental compliance and business raw material suppliers. We completed a Human rights integrity. Our Workplace Standards and risk assessment of all global raw material Ethical Sourcing Policy, along with our suppliers against criteria such as spend, Commitment: General Mills Supplier Code of Conduct, set standards type of ingredient or material and location is committed to conducting for our company, suppliers and other to determine our highest risk categories business with high ethical business partners regarding the protection and supplier locations. This assessment standards and we expect our of human rights. These standards are based identified approximately 200 of our highest suppliers to do the same. r We support safe and healthy working in part on the ILO 1998 Declaration on risk raw material suppliers. In 2014, we conditions across our supply chains. © Proforest Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. completed 68 audits of our finished goods facilities and will now be working n  e will implement a business process W Approach: We know that the protection Progress: In fiscal 2015, we joined the through our list of 200 at-risk suppliers supporting our Supplier Code of Conduct of human rights through responsible Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX), to develop strategies for mitigating risks. to increase awareness of our expectations. sourcing is critical to our business and to and updated our Supplier Code of Conduct our mission of Nourishing Lives. As part to include General Mills’ mandatory We continued our program of audits Guided by the 1998 Declaration, General of our commitment to respecting human requirements related to responsible across all General Mills-owned facilities Mills respects the principles of collective rights in our supply chain, we are leaders sourcing. These developments build and our co-packers globally using thirdbargaining and freedom of association, in the AIM-PROGRESS Responsible upon our progress in recent years. In party auditors. Of the eight General and prohibition of discrimination, child Sourcing Forum, whose mission is to 2012, we completed our first audit cycle Mills-owned facilities in North America labor and forced labor – including that promote responsible sourcing by sharing of finished goods producers, including we audited in 2014, all were compliant. associated with human trafficking. We best practices and promoting efficiency our own facilities and co-packers. In Next steps: We are working toward use third-party auditing firms to conduct in the packaged goods supply chain. 2013, we increased the scope of our the following goals in fiscal 2015: independent audits of our suppliers. All We also are signatories to the United responsible sourcing program to include instances of noncompliance found during n  e will conduct 20 audits of our high-risk W audits are remediated – either resolved Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and suppliers, either at the request of General are guided by the International Labour or are actively being addressed in an Mills or through mutual recognition Organization’s (ILO) 1998 Declaration on agreed-upon corrective action plan. of audits through AIM-PROGRESS. Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Clarifications by the U.S. Securities and n  e will obtain additional risk W Expectations: General Mills defines Exchange Commission state that food assessment and audit information responsible sourcing in our updated Supplier packaging is not included in the scope of from our suppliers through SEDEX. Code of Conduct. We hold ourselves the Dodd-Frank Act (Section 1502) as r Our commitment to respect human rights n  e will conduct approximately 70 W it relates to reporting on the geographic and our suppliers to the same level of in our supply chain extends from smallholder audits in 2015 of our own facilities compliance expectations focused on four farmers harvesting crops to employees helping source of certain “conflict minerals.” to package finished products for consumers. and those of our co-packers. pillars: human rights, health and safety, G4-HR4, HR5, HR6, HR10, FP1 © Proforest GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 66 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 3B Increase supplier diversity Build relationships with a diverse supplier base Supplier diversity General Mills supplier diversity spending Commitment: General Mills is Recognition Spending (US$ billion) committed to establishing and 0.9 General Mills’ first-tier n B  est of the Best “Top Supplier growing relationships with an RI spending with U.S. minorityDiversity Programs” – Professional increasing number of qualified, 0.6 CG 5% and female-owned businesses Woman’s and Hispanic Network diverse suppliers (organizations has increased 5 percent magazines (2013 & 2014) owned by minorities, women, 0.3 (compounded annually) n “  2014 Women’s Enterprise veterans and lesbian, gay, bisexual USA 100 Corporations of the and transgender business owners). 0 over the last 10 years. Year” – Women’s Enterprise 2004 2014 Impact: US$543 million spending in Fiscal year n “  Corporation of the Year” – fiscal 2014 with diverse suppliers. North Central Minority Supplier Development Progress: During the past 10 years, General which helps us understand how our efforts Long-standing commitment: Our supplier Council (NCMSDC), 2013 Mills has spent more than US$5 billion with are contributing to economic development. diversity efforts reflect our commitment n “  Top Corporation for Women’s diverse suppliers, and our annual spend has The survey provides insight around trends to create jobs and foster economic Business Enterprises” – Women’s grown 5 percent compounded annually. In in three key areas: workforce employment, development in the communities where we Business Enterprise National 2014, spending increased with womenrevenue growth and supplier diversity operate. Our commitment to working with Council, 2013 (General Mills’ first owned businesses by 4 percent and with spend. Our 2013 study was distributed to national recognition for efforts diverse suppliers has been in place since veteran-owned businesses by 6 percent. our top 100 U.S.-based diverse suppliers. with women’s businesses) the 1960s. Each General Mills division or We are exploring opportunities to expand Fifty-nine percent of them responded with department sets annual objectives and our reach and expect to include businesses feedback, including the following highlights: formulates plans leading to measurable The study has been widely accepted owned by people with disabilities by 2016. n  orkforce growth of 4 percent W improvements in diversifying our supplier and replicated as a best practice Learn more about diversity and inclusion at to 21,000 employees base. The Supplier Diversity department across supplier diversity practitioners, General Mills in the Workplace section of this at General Mills supports diverse supplier n  evenue growth of 12 percent R corporations and advocacy groups. report and in our Supplier Code of Conduct. business development by creating to US$14 billion G4-EC1, EC9 networking and training opportunities. Community impact: In 2009, General Mills n  pend with other diverse suppliers of S developed a Community Impact Study, US$450 million (3 percent of revenue) “We set the bar high when we select our partners, but once we form a relationship, we work very hard to make sure it’s beneficial for both sides. Working with a diverse group of suppliers isn’t a ‘nice to do’ – it’s a ‘must do.’ Greater inclusion drives stronger results for us and broader impact across our communities.” – Ken Powell, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, General Mills GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 67 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Sweet Harvest Foods: Spreading opportunity in Brazil and Sierra Leone General Mills has been purchasing honey from Sweet Harvest Foods since 1998. While our spending with this female-owned business has grown from US$250,000 to US$20 million over 16 years, our relationship also has expanded to include support for the company’s outreach efforts to help smallholder farmers develop sustainable beekeeping businesses in Sierra Leone and Brazil. r African honeybee at work collecting pollen and nectar. Sierra Leone: In 2014, Sweet Harvest Foods’ Africa Uplift project expanded through beekeeping as well as providing r Sweet Harvest employees conduct beekeeping workshops with villagers in Sierra Leone. support to honey suppliers operating in workshops and visited rural villages to introduce the opportunity of beekeeping. poorer sections of Brazil devastated by Nearly 6,000 subsistence farmers have part of the country has collected the Essential beekeeping equipment, including drought. During the past four years, 82 received information and resources. Sweet first eight 55-gallon drums of honey more than 1,000 bee suits and smokers, percent of the bee colonies died due to Harvest Foods has helped establish purchased from farmers. Sweet Harvest has been provided to the severe drought, radically diminishing two facilities as collection and training Foods also provides accounting, logistics, rural villages along honey production. Sweet Harvest Foods centers, which also loan equipment to transportation, market access and support with 470 bee hives provided significant support to help farmers. The facility to help build a sustainable effort. Honey for training purposes. sustain its primary honey supplier during serving the northern is an important supplemental source of the crisis, including business loans and income that increases food security and assistance to help remaining beekeepers v We use Sweet Harvest v Nature Valley granola bars enables families to pay school tuition for achieve organic certification to increase honey in Honey Nut Cheerios. contain Sweet Harvest honey. their children while also helping prevent their potential margin and marketability. deforestation. The team hopes to train up to 20,000 future beekeepers across Sierra Leone, including many women. Brazil: Sweet Harvest Foods supports initiatives to help 600 families earn a living r Workers extract honey at a collection center in Brazil. r The Bongie Women’s Association, a group of widowed farmers, started a new beekeeping r African bees at a hive. enterprise together in 2014. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 68 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 3C Protect animal welfare Raise and treat animals humanely 2 million and safety; environment; animal health alternatives. Though we recognize that Animal welfare and well-being; food safety; and cost/ the development and implementation of affordability. Findings from the research will alternative systems may be a long-term Commitment: General Mills help inform industry practices safeguarding process that could take up to 10 years, we In the U.S., General Mills supports the humane treatment people, animals and the environment. In will favor suppliers who provide actionable purchased 2 million eggs of animals in agriculture and Europe, General Mills continues working plans by 2017 to create traceability sourced from cage-free will enforce the General Mills with our suppliers to increase the volume and to end their use of gestation crates hens in 2014. animal welfare policy covering of eggs available from free-range hens. We within the U.S. pork supply chain. pork, milk and egg production, have been sourcing 100 percent freeDairy production: General Mills antibiotic use and animal testing. range eggs for all Häagen-Dazs products supports the use of polled genetics produced in Europe since December 2013. breeding programs to promote Egg production: General Mills is a We continue to source ingredients from naturally hornless cattle, thereby member of the Coalition for Sustainable local farmers and suppliers. In the U.S., eliminating the need for dehorning. Egg Supply, a U.S.-based industry group General Mills purchased 2 million eggs sourced from cage-free hens in 2014. Learn more about General Mills’ evaluating various types of egg laying commitment to animal welfare. and hen housing systems based on five Pork production: General Mills supports G4-FP11, FP12 sustainability factors: worker health the development of pregnant sow housing r We support humane treatment of the hens who lay eggs used in our products. r We favor suppliers who use humane approaches to sow housing. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 69 ENVIRONMENT OUR GOAL is to continually reduce our environmental footprint. We concentrate on areas where we can have the greatest positive impact, with a focus on agriculture. Among our suppliers, we work to sustainably source the ingredients we use in our products. Across our global operations and beyond, we focus on reducing our GHG emissions and natural resource consumption. Our sustainability mission is to Our strategies conserve and protect the natural Increase Improve environmental resources and communities upon sustainability performance of our which our business depends. of ingredients operations and beyond GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 70 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Overview We continue to work toward our fiscal 2015 goals of achieving significant, measurable improvements in key environmental sustainability areas. In fiscal 2014, we made solid progress against our targets related to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, solid waste and packaging. Achieving our targets remains a challenge in energy, product transport and water. We continue to focus on continuous improvement in these areas. See details about our programs and performance throughout this section. We report our environmental metrics with and without the impact of the recent acquisitions of Yoplait International (fiscal 2012) and Yoki (fiscal 2013). Significant use of renewable energy sources in Yoki operations has reduced our GHG emissions rate, and high water use in yogurt manufacturing and associated cooling systems at Yoplait International has significantly increased our water usage rate. Performance dashboard FY2015 target (% rate reduction FY2014 excluding Yoplait/Yoki acquisitions FY2014 including Yoplait/Yoki acquisitions from FY2005)*,** (% rate reduction from FY2005) (% rate reduction from FY2005) GHG emissions rate* (metric tons CO2e/metric ton of product) 20% 13% 23% Energy usage rate* (kilowatt hours/metric ton of product) 20% 8% 10% Transportation fuel usage rate*,** (% fuel reduction/metric ton of product shipped) 35% 22% 22% Water usage rate*,** (cubic meters/metric ton of product) 20% 13% -17% Solid waste generation rate* (metric tons solid waste/metric ton of product) 50% 43% 41% Packaging improvement rate*,** (% of packaging volume improved) 60% 67% 68% *Rate-based and absolute data for energy, GHG emissions, water and solid waste generation in this section are from wholly owned production facilities on a global basis. Transportation fuel usage data covers outbound shipments in the United States by our logistics service providers. Packaging improvement data are global. **Water usage rate target and progress are based on fiscal 2006 baseline data. Transportation fuel usage rate and packaging improvement rate targets and progress are based on fiscal 2009 baseline. Next phase goals: We are developing new environmental goals for the future. We expect to release those in the first quarter of FY2016. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 71 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Our approach: measure & reduce We track our environmental footprint, work to reduce our global impact and report progress Leadership and governance: At General Mills, Production sites our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has ultimate accountability for environmental sustainability, which is included in his annual performance objectives and impacts his compensation. He convenes the Sustainability Governance Committee three times per year (see list of members in the Sourcing section). The committee reviews and approves strategies, programs and key investments. Additionally, the Board of Directors’ Public Responsibility Committee regularly reviews the company’s sustainability objectives, strategies and performance. Our Chief Sustainability Officer, who reports to the Executive Vice President of Supply Chain and the Senior Vice President of External Relations, leads our global environmental sustainability initiatives. Executives in Supply Chain, External Relations and Sustainability have a responsibility to develop, coordinate and execute programs to achieve companywide targets. To ensure ownership across General Mills, relevant executives within business units, supply chain and production facilities are accountable for the parts of the targets that they control. Environmental management system: We use a companywide environmental management system, General Mills operates production sites around the world, primarily in the United States, based on a “plan, do, check, act” approach, to continually Europe, Latin America and China. improve performance in our directly controlled operations. Measurement plays a central role. To pinpoint areas of greatest energy and water usage across our most resourceTracking and Environmental Management System are a combination of corporate and production facility intensive production facilities, we have installed metering (GSTEMS), a global online information management professionals, which enables internal benchmarking as devices for specific equipment and processes. This helps platform used by 85 percent of our production facilities well as capability and relationship building. We upload us identify energy and water savings opportunities and worldwide (based on volume). At each facility we identified issues into GSTEMS and promptly address implement improvements. Learn more in the Reduce use scorecards to document and report progress. them. To complement these formal audits and expand energy usage and Reduce water usage sections. this initiative to more sites across the company, we We audit selected sites each year, focusing on have developed self-audit tools for use at our sites. We track and manage environmental and safety incidents, environmental, health and safety, regulatory compliance tasks and performance data using our Global Safety and management system effectiveness. Our audit teams GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 72 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Sustainability and business value: Our The second broad strategy is Holistic Margin Management share best practices about environmental initiatives and sustainability initiatives in our operations create (HMM), which calls on cross-functional teams to compliance requirements. In each facility and targeted business value for General Mills while reducing our analyze the value drivers for our business and eliminate business operation, we conduct general environmental environmental footprint. Each year, we invest millions non-value-added costs and activities. In addition to training for many new employees. We also provide targeted of dollars in projects that save money by reducing improving environmental performance, savings from training annually or as required for duties and tasks such energy and water usage as well as waste generation. these initiatives help offset inflation in raw material as oil handling, storm water management, waste handling, See the Reduce energy usage, Reduce water usage, and costs. This approach helps us to maintain consumer and others. We track training as a part of our environmental Reduce solid waste generation sections for examples. prices and to invest in innovation and marketing. management system to ensure compliance. G4-42, 48 These efforts support two key business strategies. The first, Our companywide target is to accrue US$4 billion in HMM Continuous Improvement (CI), focuses on loss elimination. savings between fiscal 2010 and 2020, including both environmental and nonenvironmental initiatives. To date, $65 million CI encourages employee ownership of company processes – from production facility workers to executive management sustainability initiatives have contributed substantially – to end and prevent waste in every part of the business, to our progress. Since fiscal 2005, our North American an approach that we refer to as “Zero Loss Culture.” operations have saved approximately US$65 million Since fiscal 2005, our North American For example, our companywide Ingredient Over-usage through proactive environmental management and CI operations have saved approximately Reduction Program uses a 12-step process to identify and HMM initiatives that make our production facilities US$65 million through proactive and eliminate losses from the conversion of ingredients more efficient and environmentally sustainable. environmental management and to finished products. This focus on understanding and other initiatives that make our removing system waste has benefited product quality and Best practices sharing and training: Global Safety production facilities more efficient reduced production costs while improving system capacity. and Environment teams at our facilities meet regularly to and environmentally sustainable. AGRICULTURE TRANSFORMING CONVERTING PACKAGING SHIPPING SELLING CONSUMING Growing crops (planting, Turning crops into food Making food available Enjoying food tending and harvesting) ingredients (cleaning, Making products Producing packaging Moving food to for purchase (stocking, (making and eating) milling and preparing) from food ingredients materials (making stores (transporting promoting and shopping) (mixing and cooking) and transporting) and delivering) r The content in this section relates primarily to the Converting, Packaging and Shipping phases of our value chain. For a more detailed view of our value chain, see page 7. G4-12 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 73 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Our strategies and actions 1 Increase sustainability of ingredients 2 Improve environmental performance of our operations and beyond A I mprove sustainability of raw materials and watersheds A Reduce GHG emissions D Reduce water usage B Reduce energy usage E Reduce solid waste generation C Reduce transportation fuel usage F Reduce packaging footprint These items are the main focus of this section. 1 Increase sustainability of ingredients 1A Improve sustainability of raw materials and watersheds Promote sustainable practices, purchase sustainable ingredients and protect natural resources Approach: Nearly two-thirds of General Strategy: We focus on increasing the Progress: We continued to advance Mills’ GHG emissions and 99 percent of sustainability of the ingredients we toward our 10x20 sourcing commitment water use occur outside the company’s use in our products, collaborating to through work with smallholder farmers operations in the growing of raw materials improve global water stewardship in developing economies and larger-scale LEARN MORE in the Sourcing section of this report. and preparation of ingredients we use and advancing socially responsible growers in developed economies. During to produce and package our products. supply chains. We have committed the year, we also continued development Therefore, improving our sustainable to sustainably source our 10 priority of a collaborative global water stewardship sourcing practices is essential to enhancing ingredients by 2020, representing more strategy to promote sustainable water our overall environmental performance. than 50 percent of our total buy. use throughout our supply chain. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 74 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Improve environmental performance 2 of our operations and beyond 2A Reduce GHG emissions Manage the climate impact of General Mills Progress Approach During fiscal 2014, we published the General Mills Policy on Climate. This GHG emissions across our value chain [% of total]* Climate change is one of the most establishes a broad framework to track Target: Reduce GHG emissions pressing environmental issues across our and reduce GHG emissions across our rate by 20 percent by 2015 value chain. As a global food company, value chain. It covers the following areas: (2005 baseline). General Mills recognizes the risks that climate change presents to humanity, our n  itigation – Reduce impacts from M Performance: We decreased agriculture as well as our own operations, environment and our livelihoods. Changes this rate by 23 percent through address GHG emissions due to land and in climate not only affect global food 2014, compared to 20 percent water use, contribute to cross-industry security but also our raw material supply. through 2013, and surpassed efforts to decrease food waste and others. This impacts our ability to deliver quality, our target.1 Our absolute GHG finished products to our consumers and n  daptation – Invest in proprietary A emissions decreased by 10 percent ultimately, value to our shareholders. plant breeding programs to provide nA  griculture 41% (SCOPE 3) n  onverting 8% (SCOPES 1, 2) C since 2005 while net sales rose farmers with seeds that deliver highGeneral Mills takes a broad approach to n Transforming 7% (SCOPE 3) n  hipping 4% (SCOPE 3) S 59 percent. During that period, yield, high-quality crops despite n Packaging supply n  elling 12% (SCOPE 3) S address this issue. We work to decrease emissions decreased by 14 percent climate variability, give growers chain 14% (SCOPE 3) n  onsuming 14% (SCOPE 3) C Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from not including Yoki and Yoplait. technical assistance to reduce their *Based on analysis completed by Trucost in September 2012. our directly controlled operations. We environmental impacts, support Key drivers: Recent progress also collaborate with others to reduce development of tools and systems that in CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) against our goal is largely due to Scope 3 emissions from across our value monitor climate change and others. climate surveys, advocate for effective significant use of renewable energy chain. These represent the vast majority and efficient public and industry sources at our Yoki facilities. of our carbon footprint (see graph). n  isclosure and advocacy – Report D association policy and others. progress against targets, participate 1 The statement of progress against the 2015 target, which is normalized to production, represents wholly owned production facilities globally and includes Yoki and Yoplait. “General Mills is showing increasing leadership on climate change and we are proud to welcome the company as our newest member of BICEP. With General Mills’ global commitment to sustainable sourcing and the work it is doing to reduce GHG emissions in its direct operations and in agriculture, the company brings a lot to the table. We are certain General Mills will be an effective advocate for strong climate and energy policies.”– Mindy Lubber, President, Ceres GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 75 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community We have also committed to setting 2020 n  roduce methane biogas with the P To view additional GHG emissions data, targets and disclosing a plan for reducing potential to generate electricity see the Environmental Data Summary. GHG emissions (Scopes 1-3) across equivalent to more than 10 percent of the our entire value chain. We are working power consumed by the entire facility; Decreasing upstream on this with BSR using a science-based waste heat recovery from the system and downstream methodology endorsed by industry and other stakeholders. This approach takes will reduce site gas use by 10 percent. emissions n  ecrease GHG emissions by D into account emissions reductions needed Approximately 92 percent of the r The waste water pre-treatment facility more than 9,000 metric tons to achieve a global mean temperature GHG emissions associated with our in Murfreesboro, Tennessee that removes of carbon dioxide equivalent rise of less than 2 degrees Celsius value chain are Scope 3, occurring in dairy solids prior to discharging into the city (CO2e) per year as coal-generated above pre-industrial levels. We plan to treatment system. entities not owned or controlled by electricity is replaced by biogas. update those targets every five years. using energy more efficiently and shifting General Mills. More than 60 percent toward less GHG-intensive forms of energy n  emove 15 truckloads of whey R of value chain emissions relate to Effective collaboration across industries byproduct per day from the roads, agriculture, ingredients and packaging. and types of organizations has a critical are the most effective ways for us to improve saving about 95,000 liters of diesel role in combatting climate change. During performance. See Reduce energy usage Decreasing these emissions offers the fuel per year and avoiding another 2014, General Mills joined the BICEP for details about our efforts in this area. greatest opportunity to reduce our carbon 250 metric tons of CO2e annually. (Business for Innovative Climate & Energy In addition to energy efficiency, converting footprint, while also supporting the longPolicy) coalition to work with other to less GHG emissions-intensive forms of n  eturn 130,000 cubic meters of R term availability of ingredients. For this businesses and policymakers to advocate water to the watershed annually. reason, we have committed to sustainably energy can reduce our carbon footprint. for innovative and impactful climate and In China, our Guangzhou, Nanjing and n  reate US$2.4 million in benefits C source our 10 priority ingredients by 2020, clean energy policies. We also signed onto Shanghai production facilities recently yearly through alternative processing representing more than 50 percent of the New York Declaration on Forests and switched from oilto natural gas-fired of the waste and energy generation. our total buy. This includes investments the UN Caring for Climate Declaration. boilers. This change has reduced related fuel in sustainable agriculture to improve use by nearly 50 percent at each location Reducing emissions and will save about US$1 million yearly at Greenhouse gas emissions, 2005 – 2014 from our directly the Guangzhou site alone. Natural gas burns Metric tons CO2e/metric ton of product 0.30 1,400,000 controlled operations more cleanly than oil and reduces related GHG emissions by about 28 percent. 1,200,000 0.25 About 8 percent of the GHG emissions associated with our value chain are Use of innovative technologies also 1,000,000 0.20 decreases our climate impact. In GOAL Metric tons CO2e Scope 1 and Scope 2, from our directly 800,000 controlled operations. Although this Murfreesboro, Tennessee, in fiscal 2014, 0.15 we installed an anaerobic reactor at our 600,000 is a relatively small part of our overall 0.10 footprint, we control it directly and we facility that uses self-renewing bacteria to 400,000 are committed to reducing emissions convert the whey byproduct from Greek 0.05 200,000 whenever we have the opportunity. style yogurt production into a combustible biogas, which will in turn be used to 0 0 Most of these emissions are from burning 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015 generate energy beginning in fiscal 2015. fossil fuels – natural gas, fuel oil and propane Scope 1 Scope 2 – at our facilities and purchased electricity Once fully operational, this project *Data for 2013 and 2014 include production facilities gained in the acquisition of Yoki and Yoplait. will have a range of environmental See the Environmental Data Summary to view data for 2013 and 2014 not including those acquisitions. generated by various sources. Therefore, We updated emission factors for fiscal 2014 to reflect improvements in the power generation industry. and financial benefits: GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 76 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community the livelihoods and climate resilience Council of the Innovation Center for ongoing collaboration with Field to Market. transportation fuel usage and Reduce of smallholder farmers who are less U.S. Dairy, which has committed to Through our sourcing relationships, we packaging footprint for more information. prepared to adapt to climate-related the voluntary goal of reducing GHG work to eliminate controversial sources To view detail regarding the risks risks.2 Given the interconnection between emissions for fluid milk by 25 percent for ingredients – such as fiber packaging and opportunities General Mills climate and water, we also focus on by the year 2020 (using 2007-2008 or palm oil – that can contribute to faces due to climate change, see improving the most at-risk watersheds as a baseline). Our participation in this deforestation, which affects climate change. our CDP submission online. within key growing and operating regions. industry group supports our own intention G4-16, EC2, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19 To learn more about our efforts to decrease See Sourcing for more information. to sustainably source the fluid milk used GHG emissions in agriculture, see Sourcing. Due to its importance to our portfolio in our products, such as Yoplait® yogurt. Product transport and packaging are other and its significant environmental Beyond dairy, we help measure GHG important sources of Scope 3 emissions impact, dairy is a focus area for General emissions associated with row crop that we work to address. See Reduce Mills. We belong to the Sustainability production in North America through our 2B Reduce energy usage Improve the energy efficiency of General Mills facilities around the world Progress Approach Energy usage, 2005 – 2014 3.0 700 Energy is a significant operating cost for kWh/metric ton of product 2.5 600 Target: Reduce energy General Mills and the main source of GHG emissions from our directly controlled GOAL 500 usage rate by 20 percent by 2.0 Billion kWh 2015 (2005 baseline). operations. Therefore, using it efficiently 400 1.5 and reducing consumption is a priority 300 Performance: We decreased and saves money while decreasing our 1.0 200 this rate by 10 percent through climate impact. Our main sources of 0.5 100 2014, unchanged since 2013.3 energy are natural gas (about 52 percent Our energy usage increased by of the total) and electricity (44 percent). 0.0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015 1 percent in absolute terms since To motivate ongoing improvement, all Direct Indirect 2005, while net sales rose 59 General Mills production sites have annual *Data for 2013 and 2014 include production facilities gained in the acquisition of Yoki and Yoplait. percent. During that period, energy See the Environmental Data Summary to view data for 2013 and 2014 not including those acquisitions. targets to reduce energy use by 3 percent usage decreased by 9 percent not including Yoki and Yoplait. normalized to production. We collect and share sustainability best practices Five-Step Energy next page) is central to our approach. This process is currently in use at all of Key drivers: Our energy usage across our locations, such as optimization Reduction Process our Big G cereal production plants as well rate during the last year is due of dryers, ovens and freezers; heating Understanding energy use is essential to as two of our largest frozen food plants largely to stronger growth in and cooling system improvements; and ongoing improvement, and the Five-Step (Pillsbury and Totino’s) in North America. relatively higher energy products, lighting replacement innovations. Energy Reduction Process (see graphic on such as Greek yogurt. 2 IPCC WGII AR5 Summary for Policymakers, 31 March, 2014, p. 19, 21. 3 The statement of progress against the 2015 goal, which is normalized to production, represents wholly owned production facilities globally and includes Yoki and Yoplait. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 77 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Five-Step Energy Reduction Process technologies in fiscal 2014 to improve boiler efficiency, and captured energy from exhaust flash steam, using heat exchanges STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 to produce hot water. This saves more FPO Establish Conduct Develop Execute Validate than 18.7 million kWh of energy on an Energy Energy Improvement Improvement Results annual basis, equivalent to $400,000. Program Analysis Plan Plan Green building design also improves our performance in energy use as well as water and waste. As of the end of fiscal 2014, Commit dedicated Perform an energy Use program-wide Create a three-year plan Use metering and analysis about 12 percent of the square footage at personnel at the site balance assessment at tools to identify energy of projects to implement tools to continually our world headquarters was certified to to lead the program, the site to determine losses, develop targeted at each site, based on assess performance LEED or LEED Commercial Interiors, and and install meters how energy is used solutions and calculate the analysis performed. improvements and ensure approximately 30 percent of the space in to capture detailed and in what amounts. possible savings. gains are maintained. our North American distribution centers energy usage data. was certified to LEED Gold. Together, these represented about 3.3 million square In fiscal 2014, we implemented more than 270 projects at 10 sites through the FiveImproving early 2014, our production facility in Nova Prata, Brazil, began to upgrade to LED feet. To further advance our efforts in this Step Energy Reduction Process that saved energy efficiency lights. So far, it has substituted nearly 100 area, General Mills is a partner in the U.S. greater than 71 million kWh, delivered companywide fluorescent lamps with more efficient LED Department of Energy’s Better Buildings Challenge. Through this initiative, we are US$4.1 million in HMM reduction, and units. Also during the year, our facility in Beyond the Five-Step Energy Reduction committed to a 20 percent reduction in avoided over 24,000 metric tons CO2e of Inofita, Greece (mentioned at left as well), Process, all sites globally work to save energy intensity at all our U.S. production GHG emissions. We also identified possible installed LED lights in the shop floor area, energy and decrease GHG emissions. Our facilities by YEAR, compared to YEAR. future projects with projected potential which will save more than US$30,000 facility in Inofita, Greece, installed 240 savings of US$14.4 million. General Mills and 400,000 kWh of electricity each year During the year, four General Mills square meters of solar panels during fiscal was included in the U.S. Department on an investment of about US$75,000. employees globally won awards from 2014, to reduce diesel consumption related of Energy’s “Better Plants” program, the Association of Energy Engineers’ to water heating and decrease related At seven of our sites in California, Georgia, and President Obama highlighted the World Energy Engineering Congress. GHG emissions. The system is projected Illinois, Iowa, New Mexico, New York company’s leadership in energy reduction. to save about US$50,000 annually, pay and Ohio, we implemented controls and To view additional data about energy In 2015, we plan to roll this program out for itself in just two years and avoid usage in our directly controlled operations, to seven additional sites. By the end of nearly 40 metric tons of CO2e each year. including a breakdown by source, see the year, we will have implemented the The site plans to connect the panels to the Environmental Data Summary. Five-Step Energy Reduction Process at the air conditioning system to use extra G4-EN3, EN5, EN6 16 of our largest North American sites capacity and further increase savings. across all businesses, which represent 80 Upgrading to LED lights has been percent of our energy usage in the region another source of energy savings in our (and about 60 percent of our energy usage facilities. Numerous sites globally have globally). We expect this initiative to save implemented or are in the process of about US$20 million in energy in North implementing LED technology, and will America over the next several years. save over 2.6 million kWh of electricity and more than US$230,000 annually. In r Solar panels at our facility in Inofita, Greece. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 78 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 2C Reduce transportation fuel usage Improve transportation efficiency impact, such as from truck to rail or ship. pallets on each truck, increasing the load we are evaluating the scalability of this Progress Although our overall usage of intermodal factor by 10 percent and reducing GHG technology to reduce emissions for decreased last year, targeted efforts emissions by a corresponding amount. lighter loads by replacing diesel fuel with U.S. target: Reduce fuel increased our use of this approach in three of cleaner-burning natural gas. We plan to usage rate by 35 percent by our top U.S. product divisions by 2.4 percent. increase the number of CNG-powered 2015 (2009 baseline). trucks by 40 percent by May 2015, Using innovative and increase the miles driven by more Performance: We reduced this rate by 22 percent through technologies than 300 percent during that period. 2014, compared to 24 percent Innovative vehicle technologies can also Improving logistics through 2013, despite several improve environmental performance. In initiatives that offset fuel use.4 Buffalo, New York, our supplier began planning using tri-axle trailers in 2014. This enables Working with supply planning teams Key drivers: During fiscal 2014, r Lightweight truck cabs enable additional us to ship 50 percent more pallets of in each of our divisions, in 2014 we shipment volumes. winter storms, fluctuations to our flour per truck from our facility to the continued to decrease our total delivered regional distribution strategies, nearby warehouse, reducing the total Expanding on a pilot program launched costs by regionally sourcing products capacity constraints on rail and number of shipments by one-third. These in June 2013, General Mills used 20 new from General Mills’ facilities rather softer product volumes decreased specialized trucks run on compressed semitrailers powered by compressed than shipping them longer distances. our use of rail and intermodal. natural gas that reduces GHG emissions natural gas (CNG) to transport products We also improved logistics planning to by one-third compared to diesel vehicles. to some U.S. retail customers as of fill trucks more completely and when October 2014. The trucks travel more Approach than 140,000 miles per year and reduce possible used the same carrier for inbound and outbound freight, reducing Transporting our products is a significant diesel consumption by over 90,000 liters empty trucks on the road. During the source of GHG emissions, representing annually. While these trucks represent coming year, we will continue to increase an estimated 4 percent of the total less than 1 percent of our truck capacity, across our value chain. We work with Fuel use per metric ton of product, 2009 = 100% U.S. transportation fuel use reduction, 2009 – 2014 our suppliers, co-packers, transportation 100% providers and customers to reduce 90% the environmental impact of shipping 80% our products around the world. 70% GOAL r Tri-axle trailers increase load, reducing trips 60% Optimizing modes and associated GHG emissions. 50% of transportation At our Martel, Ohio, production facility 40% In 2014, we continued working to improve we partnered with a carrier to use 30% transportation efficiency through modal shift lightweight truck cabs to transport flour. 20% This allowed us to include two additional 10% – moving loads to transport modes with less 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 4 Transportation fuel use data covers outbound shipments in the United States by our logistics service providers. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 79 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community use of load optimization software to oil about 110 miles between the cities of Andrian, Spain, worked together to reduce improve overall shipping efficiency. Lezama and Burzaco, Argentina, using the number of containers from 450 to Transitioning some ingredients to bulk tanker trucks instead of smaller packaged 330 required to transport products to shipping also has benefits. In 2014, we containers. This reduces the number Sydney, Australia. To improve container began transporting high oleic sunflower of deliveries each year from 24 to 16, utilization from 60 percent to nearly 90 decreasing associated GHG emissions. It percent, we changed palletization height, will also save US$143,000 and more than increased outer casing strength, stacked 30 metric tons of plastic bags, cardboard products by weight, and implemented r More efficient utilization decreased the number packaging and wooden pallets annually. more efficient container temperature of containers required to ship our products. choices. Beginning in fiscal 2015, these Collaborating to enhancements will reduce GHG emissions primary truck carriers with whom we streamline shipments by approximately 8,000 metric tons have ongoing contracts and 80 percent of our primary intermodal carriers (those CO2e and save US$450,000 annually. We collaborate across General Mills that work in conjunction with carriers and with our suppliers to reduce When selecting shippers, we prioritize r Using tanker trucks to transfer high oleic from other transport modes) in the transportation impact. In 2013 and companies with strong environmental sunflower oil reduces GHG emissions and United States are SmartWay certified. packaging use. 2014, our teams in Australia and San credentials. One hundred percent of the G4-EN19, EN30 2D Reduce water usage Lower consumption and reuse water Progress Approach conservation. We strive to minimize water and energy usage in our operations, As a global food company, water is critical similar to how we work to avoid over Target: Reduce water usage rate by Key drivers: High water usage in to our business. We have an interest and use of ingredients in our products. This 20 percent by 2015 (2006 baseline). yogurt production and associated a responsibility to protect the quality and mindset, combined with our five-step cooling systems following the supply of water upon which our business water and energy reduction processes, has Performance: This rate increased Yoplait acquisition in fiscal 2012 depends, and continually look for ways helped us reduce consumption while also 17 percent through 2014, an as well as expansion of our Greek to collaborate with others to benefit our decreasing corresponding GHG emissions. improvement from a 22 percent yogurt business, have contributed growers, communities and the environment. rise through 2013 but still off track To encourage improvement across to this performance. These Water is one of the most material to meet our target.5 Our absolute industries, General Mills is a Founding factors were only partially offset environmental issues across our value water withdrawal increased by 41 Partner of the Alliance for Water by savings at several facilities. chain, especially in agriculture, which percent since 2006, while net sales Stewardship (AWS), which seeks to represents an estimated 82 percent of define the global standard in this area. rose 54 percent. During that period, our total water footprint. We work to The International Water Stewardship water usage decreased by 12 percent understand water usage in every phase, Standard 1.0, created through a not including Yoki and Yoplait. from watershed to production, and identify four-year global multi-stakeholder opportunities to increase efficiency and effort, defines criteria for good water 5 The statement of progress against the 2015 target, which is normalized to production, represents wholly owned production facilities globally and includes Yoki and Yoplait. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 80 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Water usage, 2006 – 2014 18 4.5 understand our opportunities to increase efficiency in water usage, we have adapted Managing 16 4.0 the Five-Step Energy Reduction Process upstream impact Cubic meters/metric ton of product (see Reduce energy usage) to also apply Ninety-nine percent of our water footprint 14 3.5 to water. We are testing this process at our occurs upstream from our directly Million cubic meters 12 3.0 Murfreesboro, Tennessee, site and plan controlled operations. Therefore, promoting 10 2.5 to fully launch it at that location in 2015 more efficient water use across our value and other facilities in the coming years. chain is a key priority. We are implementing 8 GOAL 2.0 In Linbro, South Africa, at our facility that our global water stewardship strategy 6 1.5 to improve the health of watersheds makes dry mixes, pizza bases and other 4 1.0 products, we installed hand-operated, accessed by our business worldwide. Our high-pressure, low flow spray nozzles four-phase approach includes assessment, 2 0.5 in sanitation areas during 2014. This analysis and action planning, collaboration, 0 0 will save nearly 9,000 cubic meters and transformation to sustainable water 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015 of water and US$20,000 annually. use throughout our supply chain. See *Data for 2013 and 2014 include production facilities gained in the acquisition of Yoki and Yoplait. See the Environmental Data Summary to view data for 2013 and 2014 not Sourcing section for more detail. including those acquisitions. Our facilities recirculate water when G4-16, EN8, EN9, EN10, EN27 possible for reuse rather than disposal. stewardship and helps companies assess and improve their performance. Reducing water At our Green Giant location in Irapuato, Mexico, which is located in one of our Water consumption across our value chain [% of total]* In 2014, we published the General usage in our directly key watersheds (see Sourcing for more Mills Policy on Water. This describes controlled operations detail), we added additional equipment to our wastewater treatment system in our broad approach to addressing this Our main uses of water at General Mills 2014 to facilitate water reuse in cooling issue, and covers the following areas: are as an ingredient, for cooling or heating towers associated with broccoli and n  itigation and adaptation – Continue M and for cleaning and sanitizing equipment. cauliflower freezing. As of October of efforts to increase water efficiency Although only about 1 percent of the water that year, the location has increased its within our operations, supply chain and consumed to create and distribute our water reuse rate for this system to about priority watersheds and collaborate products is within our directly controlled 8 percent of related water withdrawal, with our suppliers, local communities, operations (see water consumption across from less than 1 percent earlier in the governments, NGOs and the industry our value chain pie chart), we take every year. Moving forward, we plan to expand nA  griculture 82% n  onverting 1% C to advance watershed stewardship. opportunity to reduce consumption. We n Transforming 3% n  hipping 0% S utilization of this equipment, potentially track water consumption in each of our n Packaging supply n  elling 0% S n A  nnual reporting – Report progress tripling related water reuse to more locations to identify areas of high usage chain 14% n  onsuming 0% C against targets annually. than 60,000 cubic meters per year. and target opportunities for improvement. *Based on analysis completed by Trucost in September n  olicy engagement – Advocate P Every production facility has a target To view additional data about water usage 2012. Water consumption in Shipping, Selling and Consuming was considered to be immaterial. for effective, efficient public and to decrease water use by 1 percent in our directly controlled operations, industry association policy and each year, normalized to production. including withdrawal by source, see action and encourage peers to the Environmental Data Summary. We share best practices across sites to engage on water issues. maximize benefits companywide. To better GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 81 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 2E Reduce solid waste generation Decrease impact and create value through reduction, reuse and recycling Progress Solid waste generation, 2005 – 2014 Increasing recycling Metric tons/metric ton of product 300,000 0.06 We reduce waste to 250,000 0.05 Target: Reduce solid waste landfill by recycling Metric tons generation rate by 50 percent 200,000 0.04 production, office, by 2015 (2005 baseline). 150,000 0.03 packaging, and GOAL construction Performance: We decreased 100,000 0.02 materials. For example, through our this rate by 41 percent through partnership with Hauling for Hope, 50,000 0.01 2014, compared to 40 percent we donate scrap metal from several through 2013.6 Our solid waste 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015 company locations. This organization generation reduced by 30 percent sorts and recycles the materials, which Data for 2013 and 2014 include production facilities gained in the acquisition of Yoki in absolute terms since 2005 and Yoplait. See the Environmental Data Summary to view data for 2013 and 2014 not might otherwise go to landfill, and uses including those acquisitions. while net sales rose 59 percent. the proceeds to support programs for During that period, solid waste children with special needs. Since 2013, n R  ecycle waste when reuse is not feasible from 85 percent in 2013. During the last generation decreased by 43 percent we have recycled nearly 40 metric tons (including composting organic waste). year, reuse increased from 14 percent to 23 not including Yoki and Yoplait. of metal through this organization. At our percent of the total and landfill decreased n  ecover energy from waste that R Key drivers: During 2014, we from 14 percent to 12 percent. Recapturing cannot be reused or recycled. continued to reduce food waste value from waste has become a revenue Solid waste by disposition (% of from operations and move n Dispose of waste as a last resort. source for General Mills, representing a 2014 total for North American recyclables to higher value markets Worldwide, at the end of fiscal 2014, five record US$10 million of net revenue in 2014 operations only) including reuse, contributing to General Mills production facilities (about for our North American operations. For progress against our target. 9 percent of the global total) met our example, our facilities in that region reused zero-waste-to-landfill criteria by reusing, 8,700 metric tons of cardboard boxes and composting or recycling at least 90 percent totes in 2014, returning US$1.3 million to Approach of all waste (the remainder is incinerated our facilities. In Belvidere, Illinois, we reused To reduce waste and related with energy recovery). These included 200 metric tons of cup boxes during the environmental impacts in our operations, Chanhassen, Minnesota, U.S.; Midland, year, saving US$7,700. Our Kansas City, we use the following hierarchy: Ontario, Canada; Berwick, U.K.; and Landes, Missouri, and Carlisle, Iowa, sites recently LeMans, Seretram and Vienne, France. launched a collaboration to reuse chocolate n  educe waste at the source by R chip shipping boxes instead of recycling improving process efficiency and targeting opportunities for improvement. Improving reuse them after a single use. This compounds n  ecycling 64% R n C omposting Less than 1% savings and reduces impact at both sites n Reuse 23% n Incineration (Incl. energy In 2014, we reused or recycled 87 percent of recovery) Less than 1% n R  euse waste for beneficial purposes while demonstrating our environmental n L andfill 12% our waste in North American operations, up when possible. vision and strategy to our employees. 6 The statement of progress against the 2015 target, which is normalized to production, represents wholly owned production facilities globally and includes Yoki and Yoplait. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 82 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Composting waste we generate is less than 2 percent of our total product volume. Nonetheless, We compost food and other organic we continually pursue opportunities to waste at our facilities around the world, reducing waste sent to landfills. reduce this waste further. For example, <2% during 2014 we standardized operator n I n Mexico, our Old El Paso and Green transition processes in Cheerios production Giant locations in Irapuato transform to reduce food losses by more than waste from tacos, tortillas, and fresh and 50 percent, equivalent to nearly 370 Food waste from General Mills r Plastic-lined kraft bags bound for recycling at frozen vegetables as well as cardboard metric tons. Also during the year, we production processes compared our site in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. into compost. During 2014, 427 metric implemented process and maintenance to total product volume. tons of organic waste were composted improvements in fruit snacks and readysite in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, we installed and used as fertilizer in our greenhouses, to-spread frosting that reduced waste by a compactor in 2014 that enabled us up 19 percent from the prior year. 17 percent, equivalent to more than 590 to divert from landfill and recycle more metric tons and saving US$100,000. than 10 metric tons of plastic-lined kraft n I n Minnesota, our headquarters bags during the first six months. At diverted 79 metric tons of organic Donations: We capture surplus food for full utilization, we expect that recycled waste from landfills in 2014, reducing donation, such as overruns of products with volume will increase to over 80 metric the facility’s landfill use by 25 percent. seasonal packaging or surplus ingredients. tons per year, reducing waste to landfill In 2014, we donated more than 12,600 at the site by approximately 20 percent. Reducing food waste metric tons of surplus food to U.S. charitable organizations – feeding hundreds of We also focus on waste reduction Worldwide, about one-third of food thousands of people rather than recycling outside of our production facilities. is wasted – equaling 1.3 billion metric the food (such as using it for animal feed) or At our headquarters in Minneapolis, tons of food waste each year – while sending food waste to landfills. Read more Minnesota, we repurposed a dozen nearly 1 billion people do not have about our work with food banks worldwide mature ash trees that had been enough to eat. Addressing this issue in the Community section of this report. removed for a building addition as not only benefits people but also the wall material in a meeting space. environment, by decreasing demands on Collaboration: We also help address food agriculture and reducing food in landfills. waste through industry collaboration. In This is critical, since food waste is five June 2013, General Mills was named a times more impactful per kilogram in a founding partner of the U.S. Food Waste landfill than packaging waste due to the Challenge, a collaborative effort of the U.S. methane it creates – a GHG 20 times Department of Agriculture and the U.S. more potent than carbon dioxide. Environmental Protection Agency. This initiative encourages reduction of food waste, We help reduce food waste by improving recovery of wholesome food for human our production processes, donating surplus consumption, and recycling discarded foods food to charitable organizations, and for other uses, such as animal feed, compost, collaborating across our supply chain. or energy recovery. We also participate r Meeting room at our headquarters with wall Operations: Due to our highly efficient in the Food Waste Reduction Alliance. material created from repurposed ash wood. production processes, the amount of food G4-EN23, EN28 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 83 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 2F Reduce packaging footprint Improve the environmental performance of packaging our packaging through better design – by F itting more products onto each Progress n decreasing materials use, using lower truck for transport impact materials, and improving truckload We work to decrease our impact across all Long-term packaging Target: Improve 60 percent packing efficiencies. This is critical, since improvements at of global packaging volume indicators, ensuring that reductions in one packaging represents a substantial part of area are not offset in another. To enhance Yoplait by 2015 (initial 40 percent our environmental footprint ‑ 14 percent the environmental performance of our Yoplait® yogurt has a long history goal exceeded in 2012). of total GHG emissions and water use packaging, General Mills has a target to of reducing its packaging footprint. across the value chain. As of 2014, we’ve decreased the Performance: We exceeded our source 100 percent of our fiber packaging target, improving 68 percent We use four key indicators to assess by 2020 from recycled material or from amount of fiber packaging in our our progress in improving packaging virgin wood fiber regions that are known Fridge Pack format three times, through 2014, compared to environmental performance: totaling more than 750 metric tons 59 percent through 2013.7 to not be contributing to deforestation of paper fiber saved annually. We n Reducing the package-to-product ratio (sources from high-risk regions will Key drivers: During 2014, have also trimmed the iconic Yoplait® be independently verified). In 2014, packaging redesign generated n I ncreasing recycled content cup several times, conserving over 99 percent of the fiber packaging General 2,900 metric tons of plastic in 2012 our greatest materials and dollar and recyclability Mills purchased was sustainably sourced. and more than 1,110 metric tons of savings. We are in the process of n I ncreasing renewable and See the Sourcing section for more details. plastic in 2014. Our innovations setting our next packaging target. compostable content Decreasing extend to the lid, saving around 130 metric tons of sealant film Percent of packaging improved, materials use through through reductions in 2013 and Approach 2009 2014 collaborative innovation nearly 60 metric tons of aluminum 100% Packaging is critical to keeping food safe by decreasing thickness in 2014. Working in close collaboration with and at peak quality for consumption. Proper 80% suppliers, in 2014 we eliminated about 900 packaging can extend the time that a 60% metric tons of plastic cereal packaging on integrated unit, we also reduced the product remains wholesome and appealing, 40% an annual basis through improvements weight of the box substantially while only which meets our customers’ expectations in film toughness, producing a 10 percent slightly increasing the weight of the outer while preventing food waste. While 20% thinner inner bag that still provides the container. This reduced fiber packaging meeting those needs, we also innovate 0% needed product protection. By developing to reduce the environmental impact of 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 by more than 1,360 metric tons per year. (baseline) the carton and the shipping case as an 7 Packaging improvement data are global. “The Recycled Paperboard Alliance congratulates General Mills on its extensive use of 100 percent recycled paperboard, made entirely from recovered fiber products such as corrugated boxes, newspapers and printing and writing paper. The company has a long history of using recycled fiber – more than a century ago it began purchasing cereal cartons made from newspapers recycled from the surrounding community of St. Paul.”– Paul Schutes, Executive Director, 100% Recycled Paperboard Alliance GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 84 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community To expand on these savings, in 85 percent of the packaging we use range of manufacturers and retailers the coming years we will explore for those products is recyclable.8 on different materials and packaging implementing these innovations in other formats. Starting with Yoplait® Fridge categories, such as cake and brownie We were one of the first companies to feature How2Recycle labels, beginning in Packs, as well as packaging for Green 99% mixes that use similar packaging. 2013, to clearly communicate recycling Giant frozen vegetables and Chex Mix, we instructions to the public. Developed have expanded the program to dozens of Using recycled by the Sustainable Packaging Coalition, brands and hundreds of products. More Percent of fiber packaging materials and How2Recycle labels are simple, clear than a third of our products with packages General Mills purchased in 2014 large enough for the icon now include it. promoting recycling and standardized for use by a wide G4-EN2, EN8 that was sustainably sourced. Using recycled materials in our packaging and promoting recycling are key to reducing our footprint. We continue working to increase our use of recycled and recyclable materials while maintaining product quality and safety. Recycled content represents approximately 45 percent of the weight of the packaging we use for r How2Recycle labels educate consumers about recyclability of packaging. our U.S. products, and approximately 8 According to analysis conducted by General Mills in 2014. Packaging is considered recyclable if 60 percent or more of the U.S. population has access to recycling for the material. “General Mills continues to be a leader in transparent recyclability labeling through the How2Recycle label program. With quintessential brands such as Cheerios, Green Giant and Old El Paso now carrying the label, a variety of products provide consumers clear instructions for proper recycling.”– Anne Tate Bedarf, Senior Manager, Sustainable Packaging Coalition Redesigning Bisquick packaging In November 2013, our Baking team launched a new bottle design for Bisquick Shake ‘n Pour. The updated package removes an unneeded handle, reducing polymer use by about 220 metric tons and saving more than $900,000 in materials and logistics, all on an annual basis. This innovation not only benefits the environment and enhances consumer ease of use; it also makes it possible to expand the product offerings in this convenient and now much more affordable package. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 85 WORKPLACE OUR GOAL is to foster a safe, ethical, diverse and inclusive workplace where employees can thrive. We accomplish our mission by living our values: n Play to win n Grow and inspire n Act boldly, move quickly n Win as a team n Do the right thing, all the time Every day around the world, Our strategies more than 42,000 General Mills Maintain Build a strong Respect, develop employees work to carry out our a safe workplace and invest in mission of Nourishing Lives. workplace culture employees GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 86 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Overview A great place to work: We focus on making General Mills a safe, inclusive and supportive work environment. Workplace culture and business performance go hand-in-hand, so we strive to develop our employees by giving them opportunities both inside and outside the company to stretch and grow. By doing so, we encourage employees to achieve their best while ensuring strong leadership for the future. Investing in talent is a key ingredient to our success. We recruit, retain and develop talented employees and continue to improve workplace safety through our efforts to prevent injuries and illnesses. We support our employees in being active, eating healthy and staying well. Employees recognize our efforts to foster a safe, positive and rewarding work environment by consistently identifying General Mills as “a great place to work.” Performance dashboard Increasing Strengthening our Increasing diversity Increasing employee workplace safety workplace culture and inclusion well-being We reduced our global total 84 percent of employees Our Board of Directors includes 36 percent We offer employee wellness programs at injury rate to 1.34 injuries per 100 said General Mills is a great female directors and 21 percent who almost 300 locations worldwide. More employees in fiscal 2014, down place to work in 2014.* are people of color. Our U.S.-based than 5,000 U.S. employees participated from 1.62 in 2013. Our ultimate *2014 Great Place to Work Institute; workforce includes 40 percent women in our Go Giant campaign to increase goal is zero injuries and illnesses. representative sample of U.S. employees and 20 percent people of color. fruit and vegetable consumption in 2014. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 87 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Our approach: grow & inspire We work hard to earn our employees’ respect and trust At General Mills, we know that engaged Safety: We work to improve workplace with a Senior Vice President of Human ensuring that employees know what it employees drive innovation, shareholder safety and reach our goal of zero injuries Resources functionally responsible for means to behave ethically and to act in value and business performance. Our and illnesses. At General Mills, we strive developing strategies to achieve that goal. compliance with our Code of Conduct. Key mission and culture, our brands and for a “zero-loss culture” in which all losses Governance for our labor practices lies business leaders throughout our global business practices, and our commitment are driven out, including safety incidents. primarily within our Human Resources, operations own responsibility for ethical to a clear Code of Conduct help inspire Our focus on achieving a zero-loss culture Law and Supply Chain organizations. At marketing and brand development. our employees. Together, we work to bring helps reduce injuries and make safety the an operational level, the Human Resources our values to life: play to win; grow and top priority across our facilities worldwide. organization leads key employee initiatives Diversity and inclusion: The Vice inspire; act boldly, move quickly; win as a in partnership with company business President of Global Inclusion and Staffing team; and do the right thing, all the time. leaders at multiple levels. Reflecting the Coaching: Managers play a significant is responsible for attracting competitively importance of people to our business, role in employee engagement, success superior talent that reflects our markets General Mills has a vice president of Leadership: Our company leadership and satisfaction. Our Great Managers and consumers, retaining top talent and Global Inclusion and Staffing; a vice maintains the highest ethical standards program helps managers become better developing all employees to reach their president of Global Health Services; a vice when conducting business, and they leaders by building skills, reinforcing fullest potential, and delivering a culture president of Engineering, Global Safety and honor and acknowledge employees’ behaviors and providing feedback. and environment that allows all employees Environment; and a Chief Learning Officer. contributions to the company’s success. Since 2008, we have trained more to thrive and achieve their personal best. At the board level, the Compensation than 2,000 managers worldwide to be and Public Responsibility Committees Commitment: The best companies good coaches for our employees. The Executive Diversity Council includes maintain responsibility for issues related attract committed employees who to labor practices and decent work. 10 senior leaders who oversee policies grow to achieve their highest potential, Leadership and governance: and regularly review programs and making significant contributions to the Responsibility for upholding our workplace results related to diversity and inclusion. business. We focus on hiring superior Ethics and compliance: Our Our Chief Executive Officer personally commitments starts at the top and extends Ethics & Compliance group, led by our talent, helping our people continually across the organization. Our Chairman reviews our Diversity and Inclusion Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, is develop their skills and creating an and Chief Executive Officer has ultimate progress quarterly and sets the tone for committed to upholding General Mills’ organization that collaborates effectively. accountability for ensuring a healthy, accountability throughout the company. long-standing culture of integrity by We encourage a healthy work/life balance. productive and motivated workforce, “A very strong commitment to people over a very long period of time, and the values that we support of integrity and playing the right way – what I would call high-character values – are what makes this company so special.” – Ken Powell, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, General Mills GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 88 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Our strategies and actions 1 Maintain a safe workplace 2 Build a strong workplace culture 3 Respect, develop and invest in employees A L ead with safety A Set clear expectations for A Inspire healthy living ethics and compliance B Invest in development and training B Foster diversity and inclusion C  reate a culture of fairness, C trust and openness 1 Maintain a safe workplace 1A Lead with safety Expand our safety culture and track progress Impact Zero-loss culture 2014 matches our target rate for this period. Fiscal 2014 safety highlights include: Our focus on achieving a zero-loss n 12 locations operated injury-free. Goal: Provide injury-free culture – driving out all losses from our workplaces for our employees, business, including safety incidents – n 22 locations had a TIR below 1.0. contractors and visitors. has resulted in fewer injuries. n 2  7 locations had zero lost-time Performance: In 2014, we made accidents due to injuries. 17 percent reduction: Global total significant progress toward our goal of We achieved these injury reductions through injury rate of 1.34 injuries per 100 zero injuries and illnesses by achieving a 17 our focus on leadership engagement, employees in 2014, down from percent reduction in our global total injury continuous improvements in our safety 1.62 in 2013. rate (TIR) compared with 2013. Our global culture and systems that track performance. TIR of 1.34 injuries per 100 employees* in * Fiscal 2014 global total injury rate excludes Yoki and Yoplait International; data from those businesses will be integrated into global reporting beginning in fiscal 2015. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 89 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Leadership Global injury rate reduction 3 Total injury rate (TIR) Safety governance: Our Corporate Safety Lost-time accident (LTA) rate Safety management Council, established in 2013, is led by our 2.5 TIR improvement target Our safety management Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2 LTA improvement target systems include: Injury rates and a Global Safety Governance Board 1.5 composed of regional operating vice n P  olicy: We have consistent presidents. With this strong leadership 1 safety expectations for all focus, we are establishing globally Data reflects fiscal year ends our facilities worldwide. 0.5 consistent safety expectations for our Data does not include Yoki or n S  tandards: We have a clear Yoplait International 0 employees and the food we produce (learn FY’09 FY’10 FY’11 FY’12 FY’13 FY’14 FY’15 set of required actions and more about our commitment to food safety risk-control standards. r We reduced our global total injury rate by 17 percent in 2014 to 1.34, achieving our target rate of in the Health & Wellness section of this injuries per 100 employees for the fiscal year. We continue to improve safety at our facilities around n P  rocedures: We have report). “Lead with Safety” continues to the world. be the top priority across our supply chain, established procedures for coach and influence each other to work meeting our safety standards. followed by generating return on capital safely. These personal interactions focus on and growing our business sustainably. n G  uidelines: We follow critical behaviors, rely on positive feedback Safety principles: Our “iF” (incident-free) recognized safety best practices, and help identify barriers to safe work. This initiative raises awareness about preventing no matter where we operate. feedback reinforces the necessity for safe incidents of employee and food safety by behaviors and reminds employees to work reinforcing General Mills safety principles: safely. In 2014, we delivered advanced we lead with safety; every incident is BBS process training at four locations preventable; we are all accountable. in the U.S.: Murfreesboro, Tennessee; Joplin, Missouri; Hannibal, Missouri; and Safety management r General Mills safety principles. Vineland, New Jersey. In 2015, we are systems General Mills has established clear proceeding with BBS implementation at safety targets specific to each those sites and creating a BBS Center of Historically, General Mills has had location and measures progress. Excellence. We will continue to advance a very strong safety record when Improvement plans: In fiscal 2014, each our safety-observation and BBS processes compared with our peer food group of our international production facilities in 2015 through a strategic partnership companies. We continue to improve r Our facility in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, implemented safety management with DuPont (see Benchmarking story the safety of our operations using piloted a new behavior-based safety program improvement plans and conducted later in this section). This partnership to help change our safety culture and improve clear safety management systems. human safety loss analyses. Our North will provide standardized processes and employee safety companywide. Murfreesboro Safety targets: Our corporate policy for training to additional North American was one of the 27 General Mills facilities with American operations also are implementing workplace health and safety directs all zero lost-time accidents in 2014. improvement plans and analyzing losses. pilot locations and develop our internal operations to implement management capabilities to deploy enterprise-wide. systems, programs and procedures that Behavior-based safety: In 2014 we began will lead the company to our goal of zero the process of implementing behaviorinjuries and illnesses. We have set interim based safety (BBS) programs at our improvement targets, which are the basis facilities. BBS includes observation and for our production facility safety metrics. feedback processes that help employees GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 90 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Improving safety at our facilities around the world We strive to improve safety at each of our facilities globally. Listed here are some examples of how our employees are making their workplaces safer. Culture of safety Injury and illness personal accountability for Actions and results: in Argentina prevention in Australia fitness and safety (learn more n R  emoval of all cutting tools Our San Fernando facility in At our Rooty Hill facility in in story 3A of the Workplace from the facility’s filling Argentina has built a strong safety Australia, employee participation section in this report). and packaging areas. culture and increased employee increased during the second Eliminated injury n Z  ero injuries from cutting engagement through effective year of the facility’s wellness source in France INCIDENTES tools in fiscal 2014. leadership and systems, resulting SIN and injury/illness prevention At our Häagen-Dazs facility in a significant reduction in lostprogram, resulting in healthier, Increased capacity in China in Arras, France, the team time accidents in 2014. The team more engaged employees, Many of our facilities increased TODOS eliminated injuries from cutting used Continuous Improvement reinforcing the facility’s zero-loss production capacity and utilization LIDERAMOS tools by removing the tools from (CI) tools to reduce injuries, culture and reducing injuries. in 2014 with no increase in injuries, CON SEGURIDAD the production area. Previous conducted risk assessments, TODOS including these facilities in China: Actions and results: efforts by the team in 2011 instituted a behavior observation LOS INCIDENTES to identify safer cutting tools Actions and results: SE PREVIENEN n R  educed TIR to 2.6 in fiscal safety program and conducted a reduced but did not eliminate n O  ur Shanghai frozen foods TODOS 2014, down from 7.85 in 2013. safety incident root cause analysis. SOMOS injuries, so the team made the facility surpassed its production RESPONSABLES n R  eduction in LTA rate from Actions and results: decision to eliminate use of the goal nearly three-fold with 1.25 in 2013 to zero. n L  ost-time accident tools in the filling and packaging zero safety incidents. n W  ellness program helps (LTA) rate reduced 65.3 areas of the facility and trained n O  ur Nanjing Trix packaging prevent injuries and illnesses percent from 2013. employees working in the facility increased utilization through onsite access to logistics and processing areas with no safety incidents. n L  ost work days reduced by personal training and massage r Raising awareness about safety who still use the tools to wear 82 percent from 2013. facilities and increases 600 has helped our team in Argentina reduce injuries. special gloves to prevent injuries. n T  otal injury rate (TIR) of 1.12 employee engagement and compared to 3.23 in 2013. n D  eveloped a behavior n C  ontributed to 45 percent Our Bugles facility in observation safety program reduction of TIR for Latin Reduction of injuries from cutting tools Labatut, France, increased resulting in more than 850 American region. in Arras, France utilization to nearly 80 recorded observations. 25 n C  onducted safety training n F  or each safety incident, percent while reducing the 20 during planned production recorded immediate reports facility’s safety risk profile, stops to avoid extra hours. and conducted an investigation 15 contributing to 600 days n D  eveloped risk assessments with the local leadership team 10 without a lost-time accident. for overall workplace and the injured employee in 5 and for machinery. order to find the root cause. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 r Our Häagen-Dazs facility in Arras, France, eliminated injuries r All incidents are preventable. from cutting tools. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 91 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Benchmarking Leader development Survey: In 2013, we partnered with DuPont, Employees are trained in all applicable a globally recognized leader in workplace health and safety subjects relevant to their safety, to conduct a comprehensive jobs. This development helps ensure that global safety perception survey. This every employee knows how to perform assessment provided valuable insights his or her job correctly and comply with all into our employees’ perceptions about the local, regional and country requirements. importance of human and food safety and iLEAD: In 2014, we introduced our “iLEAD” identified opportunities for improvement framework that helps develop leadership at our facilities worldwide. More than behaviors to drive our zero-loss culture 90 percent of our global production, internationally. iLEAD – inspire, light, engineering, and innovation, technology and engage, activate, develop – equips our quality employees participated in the survey. production facility leaders around the world r We reinforce our culture of safety at our facilities around the world. Results: The data DuPont collected with the information they need to lead showed strong safety performance across and reinforce our zero-loss culture every and accountability. We delivered this We determined that a cultural change General Mills facilities, including equipment day. The training focuses on achieving full strategy to 27 production facilities and was needed to reduce injuries to zero operators who were knowledgeable about employee engagement, process discipline 16 wholly-owned distribution centers. at our international facilities. The their roles and functions, well-maintained iLEAD framework assists leaders equipment, careful steps to guard against in reprioritizing accountabilities so injuries and a strong desire to improve safety. they can spend the majority of their DuPont also identified barriers, including: time on safety culture leadership and employees’ perceptions of managers’ developing and coaching their teams. accountability for preventing injuries; the iLEAD leadership accountabilities include: need for incident investigations targeting n I nspire: Leaders must be passionate the root causes; closer adherence to about achieving zero losses and safety rules; employees’ perceptions about communicate that commitment the importance of safety vs. production to every individual at the facility; and cost; and employees’ beliefs about eliminate barriers or excuses the potential for preventing injuries. to achieving zero losses; and Roadmap: In 2014, we began creating acknowledge what they don’t know a safety performance improvement and create their own learning plan. roadmap using insights from the n L ight: Leaders must have a clear DuPont survey as well as comparisons understanding of the business needs of our safety metrics with those of for their facility and articulate them our peer food industry companies to their employees; be bold in setting and benchmarking our performance stretch goals that are motivating and compared to recognized safety leaders. clear to their team; and celebrate We are implementing changes across our reductions that improve safety. facilities worldwide to improve safety. r iLEAD helps managers drive our zero-loss culture globally. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 92 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Increase in reporting near-miss incidents specific types of injuries, including injuries committee is organized by the formal and/ categorized by hand, finger or wrist and or informal safety leaders and consists 2014 near-miss incidents 1,798 those caused by strains, slips or cuts. of wage and management employees. 2013 near-miss incidents 965 Auditing: General Mills has an active r We improve employee safety by reporting and evaluating near-misses – incidents where employees Responsibility auditing program involving both internal came close to being injured – so we can learn from them and prevent future injuries. In fiscal 2014, we and auditing and external auditors to monitor our increased reporting of near-miss incidents to 1,798 compared with 965 incidents reported in 2013. operations to ensure compliance with These reports help make our facilities safer. Responsibility: Workplace health and safety is the responsibility of line all internal requirements and external n  ngage: Leaders must commit to E to align). GSTEMS allows us to track all management and each individual employee. regulations. Any deficiencies identified spending more than half their time workplace incidents – even those nearAll employees are expected to work safely are tracked until completion. interacting with employees in their work misses that did not result in an injury – and by following all rules, procedures and G4-LA5, LA6, PR1 areas; consistently and transparently document the actions necessary to reduce training. Senior-level responsibility for communicate to all employees; and future risks and communicate progress. workplace safety lies with the Director build trust with all team members. of Global Safety and Environment, who Rapid reporting: We have a 24-hour n  ctivate: Leaders must hold everyone A requirement for reporting of all injuries. This reports to the Vice President of Engineering, accountable for zero-loss behaviors, processes and results; outline the rapid notification calls attention to potential safety risks so they can be addressed Global Safety and Environment. Committee: As part of the safety 32% metrics key to measuring success quickly to prevent future incidents. We also management system at General Mills, and tracking progress; and create follow a standardized global process for production locations are encouraged communication loops with team incident investigation. We analyze GSTEMS to have safety committee meetings on Our Joplin, Missouri, facility members so all input is considered. trend data and target our efforts to prevent a periodic basis (e.g., monthly). The used a Learn-Do-Teach n Develop: Leaders must model L-D-T leadership program to reduce (Learn-Do-Teach) behaviors; strive to be safety risks involving equipment systems, process and culture experts for maintenance by 32 percent. their organization so that they can coach others; take personal accountability for their team’s development; and invest appropriate resources in building capability in all employees. Track and manage progress System: Using our Global Safety Tracking and Environmental Management System, called GSTEMS, we track safety data at all production facilities worldwide (currently excluding our Yoki and Yoplait International sites, which we are working r Our goal is to provide injury-free workplaces for our employees, contractors and visitors. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 93 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 2 Build a strong workplace culture 2A Set clear expectations for ethics and compliance Do the right thing, all the time safety, appropriate use of company Program: We continue to strengthen Impact* resources and consumer privacy. our anti-corruption program. Following Annually, our company leaders – from our recent comprehensive corruption Ethical culture 95 percent of surveyed employees risk assessment across our businesses managers upward, approximately 15 Ethics: Doing the right thing is a said leaders demonstrate a around the world, we enhanced our percent of our employees – must attest to fundamental part of our culture. commitment to ethical business. anti-corruption program, updated our compliance with our Code of Conduct and Respect: We treat our employees business conduct policies. This certification anti-corruption policy and internal 96 percent said ethical standards with respect and dignity. is an example of communications controls, and communicated program and procedures are effectively requirements broadly to employees. We Communications: 90 percent communicated. that promote our high expectations continue to assess risks in this evolving of salaried employees provided for ethical conduct in every aspect of 94 percent said their manager area and review enhancements to our feedback about our company our business. In 2014, we were ranked acts consistently with our ethical program to adapt best practices, such as through our Global Climate Survey. No. 7 on the Forbes magazine list of standards. America’s Most Reputable Companies. in the areas of third-party risk. We also include corruption as a risk factor in the Our comprehensive Code of Conduct Ethics annual risk assessment fielded by our modules – on corruption risks and other Global Internal Audit function. This risk business conduct. In October 2013, we The motto for our Ethics & Compliance and ethics and compliance program assessment touches all our business units launched an updated anti-corruption program is “Every Decision, Every Action, promote ethical behavior in all around the world. In addition, we ask training course for employees outside Every Day.” The program includes extensive aspects of our employees’ work. detailed questions related to corruption risk the U.S. and U.S.-based employees who online resources and self-directed courses during each routine, in-depth business unit interact with other countries. Of the Conduct for employees along with our confidential audit by our Global Internal Audit team. more than 10,000 employees worldwide Ethics Line, which allows employees to raise Our Code of Conduct describes the enrolled in our anti-bribery online course, questions or report questionable conduct Along with our ongoing anti-corruption principles that govern our business for example, 84 percent have completed anonymously, where allowed by law. The assessments, we continually assess conduct and points employees to the training. In addition, we supplement program also features “Ethics Matters,” a and adjust our ethics and compliance policies and other resources to answer online training with face-to-face anticollection of examples that provide real, program elements against regulatory their questions. The code covers a corruption training in markets where concrete company examples of either ethical requirements, enforcement trends range of topics, including maintaining there is a higher risk of corruption. lapses or choices that reflect a great deal of and industry best practices. corporate integrity, communicating integrity. These stories are shared in training Training: We train employees extensively – Action: All allegations of employee appropriately, competing fairly and legally, venues to foster employee awareness both in person and through online training misconduct, including bribery and preventing bribery, and ensuring personal of how policies are put into practice. corruption, are promptly and thoroughly *Based on responses to General Mills’ 2014 Ethical Culture Survey, which was sent to a random sample of more than 4,000 employees worldwide (68 percent responded with feedback). GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 94 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community investigated in accordance with our actions (including termination of thirda wide range of topics. Ninety percent of to communicate transparently with ethics and compliance procedures and party relationships), remediation steps salaried employees participated in our employees. That commitment includes corporate policies. The Audit Committee and internal/external reporting. 2013 Global Climate Survey and provided communicating difficult news as quickly, of our Board of Directors reviews the feedback about our company culture. thoroughly and openly as possible. investigation and resolution of these Assessment Our shorter Pulse Survey is conducted G4-56, 57, 58, SO3, SO4 allegations. Upon completion of the General Mills regularly surveys our on alternate years. We use employee investigation, our Ethics & Compliance employees to gather feedback. Our biennial feedback to improve our processes group oversees appropriate disciplinary Climate Survey is an in-depth review of and strengthen our culture. We strive 2014 awards, honors and accolades General Mills received numerous awards in 2014. In the U.S., we were named to Working Mother magazine’s 100 Best Companies list for the 20th consecutive year and selected as one of the Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality by the Human Rights Campaign for the 10th consecutive year – including the sixth consecutive year with a perfect rating. We are beginning to receive similar recognition around the world as our company's global footprint expands. The map below showcases some of the recognition we’ve received. U.K. n Great Place to Work France Spain n Great Place to Work n EFR (Work-Life Balance) n Top Employer, Top Employers Institute U.S. Certificate, Másfamilia Foundation n 100 Best Companies to Work For, FORTUNE magazine n World’s Most Admired Companies, FORTUNE magazine China n Best Corporate Citizens, Corporate Responsibility magazine n Best Employer Award, n America’s Most Reputable Companies – No. 7, Xinhua News Agency Forbes magazine n World’s Most Innovative Companies, Forbes magazine n 100 Best Companies – top 10, Working Mother magazine n Best Companies for Multicultural Women – top five, Working Mother magazine n Top 50 Companies for Diversity – No. 20, DiversityInc n Latino magazine 100 n Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality, Human Rights Campaign n Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award n Military Friendly Employers, GI Jobs n Best Places to Work in IT – No. 3, Computerworld n Newsweek Green Rankings – No. 37 Mexico n Great Place to Work GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 95 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 2B Foster diversity and inclusion Take action through hiring practices, employee development and measurement Goal: Our goal is to build an employee company’s most senior leaders, reinforces Impact base that mirrors the consumers of diversity and inclusion throughout the our products. Attracting, retaining and company by advising employee networks, 20 percent of our U.S.-based developing employees with a variety recruiting and mentoring women and 53% employees are people of color. of backgrounds is a top priority. employees of color, and ensuring that women and people of color are carefully 40 percent of our U.S.-based employees are women. Culture considered in all succession planning and leadership development. Our mentoring Women hold 53 percent of all We actively cultivate an inclusive programs have expanded to encompass salaried positions and 44 percent environment and respect all dimensions At General Mills, we value diversity and of diversity, including gender, race and a broader definition of diversity, including of management positions at inclusion. Ensuring diversity of input and sexual orientation as well as cultural values, veterans and LGBT employees. In 2015 General Mills’ U.S. operations. perspectives is core to our business strategy preferences and beliefs. Our Executive we are extending our mentoring efforts because it drives higher levels of innovation. Diversity Council, comprised of some of the to include employees with disabilities. “Cheerios is about families and love and connections – and breakfast. Our Cheerios ‘Gracie’ ad celebrates one of those special moments with a family that America fell in love with. The brand is at its best when it reveals moving insights about what connects us to each other, especially as families, and often through the lens of a child. The ad quietly celebrates the emotional sharing and simple joys we find when spending just a few simple moments together every day.” – Camille Gibson, Vice President of Marketing for General Mills Big G cereals Celebrating diversity: General Mills and ‘Gracie’ v The “Gracie” commercial aired in General Mills strives to build an employee game, and received a lot of publicity – most 2014 as our response base that reflects the diversity of the of it positive, but also some very negative to the feedback – both people who consume our products comments. In 2014, we responded with positive and negative – we received after around the world. We also recognize that another Cheerios commercial featuring the the “Just Checking” diversity in our marketing efforts. In 2013, same growing family, including daughter WATCH VIDEO commercial for we introduced a high-profile Cheerios “Gracie.” Learn more in this blog post. Cheerios aired in 2013. commercial featuring a mixed-race family, We look for opportunities to celebrate all r Our “Gracie” Cheerios commercial in 2014 which aired during the U.S. Super Bowl types of diversity in our communities. highlighted the diversity of families in our communities. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 96 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Actions communities to drive innovation and consumer engagement around the Associations: We also sustain relationships with professional associations, including Leadership: Our leaders reinforce world. We increase our ethnic and the National Black MBA Association diversity and inclusion throughout the gender diversity by assessing our hiring and National Society of Hispanic MBAs. organization, including focusing on their needs for women and people of color We partner with organizations, such as personal objectives regarding diversity and and implementing strategies to meet the Consortium for Graduate Study in inclusion. Each of our production facilities WATCH VIDEO those needs. We engage in effective Management and Management Leadership also creates and implements a diversity outreach efforts – including search of Tomorrow, which offer graduate and inclusion strategic plan. Women firms, community groups, professional r Employee networks at General Mills provide a fellowships and career development now hold 44 percent of management forum for connecting personally and professionally organizations and employee referrals. opportunities to high-potential African across the organization with people who have positions and comprise 53 percent of all Americans, Hispanics and Native Americans. Results: Over the past 10 years, the number shared experiences. Hear how a diverse mix salaried positions in the U.S. Among the of employees use our many networks to make of minority and female officers at General 14 members of the Board of Directors, five Mills in the U.S. has increased dramatically. leadership connections, become involved in the wider community and provide valuable Support for veterans are women and three are people of color. Between 2004 and 2014, female officers perspectives that impact our business. Scorecard: Completed annually, our increased from 27 percent to 35 percent Impact Diversity Scorecard defines meaningful and minority officers increased from 10 diversity and gender objectives, including 4 percent of our U.S.-based percent to 17 percent. Similar results specific goals for the officer level. Each employees are veterans. are tracked and progress is seen at all senior leader’s Diversity Scorecard levels in the organization: officer, director, 640+ U.S. veterans are employed includes a personal commitment to manager and throughout the company. at General Mills. building a culture of inclusion that WATCH VIDEO contributes to corporate goals. Evaluations Employee networks of diversity performance are factored into compensation decisions and incentives and associations r In this video, employees share their experiences interacting in General Mills’ diverse General Mills recognizes the value of employing the servicemen and women for leaders throughout the organization. Employee networks: Members of and inclusive work environment. who have served their country as enlisted our employee networks support each members or commissioned officers of Recruiting: General Mills creates a inclusion. Through their experiences and other and help recruit new employees the U.S. Armed Forces. Their training, diverse workforce by recruiting the perspectives, these employees make by increasing their confidence in experience and organizational skills are best and brightest talent from all a significant impact on our business. General Mills’ approach to diversity and assets in the General Mills workplace. In Developing women as leaders in Canada Our business in Canada has formed a group held its first Speaker’s Series focus on transitioning back to work Women in Leadership group to support event featuring a panel discussion with and maintaining connections while on the development of future female leaders General Mills female leaders. To provide maternity leave, which lasts 12 months by creating an inclusive culture of mentoring opportunities, female leaders in Canada. Feedback from employees communication, candor and partnership. are being matched with mentees using has been positive. Additional events and roles in other functions, extending their The group focuses on helping women individual development plans. The group focus groups are planned to continue career paths within General Mills. achieve their highest potential in the also has organized a support network building momentum. Already some organization. In November 2014, the for working mothers, including a special members of the group have applied for GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 97 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community the U.S., veterans represent 4 percent with mentors. The Veterans Network is of our workforce. We support veterans focusing on broadening awareness in 2015 through multiple initiatives, including to expand participation in the program. the Veterans Network as well as specific Our Veterans Employee Guide helps recruiting, mentoring, supplier diversity and managers and HR professionals aid veterans human resources (HR) initiatives. In 2014, with transitions, including preparing to WATCH VIDEO we added the Veterans Network to our depart for or returning from a military leave. Diversity and Inclusion Mentoring program, G4-LA12 resulting in the pairing of nine veterans r General Mills was awarded the 2014 Secretary r General Mills was nominated for the award of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award, by Army National Guard Captain Joel Stamp, the highest recognition given by the U.S. General Mills Transportation Business Analyst government to employers for their support of in Minneapolis, who has worked for General employees who serve in the Guard and Reserve. Mills since 2007. Learn more about his story in 2C Create a culture of In September 2014, Kim Nelson, Senior Vice President of External Relations, accepted the this blog post. fairness, trust and openness award in a ceremony at the U.S. Pentagon. Ensure equal opportunity to employment practices and procedures, employees and reward them accordingly rewards. We have clear health and safety Impact including compensation practices. with our Total Rewards compensation practices that include joint managementand benefits package. We are a payemployee health and safety teams and Practices: Employees are expected to report 86 percent of salaried employees for-performance culture, so incentive committees; participation of workers situations that compromise their ability to would recommend General Mills payments and merit increases are directly and/or worker representatives in health do their jobs. Formal channels are available as a great place to work. linked to employee performance. We offer and safety inspections, audits and for employees who seek advice or a solution. competitive pay, retirement programs, accident investigations; as well as use of Everyone has the right to work without and employee and education assistance personal protective equipment, training We believe every General Mills employee fear or intimidation. General Mills does not programs. Our annual performance and and periodic inspections. We maintain has the right to be treated fairly and accept abusive conduct or harassment – a awards statement was developed and good relationships with our unions, and deserves the opportunity to stretch policy made clear from an employee’s first revised in response to employee suggestions. our labor contracts are typically settled and grow throughout their career. day of orientation. Our policies strictly prohibit retaliation against employees on time and without work disruption. Equal opportunity who express concerns. We manage our Labor-management business operations so that employees relations Measurement Policy: To provide a comfortable feel they are being treated fairly. We value Globally, General Mills is committed to General Mills has established key and safe working environment for all our relationships with our employees providing both our union and nonunion metrics and measurement approaches to employees, General Mills prohibits and invest in them for the long term. production employees workplaces that understand our performance as it relates to discrimination based on age, race, are among the safest production facilities labor practices and decent work. Examples color, religion, sex, national origin, marital status, disability, citizenship, Benefits and in the world. In addition, we work to include a refined performance management sexual orientation, gender identity or compensation have total employee engagement as the process, annual employee surveys and foundation of our mutual success, strive a clearly articulated Code of Conduct. expression, military service, or other We believe our compensation, benefits characteristic protected by law. This equal and incentive plans are competitive in our to create cultures that champion respect G4-LA2, LA5, LA8 employment opportunity policy applies industry. At General Mills, we value our and inclusion, and offer competitive GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 98 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 3 Respect, develop and invest in employees 3A Inspire healthy living Encourage work/life balance, health and well-being of each geography, including retirement Flexibility: We offer multiple, flexible Impact savings plans, health care coverage work arrangements to accommodate and flexible work arrangements. employees, including telecommuting, Global: Almost 300 employee flextime and the innovative Flexible wellness programs available to Balance and flexibility User Shared Environment program, employees around the world. which allows employees to create Resources: We dedicate resources to help employees balance the demands workspaces that best suit their U.S.: 5,000+ employees of work and personal life. Our programs personal and business needs. participated in our Go Giant campaign to increase fruit and are targeted to support the needs of Evaluation: We evaluate our work/life vegetable consumption. employees wherever they work – at balance programs annually in an effort to our headquarters, production facilities, meet employees’ changing needs. We’re 71 percent of U.S. employees took field sales offices and other locations proud of the progress we’ve made. a voluntary health assessment in around the world. We offer special leave 2014 (up from 51 percent in 2013). programs and an onsite health clinic Health and well-being at our headquarters, fitness centers We support our employees with resources at several of our production facilities to aid them in being active, eating healthy Our employees are the key to our success. and office locations, and partnerships and staying well. At our facilities, in our Whether working in a production facility with community-based programs. Our or at our headquarters, union or nonunion, education and referral programs provide employees are core to achieving our mission. w In Argentina, our team created innovative information and resources on important meeting spaces to encourage collaboration. A few Benefits: We value our employees and subjects, such as child care, adoption employee selfies show teams using the new lounge provide benefits specific to the needs information, elder care and more. to exchange ideas. “Well-being programs are as varied and unique as our more than 42,000 employees at General Mills. Partnerships with brands like Green Giant enable us to provide innovative programs for a broad base of our employees, while our local wellness champions create well-being programs and activities that best meet the needs of their local teams.” – Dr. Julia Halberg, Vice President of Global Health, General Mills GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 99 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community communities and through involvement with practical tips for good nutrition, with our brands, General Mills encourages which were attended by 85 employees. our employees to live healthy lifestyles. We offer similar programs at many of Health assessments and exams: We our locations around the world. General encourage our employees to take a Mills sponsors a number of weight loss personalized health assessment that helps and weight management programs to identify risks. In 2014, 71 percent of our help employees take better care of their U.S. employees took a voluntary health bodies and their long-term health. In assessment – an increase from 51 percent Argentina, for example, a nutritionist visited in 2013. We also support them in taking each of our production facilities and met the next step – making lifestyle changes individually with employees to conduct r Employees had their blood pressure checked r In Brazil, all meals served in our production to improve their overall well-being. We during a health and safety event at our facilities now have fruit as a dessert option to body composition testing and develop provide information about health and production facility in Vineland, New Jersey. promote increased fruit consumption. nutritional plans customized for their wellness resources and provide preventive needs. As part of our “Estar Bien” wellness at our facilities. At our facility in Reed can see nutrition details before making a health initiatives at many of our facilities program, we serve free fresh fruit as a City, Michigan, the team went beyond selection. Many of our locations are making around the world, including free onsite healthy snack to our employees at both our providing nutritious meal options in the similar changes to improve employee flu shots, ergonomic training and onsite production facilities three times a week. cafeteria and addressed the snack foods health. Our facility in Albuquerque, New physical exams. We also work toward our and beverages available to employees in Mexico, also shifted away from typical goal of becoming a tobacco-free company. vending machines. The machines now food vending options and added a small carry healthier options with fewer calories, market with fresh fruit, salads and other more protein and fiber, which are offered options to ensure employees have access at a lower price and are clearly labeled to to healthier food at work. In Venezuela, we make them easier to find. Employees also offered a series of information sessions r In France, we earned Programme National Nutrition Santé – Etablissement Actif (national nutrition and health program – active r For the first time in Yoki history, we provided enterprise) certification in 2014 for our influenza vaccinations to all our 6,000 General Mills facility in Vélizy and our Yoplait employees at all locations as part of our facility in Boulogne. This designation is based vaccination campaign to keep employees healthy. on our efforts to provide nutrition and physical activities for our employees. Programs vary Nutrition and weight management: by location. Depending upon the facility, Our Nourishing Lives mission extends to employees have access to fresh fruits twice our employees as well as to consumers a week, free fresh dairy products, exercise classes, reduced subscription rates to health (read more about how General Mills clubs and participation in sports events, such contributes to consumer nutrition in as running “La Parisienne” race supporting the Health & Wellness section of this breast cancer research. r Our Miami office held a weight loss competition to encourage employees to become healthier report). We encourage good nutrition and by eating better and exercising more. Collectively, the team lost 258 pounds during the 11-week offer employees healthy dining choices challenge with 76 percent of employees participating. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 100 FRUIT AND VEGGIE Health & Wellness Environment Sourcing Workplace Community A CONSUMPTION GI N 4 PER PERSON GO GIANT! TOP 5 DIVISIONS! INCREASE OF FRUIT AND VEGGIE CONSUMPTION 40% A STORY ABOUT T! AVERAGE CUPS O && Go Giant campaign promotes healthier eating A DAY PER PERSON In 2014, Green Giant and our Global Health team partnered to develop an online program G FRUITS VEGGIESto eat more fruits and vegetables and teaching them easy, habit-changing, challenging employees A STORY ABOUT 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 healthy alternatives. More than 5,000 U.S. employees participated in our first-ever Go GiantFRUITS campaign toVEGGIES form healthier eating habits. Employees registered for an incentive program and METHUEN: 6.1 set a goal to eat 5 cups of fruits and vegetables per day for five weeks. Participants were issued weekly challenges and tracked their fruit and vegetable consumption. Many employees 5 spread the news of their commitment through social media. MARTEL: 5.7 TOP 5 PARTICIPANTS WEEKS OF PROGRAM Results: LESUEUR: 4.9 285 EMPLOYEES n 6  0 percent of participants said they were 5,062 INCREASED CONSUMPTION 57 709,247 more aware of the fruits and vegetables 5,062 57 400% SALES-SUPER VALU: 4.6 709,247 95% BY PARTICIPANTS DIVISIONS CUPS OF FRUITS they ate as a result of the program. AND VEGGIES KANSAS CITY MILL: 4.6 EXPERIENCED CONSUMED DIVISIONS INCREASE OF FRUIT AND VEGGIE CONSUMPTION n 6  5 percent of the 5,062 General PARTICIPANTS 400% NATION CUPS OF FRUITS AND VEGGIES Mills employees who registered for WIDE CONSUMED ATE 3,521 CUPS the program successfully completed EXPERIENCED 34% 300% HAD OVER 355 CUPS A DAY the requirements to earn a Fitbit. INCREASE IN FRUIT AND VEGGIE CONSUMPTION 200% NATION WIDE 75% ~ 5% of 95 percent participants were OF ALL CUPS Learn more in this blog post. 34% 100% TOP 5 DIVISIONS! COMPLETION 4 PER PERSON RATE 355 CUPS A DAY satisfied with the program. INCREASE OF FRUIT AND VEGGIE CONSUMPTION 40% DIVISION WITH THE INCREASE IN AVERAGE CUPS Employee feedback FRUIT AND VEGGIE 0 1 A DAY PER PERSON 2 3 4 5 MOST CONSUMPTION 1 2 WEEKS OF PROGRAM 3 4 5 6 7 EMPLOYEES “This program really helped me change my eating habits J F4COMPLETING PER PERSON and I lost 6 pounds! I am eating a lot more vegetables. BW r Our first-ever Go Giant campaign helped employees achieve significant – and, hopefullyI T H 1 , 5 09 TOPMETHUEN: 5 DIVISIONS! INCREASE OF FRUIT AND VEGGIE CONSUMPTION 6.1 40% 5 Before I have a snack, I stop and think about the healthy TOP 5 PARTICIPANTS habit-forming – results. WEEKS OF PROGRAM MARTEL: 5.7 alternative and typically reach for a fruit or cut-up AVERAGE CUPS WILD! AND THE CROWD GOES vegetables. 285 EMPLOYEES A DAY 4.9 PER PERSON LESUEUR: I also have consistently made healthier INCREASED CONSUMPTION 1 2 SALES-SUPER 3 4 5 VALU: 6 4.67 choices at lunch. Thanks for sponsoring this program. It BY 400% “I HAVE KANSAS CITY MILL: 4.6 really has made a difference “I PLAN forTO me and for my family LOST KEEP THIS UP!” INCREASE OF FRUIT AND VEGGIE CONSUMPTION 400% 6.1 RAVE REVIEWS who are also eating a lot more vegetables along with me.” 12 METHUEN: LBS! 300% HAD OVER ATE 3,521 CUPS 5 3,330 “I FEEL ENERGIZED TOP 5OFPARTICIPANTS WEEKS OF PROGRAM 200% MARTEL: 5.7 AND CRAVE 75% FRUIT/VEGGIES” ~ 5% CUPS ALL “Starting“Ithis program FEEL SOmade me realize how little fruits WATCH VIDEO COMPLETION RATE MUCH BETTER” 100% LESUEUR: 4.9 WITH THE and vegetables I was eating. I’m trying new recipes and 285 EMPLOYEES DIVISION PEOPLE CELEBRATING MOST A SUCCESSFUL incorporating them in our weekly diet. It also made me INCREASED CONSUMPTION0 1 2 3 4 5 IT REALLY HAS MADE SALES-SUPER “THANKS VALU: It takes rFOR Ghealthy 4.6 to build time habits. The A DIFFERENCE think that I need to get back to an exercise program and EMPLOYEES O E! WEEKS OF PROGRAM J COMPLETING BY r Employees enjoyed fruit and vegetable HELPINGF B US GoW 400% LIVE Giant five-week , 5 09 healthyGeating I ANT challenge N G have begun walking. FOR ME AND FOR MY FAMILY Thanks for these inspiring programs C HofA LLE IT H 1 HEALTHIER LIVES!” smoothies during the Go Giant campaign launch. helped KANSAS CITY make MILL: 4.6employees more conscious that get us thinking about the way we treat our bodies.” INCREASE OF FRUIT AND VEGGIE CONSUMPTION how many fruits and vegetables they ate and 400% AND THE CROWD GOES WILD! encouraged them to consume 5 cups of fruits 300% “I HAVE HAD OVERand vegetables each day. 3,521 ATE“I PLAN TO CUPS “Eating with a goal of 5 cups of fruits/veggies a day has LOST KEEP THIS UP!” 75% RAVE REVIEWS ~ 5% CUPS 12 LBS! OF ALL helped me to become more mindful of what I am eating 200% 3,330 “I FEEL ENERGIZED AND CRAVE FRUIT/VEGGIES” COMPLETION RATE “I FEEL SO every day. It is much easier than dieting! I have cut back MUCH BETTER” 100% PEOPLE CELEBRATING on sweets and starchy foods. I tried new foods that I A SUCCESSFUL DIVISION WITH THE “THANKS FOR GO IT REALLY HAS MADE A DIFFERENCE would not have eaten before and gotten my family to eat ! GMOST GE FOR ME AND FOR HELPING US LIVE IA N MY FAMILY more veggies! I lost between 3 and 5 pounds as a result T CHALLEN 0 1 2 3 4 5 HEALTHIER LIVES!” EMPLOYEES WEEKS OF PROGRAM r Employees tracked their fruit and vegetable r The Go Giant campaign encouraged J F COMPLETING and I plan to eat a minimum of 5 cups a day moving 9 consumption and pushed themselves to boost employees to make a commitment to consume B W I T 1 , 5 0 forward. Thank you for the push!” H their daily intake. more fruits and vegetables every day. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 101 D! Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Physical activity: We provide employees situations through onsite, face-to-face Our worldwide employee assistance programs tailored for local employees. with opportunities to increase physical counseling, toll-free phone access, online program is available to help global In Greece, for example, our Athens activity as part of our core wellness resources and educational materials. HR professionals find resources and location provides educational seminars offerings. Initiatives vary by region, Through LifeWorks’ sponsorship, some information to support employee issues. on topics such as stress management. including onsite fitness centers and locations also offer onsite support groups. Our facilities around the world also offer exercise rooms, company-sponsored or Organizational -endorsed runs and walks, yoga classes, leadership soccer teams and volleyball tournaments. Responsibility: Overall responsibility In Mexico, for example, 75 runners – our for health and wellness lies with employees, their friends and families – the Vice President of Global Health competed in a 5K race sponsored by the Services and Chief Wellness Officer. General Mills health and wellness team to promote physical activity. In Argentina, the “Estar Bien” health and wellness program sponsors a soccer program for employees. Well-being: Our LifeWorks Employee Assistance program provides confidential counseling, emotional support, and referrals to employees and their families in the United States. Counselors assist r Employees from Vineland, New Jersey, participated in a local race together – just one of many employees dealing with stressful runs, walks and other activities our employees around the world joined in their efforts to stay fit. Wellness program in Australia The wellness program at our Rooty Hill of production workers. This targeted n A stop-revive-survive zone provides accountability for fitness and safety. facility in Australia is helping employees training helps reduce on-the-job injuries. employees – especially those with Learn more about the program’s improve their personal fitness while n E xercise incentives designed physically demanding jobs – a space impact on reducing employee injury increasing safety and reducing jobto encourage participation have to rest before leaving the facility. The rates at the facility in story 1A of the related injuries. Employee participation resulted in a surge of staff trying main audience is night shift workers Workplace section in this report. increased during 2014, the second exercise for the first time in years. who have a long drive at the end of year of the program. The program’s their shift. The space helps them n M assage facilities complement holistic approach to employee wellness revive so they’re not leaving the the physical therapy and strength includes four main components: production facility feeling fatigued. training to support overall physical n F itness classes include strength and and mental well-being. The wellness program has increased stability training specific to the needs employee engagement and personal GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 102 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 3B Invest in development and training Reinforce our culture of learning and excellence development opportunities for employees. General Mills workplace culture Impact We know that engaged employees create Virtuous cycle of great workplaces value and drive business performance. 88 percent of General Mills We are single-minded when it comes officers have been promoted from to development; we plan for, invest in, within the company. track and evaluate it. In order to attract and retain competitively superior talent, 89 percent of our directors have General Mills Individual we develop all employees – production Institute, functional Development Plans, been promoted from within the employees, salaried employees, managers training career planning company. and executives alike – and work to have a depth of leadership prepared to take on Values, 85 percent of our managers have been promoted from within the new responsibilities when necessary. leadership company. Development plans: At General Mills, expectations development takes many forms and 6,000+ learning courses and includes performance appraisals and support tools provided through Individual Development Plans (IDP). global Learning Management General Mills employees have the Climate Survey, System. opportunity to create plans for their scorecards professional development with the Focus: We respect, develop and invest assistance of their supervisors. Managers in our people. We have a long history and employees discuss career goals, of making employee development a key strengths and development needs, and then use this information to identify Coach and train working for “great managers” are twice as engaged, motivated and innovative as those priority for the company – we established action items. We track completion rates Coaching: Great managers are key to working for “good managers.” We created the General Mills Institute more than of IDPs as a way to monitor employee retaining and energizing employees. Our our Great Managers initiative in 2009 20 years ago to provide learning and involvement in career planning. internal analysis has shown that employees to train and increase the effectiveness “One of the key differentiators at General Mills is our real commitment to employee learning and development. You can see that commitment through such investments as deep technical training in functional areas, leadership training through our Global Institute, and career coaching and planning with our annual Individual Development Planning sessions. We are proud of our track record in developing and promoting employees at all levels of the company.” – Jacqueline Williams-Roll, Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Mills GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 103 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community development. Training courses range from for each of the company’s business growth “Core Business Essentials” and “Ondrivers. To measure effectiveness, we use Boarding Fast Start” for new employees scorecards to assess learning and behavior to “Managing People” and “Advanced improvements and their connections Managing People” that improve managers’ to measurable business results. skills. Our global Learning Management Feedback: Our Climate Survey provides System has provided more than 6,000 annual data on employee satisfaction learning courses and other related learning related to items such as professional support tools to employees. We leverage development. We have achieved consistent our robust offering of eLearning courses improvement in employee engagement and other technology solutions to meet year after year. Employees also rate the the demands of an increasingly mobile and effectiveness of managers using the Great global workforce. We also provide funding Managers Index. This feedback has led for external training and education. to a range of actionable items, including r Employees from the Middle East, Korea and Southeast Asia traveled to Singapore to participate in a three-day Managing People course to help build managerial skills. resources to improve managers’ skills and Measure effectiveness communication and enhancements to the of our managers around the world. We percent said their managers effectively Measurement: With a workforce spanning company’s global internal collaboration include an index of manager quality in coach and build employees’ strengths. Our the globe, General Mills constantly innovates network, which now includes 1,030 our annual employee Climate Survey. population of managers rated by employees to provide learning and development communities, nearly 5,800 active users Results from our most recent employee as “great” has improved 15 percent since support to our employees wherever they and more than 43,300 user posts. survey were positive: 83 percent said their the Great Managers initiative began. are. We regularly assess learning needs at managers communicate effectively; 79 percent said their managers give regular Training: We offer numerous courses every level of the organization. Our learning Continuity at the General Mills Institute and online strategies link to key performance indicators feedback about performance; and 74 Continuity: Sixty-two percent of company learning classes that support professional officers started their careers in entry-level positions at General Mills. This continuity reflects the company’s broad-based commitment to leadership development. Creating a culture of innovation in Canada Globally, 85 percent of our managers Canadian employees told us number of other innovation are promoted from within the company. through their Climate Survey initiatives to help managers General Mills consistently receives external feedback that we needed to become more inclusive, open, recognition for our performance in this area. foster a culture of innovation supportive and encouraging of Transition assistance: General Mills to encourage new ways of employees’ ideas. In 2014, we WATCH VIDEO provides severance benefits when doing things, where bold saw behaviors change – with employees are impacted by downsizing. The ideas could be tried and fail some great results. Watch r General Mills Canada’s commitment to bold leadership and severance benefits include compensation without penalty. We listened this video to learn more about innovative thinking is changing the culture across the company. as well as professional development and responded. In 2013, we our successes stemming from Teams are embracing new ideas and experimenting with new media, resulting in bold marketing campaigns. Watch this video assistance from an external organization created a course called “Bold our willingness to be bold. highlighting the #How to Dad Peanut Butter Cheerios campaign that provides outplacement services. Leadership” along with a and other brands. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 104 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Organizational and opportunity areas. We use this process to identify a clear set of business and organization effectiveness. The CLO works with the HR team to develop teams embedded in the business and functions. This matrix approach delivers leadership imperatives, which we then translate into training plans at the corporate, business relevant training that is responsive to Annually, the General Mills senior capability and learning priorities. The and functional levels. Learning and business and function requirements. management team conducts a strategic Chief Learning Officer (CLO) has overall development are both top-down driven for G4-LA10, LA11 review of the corporation’s strengths responsibilities for talent management alignment and locally owned by training Bringing our company values to life around the world In 2013, we updated our company values. Throughout 2014, we have integrated them across our business. We realigned leadership expectations to match the updated values, integrated them into the curriculum of the General Mills Institute and Great Managers training program, and incorporated them into Individual Development Plans, measurement and tracking systems, and our Climate Survey of employee opinions. Around the world, employees are embracing r The Thailand team based in our Bangkok office celebrated company values. our values and bringing them to life. r Our team in Nanjing, China, has been building r No matter the language, our values remain the r Employees from our Dubai office held r Managers in South Korea engaged in workplace culture and reinforcing company same around the world. team-building events focused on applying discussions about how to put the company’s values through a series of training sessions company values. refreshed values into action. focused on diversity and skill building. The training covers a wide range of topics and includes trainers from varying roles. Participant feedback scores have been high, with one diversity session scoring 4.9 on a scale of 5.0. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 105 COMMUNITY OUR GOAL is to build strong communities. Our philanthropic work ties closely to our core business and reflects our mission of Nourishing Lives. We work in innovative ways with partners locally and around the world to harness our collective impact in key target areas, while engaging employees through volunteerism. Our General Mills Foundation and Our strategies community engagement mission is Alleviate Improve Strengthen to nourish our communities globally hunger and education communities with remarkable philanthropy. advance nutrition wellness GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 106 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Overview Nourishing our communities: In fiscal 2014, General Mills donated more than US$151 million to key initiatives that support communities $151 million The amount we gave to charitable Foundation grants around the globe. General Mills and its Foundation have given more than US$1.5 billion to charitable causes worldwide since 1954. We have causes in fiscal 2014 $29.2 million the greatest impact where our company’s key strengths intersect with Corporate contributions/ brand philanthropy community needs. For this reason, we focus our giving and volunteerism on alleviating hunger and advancing nutrition wellness; improving $79.1 million Food donations education; and strengthening communities. G4-EC1, FP4 $42.8 million Performance dashboard 2020 Goal Progress We alleviate hunger Provide 200 million n G lobal food donations: 50 million meals since 2013 meals globally n P artners in Food Solutions: 738,000 smallholder farmers and their 4.4 million family members impacted since 2008 Nourishing We advance Empower 25 million youth with n C hampions for Healthy Kids: 1 million youth since 2002 nutrition wellness skills and knowledge to achieve n P residential Youth Fitness program: launched in 2013 with and maintain physical wellness support from General Mills, now available to all U.S. schools; 90,000 U.S. schools gain access to 3,400+ schools adopted in 2014; to date, 13,000+ schools and Presidential Youth Fitness program an estimated 6.8 million students engaging with the program We improve Provide over US$1 billion to schools n B ox Tops for Education: US$80 million raised for U.S. education through Box Tops for Education schools in 2014; US$640+ million since 1996 Educating We expand access Empower 1 million people in n J  oin My Village: 195,000 people have received to education impoverished communities expanded access to education and economic globally through education empowerment since 2009 and improved livelihoods We volunteer in More than 80% of employees n 7 5% of employees volunteer worldwide the community volunteering worldwide Strengthening We invest in our Achieve US$2 billion n U S$151 million in total giving in fiscal 2014 communities cumulative giving n U S$1.5+ billion cumulative giving since 1954 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 107 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Our approach: connect & lead Unite innovative ideas, resources and partners to make an impact around the world At General Mills, our philanthropic within our communities so that key insights Creating shared value: We invest work is closely connected with our core and best practices can be shared and in programs that improve the livelihoods business. We nourish lives every day. further scaled for broader societal impact. of smallholder farmers and the quality Our commitment to building strong of life in communities from which we communities includes providing grants source ingredients for our products. Skills-based volunteerism: Our to nonprofit organizations from the employees contribute their time and General Mills Foundation, donating expertise to community organizations Brand partnerships: Our brands food from our businesses, supporting through skills-based volunteerism. connect with consumers to support brand partnerships to advance causes More than 80 percent of General Mills’ schools, healthy lifestyle choices and and supporting employee volunteerism U.S.-based employees volunteer in their biodiversity through programs such as around the world. We strive to expand communities – one of the highest rates Box Tops for Education, Outnumber Hunger our positive impact via our philanthropic of volunteerism among U.S. companies. and Cascadian Farm’s Bee Friendlier. focus areas of alleviating hunger and advancing nutrition wellness; improving education; and strengthening communities. Knowledge transfer: We facilitate Leadership and r Learn more about the Cascadian Farm Bee the sharing of best practices through governance Friendlier campaign and other General Mills Collective impact programs such as Partners in Food General Mills’ community engagement efforts to support pollinators and biodiversity in the Sourcing section of this report. Solutions (PFS), which links the Philanthropy: General Mills has and Foundation programs are led by the technical and business expertise of connected people and resources across Executive Director of the Foundation employees from General Mills and other communities since 1954. We look for with support from program officers at opportunities to bring together stakeholders companies to growing food processors our headquarters. In addition, employee “More than ever, our positive and millers in the developing world. impact around the world councils located across our key global operating locations around the world is not just driven by our Knowledge assist with the grant-making by helping transfer to identify and nominate local nonprofit company’s philanthropic Volunteerism organizations eligible to receive funds. dollars, but through the The Foundation is governed by a Board sharing and transfer of our of Trustees that includes the Senior Vice COLLECTIVE Creating WATCH VIDEO employees’ knowledge and IMPACT shared President of External Relations, who is value responsible for overseeing the company’s skills with communities and r Increasingly, consumers expect the companies community action initiatives, and leaders Philanthropy behind the brands they buy to make a difference partners near and far.” from the company’s finance, supply in society – and involve them in helping create – Mary Jane Melendez, Executive Director, Brand partnerships positive social change. Hear how General Mills chain, marketing, legal, human resources, General Mills Foundation links brands and causes through philanthropy. sales and external relations functions. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 108 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Our strategies and actions 1 Alleviate hunger and advance nutrition wellness 2 Improve education 3 Strengthen communities A A  ddress barriers to food A Build brighter futures through education A Increase impact through employee volunteerism security around the world B Innovate giving to empower B P  romote nutrition wellness communities worldwide 1 Alleviate hunger and advance nutrition wellness 1A Address barriers to food security around the world Donate food and develop global solutions to relieve hunger We support hunger-relief efforts that feed people in need and Donate food are playing an active role – through our financial support as well as involvement Together, we provide nourishment to Americans struggling with hunger; uncover barriers to food security. We provide food and support programs of our employees – in helping the safe and nurturing places for children that nourish people around the world. organization to plan and achieve further to have a meal; and emergency Impact The Global FoodBanking Network: In global expansion to alleviate hunger. assistance for disaster victims. 2014, General Mills provided US$2.8 Feeding America: General Mills donated US$42.8 million in food million in food donations to help The US$40 million worth of food in 2014 donations globally in 2014. Global FoodBanking Network create and to Feeding America’s 200 food banks strengthen food banks around the world. across the United States. Our partnership US$340 million donated in We support The Global FoodBanking with Feeding America spans 35 years. food worldwide since 1999. Network’s efforts in the United Kingdom, South Africa, Argentina and Australia and r A Feeding America food bank in California offers fresh Green Giant spinach. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 109 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Food Banks Canada: General Mills has donated more than 10.5 million “As one of Feeding America’s founding partners, General Mills has helped us serve millions of Americans each year. From food 3.6 pounds of food to Food Banks of Canada since 2002, including more donations to financial resources, General Mills is one of Feeding million meals provided through than 857,000 pounds in 2014. America’s leading supporters and advocates for hungersupport to Hunger-Free relief initiatives nationwide. Through the Outnumber Hunger Minnesota in 2014. campaign, General Mills consumers also can engage in the fight to end hunger and give back to their local communities.” – Bob Aiken, Chief Executive Officer, Feeding America Expanding consumer awareness and action to address hunger Outnumber Hunger: In 2014, we helped Feeding America secure more than 8 million meals through our Outnumber Hunger program. We work nationally to expand consumer awareness and involvement in the fight against hunger through product packaging, websites, social media and events associated with some of our key brands, including Nature Valley, Betty Crocker, Yoplait®, Big G cereals and Green Giant. We Scare Hunger: Sponsored by Free the Children, We Day mobilizes youth in communities across North America to take interest and action in creating a better world, beginning with their own communities. As part of the We Day movement, the We Scare Hunger program tackles the issue of local hunger. With the support of General Mills, youth in communities across the U.S. participated in the We Scare Hunger campaign during 2014. We Day Minnesota alone resulted in more than 180,000 pounds of nonperishable food items being collected by youth for local hunger relief agencies. Rescue food General Mills continuously improves our own production operations to minimize n 8 83,822 cases of Yoplait® products. n 1 .6 million cases of dry meals Impact food waste. The food ingredients and finished products we donate nourish and frozen foods. people in need while diverting food and n 7 57,054 cases of snacks products. In fiscal 2014, General Mills rescued re-usable items that would otherwise n 6 06,842cases of Big G cereal products. 12,665 metric tons of surplus go to landfills. General Mills 2014 food food in the U.S. and donated it donations to U.S. food banks included: to charitable organizations. w Winners of a competition to help raise awareness and reduce food waste in schools cooked and consumed their winning recipe – “Cheesy Chicken and Bacon Surprise” – at the General Mills kitchen in Uxbridge, U.K. The initiative also teaches students about healthy food choices. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 110 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Provide school meals breakfast program. General Mills has provided US$2.75 million in contributions to Hunger-Free Minnesota since 2011. Impact Western China school meals: In 350,000 breakfasts provided to western China, we provide support for 2,100+ at-risk students through WATCH VIDEO school meals served daily to more than Breakfast Club of Canada with 1,200 students at five rural schools in support from General Mills. r Kids who eat breakfast perform better in Yunnan’s Xuanwei region. The meals, school. The School Breakfast Initiative helps which include milk and eggs, supply 1,200 students fed through increase participation in the School Breakfast needed calcium, protein and other Program in Minnesota. China school meals program. nutrients to students living in areas financial incentives and support for 120 with high rates of malnutrition. r General Mills supports Breakfast Club of high-need Minnesota schools to increase G4-EC1, FP4 Breakfast Club of Canada, which serves nutritious breakfasts of breakfasts served to low-income children. Canada: General fresh fruits, vegetables, dairy, whole grain and Mills provides Low utilization of the school breakfast protein. For some students, it is their only meal funding for nine of the day. program is widespread across Minnesota school breakfast programs serving more school districts, where low-income will serve members of an adjacent than 2,100 children in First Nations, Métis students miss 29 million school breakfasts First Nations community struggling and Inuit communities through Breakfast every year. The challenge is part of the with poverty and food insecurity. Club of Canada. The program delivers food, School Breakfast Initiative, a partnership School Breakfast Challenge in Minnesota: of the Children’s Defense Fund-Minnesota funds, equipment and training to schools In 2014, General Mills supported the and Hunger-Free Minnesota working in low-income communities, helping them r We help provide nutritious school meals for School Breakfast Challenge, providing to expand participation in the school students in western China. serve 350,000 breakfasts each year. We also provide support for a greenhouse project in a community devastated by flooding in Alberta, Canada, helping “Breakfast Club of Canada is proud to count General Mills as a major contributor to the success students and community members to of our mission. Without generous partners like General Mills, we would not be able to help serve sustainably grow nutritious food. Located at a school with an existing Breakfast over 25 million breakfasts during the school year, nor provide other valuable services and funding.” Club of Canada program, the greenhouse – Daniel Germain, President and Founder, Breakfast Club of Canada Giving gardens In the U.S., 3,544 pounds of organic vegetables, apples and other produce grown at our headquarters facility in Minnesota have been donated to food shelves and meal programs. Employees in Hamburg, Germany, provide grant support for the operation of a local school garden and volunteer to help maintain the garden. The garden is used to teach students about nutrition. v General Mills supports nutrition and wellness programs at schools, including a grant in 2014 for a hydroponic learning garden and playground improvements at two schools in Tampa, Florida. Students participate in hands-on gardening activities to deepen their understanding of science and nutrition. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 111 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Partners in Food Solutions Partners in Food Solutions (PFS) is a increasing demand for crops from local and Bühler; implementation partners nonprofit organization working to improve smallholder farmers, the majority of TechnoServe and USAID; and strategic the capacity, efficiency and product quality whom are women. To date, PFS and local partners Root Capital and Colle+McVoy. of food companies in sub-Saharan Africa. experts have trained 1,075 participants General Mills founded PFS to help raise throughout East Africa using this approach. PFS supports small and growing food living standards, address chronic food In Ethiopia, for example, PFS conducted processors and mills in Africa. supply issues and respond to extreme 12 multi-day training sessions over a hunger in the developing world. PFS links four-month period – from December 2013 r Morgan Patrick, Food Scientist for the technical and business expertise of General Mills in Minnesota, leads a training through March 2014 – for 700 trainees volunteer employees – including food demonstration in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. representing 300 to 400 businesses. scientists, nutritionists and engineers – Interactive training: PFS has introduced 1 Funding: PFS is working to develop a from industry-leading food companies sector-wide trainings that provide partnership with the “missing middle” – food 2 with more than 600 small and growing foundational teachings on widespread processors who represent the link between 1 Ethiopia 3 food processors and millers in Africa. business and industry topics. Food Kenya smallholder farmers and consumers. 2 5 4 processors learn about wheat flour 3 Tanzania Goal: By 2019, PFS plans to broaden Traditionally, these businesses lack access 4 Malawi its reach to recruit and engage more fortification, quality management systems, to adequate funding for equipment and 5 Zambia than 2,000 corporate volunteers food safety, national standards and core working capital. PFS has partnered with who will help train 2,000 food business development capabilities. The Root Capital to provide financing to some processors, generate 1,000 new jobs, training allows for immediate application of these businesses. By 2019, PFS plans and create and sustain viable markets of new knowledge as food processors to facilitate investment in more than 75 for more than 1 million farmers and learn to produce high-quality, nutritious companies throughout East Africa. their 6 million family members. and safe food at affordable prices while Focus on sustainable growth: In 2014, PFS developed sustainable WATCH VIDEO Impact: PFS results since 2008 revenue streams to illustrate Good Development Practices, generate earned r In Kenya, PFS helps strengthen small and 600 food companies and 60,000 hours contributed by income and attract donor funding. growing soy businesses that are the connection processors in five countries have these volunteers have supported between farmers and consumers – providing Partners: PFS collaborates with a range a constant, stable market for smallholder received training and support. 350 individual projects. of organizations, including corporate farmers and nutritious, safe, more affordable partners General Mills, Cargill, DSM food for consumers. 738,000 smallholder farmers – Improved access to more locally and their 4.4 million family sourced, nutritious and safe members – benefit as they food at affordable prices for “Partners in Food Solutions is connecting expertise with opportunity. We supply those processors. both food aid and local retail harness the core competencies and knowledge of volunteers from our markets in sub-Saharan Africa. partner companies and share it with small and growing food processors 700+ skilled employees from across Africa. These processors sit in the middle of the food value chain, corporate partner organizations have participated, including nearly serving as engines of demand for the crops of smallholder farmers and 400 General Mills employees. conduits for supplying local markets, often replacing expensive imports.” – Jeff Dykstra, Chief Executive Officer, Partners in Food Solutions GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 112 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 1B Promote nutrition wellness Integrate food with healthy, active lifestyles Foundation, awarded US$1 million – Fitness, Sports and Nutrition. Support healthy eating and physical activity in Impact twice the amount of previous years – from the General Mills Foundation young children. This partnership brings in Champions for Healthy Kids grants. will enable the program to reach 90 together a shared commitment to 1 million+ youth reached Recipients include 50 nonprofits, schools percent of U.S. schools – and more than childhood nutrition and fitness, combining through Champions for Healthy and community organizations that 50 million children – by 2020, helping Nemours’ expertise in child health, early Kids initiatives since 2002. demonstrate the greatest need and students pursue personal fitness goals care and education with General Mills’ likelihood of sustainable impact on young and promote lifelong physical activity. philanthropy and experience working 3,400+ new schools enrolled people’s nutrition and activity levels. Since with organizations across the U.S. to in the Presidential Youth Playworks: We provided US$282,500 launching Champions for Healthy Kids in address the issue of childhood obesity. The Fitness Program in 2014. in 2014 to increase the number of U.S. 2002, we have funded more than 550 Nemours partnership focuses on obesity schools participating in Playworks, a 7,000 more children participating programs and reached more than 1 million prevention efforts and the promotion program that brings trained, full-time in Playworks at school. kids through grants totaling US$6.5 million. of healthy lifestyles at early childhood coaches to schools in low-income communities to create positive learning education centers. The General Mills 30,000 children reached Foundation’s support is helping to seed experiences both on and off the playground. through early childhood the program at more than 305 early The Playworks model of play and physical programs at 305 locations in care and education programs reaching activity has substantially improved the partnership with Nemours. more than 34,000 young children. school climate in more than 300 schools in G4-EC1, FP4 23 U.S. cities. The General Mills Foundation We promote nutrition wellness – helping provided US$45,000 in additional funding families make nutritious food choices in 2014 to bring Playworks to four more combined with healthy, active lifestyles – “General Mills has been schools in Minneapolis, Minnesota, through our Champions for Healthy Kids r Champions for Healthy Kids supports student wellness programs that help kids stay active. creating opportunities for healthy recess an important partner for platform, which includes General Mills and active play for 7,000 children every day. Playworks, supporting our charitable support for the Presidential Presidential Youth Fitness Program: Youth Fitness Program, select nonprofit Our support of the Presidential Youth Nemours: Our partnership with pediatric shared efforts to bring out health leader Nemours is helping to organizations across the U.S. and our Fitness Program helped enroll more the best in every kid. General reduce childhood obesity and increase partnership with Nemours focused on than 3,400 new schools in 2014, giving Mills’ work is contributing to early childhood health and nutrition. them access to school-based physical education assessment tools and healthier communities across Champions for Healthy Kids grants: fitness education program resources to the U.S., and they are making Across the United States, our Champions for Healthy Kids grants program supports help keep kids physically active. This a measurable difference in comprehensive school fitness program nonprofit community organizations that cultivates lifelong skills and healthy habits our ability to promote play offer innovative youth nutrition and fitness in the fight against childhood obesity. as a tool for ensuring our programs. In June 2014, the General Mills Foundation, in partnership with General Mills helped launch the program kids’ health and well-being.” the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics in 2012 with the President’s Council on r Kids get moving through Playworks activities. – Jill Vialet, Founder and CEO of Playworks GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 113 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 2 Improve education 2A Build brighter futures Working to close the achievement gap in Minnesota schools through education We collaborate to help close the School Readiness; Teach For America; educational achievement gap in our and other education organizations. Increase access to education and partner to improve education headquarters community so that all General Mills supports early childhood Around the world, we support programs Minnesota youth can gain a world-class Impact that expand access to education and raise education, regardless of their ethnicity, zip education for families in the Minneapolis, Minnesota, area. For more than 25 years, achievement levels. Our contribution of code or household income. General Mills has provided support – US$640+ million raised for U.S. funds and expertise increases the impact schools through Box Tops for Through charitable funding as well including US$85,000 in fiscal 2014 – to of innovative education programs. as direct involvement with local the nonprofit Way to Grow, which works Education since 1996, including organizations, General Mills is helping closely with the area’s most at-risk US$80 million in 2014. Support schools bring together community, education, children and their parents to ensure they 5 million people in India and Box Tops for government and business stakeholders are developmentally on track and ready Africa have received expanded EducationTM: dedicated to improving academic and to thrive in kindergarten and beyond. access to education, maternal Schools across life outcomes for all children – from early health knowledge, and economic the U.S. earn childhood through early career. General empowerment through Join cash for the things they need through Mills employees are actively involved My Village since 2009. Box Tops for Education. Since the program as volunteers and board members of began in 1996, schools have earned education organizations serving the 78 million children’s books more than US$640 million, including community. This leadership includes distributed through Cheer more than US$80 million during the the company’s Senior Vice President of On Reading since 2002. 2013-2014 school year. More than 240 External Relations, who serves as coGeneral Mills products participate in chair of Generation Next, a multi-sector the program, including Betty Crocker, coalition of education stakeholders working to align goals and practices to r With support from General Mills, St. David’s transform outcomes for youth (modeled Center Family Place serves children from the “Our partnership with General Mills for well over two decades on the broader StriveTogether initiative). Minneapolis area whose life experiences have put them at risk for poor outcomes. The Center’s makes our work both possible and deeply impactful in our Our employees are involved in supporting therapeutic preschool environment helps community. Together we have such a rich history of walking the Northside Achievement Zone, traumatized children from low-income families modeled after the Harlem Children’s build critical skills and learn how to trust adults alongside children and families, and this partnership continues Zone and part of the U.S. federal and engage with other children. More than 80 percent of the children in the program develop to deepen our capacity to provide children with the best early government’s Promise Neighborhoods kindergarten readiness, laying the groundwork for start possible.” initiative; AchieveMpls; Parent Aware for success in school. – Julie Sjordal, Executive Director, St. David’s Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 114 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Cheerios, Hamburger Helper, Green Giant, US$4.4 million since 2002 to First Book, a social media (facebook.com/joinmyvillage) Old El Paso, Pillsbury and Progresso. nonprofit children’s literacy organization. channels. Together, we are working to Read, Learn, Succeed: In Australia, we help expand the program to more impoverished Promote literacy improve literacy through the Read, Learn, lives in Africa and India. The program communities around the globe. has granted thousands of educational Cheer On Reading: Our Cheer On Reading Succeed program. We partner with the Agricultural education: In Greece, we scholarships to help girls in Malawi and program (formerly Spoonfuls of Stories) United Way, providing funding and employee support the Thessalonica Agricultural India gain a secondary school education, has distributed 78 million children’s books volunteers to promote early literacy. and Industrial Institute, a nonprofit built dozens of homes to bring teachers to in the United States since 2002 inside school that prepares students for roles remote villages, provided textbooks and specially marked boxes of Cheerios cereal. Expand access learning materials for tens of thousands in the agriculture and food sectors by The books target children from 3 to 12 to education of students, built libraries in Malawi and teaching farming and business practices years old and many are printed in both that are economically viable, ecologically Join My Village: During its first five years, India, and established 650 village-based English and Spanish. As part of Cheer on sound and socially responsible. Join My Village has touched 5 million savings programs that are improving Reading, General Mills has also donated G4-EC1, FP4 livelihoods and lives for 15,000 people. Join My Village was founded by General “When both girls and boys have Mills in 2009, in partnership with the access to high quality education, humanitarian organization CARE USA to cycles of poverty are broken, leverage the collective power of individuals through social media to improve the lives WATCH VIDEO family livelihoods improve, of women and girls in some of the poorest economies grow – people and communities in the world. More than r Our Cheer On Reading program spurred the donation of more than 25,000 books to communities are healthier.” 600,000 people globally follow the work of Join My Village through the program’s Little Free Library. Learn how they’re making a – Nicola Dixon, Associate Director, difference in Dallas, Texas. website (www.JoinMyVillage.org) and r General Mills supports mentoring General Mills Community Action programs that promote literacy. Join My Village results since 2009 14,000 students benefitted 5,300 students in Malawi 4,800+ students 250+ new businesses created 15,000+ people benefitted from access to teachers, made received access to mentors gained access to sanitation through village savings and loan from VSLAs to start businesses. possible when JMV constructed to support their education. facilities which helps them association (VSLA) programs. 32 homes that enabled teachers to stay in school. to live near schools in rural areas. 97 percent student retention 650 VSLA groups US$448,000+ saved by established. rate for girls at Join My Village20,400 students in Malawi VSLA members and reinvested 68,000+ girls in India supported schools in Malawi, received access to reference into new businesses, families have received mentoring up 27 percent in 5 years. materials and school supplies. and community support. and leadership training. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 115 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 3 Strengthen communities 3A Increase impact through employee volunteerism Share skills and best practices Impact Our employees contribute their skills and volunteer their time to achieve results in Skills-based in 2009, the Good Works program links nonprofit organizations with General communities around the world. We work volunteerism Mills marketing professionals in our 75 percent of GMI employees with partners at the global, national and Our employees have built a strong legacy headquarters community, enabling our worldwide report volunteering in local levels to strengthen communities of volunteerism at General Mills by employees to focus their business skills and their communities, including 83 by harnessing our collective insights applying the skills they develop in their passion via pro-bono projects for selected percent of U.S.-based employees. and resources to further scale impact. jobs to help community organizations. nonprofits. Since the program’s inception, We reinforce our employees’ efforts more than 200 employees have served 2,000 employees in 57 locations Good Works: Our Good Works program through flexible giving programs and by as Good Works volunteers and completed participated in Think Global, leverages employees’ on-the-job knowledge supporting their skills-based volunteerism. 45 projects, including more than 59 Volunteer Local activities in 2014. for the benefit of our communities. Founded volunteers and nine projects in 2014 alone. Improving nutrition for expectant mothers in Malawi In January 2014, Susan Kamper of Kamper’s visit was to ensure the Mills and other PFS partners use the next two years to determine traveled to Malawi to help improve recipe developed in Minneapolis their food industry experience if it improves maternal and nutrition for expectant mothers. would work using local equipment to help PPB improve efficiencies infant outcomes. Kamper hopes Kamper, a General Mills senior and ingredients in Malawi. and increase the quality of it will have a positive impact technology manager who works these foods. PFS volunteers also on the health of expectant The product, called “mamachiponde” in food research and development provide marketing support to mothers and their children. – which means “nut paste for in Minneapolis, is part of the PFS help PPB expand its efforts. PPB mothers,” builds on the success “As a mother and a food scientist, team developing a peanut butter operates clinics providing food, of Project Peanut Butter (PPB), a I can’t imagine a more rewarding paste for malnourished pregnant treatment and training to about nonprofit organization that treats outcome,” said Kamper. Learn women. The paste provides the 80,000 children per year in severe malnutrition in African more in Kamper’s blog post calories, protein, lipids, vitamins Malawi, Sierra Leone and Ghana. children using effective, locally about her work with PFS. and minerals necessary to support produced ready-to-use therapeutic The nut paste for mothers will be a healthy pregnancy. The purpose foods. Volunteers from General tested in southern Malawi over v Susan Kamper, General Mills senior technology manager, traveled to Malawi to help improve nutrition for malnourished pregnant women. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 116 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Partners for Impact: In Australia, one of “To be part of the volunteering program was extremely important not only for me, but for all of our senior leaders mentors a local school principal through the Partners for Impact my coworkers, because it made our team even stronger. It was an opportunity to learn, and it will program to help generate greater community be a day that I’ll surely remember for the rest of my life. I think it is extremely important that our support and engagement for the school. company offers us the opportunity to participate at an initiative like this, because many times we Think Global, feel like we don’t help those who need the most.” – Mílvia Souza R. Lopes, Apprentice, Cuiabá Distribution Center, Brazil Volunteer Local In 2014, 2,000 General Mills employees hunger, nutrition, environmental and previous year. TGVL activities in 14 cities China: More than 200 employees from 57 locations around the world sustainable community projects. Listed across Brazil included employees from all participated in community events in volunteered in their communities as below are just a few examples of our plants, several distribution centers and four locations across China, including part of our Think Global, Volunteer Local employees’ many acts of volunteerism. the São Paulo main office. Many activities Guangzhou, Nanjing, Sanhe and Shanghai. (TGVL) event. This annual initiative is These efforts reinforce our core values. supported Mesa Brasil, a food bank that Activities ranged from planting trees and part of our broader strategy to connect works against hunger and waste. General cleaning up roadsides to serving Wanchai Brazil: Community involvement continues our employees in meaningful ways Mills employees helped prepare and serve Ferry dumplings to school children. to grow in Brazil. More than 560 with our communities so they can food, renovated buildings and participated G4-FP4 employees participated in TGVL, a 37 make a positive impact throughout the in activities with children and teenagers. percent increase in participation from the year. TGVL is strategically focused on r Chris O’Leary, Executive Vice President r Employees from our Yoki Cuiabá Distribution r Employees from Berwick, U.K., helped rebuild r In Shanghai, employees accompanied and Chief Operating Officer of General Center in Brazil volunteered at a community fences and dredge a pond at the Iver Environment students to a science museum and served Mills’ International Division, led a team of center that provides care for kids with special Center as part of TGVL community activities. Wanchai Ferry dumplings to children of migrant 50 TGVL volunteers in Minnesota as they needs from homes in distress. General Mills workers, continuing a program started in 2012. packed 280 boxes containing 10,080 meals employees donated food, educated the kids about that fed 560 hungry kids for two weeks. healthy eating and played with the children. “It was an incredible experience for me. I’ve never been part of something like this before. In our daily routine, most times we don’t realize that there are people who need caring and attention. For me, to have the opportunity to make a child a little happier was something that I’ll never forget.”– Amauri Albuquerque, Employee, Recife Plant, Brazil GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 117 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community 3B Innovate giving to empower communities worldwide Provide resources to nonprofits around the globe Madagascar: We are working with Impact CARE to improve food security for vanilla farming communities in Madagascar. In US$151 million in total giving 2013, we funded construction of a storage in fiscal 2014, including US$29.2 warehouse that provides local families million in grants. access to rice year-round, regardless of market availability. We will expand the 50+ communities spanning six program in 2015 to include two more continents supported by General villages. In 2014, employees from our Mills philanthropy. Häagen-Dazs production facility in Arras, 4,000 families now benefit from France, provided donations to help build access to clean, reliable water in a new library and expand the village western China. school in Belambo, Madagascar. Two employees traveled from Arras to Belambo to help organize books and inaugurate We strengthen communities by supporting the library for community use. Learn smallholder farmers who supply key more about our efforts in Madagascar ingredients for our products, empowering in the Sourcing section of this report. Fighting breast cancer on a global scale women and ensuring access to safe water. The Ruijin Häagen-Dazs Breast Cancer Aid Fund in China was launched in November 2009 as a joint project of Häagen-Dazs, Ruijin Hospital in Shanghai, Creating shared value Shanghai Charity Foundation and Shanghai Charitable Cancer Research Center. In developing economies where General The fund aims to help impoverished patients cover the cost of surgery and followMills or our suppliers source raw up treatments and to raise public awareness about breast cancer prevention. materials for our products, we work with Patients can apply for financial aid online or onsite at Ruijin Hospital. Qualified smallholder farmers, nongovernmental patients can receive up to RMB 10,000, about US$1,600, to cover almost all organizations and industry partners to the costs of surgery. Each year, General Mills donates RMB 1 million, about pursue sustainable development and to US$160,000, to the fund, which has helped more than 200 patients. create shared value – delivering a lasting For the last 15 years, Yoplait has contributed more than US$50 million for business and social impact. Through this the breast cancer cause through programs like Save Lids to Save Lives, Pink approach, we are boosting the incomes of Together and Susan G. Komen’s Race for the Cure Series. In 2014, employee smallholder farmers and helping to raise teams and individuals from General Mills locations in France, Greece and r General Mills employees from Arras, other locations participated in Race for the Cure events to raise awareness the living standards in their communities, France – where we use vanilla sourced from such as our work with vanilla farmers in Madagascar to make Häagen-Dazs ice cream – and money for breast cancer. Madagascar and cocoa growers in Ghana. traveled to Belambo village in October 2014. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 118 Health & Wellness Sourcing Environment Workplace Community Providing access 15,000 to water In Malawi, 15,000 people In the arid regions of western China, water benefit from village savings shortages contribute to general poverty. and loan associations that Since 2008, General Mills has donated help fund small businesses. more than US$760,000 to the China Women’s Development Foundation to construct more than 1,000 water cellars and central water supply systems in Shaanxi and Gansu provinces, benefiting more than 4,000 families. The water cellars and supporting facilities have made tremendous changes in villagers’ lives. r We support children’s education in Ghana through our partnership with CARE. With a clean, reliable water supply, local villagers can now earn incomes growing Ghana: In Ghana, West Africa, our work with CARE in 20 cocoa-growing Empowering women vegetables and fruits and raising livestock, communities is helping improve Beyond its education work, Join My improving their standards of living. food security, nutrition, health, youth Village is also helping to economically G4-EC1, EC7, EC8, FP4 education and livelihoods for smallholder empower thousands of women living farmers and their families. Read more in impoverished communities, which about our efforts to support cocoa increases family livelihoods. Join My growers and their communities in Village helps communities establish the Sourcing section of this report. village savings and loans associations (VSLAs) that enable groups of women to pool a portion of their savings to help one another start and expand their small businesses. Since 2009, more than 650 VSLA groups have been established through Join My Village to start or expand small businesses, r Access to clean water in western China – positively impacting 15,000 women, made possible with funding from General men and children in Malawi who benefit Mills – improves sanitation, health and r Our Creating Shared Value strategy helps from the improved family livelihoods. livelihoods for thousands of families. improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers and their families. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 119 APPENDIX Environmental Data Summary*,**,*** 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Excl 2013 Incl 2014 Excl 2014 Incl In thousands, except rate data Yoplait/Yoki Yoplait/Yoki Yoplait/Yoki Yoplait/Yoki Energy usage rate (kWh/metric ton of product) EN5 580 570 579 557 546 534 533 528 530 524 532 523 Energy usage (kWh) EN3 2,769,236 2,740,885 2,738,032 2,754,617 2,685,422 2,656,939 2,601,972 2,465,010 2,503,348 2,926,949 2,522,890 2,923,925 Direct energy usage by primary source (kWh) 1,509,968 1,511,989 1,527,708 1,496,014 1,471,627 1,509,856 1,462,563 1,358,567 1,388,055 1,641,653 1,413,128 1,660,881 Fuel oil (kWh) 50,237 58,580 37,242 29,597 24,192 23,556 22,055 21,249 19,002 23,326 10,045 14,323 Natural gas (kWh) 1,414,573 1,370,316 1,405,408 1,379,694 1,377,570 1,382,944 1,350,699 1,267,482 1,283,946 1,385,563 1,308,555 1,411,983 LP gas (kWh) 4,484 5,846 4,787 2,989 14,458 17,085 4,171 2,747 2,013 29,042 2,889 27,091 Solar panels (kWh) NA NA NA NA NA NA 82 121 119 119 121 121 Cogeneration electric (kWh) 14,146 19,129 21,128 20,744 14,672 27,221 25,234 17,763 17,871 17,871 20,314 20,314 Cogeneration steam (kWh) 26,528 58,117 59,143 62,989 40,736 56,698 52,330 30,646 39,348 39,348 44,675 44,675 Biomass (kWh) NA NA NA NA NA 2,352 7,993 18,559 25,756 146,383 26,530 142,375 Indirect energy consumption (electricity) (kWh) 1,259,268 1,228,897 1,210,325 1,258,603 1,213,794 1,147,082 1,139,408 1,106,444 1,115,293 1,285,296 1,109,762 1,263,044 International (kWh) 104,083 110,689 125,176 178,336 159,683 138,470 140,497 149,890 156,838 326,841 152,379 305,661 North America (kWh) 1,155,185 1,118,207 1,085,148 1,080,267 1,054,112 1,008,612 998,911 956,554 958,455 958,455 957,382 957,382 Energy usage, by region International (kWh) 215,212 253,647 284,709 291,888 264,858 262,493 268,289 283,768 295,020 718,621 292,876 693,911 North America (kWh) 2,554,025 2,487,239 2,453,324 2,462,729 2,420,564 2,394,446 2,333,683 2,181,243 2,206,894 2,206,894 2,226,512 2,226,512 GHG emissions rate (metric tons CO2e/ metric tons of product) EN18 0.225 0.221 0.224 0.215 0.210 0.204 0.205 0.205 0.205 0.181 0.196 0.173 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) (metric tons CO2e) 1,073 1,065 1,059 1,064 1,033 1,014 1,002 958 970 1,013 928 965 Scope 1 (metric tons CO2e) EN15 280 283 285 282 273 285 273 251 254 281 259 284 Fuel oil (metric tons CO2e) 12 14 8 7 5 5 5 4 4 5 2 4 Natural gas (metric tons CO2e) 267 268 275 274 265 277 267 246 250 270 256 274 LP gas (metric tons CO2e) 1 1 1 1 3 4 1 1 0 6 1 6 Scope 2 (metric tons CO2e) EN16 793 782 774 782 760 728 730 707 716 732 669 681 GHG emissions from renewables (not in Scope 1 or 2) NA NA NA NA NA 0 1 3 5 44 8 48 GHG Emissions, by region International (metric tons CO2e) 64 76 86 85 84 87 91 95 100 143 95 132 North America (metric tons CO2e) 1,009 989 973 979 950 927 912 863 870 870 833 833 Water usage rate (cubic meters/metric ton of product) 2.383 2.266 2.222 2.258 2.186 2.112 2.135 2.111 2.902 2.076 2.794 Water withdrawl (cubic meters) EN8 11,100 10,600 11,000 11,000 10,800 10,300 10,000 10,000 16,200 9,800 15,600 Groundwater (cubic meters) NA NA NA NA NA NA 2,000 1,800 1,700 4,100 1,700 3,900 Municipal (cubic meters) NA NA NA NA NA NA 8,300 8,200 8,300 8,400 8,100 8,100 Surface water (cubic meters) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA 3,700 NA 3,600 Solid waste generation rate (metric tons/ metric tons of product) 0.057 0.052 0.047 0.051 0.040 0.037 0.037 0.034 0.033 0.034 0.032 0.033 Solid waste (metric tons) EN23 266 241 221 239 197 183 178 159 155 190 152 186 * All data are fiscal year. Energy, GHG emissions, water, and solid waste generation absolute and rate data are from wholly owned production facilities globally. ** Some segments do not add up to total, due to rounding. *** Some data are restated compared to reporting in prior years to reflect improvements in data gathering and tracking methodology. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 120 2014 Commitments/Goals/Progress Our goal is to provide people with convenient, nutritious food that – Health & Wellness when combined with exercise and activity – can help them live healthier lives. Target Progress Improve product health profiles U.S.: Reduce calories, fat, saturated fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium by 10 76% of U.S retail sales volume nutritionally improved since 2005; 18.5% in fiscal 2014. percent or more per serving. Increase beneficial nutrients – including vitamins, minerals and fiber – by 10 percent or more per serving. Europe, Australia and Asia: Improve the health profile of foods sold in Europe and Australasia region. 48% of product portfolio improved since 2010, not including CPW and Yoplait products. Canada: Increase beneficial nutrients and/or decrease nutrients of concern. 208 products nutritionally improved since 2010; 70+ in fiscal 2014. International: Improve the health profile of products by increasing beneficial nutrients, 170+ products nutritionally improved in fiscal 2014; 40 new products such as vitamins, minerals and fiber, and reducing sodium, sugar, fat and/or calories. released in fiscal 2014 with nutritiously advantageous profiles. CPW: Announced targets in 2012 for nutritionally improving about 88% of global sales volume nutritionally improved since 2012. 5.3 billion portions of cereals in more than 140 countries. Reduce sugar U.S.: In 2009, we pledged to reduce all of our cereals advertised to 100% of Big G cereals marketed to children contain 10 grams of sugar or children under 12 to single-digit grams of sugar per serving. less; sugar levels in Big G kid cereals lowered by 16% since 2007. 75+% of General Mills cereals have 9 grams or less of sugar per serving. Yogurt: We have reduced the average amount of sugar across our kid yogurt products by more than 25 percent since 2007. Snacks: We reduced sugar by 17% in Betty Crocker Fruit Gushers and Betty Crocker Fruit Shapes in fiscal 2014. Granola Bars: We reduced sugar by 30% across our line of Nature Valley Chewy Trail Mix bars. CPW: Reduce sugar content of 20 Nestlé breakfast cereal brands popular with 91% of CPW’s volume of brands popular with kids and teens has children and teenagers to 9 grams or less per serving by the end of 2015. achieved the committed sugar reduction targets. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 121 2014 Commitments/Goals/Progress Health & Wellness (con’t) Target Progress Reduce sodium U.S.: Reduce sodium by 20 percent across top 10 retail product categories by 2015. Many of our product categories have made significant progress and exceeded this goal. General Mills continues working toward this commitment with sodium reductions across our product portfolio. U.K.: Reduce sodium in food to help consumer reach the 2.4 In fiscal 2014, we reduced sodium content in our foods by 63% from the previous year. grams per day maximum recommended daily intake. Australia: Reduce sodium by 25 percent by 2015 (collective industry We continue to make sizable reductions in sodium across our key brands. goal as part of Healthier Australia Commitment). CPW: Reduce sodium content of 20 breakfast cereals popular with children CPW removed more than 590 metric tons of salt from its children’s or and teenagers to 135 milligrams or less per serving by the end of 2015. teenagers’ breakfast cereals in 2014. 100% of CPW’s recipes have achieved the committed sodium reduction target as of December 2014. Reduce calories U.S.: Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation pledge with 15 other leading food and 990 General Mills’ U.S. retail products (60%) have 150 calories or less per serving. beverage companies: Reduce calories by 1.5 trillion in the U.S. marketplace by 2015. 575 General Mills’ U.S. retail products (35%) have 100 calories or less per serving. 6.4 trillion calories trimmed from U.S. food by a coalition of partners, which General Mills is a part, through the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation. Expand food safety Achieve Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) certification of 63% of General Mills-owned facilities are GFSI certified. 71% of co-production all General Mills-owned facilities by 2020. sites and 43% of ingredient supplier sites also are GFSI certified. Responsible marketing U.S.: Comply with Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising General Mills is in full compliance with CFBAI guidelines (effective December 2013). Initiative (CFBAI) child advertising nutrition standards. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 122 2014 Commitments/Goals/Progress Our goal is to sustainably source the raw materials we use in our products. We are committed Sourcing to sustainably source 100% of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020, representing more than 50% of our annual raw material purchases. RAW MATERIAL COMMITMENT SUSTAINABILITY DEFINITION 2014 PROGRESS* Vanilla 100 percent of spend sourced 100 percent of our vanilla will be sourced through origin-direct investment, which will 45 percent sustainably by 2020 improve the incomes of smallholder farmers and the quality of ingredients. Cocoa 100 percent of spend sourced 100 percent of our cocoa will be sourced through origin-direct investment, which will 10 percent sustainably by 2020 improve the incomes of smallholder farmers and the quality of ingredients. Palm oil 100 percent of spend sourced 100 percent of our palm oil will be sourced by responsible and sustainable sources as 83 percent sustainably by 2015 defined by RSPO mass balanced, segregated sustainable palm, or green palm certificates. Sugarcane 100 percent of spend sourced 100 percent of our sugar cane will be from responsible and sustainable regions that are 42 percent sustainably by 2020 in compliance with Bonsucro or comparable standards. Any high risk countries will be independently verified. Oats 100 percent of spend sourced 100 percent of our oats will be sourced from growing regions that demonstrate continuous 35 percent sustainably by 2020 improvement against industry-based environmental metrics. U.S. wheat 100 percent of spend sourced 100 percent of our U.S. wheat will be sourced from growing regions that demonstrate 15 percent sustainably by 2020 continuous improvement against the Field-to-Market framework or comparable environmental metrics. U.S. sugar beets 100 percent of spend sourced 100 percent of our U.S. beet sugar will be sourced from growing regions that demonstrate 34 percent sustainably by 2020 continuous improvement against the Field-to-Market framework or comparable environmental metrics. U.S. corn (dry milled) 100 percent of spend sourced 100 percent of our dry milled corn will be sourced from growing regions that demonstrate 6 percent sustainably by 2020 continuous improvement against the Field-to-Market framework or comparable environmental metrics. Dairy (fluid milk) 100 percent of spend sourced 100 percent of our directly sourced fluid milk will originate from producing regions that 20 percent sustainably by 2020 demonstrate continuous improvement as measured by the Dairy Sustainability Framework (U.S.) or other comparable environmental metrics (globally). Fiber packaging 100 percent of spend sourced 100 percent of our fiber packaging will be from recycled material or from virgin wood fiber 99 percent sustainably by 2020 regions that are known and not contributing to deforestation. Any high risk countries will be independently verified. *Progress numbers may vary from year to year due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data tracking methodology. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 123 2014 Commitments/Goals/Progress Environment Our goal is to continually reduce our environmental footprint. Target Progress GHG emissions: 20% reduction in GHG emissions rate by 2015 (2005 baseline). Reduced GHG emissions rate by 23% since 2005. Energy: 20% reduction in energy usage rate by 2015 (2005 baseline). Reduced energy usage rate by 10% since 2005. Transportation fuel: 35% reduction in transportation fuel usage rate by 2015 (2009 baseline). Reduced transportation fuel usage rate by 22% since 2009. Water: 20% reduction in water usage rate by 2015 (2006 baseline). 17% increase in water usage since 2006 primarily due to impact of Yoplait International. Solid waste: 50% reduction in solid waste generation rate by 2015 (2005 baseline). Reduced solid waste generation rate by 41% since 2005. Packaging: 60% global packaging volume improved by 2015 (2009 baseline). 68% of packaging volume improved since 2009. Our goal is to foster a safe, ethical, diverse and inclusive workplace where employees Workplace can thrive. Target Progress Increase workplace safety Goal: Zero injuries/illnesses. We reduced our global total injury rate by 17% to 1.34 injuries per 100 employees in fiscal 2014, down from 1.62 in 2013. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 124 2014 Commitments/Goals/Progress Community Our goal is to build strong communities. Target Progress Alleviate hunger 2020 Goal: Provide 200 million meals globally. 50 million meals provided globally through food donations since 2013. 738,000 smallholder farmers and their 4.4 million family members impacted by Partners in Food Solutions since 2008. Advance nutrition wellness 2020 Goal: Empower 25 million youth with skills and knowledge Champions for Healthy Kids program reached 1 million youth since 2002. to achieve and maintain physical wellness. 2020 Goal: 90,000 U.S. schools gain access to Presidential Youth Fitness program. Presidential Youth Fitness program launched in 2013 with support from General Mills, now available to all U.S. schools; 3,400+ schools adopted in 2014; to date, 13,000+ schools and an estimated 6.8 million students engaging with the program. Improve education 2020 Goal: Provide over $1 billion to schools through Box Tops for Education. $80 million raised for U.S. schools through Box Tops for Education in 2014; $640+ million since 1996. Expand access to education 2020 Goal: Empower 1 million people in impoverished communities 195,000 people have received expanded access to education and globally through education and improved livelihoods. economic empowerment through Join My Village since 2009. Volunteer in the community 2020 Goal: More than 80% of employees volunteering worldwide. 75% of employees volunteer worldwide. Invest in our communities 2020 Goal: Achieve $2 billion cumulative giving. $151 million in total giving in fiscal 2014. $1.5+ billion cumulative giving since 1954. All dollars cited are U.S. dollars. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 125 Composition of governance body (G4-LA12) Board of Directors Diversity (% of total) % Male 64.3% Female 35.7% Black 14.3% Asian 0% Hispanic 7.1% Native American/American Indian 0% Age 50+ 92.9% Global workforce data summary (G4-10 A-D)* Total number of employees by employment contract and gender Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender Employment type Total Female Male Workforce breakdown Total Female Male Full Time 29,602 12,240 17,362 All employees 30,910 13,160 17,750 Part Time 656 530 126 Supervised by gender N/A N/A N/A Short Time 24 12 12 NonScheduled 206 165 41 Total workforce by region and gender Temporary/Casual 327 180 147 Workforce breakdown Total Female Male Seasonal 95 33 62 Africa 85 43 42 Asia Pacific 2,048 735 1,313 Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender Greater China 3,787 2,081 1,706 Permanent contract Total Female Male Australia/New Zealand 467 216 251 Full Time 29,602 12,240 17,362 Canada 824 464 360 Part Time 656 530 126 Europe 2,823 1,209 1,614 Short Time 24 12 12 Latin America 4,306 1,717 2,589 Middle East 47 20 27 USA 16,523 6,675 9,848 *This data excludes Yoki, Annie’s, wage employees at Häagen-Dazs and Liberté, and China third-party employees. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 126 General Standard Disclosures Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. CEO letter, 2014 Annual Report G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2014 10-K Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization. 2014 10-K G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. Introduction, 2014 10-K G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. 2014 10-K G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations GeneralMills.com/Company/Countries or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2014 10-K G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). GeneralMills.com/Company/Countries G4-9 Scale of the organization. 2014 Annual Report G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. Appendix G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 45% of U.S. production employees are covered by CBAs G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Introduction, Environment, Sourcing G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership or its supply chain 2014 Annual Report G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. GeneralMills.com/Responsibility G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes CEO letter, Introduction, Sourcing or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations. Introduction, Health & Wellness, Environment, Sourcing, Community Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2014 Annual Report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries; how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles Materiality section of Introduction for Defining Report Content. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. GRI Index G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. Materiality section of Introduction G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. Materiality section of Introduction GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 127 General Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries (con’t) G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. This is the first year that General Mills has aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Introduction, Health & Wellness, Environment, Sourcing, Community G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Introduction, Health & Wellness, Environment, Sourcing, Community G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement. Introduction, Health & Wellness, Environment, Sourcing, Community G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. Introduction, Health & Wellness, Environment, Sourcing, Community Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. Introduction G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). April 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Introduction G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen; report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. Introduction, Appendix GRI Index G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Introduction Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives Introduction and other employees. G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental Introduction and social topics. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 128 General Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments Governance (con’t) G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting GeneralMills.com/Investors highest governance body members. G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, Introduction, Environment, Sourcing value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-44 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, GeneralMills.com/Investors and social performance. G4-45 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, GeneralMills.com/Investors, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Introduction internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, GeneralMills.com/Investors, environmental and social topics. Introduction G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. GeneralMills.com/Investors, Introduction G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Introduction, Environment Aspects are covered. G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) 2014 Proxy Statement used to address and resolve them. G4-51 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 2014 Proxy Statement (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). G4-52 Process for determining remuneration. 2014 Proxy Statement G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies GeneralMills.com/Investors and proposals, if applicable. G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees in the same country. G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees in the same country. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 129 General Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. GeneralMills.com/Company, GeneralMills.com/Responsibility, Workplace G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity. Workplace G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity. Workplace Disclosures of Management Approach Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments Ethics and Integrity G4-DMA a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. Introduction, Appendix GRI Index b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach. Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments ECONOMIC Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other Health & Wellness, Community, community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Sourcing, 2014 Annual Report, 2014 Proxy Statement G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. Introduction, Environment, Sourcing, Carbon Disclosure Project G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 2014 10-K G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. Indirect Economic Impacts Material issue: Smallholder farmers G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported. Sourcing, Community G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Sourcing, Community GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 130 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments ECONOMIC (CON’T) Procurement Practices Material issue: Smallholder farmers G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operations. Sourcing ENVIRONMENTAL Materials Material issue: Packaging footprint G4-EN1 Total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organization’s primary products and services during the reporting period. G4-EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture the organization’s primary products and services. Environment Energy Material issue: Energy costs G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. Environment, Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization. Carbon Disclosure Project G4-EN5 Energy intensity. Environment, Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. Environment G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. Water Material issue: Water stewardship G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Environment, Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Environment, Sourcing G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Environment Biodiversity Material issue: Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Sourcing value outside protected areas. G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Sourcing G4-EN14 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 131 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments ENVIRONMENTAL (CON’T) Emissions Material issue: Climate change, deforestation and changing land use G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). Environment, Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). Environment, Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). Environment, Carbon Disclosure Project G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. Environment, Environmental Data Summary G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Environment, Sourcing G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) are most commonly used in small quantities for closed-loop refrigeration systems and occasional fumigation actvitiies. ODS emissions are strictly regulated. G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Air emissions primarily include particulate matter and organic compounds from ingredient handling, cooking and drying, as well as emissions associated with fuel combustion. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. Effluents and Waste Material issue: Food waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. We do not discharge untreated sanitary wastewater to land or surface waters at any of our locations. Wastewater discharges primarily consist of organic matter from ingredient handling, food production and cleaning processes. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Environment G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. There were no significant spills at our manufacturing locations during the reporting period. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 132 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments ENVIRONMENTAL (CON’T) Effluents and Waste Material issue: Food waste G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, The quantity of hazardous waste and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. produced and shipped is insignificant relative to the amount of solid waste generated at General Mills. Hazardous waste shipping and disposal is restricted by government regulations. G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting No water bodies are significantly organization’s discharges of water and runoff. affected by company discharges. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. Products and Services Material issue: Packaging footprint G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. Environment, Sourcing G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Environment, Sourcing Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws General Mills received no significant fines and regulations. or regulatory sanctions during the reporting period Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, Environment and transporting members of the workforce. Supplier Environmental Assessment Material issue: Supply chain relationships G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 133 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. In the fall of 2014, General Mills announced its intention to eliminate approximately 700-800 jobs, amounting to about 2% of the global workforce. The reductions were part of a restructuring plan designed to increase organizational effectiveness and reduce overhead expense. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Workplace Labor/Management Relations G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise Workplace on occupational health and safety programs. G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. Workplace G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Workplace Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them Workplace in managing career endings. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Workplace Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, Workplace, Appendix, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. GeneralMills.com/Investors Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Material issue: Supply chain relationships G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. Sourcing GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 134 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that Compliance with our Supplier Code of underwent human rights screening. Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts Nondiscrimination Material issue: Human rights in the supply chain G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Material issue: Human rights in the supply chain G4-HR4 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be Sourcing violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor Material issue: Human rights in the supply chain G4-HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Sourcing to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or Compulsory Labor Material issue: Human rights in the supply chain G4-HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to Sourcing contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Indigenous Rights Material issue: Human rights in the supply chain G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Sourcing Assessment G4-HR9 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Supplier Human Rights Assessment Material issues: Human rights in the supply chain, supply chain relationships G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 135 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments HUMAN RIGHTS (CON’T) Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Material issues: Human rights in the supply chain, supply chain relationships G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. Sourcing, GeneralMills.com/Sourcing G4-HR12 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. SOCIETY Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Sourcing Anticorruption G4-SO3 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Workplace G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. Workplace Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. GeneralMills.com/CivicInvolvement Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Material issue: Supply chain relationships G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health and Safety Material issue: Food safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. Health & Wellness, Workplace G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products Health & Wellness and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to Health & Wellness such information requirements. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 136 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY (CON’T) Product and Service Labeling G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and In fiscal 2014, there were no labeling, by type of outcomes. incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. In fiscal 2014, our U.S. consumer satisfaction rate was 97%. Globally, we invest in measurement and monitor satisfaction on an ongoing basis. Marketing Communications Material issue: Responsible marketing G4-PR6 Sale of products that are the subject of stakeholder questions or public debate. Introduction, Health & Wellness G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Across All Aspects of Sourcing Material issue: Supply chain relationships FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy. Sourcing General Mills adheres to a strict supplier code of conduct and utilizes independent third parties to assess supplier compliance with this code. GeneralMills.com/Sourcing FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified as being in accordance with credible, internationally recognized responsible Sourcing production standards, broken down by standard. Healthy and Affordable Food Material issues: Food security, health and nutrition wellness FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices (in-kind contributions, volunteer initiatives, knowledge transfer, Health & Wellness, Sourcing, partnerships and product development) that promote access to healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; access to Workplace, Community healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 137 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR SUPPLEMENT (CON’T) Customer Health and Safety Material issues: Food safety, health and nutrition wellness FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party according to internationally recognized Health & Wellness food safety management system standards. FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that are lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium Health & Wellness and added sugars. FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that contain increased nutritious ingredients like fiber, Health & Wellness vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives. Product and Service Labeling FP8 Policies and practices on communication to consumers about ingredients and nutritional information beyond legal requirements. Health & Wellness WholeGrainNation.com GeneralMills.com/Benefits of Cereal GeneralMills.com/Benefits of Yogurt GeneralMills.com/Nutrition Breeding and Genetics Material Issue: Animal welfare FP9 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type. General Mills does not raise or process animals in its production operations. Meat that is used in our products is processed by our suppliers. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy Animal Husbandry Material Issue: Animal welfare FP10 Policies and practices, by species and breed type, related to physical alterations and the use of anaesthetic. General Mills does not physically alter animals or use anaesthetics. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy FP11 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type, per housing type. Sourcing General Mills does not raise or process animals. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy FP12 Policies and practices on antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, hormone, and/or growth promotion treatments, by species and breed type. Sourcing Animal welfare policy Transportation, Handling, and Slaughter Material Issue: Animal welfare FP13 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations, and adherence with voluntary standards related to transportation, General Mills does not transport, handle or handling, and slaughter practices for live terrestrial and aquatic animals. slaughter live or aquatic animals. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 138 UN Global Compact 10 Principles Principle Information in report Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Ethics and compliance, page 94 of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Equal opportunity, page 98 Advance socially responsible supply chains, page 66 Code of Conduct, link on page 88 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ethics and compliance, page 94 Advance socially responsible supply chains, page 66 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Advance socially responsible supply chains, page 66 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Supplier code of conduct, link on page 66 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Advance socially responsible supply chains, page 66 Supplier code of conduct, link on page 66 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Advance socially responsible supply chains, page 66 Supplier code of conduct, link on page 66 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Ethics and compliance, page 94 Diversity and inclusion, page 96 Supplier code of conduct, link on page 66 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment approach, page 72 Sourcing approach, page 72 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environment performance, page 71 Sourcing performance, page 71 Ingredient sustainability, page 74 Sustainability in our operations and beyond, page 75 Water stewardship, page 63 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment performance, page 71 Sourcing performance, page 71 Ingredient sustainability, page 74 Sustainability in our operations and beyond, page 75 Water stewardship, page 63 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Supplier code of conduct, link on page 66 Code of Conduct, link on page 88 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 139
