Sustainability Report ABN AMRO Group N.V. 2014 ABN AMRO Group N.V. Sustainable Banking Gustav Mahlerlaan 10, 1082 PP Amsterdam P.O. Box 283, 1000 EA Amsterdam The Netherlands abnamro.com/sustainablebanking sustainability@nl.abnamro.com table of Chairman’s message contents Strategy ABN AMRO at a glance 2 Using our financial expertise for the benefit of society 25 Operations Chairman’s message 4 Partner of the Future 26 Social entrepreneurship 27 Sustainability strategy  6 Sharing sector-specific knowledge 28 ABN AMRO value chain 8 Materiality 9 Sustainable finance Stakeholder engagement 10 Governance 10 and investment services 30 30 Clients Ethics and integrity 12 Policy framework  Sustainable financing 32 Sustainable business operations 14 Sustainable investment 35 Compliance with national and international Sustainable banking products and services 37 legislation and regulations 14 Workforce diversity and inclusion 16 Appendices 40 Employee health and safety  18 Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report 40 Our organisation’s environmental impact 18 Basis for reporting 42 Stakeholder dialogue 43 Society Clients’ interests centre stage Objectives and performance in 2014 56 Glossary 59 and sustainable relationships  21 The privacy of clients’ financial transactions 22 The security of clients’ financial transactions 22 The stability of our digital services  23 Mortgage policy 24 Services Appendices Inspire and engage our people The Green Quest 20 ABN AMRO Foundation 29 Implementing the Banker’s Oath 24 We Sustain 38 2 ABN AMRO at a glance ABN AMRO Chairman’s message at a glance About ABN AMRO With a long-standing history in banking and roots that Strategy ABN AMRO offers retail, private and corporate banking go back for centuries, ABN AMRO emerged from the clients an extensive range of products and services. financial crisis as a leading Dutch bank. Our business Our in-depth financial expertise, wide-ranging knowledge profile and international footprint have changed while of many industries, and our international network underpin our historic roots remain. We seek to respond to the the bank’s national and international activities. We have evolving market and hence also to the changing needs Operations a strong position in the Netherlands in all our business of our clients, approaching them fairly and openly, learning activities and we follow our corporate and private banking from our experiences and understanding the importance clients in their activities abroad. Internationally, we are of delivering optimum service. active in selected markets with a focus on private banking and a variety of specialist areas in which we have extensive Our strategic priorities expertise, such as Energy, Commodities & Transportation ABN AMRO’s strategy relies on five priorities with targets (ECT) and Clearing. set for 2017. One of our strategic priorities is to invest in our future. Clients Enhance client centricity Improve profitability Invest in our future strategic ÅÅ Recognised as a Top Class Employer ÅÅ Re-engineering the IT landscape and priorities Society optimising processes Invest in our future ÅÅ Positively recognised on sustainability Pursue and transparency selective international growth Strongly commit to a moderate risk profile Services Sustainability strategy Sustainable business operations Clients’ interests centre stage and sustainable relationships Better bank Better world Appendices Inspire and Using our financial expertise for the benefit of society engage A better bank our people contributing to Sustainable finance a better world and investment services ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 3 ABN AMRO at a glance Chairman’s message Operations Maintaining a moderate risk profile, upholding high ethical and integrity standards and -7% since 2013 Employee absenteeism Percentage of women in senior management positions Reduction of energy consumption since 2012 further embedding sound and Strategy 3.27% 20% 31% reliable corporate governance in our organisation. Clients Operations Client centricity is becoming firmly embedded in our corporate Total number of client Net losses due to phishing Availability of culture. In 2014 we introduced a complaints about privacy and malware since 2013 our digital services number of initiatives designed to further serve our clients’ interests. 50 -34% 99.44% Clients Society Society We actively find ways to offer our financial expertise to society, with Times employees volunteered Number of social Percentage of clients a focus on three areas: facilitating for the community entrepeneurs receiving recognising the sector focus coaching in ­services offered talent, social entrepreneurship and sharing sector-specific knowledge. 11,811 40 88% Services Services Appendices The biggest contribution we Sustainable assets under ESG criteria for Number of cases explicitly make to society is increasing the administration in EUR millions all investments focused on human rights sustainability of our finance and 5,399 167 investment services and offering sustainable products and services. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 4 Chairman’s message Chairman’s message Strategy Gerrit Zalm Operations Chairman of the Managing Board “Our commitment to being a good corporate citizen and contributing Clients to a better world stems from our own sense of responsibility and from our duty to help restore Society trust in the financial sector.” Services Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 5 Chairman’s message chairman’s Chairman’s message message I am pleased to present the ABN AMRO Sustainability Report for 2014. As you can Strategy read in this report, we have once again made strides in conducting business in a responsible, sustainable manner. Our commitment to being a good corporate citizen and contributing to a better world stems from our own sense of responsibility and from our duty to help restore trust in the financial sector. Operations Our business at ABN AMRO has an impact on people, industry This past year we implemented a set of self-imposed and society. As such, we devoted 2014 to defining the issues rules (Binding Corporate Rules), which we drew up in of material importance to our stakeholders and taking key consultation with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. decisions to help us achieve our aim: to be positively recognised for our position on sustainability and transparency. We strive to use our financial expertise for the benefit of In striving to achieve this goal, we are guided by our society. This commitment is reflected in the programme sustainability strategy, which consists of four key elements: under which we offer financial coaches to Qredits, the ÅÅ We pursue sustainable business operations only micro-financing organisation in the Netherlands. Clients ÅÅ We put our clients’ interests centre stage and build Qredits helps start-ups and other businesses by providing sustainable relationships personal coaching and business loans. ÅÅ We use our financial expertise for the benefit of society ÅÅ We finance and invest for clients in a sustainable manner Our offering of sustainable finance and investment services is growing steadily. This past year, we decided to integrate An inspired and engaged workforce is vital to the success environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into all Society of our strategy. To this end, we promote sustainability of our investment advice as from mid-2015. In addition to internally and encourage our staff to get involved. Our our existing sector policies, we also introduced sustainability efforts are clearly paying off: the score for sustainability criteria into our credit application policies for the energy, in the Employee Engagement Survey for 2014 rose real estate and manufacturing sectors. from 45% to 61%, and we hope to increase it further. Looking ahead, we will continue to implement the We focused on our own business operations in various performance metrics and targets we have set as we put Services areas. For example, we enhanced the transparency of our sustainability strategy into practice. This will enable our tax policy for internationally operating companies by us to report on our progress in an increasingly concrete publishing our tax principles on the ABN AMRO website. and transparent manner. We also participated in The Green Quest, an initiative aimed at creating ways to conduct our business Read on to discover the various initiatives we have operations sustainably and we continued to endorse taken this past year, the progress we have made and international standards such as the UN Global Compact. our plans to address the issues that are of material importance to our stakeholders. We welcome your Appendices As part of our drive to put our clients’ interests first, we feedback and suggestions. Please feel free to email us continuously invest in our systems in order to further optimise at sustainability@nl.abnamro.com. the security of our payment services. We treat our clients’ data with strict confidentiality and do not make this Gerrit Zalm information available to third parties for commercial reasons. Chairman of the Managing Board ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 6 Sustainability strategy strategy Chairman’s message Sustainability strategy Strategy Banks play a key role in facilitating business and therefore have a great responsibility in shaping and ensuring the sustainable development of business in the future. For ABN AMRO, that means doing business responsibly, putting our clients’ interests centre stage and addressing the risks related to climate change, human rights, Operations and the shortage of natural resources. Sustainable business operations Clients’ interests centre stage and sustainable relationships Better bank Clients Better world Inspire and Using our financial expertise for the benefit of society engage A better bank our people contributing to Sustainable finance a better world and investment services Society To help us achieve that, in 2013 we updated our corporate core processes. We are also maintaining our bank-wide strategy up to 2017, including a strong focus on drive to reduce our environmental footprint. The fresh sustainability and transparency. In 2014, we started to insights we gain from engaging with our stakeholders translate our broad strategic sustainability goals into (see appendix Stakeholder dialogue) and studies such explicit targets. We are working to raise employees’ as the materiality analysis (see page 9) will enable awareness and knowledge of sustainability and focus on us to fine-tune our sustainability ambitions in 2015. Services the further integration of sustainability criteria into our Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 7 Sustainability strategy Chairman’s message Sustainable business operations ÅÅ Compliance ÅÅ Workforce diversity and inclusion ÅÅ Employee health and safety ÅÅ Environmental impact Strategy Clients’ intrest centre stage and sustainable relationships Operations ÅÅ Privacy of clients ÅÅ Security of clients ÅÅ Stability of our digital services ÅÅ Mortgage policy Financial expertise for Clients the benefit of society ÅÅ Partner of the Future ÅÅ Social entrepreneurship ÅÅ Sharing sector-specific knowledge Society Sustainable finance and investment services Services ÅÅ Policy framework ÅÅ Sustainable financing ÅÅ Sustainable investment ÅÅ Sustainable banking products and services Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 8 Sustainability strategy By focusing on doing business sustainably, we create complete report in the coming years. This report focuses on Chairman’s message opportunities for our clients and our bank. Consistent with the material topics relating to our long-term sustainability our sustainability commitment to strike a balance between strategy. We obtained assurance on a distinct set of people, planet and profit, we continue to selectively quantitative data that are related to most of the material develop new markets, products and services, as well as topics. The data that are in scope of the assurance report new forms of collaboration. We use our strategy to tackle are marked as such in the text. the sustainability issues that confront ABN AMRO and our clients in today’s world – an approach in which innovation ABN AMRO value chain Strategy also features strongly. The figure below is a representation of the ABN AMRO Our sustainability strategy is based on two pillars: value chain. It shows both liquidity and profit and loss Better bank based on the Annual Report 2014. The width of the dark ÅÅ We pursue sustainable business operations arrows represents the amount of loans extended. The light ÅÅ We put our clients’ interests centre stage and build arrows represent a flow of income and costs. The width sustainable relationships indicates the amount of capital. Operations Better world A value chain is, in effect, a supply chain with an upstream ÅÅ We use our financial expertise for the benefit of society flow (value) as well as a downstream flow (materials). ÅÅ We finance and invest for clients in a sustainable manner Value can be expressed in a variety of ways, the most common of which is willingness-to-pay. In this report we present our activities and results relating to these four key areas of the bank’s sustainability strategy, For ABN AMRO, the most important production input and describe how we inspire and engage our employees is money in the form of deposits and the most important to achieve our ambitions. Our goal is to accurately measure output is money in the form of loans. Wholesale funding, Clients and report on our progress by means of key performance the liquidity buffer and capital requirements are indicators (KPIs). We aim to receive assurance on the preconditions for the ‘production process’. Capital in Capital management Capital out Residential mortgages Society Deposits1 Capital transformation3 Commercial loans Consumer loans Wholesale funding2 Regulatory capital4 Additional services5 Liquidity buffer6 Services Proﬁt and loss7 Loan impairment8 1 Deposits: deposits include savings and checking accounts and show all capital deposited at ABN AMRO on 31 December 2013. 2 Wholesale funding: ABN AMRO’s loan-to-deposit ratio is larger than 1. The amount of capital necessary to fund the additional loans comes from wholesale funding. Wholesale funding also Appendices includes subordinated liabilities: debt issued to raise capital for regulatory capital requirements. 3 Capital transformation: capital transformation manages the mismatch between incoming and outstanding capital. Differences in maturity between loans and deposits and the accompanied interest rate risk are managed here. 4 Regulatory capital: capital requirements for banks prescribe the amount of capital required to cover the financial risk a bank faces. 5 Additional services: these services include asset management and trading intermediation. Asset management manages capital in the care of ABN AMRO that is not part of the balance sheet. Trading intermediation engages in the purchase and sale of bonds and securities for customers. These are investments made by the bank on behalf of customers. Both are a source of fee income. 6 Liquidity buffer: in order to be able to provide capital when demanded from a withdrawal, the bank needs a liquidity buffer. It consists of cash and balances at the central bank and highgrade liquid bonds and securities. These latter are low risk, easily tradable bonds and securities, which can be sold in case quick liquidity is required. 7 Profit and loss: interest and fees generated by loans and services are used to pay several expenses. These are supplier & operational costs, personnel costs, taxes and interest on deposits and debt. Also, the income is used for depreciation, amortisation and loan impairment. What is left is the profit of the bank. This will become part of the regulatory capital. 8 Loan impairment: a part of the profit and loss of the bank is reserved for the depreciation of problem loans. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 9 Sustainability strategy Together with other services, they form the bank’s supply but also for its stakeholders and society at large. The analysis Chairman’s message chain. The value created is defined in terms of interest revealed what our internal and external stakeholders rates and charges. The supply chain and the value created consider to be the most material, or relevant, issues. together form the value chain. We began by asking external stakeholders to rate an extensive list of materiality issues. This was followed by a Materiality dialogue with a wide range of participants, including retail We reviewed our sustainability strategy in 2014 by and corporate clients, a knowledge institution, a service Strategy performing a materiality analysis in collaboration with the provider, a financial institution and a trade association. Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Development Internal stakeholders were also asked to rank various (VBDO). The purpose of any materiality analysis is to topics and to explain their choices as part of a dialogue identify topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an with senior managers from the different business lines. organisation’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value – not only for itself, The following material topics emerged from this process: Operations Our material topics High interest 8 9 3 14 13 10 1 5 15 Clients 6 2 Societal interest Societal interest 4 11 7 12 Society Business impact Top priority Clients’ interests Financial Sustainable Sustainable Services centre stage and expertise for finance and business sustainable the benefit investment operations relationships of society services 1 Compliance with national 8 The privacy of clients’ financial 12 Volunteering and charity1 12 13 Safeguarding human rights, 13 and international legislation transactions (page 22) health and safety and the and regulations (page 14) environment in financing 9 The security of clients’ and investment (page 34) 2 Preventing corruption financial transactions (page 22) and fraud1 14 Offering sustainable products 14 10 The stability of our 10 and services (page 37) 3 The health of our employees digital services (page 23) Appendices and the safety of the working 15 ESG/ESE in financing and 15 11 Mortgage policy1 11 environment (page 18) investment (page 30) 4 Responsible tax policy 1 5 The diversity of our workforce (page 16) 6 Our organisation’s environmental impact (page 18) 7 Responsible remuneration policy1 1 Material topics of less significance. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 10 Sustainability strategy Based on our sustainability strategy, we decided to give We make no attempt to evade sensitive subjects, not least Chairman’s message greater priority to the topics ‘ESG/ESE in financing and because clients and the public often consider these to be investment’ and to ‘our organisation’s environmental impact’. particularly important. Examples include the availability We linked and aligned the material topics to the four key and security of online banking, mortgages, and banking areas of our sustainability strategy. In this report, we explain and privacy. The Stakeholder Council is scheduled to meet this link and describe how we measure these topics and three times in 2015. intend to report on their progress in the years ahead. Governance Stakeholder engagement ABN AMRO is organised along different businesses, Strategy We set great store by involving stakeholders in the which can be divided into client centres and support development of our strategy. In so doing, we systematically centres. General information on our organisational balance the bank’s interests with those of our stakeholders. structure and governance is available on our website This is vital to restoring trust in the banking sector, and and in our Annual Report. In this report we will describe hence to our own long-term success. how sustainability is embedded in our organisation and Operations pay specific attention to the integration of sustainability We define stakeholders as the groups or individuals we in our corporate governance and risk management. influence through our activities, products and services, and who in their turn affect our ability to achieve our goals. Embedding sustainability in the organisation ABN AMRO has identified stakeholder groups that are of Sustainability is an integral part of our organisation. It is material importance to the sustainable success of our reported on at least once a quarter to the Managing Board business. We strive to maintain a constructive dialogue and Supervisory Board as part of the monitoring process with these stakeholder groups and to take account of of our long-term strategy (for more details, see the section their views in our decision-making. We do that by focusing on Corporate governance). Progress on the implementation Clients on the topics they consider most important, and which of our sustainability strategy is reported bi-monthly we can actually influence. In the appendix ‘Stakeholder to the member of the Managing Board responsible for dialogue’, we list the stakeholders with whom we engaged sustainability. Sustainability experts are employed at most in 2014, the main points of discussion, and the results of businesses to foster engagement with this theme that dialogue. throughout the bank. We also report specific sustainability results to senior management at various business lines. Society The bank has a Sustainability Advisory Board (SAB) made up of external experts from such sectors as industry, In line with the continuous integration of sustainability academia and the media as well as members of the in our organisation we reviewed the function of the Managing Board, including the Chairman. The SAB Sustainable Banking department in 2014, so that it can convened three times in 2014. Each meeting focused on fulfil its role more effectively in 2015 and beyond. The the need to balance short-term financial performance with department facilitates the development of our sustainability long-term sustainability effects. The integration of longstrategy, and each business and support function works Services term sustainability analyses in ABN AMRO’s investment with it to formulate its own sustainability ambitions. policy was discussed, for instance, as were the strong The Sustainable Banking department is also responsible for relationship between innovation and sustainability, transparent communication and reporting to stakeholders and the transition in the energy market. on subjects of importance to both them and ABN AMRO. Finally, the department is responsible for developing and Stakeholder Council revising sustainability policies and advising the commercial ABN AMRO’s renewed Stakeholder Council, set up in 2013, business lines on managing sustainability risks. led to the further professionalisation of our stakeholder Appendices management in 2014. The Council – comprising a member Corporate governance of the Managing Board, members of the Management Since the beginning of 2013, we have been tracking Group and senior executives – convened twice in 2014. progress of our strategic long-term goals in a more Its primary task is to track the most urgent topics. centralised fashion. Progress is discussed extensively ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 11 Sustainability strategy by the Managing Board and Supervisory Board every Chairman’s message quarter and we have been regularly informing the Employee Council about developments in this area since early 2014. As sustainability is an important element of our long-term strategy, it is also addressed during the quarterly monitoring process. We further developed this process during the year under review with the aim of gaining more insight into progress and intensifying Strategy dialogue about governance issues. Another result in the area of governance is the Managing Board’s decision to install a Regulatory Committee under the Managing Board. As the regulatory pressure is Responsible purchasing intensifying and the supervisory landscape is changing, the Regulatory Committee has been given the general Operations task of maintaining insight into and keeping track of We take responsibility for the great impact that we, as a new and evolving legislation as well as the task of taking bank, have on society; a responsibility that extends beyond decisions where necessary. The committee is made up our own business processes. Sustainability therefore plays of senior management from relevant business lines, a key part in the selection of suppliers. We apply the FIRA and is chaired by a member of the Managing Board. evaluation system, for instance, to give us insight into and a grip on our suppliers’ sustainability performance. We also launched a pilot for the renewed form of employee consultation in 2014, as part of which the Employee The FIRA system ties in with international guidelines Council has been halved in size and will work closely with like ISO 26000 and GRI, which help suppliers embed Clients groups of participants from within the organisation. This sustainability in their organisations more effectively. means involving both elected and non-elected employees ABN AMRO requests all new and existing suppliers to in the bank’s plans at an early stage, ensuring more direct commit to FIRA. Ensuring that we only purchase products feedback to management. This so-called participation model and services from suppliers who operate responsibly helps supports a contemporary form of employee participation. us achieve a more sustainable supply chain. We now have 151 FIRA-committed suppliers, who together represent Society 58.7% of the total amount spent. Pilot employee consultation Management Services New/revised plans Elected Non-elected employees Combined employees Appendices (Employee feedback (groups of Council) participants) ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 12 Sustainability strategy Preliminary evaluation of the model shows that management Risk management Chairman’s message views the approach as worthwhile, as it engages more ABN AMRO applies a ‘three lines of defence’ model employees while presenting senior management with for all risks, including risks with a sustainability element. a stiff challenge. We will continue to evaluate the approach The first line is responsible for taking and managing risk. throughout the pilot, making any necessary improvements It evaluates risks based on the framework set up by to ensure even more effective collaboration. the second line, which includes Compliance & Conduct, Risk, Legal, Security & Intelligence Management and In 2014, cooperation between the Supervisory Board, Sustainable Banking. The second line advises the first line Strategy Managing Board and Employee Council was taken to on complex cases. In the case of a credit application, the next level, including preparations for a possible IPO. for example, the second line performs an assessment The Employee Council is regularly updated on developments of all applicable risks and mitigants. The Central Credit and asked for feedback. Each of the three bodies has Committee – chaired by a member of the Managing Board its own responsibilities, but they work closely together or the Management Group – subsequently decides on on common interests. the application, based on the recommendation provided. The third line consists of Group Audit, which evaluates Operations A detailed corporate governance report, in which we focus the procedures and processes and how they have been on elements such as the structure and composition of the implemented. More information on our risk management Supervisory and Managing Boards and their committees, is available in our Annual Report. is included in the Annual Report. Three lines of defence Clients 1 1st Line of Defence Business 2 2nd Line of Defence Risk control functions 3 3rd Line of Defence Audit Risk ownership Risk control Risk assurance Society Management within each business is Risk control functions are responsible for Group Audit evaluates the effectiveness primarily responsible for the risk that it setting frameworks, rules and advice, and of the governance, risk management takes, the results, execution, compliance monitoring and reporting on execution, and control processes and recommends and effectiveness of risk control. management, and risk control. The second solutions for optimising them. Group Audit line ensures that the first line takes risk coordinates matters with the external ownership and has final approval authority auditor and the Dutch central bank. on credit proposals above a certain threshold. Services ABN AMRO evaluates sustainability risks based on Ethics and integrity a set of principles and rules that constitute the bank’s ABN AMRO promotes a corporate culture that encourages environmental, social and ethical policies. We apply them its employees to act with integrity. Key elements in this when assessing clients, credit applications and other regard are our core values, our business principles, the transactions. We take a closer look at this in the section Dutch Banking Code, the Dutch Corporate Governance Appendices ‘Sustainable finance and investment services’. Code and the UN Global Compact Principles. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 13 Sustainability strategy We want to be a bank that responds in an engaged Chairman’s message and effective way to growing calls for integrity and transparency in our sector. To achieve this, we are strengthening existing initiatives where necessary, and initiating a number of new projects. We are also concentrating specifically on behaviour (doing the right thing). A principle-by-principle summary of the manner in which ABN AMRO complies with the principles of Strategy the Dutch Banking Code is published in the corporate governance section on abnamro.com. ÅÅ Ethics Committee Large-scale In 2014, the Ethics Committee came together four reputation survey times to discuss dilemmas. Various business lines were approached to help draw up a list of dilemmas Operations for consideration. The focus was on ethical dilemmas ABN AMRO, together with Rabobank and SNS, currently faced by our bank. They were assessed in commissioned Motivaction to survey the views of 78 major depth from a variety of angles, guided by our business stakeholders on the reputation of the Dutch banking sector principles and taking applicable laws and regulations in the period June to October 2014. The stakeholders into account. As our business principles go further than represented consumer, industry and government bodies, the law, we may, for example, decide not to proceed with regulators, media/opinion leaders, legislators and politicians, a certain project or client even if it is permitted by law. and social organisations. They were also asked to give their ÅÅ Compliance curriculum and risk awareness views on the reputation of individual banks. We launched a project in 2014 to structure compliance Clients and conduct training even more effectively and to The study revealed that these stakeholders still do not fully improve its quality. Completed toward the end of the trust the major Dutch banks, which they also see as lacking year, the project will establish a continuous learning in differentiation, not always putting their clients’ interests process in 2015, making use of innovative educational centre stage, and failing to show a specific vision of the tools and new media. We organise awareness activities future. The desired shift in culture is not yet clearly visible. and stimulate internal dialogue with discussions on Society dilemmas, or through interaction on our intranet page The survey results on individual banks were sent only and our online dialogue platform. to the banks in question. Several stakeholders expressed concern that ABN AMRO might lapse into old patterns of behaviour following a possible IPO. Legislators, politicians Do the right thing and the media continue to rate ABN AMRO’s reputation relatively highly. Among social organisations, regulators, government agencies, consumer organisations and trade Business Services associations, by contrast, ABN AMRO scored relatively principles low. Many stakeholder groups feel that the bank could set more of an example, be more visible, and display greater leadership. Management could also engage more visibly in the public debate regarding the financial sector, connect market knowledge with financial expertise, and improve Do the right UN Global stakeholder relations by being more accessible and Core thing Compact values transparent. ABN AMRO is incorporating the survey results Appendices Principles We act with integrity and and recommendations in an action plan, which will be put transparency into effect in 2015. La w s s & R e g ul a ti o n ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 14 Sustainable business operations operations Chairman’s message Sustainable business operations Strategy ABN AMRO’s pledge is to be a better bank contributing to a better world. This commitment starts with the improvement of our own business operations and has guided us in our business decisions and actions, enabling us to work towards delivering on that pledge. Operations Clients -7% since 2013 Employee absenteeism Percentage of women in senior management positions Reduction of energy consumption since 2012 3.27% 20% 31% Society The main focus is on maintaining a moderate risk profile, Compliance with national and upholding high ethical and integrity standards and further international legislation and regulations embedding sound and reliable corporate governance in our organisation. We are, at the same time, pursuing our Compliance with legislation and regulations lies at the Services Top Class Employer strategy by working on a diverse core of our licence to operate. Any infringements could workforce, with healthy and safe working conditions for result in substantial financial and reputational harm. our employees. Reducing our environmental footprint by ABN AMRO wishes to adhere not only to the letter but making our operations more sustainable is also a priority. also to the spirit of all applicable laws and regulations, including regulations focusing on financial service Some of these topics were discussed in the previous provision and international standards appropriate to section; others will be addressed in this section. Within a large financial institution. We regularly scrutinise our the strategic area ‘sustainable business operations’, we policies and make any adjustments where necessary. Appendices will concentrate on the relevant material themes arising In addition, the way ABN AMRO ensures compliance from the materiality analysis. First, we will address with national and international laws and regulations compliance with national and international legislation. related to sustainability is discussed in the section We will then describe how ABN AMRO actively promotes ‘Sustainable finance and investment services’. the diversity and health and safety of its employees and how it seeks to reduce its environmental impact. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 15 Sustainable business operations Preventing corruption, bribery and fraud Chairman’s message ABN AMRO defines corruption and bribery as a situation arising from the offering, requesting or approval of bribes. These consist of inducements or rewards offered, promised or provided with the object of gaining an advantage. The advantage in question could be commercial, contractual or personal gain, or special treatment in terms of legislation, regulation or supervision. Strategy Involvement in corruption or fraud could cause the bank to suffer both reputational and financial harm. ABN AMRO employees are aware of the anti-corruption and bribery policy. We regularly assess any exposure to this type of The limits of wealth optimisation risk, taking account of the country in which we are active, and structuring the sector, the products, the services and third parties. Depending on these factors, we then take measures to Operations mitigate that exposure. In the past year, we rigorously We respect every government’s right to set its own tax followed up on a small number of cases where we took policy and we also respect our clients’ right to choose appropriate disciplinary actions. The business lines their own tax position. We do not see it as the bank’s task, themselves monitor compliance with the policy, with therefore, to police the tax structure applied by the client. Compliance & Conduct testing the results. In the case of any legislative or regulatory changes, we adjust the At the same time, however, we actively discuss these policy accordingly. Anti-bribery and corruption training is matters with clients. We encourage them to act in mandatory for all bank employees who come into contact accordance with our principles and to pursue a responsible with external parties. The aim is to update the training tax policy, but we are not in a position to oblige them to Clients programme every three to five years. follow that advice. Naturally, we never actively facilitate or offer the possibility of tax evasion. We have also ceased ABN AMRO was an active contributor to the first Fraud to offer products where the primary motivation was to Film Festival, which was held on 1 and 2 October 2014 achieve a tax advantage. at the EYE Film Institute in Amsterdam. The festival set out to raise the awareness and responsiveness of citizens, See also our tax policy on abnamro.com. Society companies, government and banks regarding fraud and related crime such as corruption. Client complaints about non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes by ABN AMRO in the Netherlands1 60 48 Services 36 28 1 28 0 24 12 Appendices 2013 2014 Complaints sustained 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 16 Sustainable business operations Responsible and restrained remuneration policy Workforce diversity and inclusion Chairman’s message The remuneration of financial institutions has received A diverse workforce that reflects the communities we considerable public attention. ABN AMRO’s remuneration serve helps us to create the best solutions and enhance policy complies with all relevant legal and regulatory customer experience while fostering innovation, respect requirements in the Netherlands and abroad. Our reward and creativity. We do not view diversity only in terms of policy in the Netherlands is largely regulated through the the bank’s gender or age balance. In 2014, we focused collective labour agreement that covers the vast majority mainly on three areas: gender, cultural diversity and of our employees. Our remuneration philosophy and the disability. Diversity and inclusion are about bringing Strategy approach we pursue are explained in more detail in our together and making optimum use of the unique talents Annual Report. and experiences of all people, regardless of who they are or where they come from. On top of that we can create Responsible tax policy synergy through optimal use of diverse talents within Tax matters have been receiving increasing attention every teams. Diversity is therefore part of our Top Class year. The prime focus is whether or not internationally Employer strategy and plays a pivotal role in our annual operating businesses pay their ‘fair share of tax’. Whereas Employee Engagement Survey, in the section on fair Operations tax evasion has never been acceptable, tax avoidance has treatment. The results of this survey help us to determine now become a particularly important issue. We do not which activities we need to undertake to maintain or engage in tax avoidance, which implies that we meet the improve the results. spirit and the letter of the law. We have heightened our focus on transparency and have, for instance, published Fair treatment turned out to be the highest rated element our tax principles on our website. Similarly, we provide in the 2014 Employee Engagement Survey, scoring country-by-country reporting on various income items, 79 out of 100, compared with 73 in 2013. The increase including tax. Our tax principles lie at the core of our shows that our people think we are on the right track responsible tax policy. We take the view that our income to be a diverse and inclusive organisation. Clients should be included in taxable income only once, and that all our expenses should be deductible. Our transfer Our target for 2014 was to achieve a level of 20% women pricing policy is in line with international standards. in senior management positions and 25% in upper We therefore pay tax on our profit in the country where middle-management positions. In the end, 20% of senior the profit is generated. managers and 24% of upper middle managers were women. We therefore achieved our target for senior Society We respect every government’s right to set its own managers in the Talent to the Top charter. ABN AMRO tax policy. We also respect our clients’ right to optimise intends to set new targets for the years ahead. Despite their own tax position. One of our tax principles is that a 1.7% rise, we did not meet our target for upper middle the products we offer fully meet the regulations in force, managers. At both levels, however, the percentage of are transparent and do not contravene the intended women in management posts has been on a rising trend purpose of the regulations. We actively try to ensure over the past three years. Equal pay for men and women that our clients do not engage in tax evasion. is enshrined in the collective labour agreement, which Services covers most of our employees. We mostly operate in countries that are part of the international initiative on the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes. We always provide information to tax authorities if and when so requested, if the request meets the legal requirements. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 17 Sustainable business operations We encourage bank-wide awareness of diversity in Our employees in the Netherlands1 Chairman’s message a variety of ways: (in FTEs) ÅÅ We organised various training programmes on diversity 25,000 and inclusion, such as ‘mindbugs’ and several mentoring programmes for female and culturally 20,000 18,550 18,250 diverse employees. 15,000 ÅÅ In addition to a whole series of events throughout the year, we organised a major annual conference 10,000 Strategy for around 400 internal and external guests. In 2014 5,000 our theme was ‘Diversity and Inclusive Leadership’, in which we further explored the benefits of diversity 2013 2014 in today’s market. Leadership has a crucial part to play 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. in the maximum utilisation of diversity. The central question addressed by the conference was: how do we make optimum use of the talent in ourselves and Breakdown of employees by age in the Netherlands 20141 (in %) Operations each other in the changing world in which we operate? ÅÅ We surveyed our international private banking offices 6 0 7 to measure their commitment to diversity, as well as the percentages of female and multicultural staff. 27 This gave us a picture of what our offices around 25 the world consider important in the field of diversity. ÅÅ We set up a Cultural Diversity working group made up of key people from throughout the organisation. Group members actively help develop actions to Clients promote cultural diversity in the upper reaches of our organisation. The working group aims, through 35 collaboration, to speed up the internal mobility of < 24 30 39 50 59 non-Western employees. 24 29 40 49 60 ÅÅ In 2014, we introduced the ABN AMRO Autism 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. Ambassador to raise awareness of autism. This Society initiative is part of the bank’s diversity strategy designed to draw attention to disabilities, both visible Diversity of employees in the Netherlands 20141 and less visible. Autism is one of the most common (in % by salary scale) disabilities worldwide. Our Autism Ambassador, 100 who himself has autism, is the second person at an 80 80 76 organisation to do this, making us one of only two 65 70 60 companies – alongside Royal Dutch Shell – to raise 60 Services awareness in this way. The Dutch Autism Association 40 40 35 has endorsed our ambassador. 30 24 20 20 7 or lower 8-9 10 11 Subtop Top Men Women 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 18 Sustainable business operations The LEEFVitaal! programme Chairman’s message Online questionnaire Lifestyle Voluntary Test results: coaching employee Health risks Advice on how health check Biological age to keep fit and healthy day by day Strategy Physical examination Employee health and safety Absenteeism at ABN AMRO in the Netherlands1 ABN AMRO has a sound health and safety policy in place (in %) Operations and encourages vitality among staff. This ties in nicely 5.00 with our Top Class Employer strategy and our ambition to be ‘Your best place to work’. To this end, we offer our 4.00 3.52 3.27 employees a range of facilities to support their physical, 3.00 mental, emotional and spiritual well-being. ABN AMRO defines the health and safety of its employees as 2.00 something that we may not think about every day, but that 1.00 impacts our daily lives. Healthy, safe and good working conditions enhance job enjoyment and reduce the chance 2013 2014 Clients of illness, accidents, injuries and damage. ABN AMRO 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. seeks to offer its staff a safe and healthy working environment by providing the right conditions and by actively informing them how best to prevent health risks. A key initiative in this respect is our LEEFVitaal! Our organisation’s environmental impact programme in the Netherlands, which promotes The direct environmental impact of financial services Society awareness of the benefits of a healthy lifestyle to help providers is rather limited given the nature of their staff keep fit and healthy. Employees are invited once activities. ABN AMRO’s impact on the environment every three years for a free, comprehensive health check, consists primarily of the bank’s energy consumption, in which an online questionnaire and physical examination CO2 emissions and waste generation. We are concentrating are used to keep track of health risks and biological age. our efforts on reducing our energy consumption and Where necessary, we then coach our staff to help them waste generation, and are using Dutch wind power improve their lifestyle. Other initiatives include a dedicated by purchasing Guarantees of Origin. We track energy Services intranet site on health and vitality and our LEEFVitaal! consumption and waste production at our branches ‘markets’, where employees can get more information and offices in order to make adjustments where possible. and a free health check. Employees are also given the We improved our energy footprint in 2014, adding opportunity to take part in mindfulness courses and to 53,097 m2 to our A label floor space; another 64,497 m2 order books on health and lifestyle using their personal of office space was BREEAM certified. This brings us Sustainable Employability Budget. Once every three years, to a total gross office area of 339,505 m2 A label and employees receive an online questionnaire, the 327,476 m2 BREEAM on a total of 593,095 m2. ‘Balansmeter’. Using the results of this survey, employees In addition, we installed a dry-cooling system at one of Appendices who are at risk of sickness absence are identified and our data centres, saving 15% on electricity consumption offered assistance. The bank regularly takes stock of the as well as 21 million litres of water on an annual basis. health and safety risks and evaluates its plans in this area every year. Absenteeism declined from 3.52% in 2013 to 3.27% in 2014. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 19 Sustainable business operations Our target for 2017 is to cut energy consumption by Chairman’s message 20-30% compared with 2012 levels. The reduction achieved in 2014 was 31%. This was due in part to a mild winter and to building closures, and means that we have already reached our 2017 target. Making more efficient use of office space will certainly contribute to this. As of 2015, we intend to purchase 1 million cubic metres annually of biogas, a green gas supplied by Dutch farmers, Strategy for our own use. We are also committed to reducing our waste output. We did not meet our target for 2014, which was to cut waste by 10%. This was due to the fact that we are in the process of moving towards a new way of working, including further digitisation, and embarked Top Class Employer on a large-scale clean-up project, which produced additional waste. Operations Our Top Class Employer strategy is designed to attract, Total energy consumption at ABN AMRO in the Netherlands1 retain and motivate the best people in three broad ways: (in kWh) ÅÅ To engage employees with ABN AMRO and its purpose, we have defined a corporate identity that projects a 250,000,000 211,428,840 clearly recognisable image of the bank to employees, 200,000,000 clients and other stakeholders. This identity 173,647,075 encompasses our core values and business principles 150,000,000 which are embedded in the performance appraisal cycle 100,000,000 and the bank’s HR policies. Clients ÅÅ To help our people develop continuously, we are creating 50,000,000 a Culture of Excellence in which employees are encouraged and enabled to grow their expertise and 2013 2014 sharpen their skills. In addition to an ever-evolving 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. training course offering for staff, we have an extensive leadership development programme which grooms Society Energy consumption per m2 at ABN AMRO managers to become inspiring leaders. in the Netherlands1 ÅÅ To encourage employees to personalise their working (in kWh) conditions, we give them the autonomy to create their best place to work. Staff have the means to 350 298.32 achieve a healthy work/life balance and to personalise 280 273.43 their working conditions and benefits. 210 Services We evaluate our Top Class Employer strategy on an annual 140 basis. For this, we track several metrics on themes like corporate identity, leadership, talent management and best 70 place to work. Some examples of metrics are the following: our brand ranking, our overall score on engagement, 2013 2014 our score on leadership qualities (deducted from our 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. Employee Engagement Survey) and diversity numbers. Appendices Further details of our HR approach and results can be found in our Annual Report and on our website abnamro.com/career ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 20 Sustainable business operations Energy consumption per FTE2 in the Netherlands1 Chairman’s message (in kWh) 15,000 13,094.81 12,000 11,030.11 9,000 6,000 Strategy 3,000 Inspire and engage our people – 1 2013 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. 2014 The Green Quest 2 The FTE figure used here refers to employment by ABN AMRO Bank and all subsidiaries served by Facility Management in the Netherlands. Total waste at ABN AMRO in the Netherlands1 Operations Our organisation can only be as good as the people who work there. We want (in tons) to achieve a culture that stimulates and 4,000 challenges our employees and gives 3,217 3,200 3,064 them real input into shaping their own working environment. Involving our 2,400 employees in our sustainability strategy is an important element in this. 1,600 800 Clients The Green Quest is a specific example of a sustainability initiative. This joint project with FD Mediagroep, 2013 2014 GDF Suez Energie Nederland, Cofely and SITA explores 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. ways for ABN AMRO to create a more sustainable organisation. It not only benefits the environment, the project also creates direct opportunities for business. Total waste per FTE2 at ABN AMRO in the Netherlands1 Society ABN AMRO set itself two goals before getting involved: (in kg/FTE) firstly, we wanted to make our Alkmaar branch CO2-neutral 250 so it could serve as an example for other medium-sized 204 bank branches. In addition, we can use the acquired 200 190 knowledge to the benefit of our commercial clients 150 as well as our retail clients. Secondly, we wanted to acquire a ‘BREEAM Excellent’ certificate for our head 100 Services office on Gustav Mahlerlaan in Amsterdam. These goals 500 were carefully selected and will serve as an example for ABN AMRO’s own premises and for other existing 2013 2014 buildings. The potential is substantial: some 98% of 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. current buildings in the Netherlands could be made 2 The FTE figure used here refers to employment by ABN AMRO Bank and all subsidiaries served by Facility Management in the Netherlands. more sustainable. The Green Quest resulted in concrete recommendations Appendices relating to our two goals, including an air-to-water heat pump for the branch in Alkmaar and a step-by-step plan to achieve BREEAM certification in Amsterdam. We aim to achieve these aspirations in 2015. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 21 Clients’ interests centre stage and sustainable relationships clients Chairman’s message Clients’ interests centre stage Strategy and sustainable relationships ABN AMRO wants to build sustainable relationships and give top priority to putting clients’ interests centre stage. This entails more than complying with rules and regulations. Society is demanding that we improve, and quite rightly so. Operations Clients Number of client Net losses due to Availability of complaints about privacy phishing and malware our digital services 50 -34% 99.44% Society Client centricity is becoming firmly embedded in our Within these areas, we formulated goals on the material corporate culture, but we are not there yet. In 2014 we topics arising from the materiality analysis. To place introduced a number of initiatives designed to further our clients’ interests centre stage and to actively work serve our clients’ interests. We actively involve our clients on sustainable relationships, we strive to guarantee Services in developing and improving our services. Every product the privacy and security of their financial transactions. and service is examined to see what value it adds for With the growth of digital banking, the stability of our them and how it contributes to building lasting client digital services is of increasing importance. relationships. In so doing, we meet society’s demand for transparency and clarity. We focus on providing transparent information, sustainable day-to-day banking and on services and products for carefree living. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 22 Clients’ interests centre stage and sustainable relationships The privacy of clients’ Client complaints about non-compliance with Chairman’s message financial transactions privacy guidelines by ABN AMRO in the Netherlands1 ABN AMRO understands the importance of data protection 60 in the provision of financial services to its clients. In the 52 50 3 3 Netherlands, the bank is bound by the Dutch Personal 48 Data Protection Act. In addition, the bank has committed 36 to the Dutch Code of Conduct for the Processing of Strategy Personal Data by Financial Institutions. This Code was 24 drawn up by the Dutch Banking Association and the 12 Dutch Association of Insurers and was approved by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The Code sets more 2013 2014 specific rules, based on the Dutch Data Protection Act, Complaints sustained which the banking sector has to abide by when processing the personal data of its clients. In 2014, ABN AMRO 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. Operations adopted Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs): a set of selfimposed rules written in consultation with and approved by the Dutch Data Protection Authority and subsequently The security of clients’ ratified by the other European data protection authorities financial transactions through a so-called mutual recognition procedure. As part of the implementation of the BCRs, ABN AMRO developed The security of the bank’s financial transactions touches an internal policy, the ABN AMRO Personal Data Policy, on the security of our clients and of payments in general. which was formally approved in the Group Risk Committee Each of these aspects enjoys a high priority at ABN AMRO. in December 2014. The new policy sets basic global Confidence in the payments system is an essential Clients principles that have to be observed by all staff when element of our payment strategy. What’s more, the ability processing personal data about clients and staff in order to to use payment products safely is crucial to the continuity protect their privacy. Publication and further communications of economic transactions. Clients expect to be able to make are scheduled for the first quarter of 2015. Finally, payments any time, anywhere, both easily and securely. a number of privacy aspects are touched upon in various Security is a growing concern for clients in the digital age. other policies, in particular in the bank’s Information Fraud is increasingly attempted online, using fake email Society Security policies. To evaluate our approach, we use (phishing), for instance, or malicious software (malware). a system for complaints handling with which we actively We raise awareness among employees and clients on monitor complaints where the client’s interest is at stake how to recognise and prevent fraud and we work actively and where the client believes his or her privacy has with other major banks and police and justice departments been violated. For example, these complaints could come to shield clients and financial transactions from crime. up in situations where the bank has provided client data to third parties without authorisation to do so, or where Working on security and awareness Services personal data have been made public. In 2014, we received We constantly invest in the security of payment products 50 complaints on this issue; three of these were sustained. and processes. For example, two online cash management systems, Access Online and Access Direct, which offer our commercial clients a secure environment for managing their national and international payments and transfers, are ISO 27001 certified. ISO 27001 is an ISO standard for information security. If a client is nevertheless confronted with a fraud attempt, we ensure the incident is dealt with Appendices promptly and effectively. ABN AMRO uses its general terms, product terms, the information pages on its website and specific campaigns to keep clients informed about the risks of fraud. Banks in the Netherlands also warn their clients via the Dutch Banking Association (NVB) never to reveal their personal codes. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 23 Clients’ interests centre stage and sustainable relationships The measures taken have proved effective in the past Chairman’s message two years: net losses due to phishing and malware were down 72% compared with 2012 for all the Dutch banks together. A further decline of 34% was reported in the first half of 2014 compared with the second half of 2013. The figures are reported jointly rather than by individual banks as the banks cooperate, through the Dutch Banking Association and the Dutch Payments Association, Strategy to guarantee Dutch society’s shared interest in safe payments; they do not compete in matters of security. The stability of our digital services The Mortgage Care Team The stability and availability of our digital services – such as online banking, mobile banking, iDeal and Operations abnamro.nl – is an important part of our client offering, ABN AMRO does not want its clients to worry about their given the 5.6 million Internet Banking contracts we have. mortgages. Some of them occasionally struggle, however, On a given day, we receive up to 378,000 visitors per hour, to keep up their payments, especially in a difficult economic so any service outage immediately affects large numbers period like this. We used to wait until clients came to us of our clients. We strive to identify solutions as quickly to seek advice. In 2013, however, we set up a Mortgage as possible and communicate transparently. Care Team to approach clients proactively in the hope of Owing to large IT projects designed to enhance preventing payment problems. customer experience, the availability of our systems decreased by a small percentage compared with last year. Clients in financial difficulty after losing their jobs or after Clients Even so, we achieved an availability level of 99.44%. divorce now receive financial coaching after one of our advisers has assessed the situation. In this way, we help Internet Banking contracts in the Netherlands1 our clients help themselves, with the result that 96% of (in millions) them are able to solve their financial problems. In 2014, we proactively approached 40,000 clients and held nearly 7.5 8,000 coaching sessions. Society 6.0 5.4 5.6 Clients with payment problems or in arrears benefit 4.5 from a professional approach. ABN AMRO’s principle is 3.0 that clients should stay in their homes in as many cases as possible, and that we will work with them to find 1.5 a lasting solution. 2013 2014 Services 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 24 Clients’ interests centre stage and sustainable relationships Mortgage policy Chairman’s message ABN AMRO mortgages facilitate private home ownership, making them an important element of our service to retail clients. We actively communicate with our stakeholders on our mortgage policy. In 2014, various stakeholders expressed concerns on aspects of the mortgage policy pursued by ABN AMRO and other Dutch banks. Together with our clients, we work out ways of avoiding residual Strategy debt. As a matter of course, we take account of our stakeholders’ opinions and expectations when fine-tuning our policy. Inspire and engage our people – Our stakeholder dialogue focused primarily on the residual Implementing the Banker’s Oath debt issue, repossessions, the level of monthly payments and the margins banks earn on the sale of mortgages, Operations due to a lack of competition. A number of stakeholders We involve our employees in the feel that ABN AMRO ought to accommodate clients who implementation of our sustainability are no longer able to pay their mortgage, or who face the strategy, key elements of which are risk of residual debt. We are in discussion with the quarter enhancing client centricity and or so of our clients who hold ABN AMRO mortgages about transparency. Implementation of the avoiding that situation. We also provide comprehensive Banker’s Oath is a concrete example information about residual debt on our website, which of how employees are involved in the implementation of includes a module that clients can use to calculate their our sustainability strategy and also supports the desired potential exposure. Existing clients can co-finance residual culture change within our bank and financial industry. Clients debt up to 115% of the market value. ABN AMRO also has a special arrangement for penalty-free repayment if the The Banker’s Oath is a professional commitment in value of the property has fallen below the mortgage level. which people promise to perform their job honestly and We engaged with our clients 230,000 times in 2014 with diligently and that, in so doing, they will put the client’s the aim of raising awareness and taking prompt action. interests first. Bankers who take and sign the oath are ABN AMRO advises clients to contact the bank immediately subject to the disciplinary rules that apply to the banking Society in the event of changes in their financial situation, such as industry. This means that, in the last instance, they will divorce or job loss. Financial coaches and the Mortgage have to appear before a disciplinary committee in the Care Team also help clients with repayment difficulties. event of a complaint. In 96% of cases, we managed to solve the problems of clients with payment arrears within six months. The oath has been mandatory for all members of Repossessions are a last resort for ABN AMRO if, in spite the Managing Board and Supervisory Board since of everything, we cannot find a solution to payment arrears. 1 January 2013. The Dutch government decided in 2014 Services to extend the oath to all bank employees, with effect from 1 April 2015, with a transition period of one year. ABN AMRO endorses the goal of the Banker’s Oath and so in 2014 our organisation opted to pursue the meaningful implementation of the oath among all our employees. This will further help us achieve the goal of being a sustainable bank, while increasing society’s trust in the banking sector. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 25 Using our financial expertise for the benefit of society society Chairman’s message Using our financial expertise Strategy for the beneﬁt of society ABN AMRO is a leading bank with a social responsibility of which we are conscious. We are therefore committed to making a contribution to the quality of society, which is important to all our futures. As a bank that wants to contribute to a better world, we actively find ways to offer our financial expertise to society. Operations Clients Times employees volunteered Number of social Percentage of clients recognising for the community entrepeneurs receiving coaching the sector focus in services offered 11,811 40 88% Society We put our financial expertise to work in three areas: Social sponsorship ÅÅ Partner of the Future: under our new strategy we (in EUR) Services help people discover their talents and achieve their 797.905 800,000 ambitions, even when we don’t have an immediate 698.000 commercial incentive for doing so. 640,000 ÅÅ Social entrepreneurship: we believe that value 480,000 creation and sustainability go hand in hand, and 548,000 672,170 we support entrepreneurs that try to realise this. 320,000 ÅÅ Sharing sector-specific knowledge: we create expert 160,000 knowledge on several sectors, and share these with Appendices 150,000 125,735 our clients. 2013 2014 Donations Sponsorship ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 26 Using our financial expertise for the benefit of society Partner of the Future Talent deserves a helping hand. ABN AMRO is a Chairman’s message We launched the Partner of the Future strategy in 2014. ‘FairShare Partner’ of the Fund for Special Needs Sports, This new strategy ties in with our desire to generate more which means we devote 2% of our total sports social impact, and acts as a theme running through our sponsorship budget to disabled sports like swimming, activities. It enables us to more effectively steer the basketball and athletics. In the field of golf, for instance, building of vision and expertise, and to help people we are the main sponsor of the ABN AMRO Disabled in a more systematic way. A shared social theme brings Open. We also organised the World Wheelchair Tennis departments closer together, pooling their strengths Tournament, directed by four-time Paralympic gold Strategy and unleashing their creativity. medallist Esther Vergeer. This was the sixth time ABN AMRO has been involved with the tournament, held Our focus within Partner of the Future is on sports, at the Ahoy arena in Rotterdam. Last year also saw us arts & culture, education, and entrepreneurship, and on extend our principal sponsorship of the Richard Krajicek identifying the links between them. We are developing Foundation until 2016. The organisation creates compact, programmes in all these areas in order to make a multi-purpose sports fields in disadvantaged areas, distinctive contribution to Dutch society. Meanwhile, offering each local child the opportunity to take part in Operations we continue to attach as much value as ever to the sport as close to home as possible, and to discover and initiatives of our employees themselves. We encourage develop their talents. We also support the Richard Krajicek ABN AMRO staff who want to volunteer, whether Foundation’s educational programme in which, in exchange individually or as part of a team, to focus on one of for a study grant, students organise a hundred hours of these four fields, or a combination of them. sports and games activities in their locality. In addition to the grant, ABN AMRO supports the students by offering From 2015 onwards Partner of the Future will serve as them coaching. the umbrella for all the activities of ABN AMRO Foundation and social sponsorship. This will make ABN AMRO’s vision Arts and culture reflect our society. They are a driver of Clients on society – and how it is expressed in distinctive, powerful social progress and play a crucial part in the education and concrete activities – clear to employees, clients, of children, in recognition of which ABN AMRO sponsors social partners and other stakeholders. a number of outstanding cultural institutions. As principal sponsors of the Hermitage Amsterdam, we have close In sports, ABN AMRO will sponsor the youth, women’s ties with the KinderHermitage, which devotes and Saturday amateur teams of football club Ajax in considerable attention to education. We also offer young Society Amsterdam from 1 January 2015. The contract was signed theatrical talent the ‘Billy Grant’, which trains pupils of the in November 2014. The partnership with Ajax fits perfectly Billy School set up by Joop van den Ende Theaterproducties in ABN AMRO’s sponsorship policy of developing talent to play a role in the musical ‘Billy Elliot’. and building social partnerships. Partner of the Future Sponsoring & Events ABN AMRO Foundation Services Partner of the Future We support people and organisations seeking to achieve a goal by helping them discover their talents or realise their ambitions, and by encouraging people to reach their full potential. Arts and EntreAppendices Sports Education culture preneurship ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 27 Using our financial expertise for the benefit of society ABN AMRO wants to apply its vision of talent Chairman’s message development to being a Partner of the Future in education. Developing talent may seem the obvious thing to do, but it isn’t. The Netherlands does not have a culture that encourages people to say openly that they are good at something, that they have talent and ambition. ABN AMRO uses the new ‘Trotskoffer’ (bags of pride) concept to encourage the development of talent within Strategy primary education, by making children aware of who they are and what they can achieve. It challenges children, parents and teachers to address these issues and Qredits promotes self-esteem, confidence and respect for others. We launched the pilot in November and, if it proves successful, we will develop the teaching methodology ABN AMRO provides coaches to Qredits, the Netherlands’ in 2015. The ‘Trotskoffer’ was developed jointly by only microfinance organisation. Qredits helps new and Operations ABN AMRO Foundation, the publisher Blink Uitgevers, established entrepreneurs launch or relaunch their ventures schools and educationalists. by providing them with business tools and personal coaching, not to mention working capital up to EUR 150,000. The Entrepreneurship is important for the future of our society coaches help evaluate their business plans and offer them and very close to our heart at ABN AMRO. Our position a constant point of contact after the loan has been granted. in the community enables us to identify important developments in this field and to respond to them. We coach talented young Dutch designers to help them achieve their entrepreneurial ambitions. Clients Social entrepreneurship Over the past years, ABN AMRO has been investigating several ways to contribute to society in a manner that suits the bank’s values. A wide variety of small and large Society initiatives have been launched to work towards this goal. We both want and need to incorporate sustainability and social relevance into the bank’s business model, as value creation for our stakeholders and ourselves Letterpret go hand in hand with sustainability. By focusing on social entrepreneurs, we help entrepreneurs wishing to make a positive impact on society through a financially profitable ‘Letterpret’ (fun with letters) is an ABN AMRO Foundation Services business. For instance, ABN AMRO is one of the founding programme designed to increase children’s pleasure and partners of Social Enterprise NL, the national platform set motivation in reading – a fundamental skill that is crucial up to represent, connect and support social entrepreneurs. to the development of talent. In 2014, bank employees Over 40 social entrepreneurs were coached by ABN AMRO volunteered as reading assistants, as narrators during volunteers in 2014. In addition, ABN AMRO has a Social ‘National Read Aloud Day’, and as writing coaches during Impact Fund through which it makes EUR 10 million in the ‘Letterpret’ writing competition, for which children’s funding available to social entrepreneurs. author Janneke Schotveld challenged youngsters to come up with the end to an entertaining story. The competition, Appendices which attracted no fewer than 900 different endings, was supervised in schools by 104 bank employees. The young author of the best story won a supporting role in ‘Superjuffie’ – the film adaptation of one of Janneke Schotveld’s books. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 28 Using our financial expertise for the benefit of society We have already made good progress towards our goal Chairman’s message of achieving a leading position in Impact Investing. Social finance focuses on start-ups and small companies that seek to deliver a positive impact on society in a financially sound way. Here is what we have accomplished so far: ÅÅ Social Impact Fund: Equity investments in social entrepreneurs including Scope Insight, Big Move, Nudge, Energy Floors and TTC (previously called Strategy Text to Change). Photo: KidsRights/Jerry Lampen ÅÅ Informal Investor Services (IIS): IIS connects private banking clients and SMEs. Private banking clients International Children’s invest in these entrepreneurs and often offer advice as Peace Prize well. ABN AMRO has the Netherlands’ largest network of informal investors, and recent years have seen an increasingly strong focus on social entrepreneurs. Operations ABN AMRO has been a partner of the KidsRights Foundation In 2014 an investment was made in WhyDonate. since 2006. Together, we make the International And 9 February 2015 will see the launch of the Children’s Peace Prize possible. We believe that everyone first Social Impact Pitch Day during the World Tennis can contribute to a better world, and children are certainly Tournament in Rotterdam. On this day, ten social no exception. The tenth International Children’s Peace Prize entrepreneurs will be pitching their enterprise for a was presented in 2014 to the 18-year-old American group of 100 potential investors from the IIS network. Neha Gupta. Neha’s own organisation has already helped ÅÅ Social Impact Bonds: ABN AMRO has structured and 25,000 vulnerable children. She inspires people of her co-financed continental Europe’s first Social Impact Bond. own age all over the planet to contribute to a better world In 2015 we will investigate whether the concept can be Clients for children. The prize was presented by Desmond Tutu, rolled out further to other municipalities and departments. the patron of KidsRights. Sharing sector-specific knowledge In 2014, we further built on our sector approach within Corporate Banking based on fifteen different sectors. Society Most Corporate Banking clients now work with a relationship manager specialised in their industry, enabling us to support them with industry-specific knowledge and advice. We also use our in-depth knowledge of specific industries to more effectively embed sustainability in our clients’ business operations. As part of our sector approach, we organised almost 70 masterclasses in 2014, after which Services we set up nation-wide virtual and physical sector teams. During the masterclasses 500 relationship managers sharpened their industry knowledge. The training programme highlighted key issues that are at play and how relationship managers can use the sector-specific approach to better support their clients. The structure of the sector teams ensures that their knowledge remains up to date. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 29 Using our financial expertise for the benefit of society As a result of this organisational adjustment, just under Chairman’s message 80% of our Corporate Banking clients were assigned a new relationship manager last year, which meant a short-term dip in general customer satisfaction. The sector-specific approach will help us, however, to serve our clients more effectively in the long term. Based on experience gained in other client segments, we expect that customer satisfaction will improve again. ABN AMRO’s sector-specific approach is increasingly Strategy manifested in its services and communication, and clients recognise this. A client survey held among our large Inspire and engage our people – corporate clients in December 2014 showed that 88% ABN AMRO Foundation of ABN AMRO’s clients feel that the bank’s sector focus is reflected in the services it offers. The fact that this Operations approach is recognised as such is due also to the way in We offer support through the which it is communicated to clients. No fewer than 92% commitment and expertise of our of the respondents said that this was the case in their employees. This expertise may be communication with ABN AMRO. This is much higher than financial, but it can also be in the it was in 2013 (69%). A clear majority also felt that their field of coaching or entrepreneurship. relationship manager applied a sector focus. Our employees volunteer for the ABN AMRO Foundation as well as for our social sponsorship activities. They were active through the Foundation on 11,811 occasions in 2014. Our employees put in 39,207 hours Clients as volunteers, bringing them into direct contact with 30,273 people from various social target groups. The ABN AMRO Sponsorship Monitor detected in 2014 that the bank’s image in society is improving as a result. Society Services Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 30 Sustainable finance and investment services services Chairman’s message Sustainable finance Strategy and investment services Responsibilities related to human rights, health and safety, and the environment are an increasing focus for businesses, both nationally and internationally. More and more companies are recognising the benefits of addressing these topics within their own organisation or chain. ABN AMRO is convinced that focusing on sustainability Operations delivers added value. Clients Sustainable assets under ESG criteria for Number of cases explicitly administration in EUR millions all investments focused on human rights 5,399 167 Society The biggest contribution we make to society is increasing Policy framework Services the sustainability of our finance and investment services ABN AMRO’s approach is geared towards corporate and offering sustainable products and services. In this lending on the one hand, and to investment services, way, we do not only meet our clients’ needs, but we mainly to private clients, on the other. In the case of also limit risks and find new business opportunities. lending, we service companies that satisfy our Sustainable financial services are becoming ever more environmental, social and ethical standards (ESE). important. We see growing demand among our clients For investment services we apply environmental, and there is an increasing awareness of the material social and governance criteria (ESG) to assess potential influence sustainability has on financial performance investment opportunities for our clients. In both cases, Appendices and risk. the criteria have been defined based on international ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 31 Sustainable finance and investment services treaties and voluntary agreements like the UN Global Chairman’s message Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the standards of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Working with companies that fail to comply with the ESE and ESG criteria could have far-reaching negative consequences for us. So we are steadily integrating Strategy these criteria into our decision-making processes. Defining ESE and ESG criteria and consistently incorporating them in our policies enables us to actually execute the policies we have in place. We will address this in more detail in the following sections. We are at the same time Guarantees creating bank-wide awareness of the importance of the non-financial performance of companies. Operations ABN AMRO has an extensive policy framework for The policy framework is not static. We develop new managing sustainability risks. In the understanding that policies or adjust existing ones if and when needed. sustainability risks differ from one industry to another, We are always open to the views of other parties, for our clients and the transactions we do in sensitive sectors example if they feel that we are not living up to our own need to meet sector-specific sustainability requirements. standards or that our standards need to be raised. We also This notion is crucial when assessing whether a client has fine-tune our policy if our approach shows any gaps or if a handle on potential environmental and social risks and new developments occur. Our core activities, financing can operate in accordance with our standards. We decide and investment services, require different approaches. whether or not to accept a company as a new client by Clients We will describe these different approaches below. first asking them the right questions. We do the same as part of our credit application procedure, and we repeat When does a transaction or investment opportunity meet this during the course of our relationship with clients. our sustainability criteria? While we apply our policies in This procedure works best for loans requested for transactions this process, we sometimes need to make judgements. or projects that have been described in detail in advance. This may confront us with dilemmas, which we frequently Society explore through dialogue. However, the details of certain products, such as bank guarantees, are usually not known in advance. At a client’s Sustainability Risk Management request, for example, we may provide a guarantee that our As an element of the bank’s ‘three lines of defence’ model, client will pay a supplier. While this is, in fact, a type of ABN AMRO has a policy framework in place to manage credit, we often do not know what the guarantee will be sustainability risks. The Sustainable Risk Management Policy used for. This may mean that we cannot know for certain is the overarching document, which covers most of our that the guarantee will not be used for activities that Services activities varying from procurement to client acceptance conflict with our sustainability policy, even after careful and product development. Client acceptance is crucial to prior consideration and despite our policy framework. our approach to managing sustainability risks. We have This is a complex matter. We have not yet come up with instruments in place to identify potential breaches of a watertight solution but we are in the process of enhancing sustainability principles and we do not do business with our understanding of the impacts of these types of services. companies that are not willing to, or capable of running their business responsibly. Also, we refrain from engaging in business activities that are illegal or that we consider Appendices to be substandard or unethical. These activities are specified in the Exclusion List, part of our Sustainability Risk Management Policy. For the Exclusion List, see abnamro.com/en/sustainable-banking/ sustainability-policy ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 32 Sustainable finance and investment services Policy framework Chairman’s message Sustainability Risk Policy Financing Investing Exclusion of companies on Controversial Weapons List Strategy Exclusion of activities Lending Policy and UN Global Compact Sector-specific Policies Principles Non-compliant Non-compliant Operations Engagement Sustainable financing This means that we may decide to accept transactions We believe that doing business with companies and with a high risk profile that pose sustainability issues. other professional parties requires a responsible approach. In cases where our criteria are not met, we explore Clients To start with, we need to decide whether we want to possibilities for improvement. We do this through open set up a business relationship with them in the first place. dialogue, by addressing and discussing these matters and, Next, we assess specific transactions for our clients. where necessary, negotiating improvements. We do not As a matter of course, we include environmental, social provide financing unless our conditions for improvement and ethical criteria in our standard financial assessment have been accepted. process. In this way, we can identify potential sustainability Society risks and determine whether they can be adequately Industry-specific policies managed. If the expected risks are higher, we increase Sustainability impacts differ strongly from industry to our efforts and we require our clients to put in place better industry. Some industries face greater sustainability risks sustainable risk management procedures. We assess our than others and the nature of the risks they face vary business partners based on their commitment, capacity as well. We put policies in place many years ago for and track record in dealing with sustainability challenges. the industries with the highest sustainability risks. ESE policy Services Risk Assessment Approval Monitoring determination and Reporting Identify sustainable risk Determine risk level > Meets requirements > Meets requirements > of transactions low medium high standard procedure standard procedure Perform adequate Does not meet Does not meet Appendices due diligence requirements > requirements > extra monitoring, progress report conditions or withdrawal and supervision report ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 33 Sustainable finance and investment services We review existing policies regularly and draw up new Chairman’s message policies in response to developments in society. In 2014, we approved new industry-specific policies for energy, real estate and manufacturing. ÅÅ Energy Policy – Our policy for the energy industry received Board approval in early 2014. It covers all aspects of energy generation, including topics like shale gas extraction, nuclear energy, drilling for gas Strategy and oil in the North Pole region and new coal-fired power plants. The policy was implemented in the course of the year. It is explained in more detail on our website abnamro.com/en/sustainable-banking/ Policy development & approval: sustainability-policy/sector-specific-policy Real Estate Clients ÅÅ Real Estate Policy – We also developed our sustainability risk policy for the real estate sector Operations in 2014. This policy focuses primarily on clients and New policies and amendments to existing policies require activities in the Netherlands, where the majority of approval by the Group Risk Committee. Prior to that, all our operations in this field are concentrated. The key policies go through a fixed process of internal and external sustainability elements in the policy relate to real estate consultation. A recent example of a successful policy valuations and the avoidance of vacancies in certain development and approval process is the sustainability regions. Implementation is scheduled for 2015. policy for Real Estate Clients. ÅÅ Manufacturing Policy – In 2014, we also drew up a policy for the manufacturing industries, which are In mid-2013, our Real Estate Clients and Sustainable Banking characterised by complex processes and a variety of departments identified the relevance of sustainability in Clients labour-intensive chains. The policy will be implemented the real estate sector. They did so in response to several in full in 2015. successful financing agreements for sustainable buildings and a growing body of research citing the positive influence In 2014 we revised our Equator Principles Implementation of sustainability on asset value, operating costs, rental Policy in response to the introduction of Equator Principles rates and occupancy rates. The two departments then III, the second amendment of the original guidelines decided to team up to formulate a policy. The first step was Society introduced in 2003. The expanded scope of the revised to engage with a wide variety of stakeholders: clients, Principles includes additional requirements regarding industry associations, industry experts and NGOs. Based client reporting and project-related corporate loans and on their input, a preliminary version of the policy was drawn bridge loans. up, which was then submitted to the Real Estate Clients Management Team. They expressed their commitment We are now in the process of revising our Defence to sustainability and approved the further development Industry Policy. The complexity of the field and ongoing of the policy at the beginning of 2014. Based on further Services developments have made us decide to complete consultation of both external and internal real estate experts, the revised policy in the course of next year. the document was completed and sent for approval to the Business Risk Committees. The Group Risk Committee Implementing these policies requires the participation approved the policy in mid-2014, after receiving positive of all parties involved. To this end, we train our own staff, advice from these committees. as well as informing and supporting our clients. In 2014 we published a Sustainable Fashion Guide to help our The fact that the policy was a joint effort of the Real Estate clients integrate sustainability into their business practices. Clients and Sustainable Banking departments, with input Appendices The guide was very well received. We will draft reports for from both external and internal stakeholders, was key to each sector in 2015, including sustainability as an integral obtaining internal commitment and approval. Sustainable part. Globally, ABN AMRO is one of the leading banks in Banking will seek similar cooperation with relevant the diamond business. We have developed a comparable business lines for all new policies and future amendments guide for this sector and will launch it in January 2015. to existing policies. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 34 Sustainable finance and investment services Global advice provided by the central sustainability department1 Chairman’s message 22 12 26 16 52 7 8 4 30 Agriculture Chemicals & Pharma 61 Defence 87 Energy & Public utilities 87 32 Fisheries 2014 2013 Total 444 Total 335 Forestry Infrastructure Strategy 29 Manufacturing industry 17 40 Mining & Metals 27 Miscellaneous industries 43 4 39 24 Oil & Gas 66 14 Tobacco 37 5 71 Transport & Logistics 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. Other industries Operations Type of advice1 Conclusion of advice1 500 500 444 444 12 22 10 400 400 11 335 107 335 4 6 300 27 300 11 96 14 78 200 200 302 315 228 315 Clients 100 100 2013 2014 2013 2014 Client acceptance Approvals Pending Request for finance Qualified approvals Withdrawn Other requests Rejections 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. Society Safeguarding human rights chains. In light of the changing views on human rights, Our Human Rights Statement is in line with the UN Guiding we are in the process of deepening our understanding Principles on Business and Human Rights. It is based of these chains and are assessing the supply chains in on the idea that these universal rights should be viewed fashion, diamonds and cocoa. We selected these industries from the perspective of the individuals who hold them – because of the bank’s leading position in these markets Services the rights-holders. Often, however, the rights-holders are and the pressing sustainability challenges they face, located at some distance from the bank. It is the companies in particular in the area of human and labour rights. we provide loans to that have direct contact with them. In the future, we intend to develop similar approaches Of course, the same holds for the companies our clients for all commodities in which we have a strong market invest in. It is important that we understand the way position. Our initial focus will be on metals. these companies conduct their business. We assess their performance in terms of health and safety and employee We work with organisations like Shift and within the remuneration. The assessment includes a review of the UNEP Finance Initiative to determine how we can obtain Appendices way the companies impact and interact with their external the right information and how we can increase our leverage. stakeholders, in particular local communities and their Shift is a leading centre of expertise on the UN Guiding suppliers. In 2014 we specifically addressed human rights Principles on Business and Human Rights and an independent, issues in 167 sustainability assessments, i.e. well over non-profit centre for business and human rights practice. one third of all our assessments. We know that some of It helps governments, businesses and their stakeholders put our corporate clients are part of long and complex supply the UN Guiding Principles into practice. We actively train ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 35 Sustainable finance and investment services our people in the field of human rights, often in conjunction Chairman’s message with coaching in other areas. In December 2014 we organised our first human rights conference, in cooperation with the Gay Bankers Network, for around a hundred bankers and clients on the ‘Protect, Respect and Remedy’ framework. Among other presentations given, Shift discussed the implications of the Guiding Principles for a financial institution like ABN AMRO, and we presented the first results of an Strategy assessment of our involvement with the impact of human rights in the supply chain of cocoa products and how we can use our leverage to help bring about change. We will reaffirm our focus on human rights in December 2015, when we will again be organising a conference on this Diamond and Jewellery Sector theme. As a co-host of the Banks and Civil Society meeting in September, we invited several speakers to highlight the Operations importance of assessing human rights issues when deciding ABN AMRO has been active in this sector for more than whether or not to do business with certain players. a century. Our Diamond and Jewellery Clients team (D&JC) puts sustainability at the heart of its strategy, which we are Engaging with clients deploying in three phases. The first phase began in 2013 When providing loans to clients, we incorporate and focused on raising the knowledge and engagement of environmental, social and ethical criteria in the credit our own staff. In 2014, we concentrated on client dialogues approval process. In some cases, we reach the conclusion to help us create a mutual understanding of the issues, that the criteria have not been met. At other times, we activities, progress and initiatives with regard to receive new information about how our existing clients sustainability. ABN AMRO’s sector experts offered their Clients conduct their business. In these cases we enter into dialogue own insights, while learning from our clients’ knowledge with them to gain a solid understanding of the situation. If and best practices. ABN AMRO finances all the links in the necessary, we demand sustainability improvements, which chain, apart from the mines, and so our service is based on we incorporate in the loan documentation if possible. It may an international value chain perspective. Our clients range take several years to reach the desired result. We regularly from multinationals to small traders – differences in scale monitor and discuss progress with each client, and then that mean some clients have more resources than others Society decide on a case-by-case basis how to take the engagement to implement a sustainability strategy. Specific process forward. If we are not able to enforce improvements, requirements, such as those relating to overtime, would we will ultimately withdraw. Our focus is on our larger have to be amended per segment in the value chain, clients and large transactions. From 2015 onwards, including the different national laws and regulations. progress on the results of engagement with clients will The dialogue also showed how much is going on right be monitored by the Investment Engagement Committee. now in terms of sustainability, and the steps that are being taken in the industry. A guide including best Sustainable investment Services practices – the ‘Sustainable Diamond & Jewellery Guide’ ABN AMRO provides investment services to retail and – will be published in January 2015 to help shape private banking clients. We offer three main service the client dialogues. concepts for investments: execution only, investment advice and discretionary portfolio management. Our During the third phase of implementation in 2015, we will influence on the sustainability of investments is limited in turn our attention to even stricter monitoring of the sector’s execution only and dominant in discretionary portfolio progress in the area of sustainability. Transparency can play management. Sustainable assets under administration a key role in the future of the industry and is one of the Appendices accounted for EUR 5,399 million in 2014 and we aim to main topics we will be assessing. By explaining the benefits increase that in the future. In 2014 we started developing of sustainability we try to provide clients with practical tips the Sustainability Risk Policy and the Sustainable on how to make their business more sustainable and thus Investment Policy for Investments, with a focus on the viable in the longer term. systematic integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 36 Sustainable finance and investment services Sustainable financing ‘Groenbank’1 Chairman’s message (in EUR millions) 500 400 392 305 300 200 100 Strategy Employment conditions 2013 2014 in Saudi Arabia 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. Mainstreaming sustainability in our investment services Operations A Dutch construction company, a client of ours, is working on a mining project in Saudi Arabia. The workers employed It is our ambition to integrate sustainability firmly in our on the project are migrant workers recruited in South-East overall investment process. Our main focus is to limit risks Asia. As the work is performed in continuous shifts the for our clients and ourselves. To this end, we have developed employees work long weeks. The question was whether an approach for all three main service concepts (execution the working hours were in line with international only, advisory and discretionary portfolio management). In conventions that safeguard workers’ physical and mental the provision of investment services, our clients ultimately health. We enquired with the client about their working take the decisions regarding their investment portfolios. conditions, particularly in terms of working hours. We influence the composition of their assets, but our Clients impact in the area of investments is smaller than in our We also approached the International Labour Organisation lending services, where we can decide on the allocation (ILO) to find out what the standards are in this regard. of our own capital. We then engaged with the client and verified that its employment contracts are in line with the international In 2014 we asked our preferred investment fund suppliers conventions of the ILO, in particular the Hours of with global distribution contracts to sign the United Nations Society Work Convention. Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI). It is our ambition to work with UNPRI signatories only. We set up a special Investment Engagement Committee Total sustainable assets under administration1 (IEC) in 2012 to draw up criteria for the positive selection (in EUR millions) or exclusion of companies from clients’ investments and to decide which individual companies meet these 6,000 5,399 Services 205 criteria. One of the IEC’s criteria concerns the production 4,800 4,649 238 949 and/or distribution of controversial weapons. Since the 1,195 establishment of the IEC, ABN AMRO has been using 3,600 a Controversial Weapons List. Companies that feature 2,400 4,244 in the list are excluded from all the bank’s investment 3,217 services. In 2014, we discontinued a major distribution 1,200 relationship with one of our investment fund providers as we were unable to receive sufficient assurance that Appendices 2013 2014 their funds would be compatible with our controversial Sustainable investments under management Sustainable investments weapons approach. In addition, we have started making Sustainable savings sustainability research available to our clients. In 2015 we will introduce a new version of the Sustainability Indicator, 1 Included in KPMG’s assurance scope. based on the revision process completed in 2014. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 37 Sustainable finance and investment services To further broaden the scope applicable to all our investments, Chairman’s message we aim to set a threshold for investments in line with the principles of the UN Global Compact. In 2014, we developed an approach for this purpose and we are cooperating in this field with Sustainalytics, a responsible investment research firm specialised in ESG research and analysis. We have established a methodology for the exclusion of companies, for engagement with companies and for preferring Strategy front-running companies in our investment services. From 2015, the IEC will decide which companies will be excluded from our investment universe if they significantly breach the UN Global Compact Principles. However, in line StartGreen Capital with our Sustainability Risk Policy, we will in virtually all cases first seek to bring about improvement rather than Operations immediately resorting to exclusion. This means that we ABN AMRO Participaties NPE Fund B.V. is a shareholder will initiate a dialogue with these companies with a view in the StartGreen Capital investment funds, through which to solving existing breaches and preventing future ones. it finances young, clean-tech companies. Venture capital is a crucial source of funding for entrepreneurs engaged in The IEC will decide whether or not to start engaging with sustainable innovation, as they can encounter great difficulty these companies. If they are our clients, we will conduct in raising capital through other means during the early stages the engagement ourselves. In all other cases, we will call of their development. Since its establishment in 2006, in the expertise of a specialised engagement organisation. StartGreen has developed a portfolio of 14 investments, We have selected a partner for this purpose and expect several of which have since been successfully exited. Clients to start using their services in the course of 2015. The Investment Engagement Committee will monitor In 2014, StartGreen concluded the successful management progress in this area. buy-out of Falckstaete B.V., which provides IT infrastructure and services to sustainable energy firms. Falckstaete has developed an ICT platform and back-office facility – the Sustainable banking products Falckstaete Energy Administration System – to enable and services Society producers of distributed energy, such as individual farmers, to supply their energy directly to the open market. ABN AMRO seeks to offer clients products and services Opportunities in this regard are currently limited. Under that have a positive, sustainable impact on society. the Falckstaete system, producers can achieve a price In this way, we help mobilise capital for businesses with a advantage in the order of 10-30% of their own distributed sustainable character, while also facilitating environmentally generation, enabling them to earn back investments in friendly projects and homes. This enables us to integrate this area over a broad range of wind, solar and biomass Services sustainability into our core business. more rapidly. Sustainability mandate In discretionary portfolio management, we have been offering a specific sustainability mandate for many years now. The mandate is based on a selection of leading large companies and pioneering smaller companies that integrate sustainability in their core business processes. Given the Appendices 31.9% growth we saw in the mandate in 2014, it is clear that it meets an increasing demand for sustainable investments among our clients. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 38 Sustainable finance and investment services Project finance Chairman’s message A dedicated team has been set up to focus on the development of funding and investments of this kind. We support a range of green projects, such as the financing of the Gemini wind farm. ABN AMRO is committed to supporting green energy projects, and provides financing for its clients’ projects. In 2014, a meaningful portion of ABN AMRO’s Project Finance portfolio consisted of Strategy renewable energy projects, including a small wind farm (30 MW) on the Caribbean island of Aruba, two wind farms (76 MW total) in the United Kingdom, and the offshore Inspire and engage our people – Gemini wind farm (600 MW) in the Netherlands. Gemini, We Sustain the world’s second largest offshore wind farm project, is currently under construction and should be fully operational in 2017. It will then supply green energy to approximately Operations We organised the We Sustain 785,000 households. Its financing was the largest project programme in 2014 as part of financing of a wind farm to date. our efforts to inspire and engage people in the area of sustainability. Other deals in 2014 include the financing by ABN AMRO Lease of a sustainable cold-storage warehouse in the town of Urk, a new boiler for a biomass power centre The programme’s objectives were to: and the financing of compressed natural gas (CNG) ÅÅ raise awareness of our sustainability vision among stations and EUR 9.5 million in funding for hybrid cars. Corporate Banking employees; Clients ÅÅ kindle our employees’ enthusiasm by highlighting Green bonds the opportunities offered by the sustainability theme; In 2015 we will intensify dialogue with both issuers and ÅÅ foster understanding of why sustainability is essential investors for the introduction of sustainable ‘green bonds’. to society, our clients, the bank and, of course, Green bonds create the perfect opportunity to connect our employees; sustainable business with dedicated investor demand. ÅÅ generate new ideas and innovations that can be applied The process towards the issuance of green bonds is set Society on behalf of Corporate Banking clients; to intensify discussions with clients on sustainability ÅÅ add sustainable products and services to our criteria and will give ABN AMRO the opportunity to product suite. hold strategic discussions on sustainability. They will provide funding alternatives and attract new dedicated The We Sustain programme offered a way of informing and Socially Responsible Investors, enlarging the investor inspiring all 4,500 Corporate Banking staff and giving them base for clients. an opportunity to come up with new sustainable solutions Services to better serve our commercial clients. The interactive programme ran for three months, during which Corporate Banking staff were given a great deal of information about sustainability trends and innovation techniques. They are now better able to talk to clients about sustainability and to assist them in this area. The ideas generated during this programme are currently being explored. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 table of contents Chairman’s message appendices Strategy Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report 40 Basis for reporting 42 Stakeholder dialogue 43 Operations Objectives and performance in 2014 56 Glossary 59 Clients Society Services Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 40 Appendices Chairman’s message Independent Auditor’s Assurance Report To the readers of the Sustainability Report 2014 Observations of ABN AMRO Group N.V. Without affecting the conclusion presented above, we Strategy would like to draw the readers’ attention to the section Our conclusion Sustainability strategy, which explains that ABN AMRO We have reviewed the indicators marked with ‘1 Included aims to receive assurance on the complete report in the in KPMG’s assurance scope’ in the Sustainability Report coming years. In future reports, ABN AMRO intends to 2014 (hereafter: The Selected Indicators) of ABN AMRO increase their focus on material aspects and related key Group N.V. (hereafter: ABN AMRO). performance indicators (KPIs) based on the four pillars of their sustainability strategy. To date the key performance Operations Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention to indicators and targets are not yet fully integrated in the indicate that The Selected Indicators are not presented, in all planning and control cycle. Accordingly we recommend material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. ABN AMRO to complete this integration process within the coming financial year. Basis for our conclusion We conducted our review engagement in accordance Responsibilities of the Managing Board with the Dutch Standard 3810N: ‘Assurance engagements for The Selected Indicators relating to sustainability reports’. The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the Sustainability Report in Clients Our responsibilities under Standard 3810N and procedures accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 performed have been further specified in the paragraph titled of the Global Reporting Initiative supported by internally ‘Our responsibility for the review of The Selected Indicators’. developed guidelines as described in the appendix ‘Basis for Reporting’ of the Sustainability Report 2014. We are independent of ABN AMRO in accordance with the It is important to view the information in the Sustainability ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants Report in the context of these criteria. We believe these Society bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO) and other relevant criteria are suitable in view of the purpose of our independence requirements in The Netherlands. assurance engagement Furthermore we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA). As part of this, the Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the We believe that the assurance evidence we have preparation of The Selected Indicators that are free from obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Services for our conclusion. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 41 Appendices Chairman’s message Our responsibility for the review of During the assurance process we discussed the necessary The Selected Information changes of The Selected Information and reviewed the final Strategy Our objective is to plan and perform the review assignment version of The Selected Information to ensure that it reflects in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and our findings. appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion. Amsterdam, 19 March 2015 Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of information KPMG Sustainability, and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. W.J. Bartels RA, Partner Operations of assurance. The following procedures were performed: ÅÅ A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability issues for ABN AMRO in the reporting period. ÅÅ Reviewing the suitability of the internal reporting guidelines including conversion factors used. ÅÅ Evaluating the design and implementation of the Clients systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of The Selected Indicators in the Sustainability Report, including the consolidation of the data. ÅÅ Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate level responsible for sustainability Society management and reporting. ÅÅ Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business level responsible for providing The Selected Indicators, carrying out internal control procedures on the data and consolidating The Selected Information. ÅÅ Evaluating internal and external documentation, based on sampling, to determine whether The Selected Services Information in the Sustainability Report is supported by sufficient evidence. ÅÅ An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all businesses for consolidation at group level as far related to The Selected Indicators. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 42 Appendices Chairman’s message Basis for reporting We publish this Sustainability Report for everyone who is This year’s sustainability report revolves around our interested in ABN AMRO and its sustainability performance. long-term sustainability strategy. It presents topics Strategy This is a diverse group of stakeholders, as shown in the considered to be material by our stakeholders, appendix Stakeholder dialogue. The appendix provides supplemented with information that we at ABN AMRO details about the main stakeholders with whom we wish to bring to the reader’s attention. This means engaged in the past year and the issues discussed. The presenting a detailed account of selected new topics bank’s stakeholders include clients, employees, investors, while providing only a cursory review of certain subjects shareholders, NGOs and sustainability rating agencies. addressed in previous reports. This is inherent to the Our goal is to present a clear, compact report that highlights approach opted for. Most of the information not included Operations the issues that our stakeholders find most important. in this year’s report can be found on our website. This means that not all sustainability information available Data collection about ABN AMRO has been included in this report. All the bank’s business lines are closely involved in the Additional information is posted on our website, including reporting process. They report on their sustainability various policy papers setting out our sustainability policy, performance both internally and externally, and in both governance, compliance and other matters relating directly quantitative and qualitative terms. As far as quantitative to sustainability. Note that all sustainability information data are concerned, this report only presents information available on our website forms part of our sustainability that is directly or indirectly related to a specific material Clients reporting about 2014. issue. While this year’s report contains fewer quantitative data, the quantitative information that has been included This sustainability report covers the period from is highly relevant. 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014. Unless specified otherwise, it sets out the results for the entire ABN AMRO Most of the data in the figures in this report have been organisation worldwide. verified by an external auditor. Instances where this is Society the case are indicated in the text. Our focus on requesting Reporting standards verification of data relating to material topics brings us In order to better accommodate our stakeholders, we have a step closer to a fully assured report containing selected the issues they would like to see addressed in our material topics that are in line with our long-term sustainability report, taking the GRI G4 reporting standard sustainability strategy. (including the Financial Service Sector Supplement) as our guideline. By implementing GRI G4 we have further In order to ensure continuity, we present a comprehensive Services improved the quality of our report. An overview of the GRI set of quantitative data online. To view this supplementary indicators is contained in our GRI Index and can be found information, go to abnamro.com/corporatereporting. at abnamro.com/en/sustainable-banking/reporting. Other relevant information is presented in our Annual Report The future and on our corporate website. We have drawn up this Our goal going forward is to present a fully assured report report in accordance with the GRI G4 Core guidelines. that will bring us a step closer to meeting our stakeholders’ wishes every year. We are making every effort to formulate our internal quantifiable targets in alignment with the Appendices wishes and demands of our external stakeholders. In this way, ABN AMRO will seek to steer its organisation towards a more sustainable future. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 43 Appendices Chairman’s message Stakeholder dialogue Stakeholder dialogue: sustainability issues discussed and outcome Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Strategy Civil society organisations Amnesty International Face-to-face contact Implementation of human rights policy, Ongoing dialogue on human rights, especially in international business knowledge sharing, receiving input for ABN AMRO’s own human rights policy Banktrack Written contact ABN AMRO’s sustainability policies Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s Operations sustainability policies and their implementation Circle Economy Participation in research Circular economy in the building Report: The foundations of a circular and construction industry construction sector Client advocacy groups Written contact, Issues related to consumer protection, Exchanging views on the sale of specific face-to-face contact group compensation claims regarding financial products and services/review specific financial products and services of compensation claims (mortgages, consumer loans, Clients commercial loans, interest swaps etc.), financial restructuring Consumentenbond (Dutch Written contact, Issues related to consumer protection Knowledge gathering/receiving input Consumers Association) face-to-face contact (putting the client’s interests first, quality for ABN AMRO’s policies, products and and costs of financial products and services; knowledge sharing about services, payments, online banking, ABN AMRO’s retail banking products mortgages, insurance, big data and and services; dialogue on developments privacy etc.) within ABN AMRO and the Dutch retail banking sector Consumer issues TV series Written contact, Issues related to consumer protection Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s Society (TROS Radar, Vara Kassa face-to-face contact, (quality and costs of financial products policies, products and services, handling etc.) participation in broadcasts and services, payments, online banking, consumer complaints, exchanging views mortgages, insurance, big data and on the workings of the banking system privacy etc.) and the workings of the banking system Cordaid Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented (Cordaid participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report Services in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy multistakeholder dialogue) Dutch Butterfly Face-to-face contact Biodiversity Development of co-creation to promote, Conservation execute and implement biodiversity (Vlinderstichting) Dutch Section of the Conference participation Business and human rights Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s International Commission human rights policy of Jurists (NJCM) Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 44 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message Fair Banking Guide Written contact, ABN AMRO’s sustainability policies, Knowledge sharing, assessment of (Eerlijke Bankwijzer, EBW) face-to-face contact, sustainable practices related to ABN AMRO’s sustainability policies, participation in meetings investments, transparency and taxation scores in EBW reports, receiving input and events for ABN AMRO’s policies in the researched areas and policy implementation. We have started a discussion with EBW concerning the quality of its research (via Profundo) Strategy Ford Foundation Conference participation Responsible sourcing Knowledge gathering on responsible sourcing Forum for the Future Face-to-face contact Issues related to sustainable shipping Knowledge gathering, receiving input for ABN AMRO’s shipping policy Global March Against Face-to-face contact Sustainability in the diamond sector Knowledge gathering on child labour in Child Labour the diamond and jewellery sector, receiving input for ABN AMRO’s human rights policy Operations Global Reporting Initiative Face-to-face contact, Human rights due diligence in Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s conference participation the value chain sustainability strategy and policies, especially regarding value chain responsibility Greenpeace Netherlands Written contact, ABN AMRO’s sustainability policies, Knowledge gathering on the forestry face-to-face contact, sustainable practices related to forestry industry in rainforest areas, receiving participation in meetings and tree plantations input for ABN AMRO’s forestry and tree plantation policy, receiving input on Clients cases of non-sustainable conduct, reviewing and handling these cases Het Groene Brein Face-to-face contact, Developing training for the financial Education and training for the new participation in projects sector in the area of sustainability economy/sustainable business for and research, participation the financial sector in meetings IUCN Netherlands Face-to-face contact, Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented membership, (IUCN stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report. Society participated in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy ABN AMRO and IUCN jointly organised multistakeholder dialogue) a conference on financing climate adaptation projects (November 2014) KidsRights Face-to-face contact Children’s rights Knowledge gathering on human rights due diligence Leaders for Nature India Face-to-face contact Business and human rights, Knowledge gathering on human rights value chain responsibility due diligence Services Maatschappelijk Overleg Written contact, face-toIssues related to the social aspects of the Knowledge gathering/receiving input Betalingsverkeer (MOB) face contact, participation Dutch payments system (strengthening for ABN AMRO’s policies, products in meetings, participation in the payments infrastructure, keeping and services; knowledge sharing research ATMs available and accessible, about ABN AMRO’s payments products promoting the safety and security and services; dialogue on developments of online banking etc.) in the Dutch payments market Milieudefensie Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented (Milieudefensie stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report participated in long-term strategy Appendices ABN AMRO’s multistakeholder dialogue) ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 45 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message Nationaal Instituut voor Written contact, face-toFinancial education, criteria for Knowledge gathering/receiving input Budgetvoorlichting (Nibud) face contact, participation consumer credit, code of conduct, for ABN AMRO’s policies; knowledge in projects and research consumer loans, indebtedness sharing about ABN AMRO’s policies, products and services; ongoing dialogue on financial education, consumer loans and debt Natuur en Milieu Face-to-face contact Energy and climate, energy transition, Development of environmental campaigns targeting business and retail and energy policies Strategy customers Nyenrode Business Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented University/Utrecht (Representatives of stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report University Nyenrode Business long-term strategy University/Utrecht University participated in ABN AMRO’s multistakeholder dialogue) Operations Oxfam Novib Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented in (Oxfam Novib participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s this report. Knowledge sharing about in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy; sustainable ABN AMRO’s sustainability policies. multistakeholder dialogue), practices related to palm oil and Receiving input on cases of nonwritten contact the supply of weapons sustainable conduct, reviewing and handling these cases Plan Nederland, Plan India Face-to-face contact Business and human rights Knowledge gathering and sharing on human rights Clients Profundo Written and face-to-face Profundo’s research approach Knowledge gathering and sharing, contact in connection ongoing dialogue with sustainable practices investigations Sustainable Finance Lab Membership Vereniging Eigen Huis Written contact, Issues related to mortgages (interest Knowledge gathering/receiving input (Dutch Homeowners face-to-face contact rates, duty of care, quality of mortgage for ABN AMRO’s policies, products Association) products and services, arrears, residual and services; knowledge sharing about Society debt etc.) and the Dutch housing and ABN AMRO’s mortgage policy, mortgage market products and services; dialogue on developments in the Dutch housing and mortgage market Vereniging van Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented Milieuwetenschappers (Vereniging van stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report Milieuwetenschappers long-term strategy participated in ABN AMRO’s Services multistakeholder dialogue) World Wildlife Fund Face-to-face contact, Conservation of ocean environments, Knowledge gathering, receiving input participation in meetings maritime issues for SSI’s sustainable shipping policy Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 46 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message Professional counterparties, suppliers, partners, networking organisations Ahrend (manufacturer and Face-to-face contact ISO 26000 Knowledge gathering regarding supplier of office furniture) the implementation of ISO 26000 Arcadis (engineering and Participation in projects Link between business, biodiversity Knowledge gathering, receiving input for contracting company) and research and ecosystem services (BESMETRICS) integrating biodiversity in ABN AMRO’s sustainability policies ASR, Delta Lloyd, ING, Participation in an online Long-term Energy Efficiency Covenant Drafting a road map for financial service Strategy Rabobank, SNS, Dutch discussion platform and providers on how to approach energy Banking Association consultation group after 2020 AWDC Antwerp World Face-to-face contact Sustainability in the diamond Knowledge gathering and sharing, Diamond Council and jewellery sector input for sustainability efforts in the diamond sector Clifford Chance (law firm) Face-to-face contact Business and human rights Knowledge gathering and sharing on human rights Operations Cofely (energy services Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented company) (Cofely participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy multistakeholder dialogue) Delta Lloyd (insurer) Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented (Delta Lloyd participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy multistakeholder dialogue) Clients ‘Doneer de Zon’ Contact via platform Sustainable energy Creating sustainable energy awareness partnership/Sungevty/ at schools, running crowdfunding Urgenda projects for solar panels on school roofs DTZ Zadelhoff Face-to-face contact Sustainability valuation in real estate Knowledge gathering, receiving input (commercial real estate for ABN AMRO’s commercial real services company) estate policy Equens (payment Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented processor) (Equens participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report Society in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy multistakeholder dialogue) Eumedion (knowledge Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented platform for corporate (Eumedion participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report governance and in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy sustainability for multistakeholder dialogue) institutional investors) FIRA (knowledge platform Membership & Face-toIssues that are material to this List of material issues as presented Services for sustainability in face contact (FIRA stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report, ABN AMRO is currently business) participated in long-term strategy, Improvements ranked at FIRA silver level. ABN AMRO’s according to ISO 26000 multistakeholder dialogue) FirstClimate (consultant Face-to-face contact Footprint, emissions Searching for opportunities to achieve in green investments) zero emissions and realise CO2 project in other countries FMO (Dutch development Face-to-face contact ABN AMRO’s sustainability policies; Knowledge gathering and sharing, Appendices bank) biodiversity; cocoa (chocolate) exploring cooperation opportunities, e.g. participating in an investment fund Gispen (manufacturer and Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented supplier of office furniture) (Gispen participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy multistakeholder dialogue) ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 47 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message De Groene Zaak Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented (networking organisation stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report for sustainable business) long-term strategy IDH -Indice de Face-to-face Issues related to sustainable cocoa Knowledge gathering on (Fair Trade) Développement Humain cocoa sector issues (Sustainable Trade Initiative) NEN-ISO 26000 Membership Improvement of Sustainability in Improvement of Sustainability in Strategy ‘Normcommissie the Netherlands and specifically the Netherlands and specifically ISO 26000’ the industrial sector the industrial sector The Netherlands Defence Conference participation Defence sector Knowledge gathering, receiving input Manufacturers Association for ABN AMRO defence sector policy (Nederlands Instituut voor Defensie en Veiligheid, NIDV) Operations Nibud – National Institute Written contact, ÅÅ Materiality discussion long-term List of material issues as presented for Family Finance face-to-face contact strategy ABN AMRO in this report. Experts trained and Information (Nibud participated ÅÅ Mortgage and energy: benchmarks set using NIBUD in ABN AMRO’s how to define and develop methodology. Proposition due multistakeholder dialogue), zero energy consumption to ‘Energiesprong’ participation in meetings ÅÅ Training programme experts Oracle Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented (Oracle participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy Clients multistakeholder dialogue) PGGM Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented (PGGM participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report, receiving input in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy, sustainability for ABN AMRO’s commercial multistakeholder dialogue) evaluation in real estate real estate policy PWC (professional services Face-to-face contact, Integrated Reporting Knowledge gathering on the organisation) conference participation implementation of Integrated Reporting Society RBS Foundation India Face-to-face contact ABN AMRO’s sustainability strategy, Knowledge sharing, in particular related community investment to the ABN AMRO Foundation Ricoh (office equipment Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented provider) (Ricoh participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy multistakeholder dialogue) Scope Insight (social Face-to-face contact Issues related to sustainable cocoa, Investing in this social enterprise enterprise) establishing a partnership by ABN AMRO’s Social Impact Fund Services Slimmemeterportal.nl BV Face-to-face contact Footprint, energy consumption Offering ABN AMRO employees insight into their household energy consumption. Supplying schools and sports clubs with tools to reduce energy consumption. Social Enterprise NL Face-to-face contact, Social entrepreneurship ABN AMRO provides coaches for (networking organisation) partnership the social entrepreneurs associated with Social Enterprise NL Appendices Stichting Duurzame Face-to-face contact Footprint, energy consumption Implementation of market propositions Scholen Stichting Milieu Centraal Face-to-face contact Communication about sustainability Knowledge gathering, receiving input on (data and information how ABN AMRO should communicate its provider on the sustainability strategy and policies, environment and energy) publication of ‘Het Groene Boekje’ ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 48 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message Stichting Nudge Face-to-face contact, Awareness and education regarding Knowledge gathering to improve participation in training future sustainable leadership ABN AMRO’s sustainable practices, course sponsoring social leadership Tony Chocolonely Face-to-face contact Issues related to sustainable cocoa Knowledge gathering on (Fair Trade) cocoa sector issues Triodos Bank Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented (Triodos participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy Strategy multistakeholder dialogue) Troostwijk Face-to-face contact Sustainability valuation in real estate Knowledge gathering, receiving input for ABN AMRO’s commercial real estate policy True Price (impact Face-to-face contact, Implementation of the True Price Knowledge gathering on pricing, measurement consultant) participation in training Methodology (transparency in pricing), receiving input for due diligence course human rights due diligence in the in the value chain Operations value chain Dutch Association of Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented Investors for Sustainable (VBDO participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report Development (VBDO) in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy multistakeholder dialogue) Vodafone Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to ABN AMRO Knowledge sharing on material issues (telecommunications (ABN AMRO participated and Vodafone company) in Vodafone’s Clients multistakeholder dialogue) William McDonough + Face-to-face contact Sustainability valuation in real estate Knowledge gathering, receiving input Partners (architecture for ABN AMRO’s commercial real design and consulting) estate policy Society Services Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 49 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message Sector organisations Bureau Krediet Registratie Written contact, face-toIssues related to credit history reporting, Taking part in BKR’s Participants (BKR) face contact, participation consumer credit, overlending Gathering; exchanging information in meetings on consumer loans and debt; gathering input for lending policies Centre for Responsible Face-to-face contact ABN AMRO’s sustainability strategy, Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s Business (CRB) human rights due diligence sustainability policies and their Strategy implementation Duisenberg School Membership of Finance Dutch Association for Real Face-to-face contact, Issues related to sustainable housing Knowledge sharing on sustainability Estate Brokers participation in meetings and lending (Nederlandse Vereniging van Makelaars, NVM), VBO and VastgoedPRO Operations Dutch Banking Association Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented in (Nederlandse Vereniging (NVB participated stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s this report, knowledge gathering and van Banken, NVB) in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy, code of conduct sharing regarding sustainable practices, multistakeholder dialogue), regarding mortgages and responsible drafting a road map for financial service membership, participation lending, Long-Term Energy Efficiency providers on how to approach energy in an online discussion Covenant, opitmising energy efficiency after 2020, implementing energy platform and consultation in the financial sector efficiency within the financial sector group Clients Dutch Green Building Face-to-face contact, Sustainability evaluation in real estate Knowledge gathering, receiving input Council (DGBC) membership for ABN AMRO’s commercial real estate policy Dutch sector and industry Written contact, face-toFinancing SMEs, commercial lending, Knowledge gathering/receiving input associations face contact, participation promoting entrepreneurship, issues for ABN AMRO’s policies; knowledge in meetings, participation related to specific industry sectors, sharing about ABN AMRO’s sector in research financial restructuring research, policies, products and services; dialogue on commercial lending and promoting entrepreneurship ESCo Netwerk Nederland Face-to-face contact Financing of energy service companies Knowledge gathering on the functioning Society (ESCos) of ESCos, implementing ESCo financing Febelfin Conference participation Sustainable lending by Belgian Knowledge gathering and sharing and Dutch banks Green Metropole Membership Klachteninstituut Financiële Written contact, face-toEscalated complaints from retail clients Participating in Kifid’s complaints review Dienstverlening (Kifid), face contact, participation concerning ABN AMRO’s financial process, carrying out its rulings Services Ombudsman Financiële in meetings services Dienstverlening MKB-Nederland Written contact, Financing SMEs, commercial lending, Knowledge gathering/receiving input face-to-face contact promoting entrepreneurship, business for ABN AMRO’s policies, knowledge transfer, financial restructuring sharing about ABN AMRO’s sector research, policies, products and services, dialogue about commercial lending and promoting entrepreneurship Appendices MVO Nederland Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented in (MVO Nederland stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s this report, knowledge gathering and participated in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy, issues related to sharing, receiving input for ABN AMRO multistakeholder dialogue), sustainable cocoa, Integrated Reporting, sustainability policies, exploring common membership, participation sustainable banking ground for cooperation, ongoing dialogue in meetings ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 50 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message NBA (Nederlandse Written contact, Relationship between enterprises, Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s Beroepsvereniging van face-to-face contact, banks and accountancy, sector research and financial know-how Accountants) and NOVAK participation in meetings Standard Business Reporting, (Nederlandse Organisatie financial insights van Accountantskantoren) Nederlandse Vereniging Written contact Issues related to indebtedness Participating in NVVK’s ‘Schakel’ voor Volkskrediet (NVVK) and debt relief programme, referring clients with serious payment problems to debt Strategy relief services NWWI (Nederlands Face-to-face contact Sustainable validation practices Knowledge gathering Woning Waarde Instituut) ONL voor Ondernemers Written contact, Financing SMEs, commercial lending, Knowledge gathering/receiving input face-to-face contact promoting entrepreneurship, business for ABN AMRO’s policies, knowledge transfer, financial restructuring sharing about ABN AMRO’s sector research, policies, products and services, dialogue about commercial Operations lending and promoting entrepreneurship Platform 31 (networking Participation in projects Footprint, energy consumption Providing tools to achieve zero energy organisation for urban and and research costs in housing and utilities regional development) Responsible Jewellery Face-to-face contact, Sustainability in the diamond and Ongoing dialogue, knowledge gathering Council membership, participation jewellery sector and sharing, receiving input for human in meetings rights due diligence Clients Roundtable on Sustainable Membership Sustainable improvements Sustainable improvements Palm Oil: RSPO of the palm oil sector of the palm oil sector Social Accountability Participation in Corporate accountability, social auditing Knowledge gathering on social auditing, International (SAI) a training course sharing ABN AMRO’s sustainability strategy and policies with participating companies Sustainable Shipping Face-to-face contact, Ship recycling Contribution to report on ship recycling Initiative (SSI) membership, participation by Sustainalytics Society in meetings TVI (Taxatie en Validatie Face-to-face contact Sustainable validation practices Knowledge gathering on STeV Instituut) validation methods Vereniging voor Milieurecht Conference participation ABN AMRO’s sustainability policies Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s (VvM) (knowledge platform sustainability policies and their for professionals involved implementation in environmental law) Verbond van Verzekeraars Face-to-face contact, Long-Term Energy Efficiency Covenant, Drafting a road map for financial service Services participation in meetings circular economy providers on how to approach energy after 2020 VNO-NCW-MKB Face-to-face contact Issues that are material to this List of material issues as presented (VNO-NCW-MKB stakeholder and to ABN AMRO’s in this report, knowledge gathering participated in ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy, sustainable and sharing on international multistakeholder dialogue), business practices sustainable business participation in meetings Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 51 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message Rating agencies IMUG Written contact Participation in IMUG’s IMUG’s sustainability rating sustainability assessment for ABN AMRO Sustainalytics Written contact, Participation in Sustainalytics Sustainalytics’ sustainability rating for face-to-face contact sustainability assessment, issues that ABN AMRO, list of material issues as (Sustainalytics participated are material to this stakeholder and presented in this report, purchase of data in ABN AMRO’s to ABN AMRO’s long-term strategy, for investment and lending assessments, Strategy multistakeholder dialogue) sustainability research improving ABN AMRO’s product offering. Transparency Benchmark, Written contact Participation in the Transparency ABN AMRO’s rating in the Dutch Ministry of Benchmark assessment Transparency Benchmark Economic Affairs Vigeo Written contact Participation in Vigeo’s Vigeo’s sustainability rating sustainability assessment for ABN AMRO Supervisors Operations Conduct supervisors in Written contact, Issues related to promoting trust in the Participation in research; knowledge the markets outside of face-to-face contact, financial system and correct behaviour gathering/receiving input for ABN AMRO’s the Netherlands in which participation in meetings, by financial institutions, promoting policies, products and services; ABN AMRO is active (e.g. participation in research the stability of the financial system, knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s Financial Conduct Authority promoting consumers’ interests, strategy, policies, financial infrastructure (FCA), Bundesanstalt für combating financial crime and financial services; ongoing dialogue Finanz­dienstleistungs­ on developments within ABN AMRO aufsicht (BaFin), and its international activities US Securities and Exchange Commission Clients (SEC), Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA), Monetary Authority Singapore (MAS) etc.) Dutch Central Bank (DNB) Written contact, Stability of the financial system within Participation in research, knowledge face-to-face contact, the Netherlands, reliability and security gathering/receiving input for ABN AMRO’s participation in meetings, of the Dutch payment system, policies, products and services, Society participation in research supervision in shared responsibility knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s with the ECB strategy, policies, assets, financial infrastructure and financial services European Central Bank Written contact, face-toPrudential supervision within the Single Participation in research, knowledge (ECB) face contact, participation Supervisory Mechanism, safety and gathering/receiving input for in meetings, participation soundness of the banking system within ABN AMRO’s policies, products and in research the EU, stability of the financial system services; knowledge sharing about within the EU ABN AMRO’s strategy, policies, assets, financial infrastructure and financial Services services; ongoing dialogue about developments within ABN AMRO and its international activities, and developments within the Dutch and European banking sector Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 52 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message Netherlands Authority for Written contact, face-toFinancing defence-industrial activities Knowledge sharing regarding the Financial Markets face contact, participation Issues related to the fair and ABN AMRO’s defence industry policy (AFM) in meetings, participation in conscientious provision of financial Participation in research (e.g. about research services (putting the client’s interests investment products, interest rate first, duty of care, supervision of product swaps, financial restructuring); development, big data and privacy, knowledge gathering, receiving input complaints handling etc.), the fair and for ABN AMRO’s policies, products and efficient operation of the capital markets services; knowledge sharing about (financial reporting, information to ABN AMRO’s strategy, policies, financial Strategy investors etc.) and the stability of the infrastructure and financial services; financial system (organisational and ongoing dialogue on developments technological developments, conduct within ABN AMRO and the Dutch and culture, risk management etc.) banking sector Government departments Council/Permanent Written contact, ECON, SRM, Financial Stability, Knowledge gathering/receiving input Representation face-to-face contact, Financial Services, Capital Markets Union for ABN AMRO’s policies, knowledge Operations Netherlands participation in meetings sharing about ABN AMRO’s strategy, policies, products and services, ongoing dialogue about banking regulations and developments within the Dutch and European banking sector Dutch Ministry of Written contact, ABN AMRO’s sustainability strategy and Knowledge sharing, providing information Economic Affairs face-to-face contact, policies, Long-Term Energy Efficiency for 2014 for the Long-Term Energy participation in meetings Covenant, promoting Green Deals Efficiency Covenant, realisation of Green Deals, contributing materially to Revolving Fund for Energy Conservation Clients Dutch Ministry of Face-to-face contact, Circular economy Knowledge sharing Infrastructure and participation in meetings the Environment European Commission Written contact, ECON, SRM, Financial Stability, Knowledge gathering/receiving input (DG FISMA, DG COMP, face-to-face contact, Financial Services, Capital Markets Union for ABN AMRO’s policies, knowledge Cabinets) participation in meetings sharing about ABN AMRO’s strategy, policies, products and services, ongoing dialogue about banking regulations and Society developments within the Dutch and European banking sector Green Deal Board Participation in Circular economy in different sectors Green Deals: Circular supply chain in (Dutch Government) Green Deals procurement, Closing the plastic supply chain, business models for circular real estate Members of the Dutch Written contact, Banking sector regulations, Knowledge gathering/receiving input Services Lower House of Parliament face-to-face contact, remuneration, housing market, for ABN AMRO’s policies, knowledge participation in meetings ABN AMRO’s strategy, policies, products sharing about ABN AMRO’s strategy, and services, ABN AMRO’s future policies, products and services, ongoing dialogue about developments within ABN AMRO and the Dutch banking sector, exchanging views on ABN AMRO’s future Members of the Written contact, Banking sector regulations, Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s Appendices Dutch Senate face-to-face contact remuneration, housing market policies, products and services, exchanging views on a variety of issues ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 53 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message Members of the Written contact, Banking sector regulations, Knowledge gathering/receiving input European Parliament face-to-face contact, ABN AMRO’s strategy, policies, products for ABN AMRO’s policies, knowledge participation in meetings and services sharing about ABN AMRO’s strategy, policies, products and services, ongoing dialogue about banking regulations and developments within the Dutch and European banking sector Ministry of Written contact, Financing SMEs, issues related to Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s Strategy Economic Affairs face-to-face contact, specific industry sectors, sustainability, policies, products and services, participation in meetings transparency, interest rate swaps, exchanging views on a variety of issues financial restructuring, guarantee schemes Ministry of Finance Written contact, Payments system, capital buffers, Knowledge gathering/receiving input face-to-face contact, bank tax, remuneration, Banker’s Oath for ABN AMRO’s policies; knowledge participation in meetings and disciplinary rules, banking union, sharing about ABN AMRO’s strategy, ABN AMRO’s future policies, products and services; ongoing dialogue on developments within Operations ABN AMRO and the Dutch banking sector; exchanging views on ABN AMRO’s future Ministry of Home Affairs Written contact, Housing market, mortgage market, Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s (Housing) face-to-face contact, mortgages, mortgage interest rates policies, products and services, participation in meetings exchanging views on a variety of issues Ministry of Security Written contact, Online security, big data and privacy, Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s and Justice face-to-face contact, Bankruptcy Act policies, products and services, participation in meetings exchanging views on a variety of issues Clients Netherlands Enterprise Face-to-face contact, Financing of energy service companies Exploring possibilities, significantly Institute (Rijksdienst voor participating in meetings (ESCos), improving energy efficiency improving energy efficiency at Ondernemend Nederland, of data centres ABN AMRO’s data centres, publish the RVO) bank’s energy facts and figures, starting an annual Energy Benchmark Netherlands Institute for Face-to-face contact Implementation of human rights policy, Participation in consultation process Human Rights (College voor especially in international business for the National Action Plan on Business de Rechten van de Mens) and Human Rights [Netherlands] Society Netherlands Ombudsman Face to face contact Human rights, ABN AMRO’s Knowledge gathering and sharing, for Children sustainability strategy and policies receiving input on children’s rights for (Kinderombudsman) the bank’s human rights due diligence NLFI Written contact, Issues related to exercising the Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s face-to-face contact, shareholder rights in strategy and policies, ongoing dialogue participation in meetings ABN AMRO Group N.V. about developments within ABN AMRO, exchanging views on ABN AMRO’s future OECD National Contact Face to face contact, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Knowledge gathering, input Services Point, the Netherlands participation in Enterprises, sustainable business for ABN AMRO’s international consultation groups practices business policy and meetings UN Global Compact Membership, ABN AMRO’s sustainability strategy and knowledge gathering, knowledge Netherlands Face-to-face contact policies sharing about ABN AMRO’s sustainability policies and their implementation Appendices UNEP FI – United Nations Face-to-face contact, Business and human rights, Knowledge gathering and sharing, Environment Programme membership, participating climate change participation in the Human Rights Finance Initiative in meetings Working Group and Climate Change Working Group ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 54 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message UNPRI – United Nations Written contact, Reporting on the progress of sustainable Knowledge sharing Principles for Responsible face-to-face contact, investment for the ABN AMRO company Investment participation in meeting report and the UNPRI annual meeting Employees ABN AMRO Pensioners Face-to-face contact, Pensioners’ societies, ambassadorship Receiving input for the Ambassador Interest Group participation in meetings for the bank, pensions and other issues Days and coordination of the pensioners’ (Belangenvereniging concerning pensioners societies, co-signing the Pension Strategy Postactieven ABN AMRO) Agreement, receiving input for issues that concern pensioners Central Works Council Written contact, Collective bargaining, social plan, Receiving advice and consultation face-to-face contact, Banker’s Oath regarding major decisions and measures participation in meetings regarding the bank, knowledge sharing about organisational developments at ABN AMRO European Staff Council Written contact, Workers’ rights, changes in terms Receiving advice and consultation Operations face-to-face contact, of employment, major decisions regarding major decisions and measures participation in meetings and measures regarding the bank regarding the bank, knowledge sharing about organisational developments at ABN AMRO Trade unions Written contact, Collective bargaining, social plan, Collective labour agreements, face-to-face contact, Banker’s Oath knowledge gathering/receiving input participation in meetings for ABN AMRO’s policies, knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s strategy Clients and policies Society Services Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 55 Appendices Name of stakeholder Form of engagement Issues discussed Outcome Chairman’s message Civil society organisations Client advocacy groups Written contact, Issues related to consumer protection, Exchanging views on the sale of specific face-to-face contact group compensation claims regarding financial products and services/review specific financial products and services of compensation claims (mortgages, consumer loans, commercial loans, interest swaps etc.), financial restructuring Strategy Consumentenbond (Dutch Written contact, Issues related to consumer protection Knowledge gathering/receiving input Consumers Association) face-to-face contact (putting the client’s interests first, quality for ABN AMRO’s policies, products and costs of financial products and and services; knowledge sharing about services, payments, online banking, ABN AMRO’s retail banking products mortgages, insurance, big data and and services; dialogue on developments privacy etc.) within ABN AMRO and the Dutch retail banking sector Consumer issues TV series Written contact, Issues related to consumer protection Knowledge sharing about ABN AMRO’s (TROS Radar, Vara Kassa face-to-face contact, (quality and costs of financial products policies, products and services, handling Operations etc.) participation in broadcasts and services, payments, online banking, consumer complaints, exchanging views mortgages, insurance, big data and on the workings of the banking system privacy etc.) and the workings of the banking system Maatschappelijk Overleg Written contact, Issues related to the societal efficiency Knowledge gathering/receiving input Betalingsverkeer (MOB) face-to-face contact, of the Dutch payments system for ABN AMRO’s policies, products participation in meetings, (strengthening the payments and services, knowledge sharing about participation in research infrastructure, keeping ATMs available ABN AMRO’s payments products and and accessible, promoting the safety services, dialogue about developments and security of online banking etc.) in the Dutch payments market Clients Nationaal Instituut voor Written contact, Financial education, criteria for Knowledge gathering/receiving input Budgetvoorlichting (Nibud) face-to-face contact, consumer credit, code of conduct for ABN AMRO’s policies; knowledge participation in projects consumer loans, indebtedness sharing about ABN AMRO’s policies, and research products and services; ongoing dialogue on financial education, consumer loans and debt Vereniging Eigen Huis Written contact, Issues related to mortgages (interest Knowledge gathering/receiving input (Dutch Homeowners face-to-face contact rates, duty of care, quality of mortgage for ABN AMRO’s policies, products Society Association) products and services, arrears, residual and services, knowledge sharing debt etc.) and the Dutch housing and about ABN AMRO’s mortgage policy, mortgage market products and services, dialogue about developments in the Dutch housing and mortgage market Services Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 56 Appendices Chairman’s message Objectives and performance in 2014 On track Partly achieved Not achieved Subject Objective reported in 2013 Status Performance in 2014 Our Translating the bank-wide strategic sustainability In progress, as a materiality analysis was conducted this Strategy sustainability goals and targets into concrete goals for each year and not every material issue has been translated into strategy of our businesses a material target Accurately measuring and reporting on our progress In progress, once material targets have been defined they can by means of key performance indicators (KPIs) be linked to KPIs, enabling accurate measuring and reporting Engaging with Increasing stakeholder engagement via social We increased our engagement with our stakeholders our media, taking a clear position through our social media newsroom stakeholders Maintaining a structural dialogue on the most For details of the structural dialogue, see the appendix Operations pressing, current issues with the bank's most 'Stakeholder dialogue' relevant stakeholders Applying the Finalising the integration of sustainability criteria Continuous process in which we adjust policies and sustainability in our credit business and know-your-customer retrain our employees. Implementation began, for instance, policy to our procedures of a sustainable lending policy operations Updating our policy for the defence industry Groundwork complete and meetings with stakeholders in progress. Final approval expected in 2015 Clients Finalising our investment policy and our policy Manufacturing and real-estate policies have been approved; for the manufacturing and real-estate industries investment policy expected in 2015 Continuous training in sustainability awareness Continuous training of staff throughout the year, and knowledge with department-specific programmes Improving management information; reporting The improvement achieved in the year under review was on the implementation of and compliance with the systematic reporting on material subjects with a direct the bank’s sustainability policy. bearing on our long-term strategy. As a result, the information Society we report is now more transparent and in line with the G4 standard Enhancing client Continue to create awareness among all Multiple awareness-raising initiatives in all the countries centricity R&PB Retail & Private Banking staff in the Netherlands with Retail & Private Banking activities. These led to and abroad about sustainability issues a significant increase in the employee engagement score and Retail & Private Banking’s approach in this area for sustainability Offer training in sustainable investment to all Client-facing staff received sustainable investment training client-facing staff providing investment services via presentations and other means. We will continue to Services invest in training our client-facing staff throughout 2015 to further improve the knowledge level Organise client events to keep our clients properly Client events hosted at multiple locations, including a large informed about sustainable investment options philanthropy event in the Netherlands and to encourage greater client involvement in sustainability Embed sustainable investment more firmly in Investment process has been gradually adjusted. 2014 saw our general investment process the strengthening of the controversial weapons approach Appendices for investment funds resulting in the dismissal of an external asset manager. An engagement policy received approval and we published additional sustainability research Expand our impact investing product range Product selection completed in 2014; ongoing preparations for launch in 2015 ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 57 Appendices On track Chairman’s message Partly achieved Not achieved Subject Objective reported in 2013 Status Performance in 2014 Make the ABN AMRO Global Sustainability Fund now available to all clients Equity Fund available to all clients Introduce philanthropy advice services for our Available in France; a community was established for Private Banking clients outside the Netherlands the other European countries to ascertain the possibilities Strategy for philanthropy advice in other locations Enhancing client Continue to invest in our people by enhancing Almost all our relationship managers attended sector centricity their knowledge of sustainability issues masterclasses (70), at which sector specialists discussed Corporate industry developments, strategies and sustainability. Banking Awareness was also increased via the ‘We sustain’ programme specifically for Corporate Banking staff Further embed this know-how in our financial ‘We sustain’ awareness and innovation programme advice and products to enable our clients to encourages staff to suggest ideas on how ABN AMRO Operations make the necessary investments can help our clients become more sustainable. Sector-specific reports and blogs on sustainability Continue to assist our clients in making the Examples include the Spliethoff deal (CO2 scrubbers transition to sustainability on ships), the Gemini wind park, and the GJEPC award in India for most sustainable financial institution Roll out a Sustainability Management Operating Roll-out of Sustainability Management Operating System System at ECT. The system enables client and training of International Clients staff. GSRI project for benchmarking, monitoring of clients’ sustainability other Corporate Banking businesses on track: roll-out H2 2015 Clients performance and comprehensive sustainability reporting. During the course of the year we will also prepare roll-out of the system to other Corporate Banking businesses Handling Focus on finding a customised solution to every Clients want more personal contact and their complaints Complaints inquiry or complaint, in close consultation with to be dealt with fully. This was the focus of the pilot we ran the client concerned. We will seek to formulate in several districts and ASC departments a challenging vision, our starting point being the client’s complaint and emotions Engage in even more direct customer feedback Complaint owners are designated to ensure clients are Society after their complaint has been settled to hear how called back. Management Information gave us a picture they have experienced our service. This should of which clients were called back and which were not enable us to keep learning from our experiences with clients Inspiring and Our focus for the coming years will be on executing We focused again in 2014 on achieving our long-term goals engaging our policies to help us achieve our long-term goals and giving our people the tools they need to be the best people and on giving our people the tools they need to they can be. In terms of our policies and HR approaches, Services be the best they can be we made substantial steps toward further achieving our long-term goals In 2014 we intend to further tailor staff performance Our performance management framework aims to achieve a targets and the leadership competencies to balance between financial and non-financial targets, quantitative reflect the spirit of the Business Principles and qualitative targets, and behavioural aspects, to help us and client centricity pursue our strategy. We started to use our business principles as performance criteria, and will expand this in 2015 Leadership days have been scheduled again The Leadership Qualities were launched during the 2014 Appendices in 2014, both in the Netherlands and abroad Leadership Days in the Netherlands, the United States, Hong Kong and Belgium. Almost all of the bank’s managers participated (3,000 attended) ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 58 Appendices On track Chairman’s message Partly achieved Not achieved Subject Objective reported in 2013 Status Performance in 2014 We will implement the new collective labour Implementation of the terms agreed under the collective agreement in the Netherlands labour agreement (CAO) was completed in January 2015, as planned. The CAO is effective until 1 January 2016 Our Our aim for 2014 is to improve the energy performance We improved our energy footprint in 2014, adding 53,097 m2 Strategy environmental of another 50,000 square metres of our real estate to our ‘A label’ floor space; another 64,497 m2 of office space impact portfolio to an energy A label – taking some was BREEAM certified. This brings us to a total gross office 330,000 square metres (36% of our real estate area of 339,505 m2 ‘A label’ and 327,476 m2 BREEAM out of portfolio) to energy A label by the end of 2014 a total of 593,095 m2 One of our key drivers in 2014 will be the further The goal of cutting paper purchases by 10% was achieved, digitisation of our products and processes, thanks mainly to ongoing digitisation. Paper consumption and encouraging more digital collaboration. in tons in 2013 and 2014 is given in the report. We are gearing up to a future in which clients will The 2014 figure is down 11% on the previous year increasingly demand digital products and services, Operations and ever larger numbers of employees will work – or want to work – online only. This should help both to reduce our paper consumption (goal 10% per year) and to lower our carbon emissions In the years ahead, we will continue to actively Procurement focused on sustainability by putting suppliers seek ways to improve sustainability and in contact with FIRA, the sustainability verification body. transparency by increasing the number of At the beginning of 2014, 39% of Procurement spending FIRA-registered partners and suppliers went to suppliers with GRI4 status or FIRA Platinum, Gold, Silver or Bronze Status. The target for 2014 year-end was 60%; the actual figure was 59% Clients The innovative cooling system at our data centre The innovative cooling system we installed at our data in Amstelveen is due to be completed in 2014. centre in Amstelveen began operation in June 2014. It should help save 7% on energy consumption We were able, as a result, to reduce the data centre’s and cut water use by 2.1 million litres a year electricity consumption by 15% and water consumption by 21 million litres Our contribution In 2014, we intend to start with a theme-based We launched our new ‘Partner of the Future’ approach in to society approach for our community activities November 2014 with our sponsorship of Ajax football club. The programme will continue throughout 2015 Society Our goal for 2014 is to have over 10,000 employees We reached our goal in 2014 with a total of 11,811 employees take part in ABN AMRO Foundation’s community taking part in several projects projects Services Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 59 Appendices Chairman’s message Glossary ABN AMRO Foundation Corporate Banking ABN AMRO Foundation is a stichting under Dutch law Corporate Banking is the part of the bank that focuses Strategy encouraging ABN AMRO volunteers to give back to on business clients with revenues of more than the community. EUR 1 million. Absenteeism (trend total) Corporate governance Is the rolling average of the latest absenteeism The system of rules, practices and processes by which percentage, annualised. a company is directed and controlled. Corporate governance essentially involves balancing the interests of the many Binding Corporate Rules Operations stakeholders in a company – these include its shareholders, BCRs form a set of stringent, intra-corporate global privacy management, clients suppliers, financiers, government policies, practices, processes and guidelines that satisfy and the community. EU standards and may be available as an alternative means of authorising transfers of personal data (e.g. Crowdfunding customer databases, HR information) outside of Europe. Obtaining financing and conducting fundraising via an internet platform whereby investors can invest BREEAM small amounts of money in a project or start-up. BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Clients Assessment Methodology) is an instrument to measure Diversity and assess the sustainability of new and existing The distribution of employees (headcount) by gender buildings, areas and demolition projects. or age in the Netherlands. Business Risk Committee Due diligence Committee mandated to decide about high-risk Research, often performed during mergers and acquisitions, Society propositions within the bank’s risk appetite. to establish the correctness of the information presented to the buyer of a company and to identify the risks and Clearing opportunities of the company being acquired. Clearing includes all activities from the time a commitment for a transaction is made until it is settled. Clearing of Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable payments is necessary to turn the promise of payment Development (VBDO) into actual movement of money from one bank to another. The VBDO is the only investors’ association in the Services It refers to all of ABN AMRO’s clearing activities. Netherlands that promotes the interests of institutional and private investors who want to contribute to Conduct drivers sustainable development. Management measures aimed at steering on good conduct. There are eight drivers of good conduct: Clarity, Dutch Data Protection Authority Role modelling, Discussability, Achievability, Engagement, The Dutch DPA (CBP) is the lawful supervisor concerned Tranparency, Accountability and Sanctionability. with supervising data processing. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 60 Appendices Dutch Personal Data Protection Act Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Chairman’s message Lawfully enforced rules aimed at the protection of An international organisation that establishes guidelines the privacy of citizens. The rules are largely based for corporate sustainability reporting. on European data protection guidelines (95/46/EG). Green bonds Employee Council Green bonds enable capital raising and investment for The overarching works council made up of representatives new and existing projects with environmental benefits. from the four works councils of ABN AMRO TOPS, They are based on the Green Bond Principles, which aid Strategy Retail & Private Banking, Group Functions and Corporate investors by ensuring availability of information necessary Banking and from the works councils of ABN AMRO’s to evaluate the environmental impact of their green bond subsidiaries. investments; these principles also assist underwriters by moving the market towards standard disclosures Employee Engagement to facilitate transactions. A business management concept that describes the level of enthusiasm and dedication a worker feels toward his/ Green Savings Deposit Operations her job. Engaged employees care about their work A deposit is a type of saving under which savers entrust and about the performance of the company, and feel their money to a bank during a set period of time, that their efforts make a difference: an engaged employee with the bank using this money to grant loans. A green is in it for more than a paycheck. deposit is a savings product offered by a green bank, which will only give loans to companies that are engaged Energy, Commodities & Transportation (ECT) in sustainable activities (‘green companies’). ECT is part of ABN AMRO’s Corporate Banking business and serves clients around the world who are active Groenbank in energy, oil and gas, trade in natural resources, metal A Dutch bank whose stated intent is to finance Clients and agricultural products, and related transportation. sustainable projects. If a project is recognised as sustainable by the Dutch government, Groenbank is Environmental footprint able to furnish a green loan at more favourable rates. The effect that a person, company, activity, etc. has on the environment, for example the amount of natural Group Risk Committee resources that they use and the amount of harmful gases Committee mandated to decide about critical risk Society that they produce. propositions (other than credit-related transactions) within the bank’s risk appetite. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria ESG refers to the three main areas that have developed Guarantees of Origin as central criteria in measuring the sustainability and Guarantees of Origin are issued electronically for the ethical impact of investing in a company or business. electricity generated (1 Guarantee of Origin per MWh), traded and redeemed (i.e. used) by suppliers as evidence to Services Equator Principles their customers of the quality of the electricity delivered. A framework for credit risk management that is used to establish, assess and control the social and environmental Guidance on Board Effectiveness risks involved in project finance. (Leidraad Effectief Bestuur) Based on the UK Guidance on Board Effectiveness, FIRA the guidelines are intended to help the Supervisory and International guidelines aimed at ensuring that suppliers Managing Boards function and cooperate as effectively gradually improve their sustainability performance. as possible. FTE Appendices FTE means fulltime equivalent. At ABN AMRO 1 FTE = 36 hours a week. Unit of account for expressing the extent of employment or size of the workforce. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 61 Appendices High-income OECD countries OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Chairman’s message OECD member states described as high-income countries The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises by the World Bank, which publishes the list on its World are recommendations addressed by governments to Databank (data.worldbank.org/income-level/OECD). multinational enterprises operating in or from adhering countries. They provide non-binding principles and Impact investing standards for responsible business conduct in a global Investing in solutions to social and environmental issues, context consistent with applicable laws and internationally while achieving financial returns. recognised standards. International Labour Organisation (ILO) Performance metrics Strategy The ILO is aimed at promoting rights at work, encourage Performance metrics measure an organisation’s activities decent employment opportunities, enhance social and performance. protection and strengthen dialogue on work-related issues. Personnel expenses Investment Engagement Committee (IEC) Expenses which include salaries, social security charges, Operations The IEC defines the approach ABN AMRO takes to pension expenses relating to defined benefit plans and integrating sustainability into its regular investment services. defined contribution plan expenses. IPO Project finance Initial Public Offering: the first sale of stock by a private Project finance for the purposes of the Equator Principles company to the public. is described in ABN AMRO’s Policy for Project Finance and the Application of the Equator Principles as finance ISO 26000 meeting two criteria: ISO 26000 is an international guidance document on 1. new capital investment (or an increase thereof) Clients social responsibility. It provides an organisation with an 2. repayments deriving from cash flows generated outline of the principles and core subjects that it should by the investment itself. be managing to ensure it identifies and manages a number of societal risks and impacts. SEPA The Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) encompasses the Materiality 27 member states of the EU plus Iceland, Liechtenstein, Society Organisations could report on a wide range of topics. Norway and Switzerland. Within this area, individuals Relevant topics are those that may reasonably be and businesses can make and receive domestic and considered important for reflecting the organisation’s international payments in a uniform manner. economic, environmental and social impacts, or influencing the decisions of stakeholders, and, therefore, potentially Shift merit inclusion in a report. Materiality is the threshold at Shift is an independent, non-profit centre for business and which topics become sufficiently important to be reported. human rights practice that helps governments, businesses Services and their stakeholders put the UN Guiding Principles on Microfinancing Business and Human Rights into practice. Microfinance is a source of financial services for entrepreneurs and small businesses lacking access to banking and related services. OECD guidelines These guidelines from the Organisation for Economic Appendices Cooperation and Development (OECD) set out what the Dutch government (and 43 other governments) expect of businesses abroad in terms of sustainability. The guidelines deal with issues such as chain responsibility, human rights, child labour, the environment and corruption. ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 62 Appendices Social enterprise Sustainable assets under management Chairman’s message Social enterprises are organisations that have the same Sustainable assets under management break down objectives as charities, but at the same time apply the into two categories: management principles of the private sector, including 1. ABN AMRO Group investment funds that explicitly the need to grow and the ability to achieve a healthy base their investment approach and decisions on financial return. Making money is not the social sustainable criteria. enterprise’s main goal, it is a means to achieving 2. Sustainable mandates that involve assets whose its real mission: creating social impact. owners have given the bank responsibility for the Strategy investment approach and investment decisions. Social sponsorship This specific type of mandate explicitly factors in Financial contributions to a civil society organisation sustainability criteria in the investment approach for which we receive something in return. and decisions. Sponsor Monitor Sustainable employability The Sponsor Monitor is a survey carried out by Sustainable employability is the extent to which Operations Blauw Research and commissioned by ABN AMRO. employees are willing and able to remain productive, The goal of the sponsor monitor is to provide an insight motivated and healthy, within or outside the organisation. into the effects of the bank’s sponsorship activities (and other social activities) on the ABN AMRO brand. Sustainable investment products Typically, standard investment products do not SRI systematically and explicitly factor in environmental, social Socially responsible investing is an investment strategy and governance (ESG) effects of investments on society, aimed at both financial and social return. It encourages where sustainable investment products do. Sustainable corporate practices that promote environmental stewardship, investments reflect our assessment of risk and return Clients consumer protection, human rights and diversity. in relationship to ESG impacts. Several techniques may be used to manage the impacts in a practical setting, Stakeholder Board like exclusion and positive selection. Consequently, the The board is in charge of coordinating the bank’s applied definitions differ to a certain extent from country stakeholder management. It is chaired by a Managing to country in this respect. Board member and consists of senior managers Society responsible for stakeholder relationships in various areas, Sustainability such as consumer affairs, business, the workforce, Sustainability aims to strike a balance between people, supervision and sustainability. planet and profit. Sustainability risk appetite Tax haven The level of sustainability risk that an organisation is A tax haven is a state, country or territory where prepared to accept before action is deemed necessary certain taxes are levied at a low rate or not at all on Services to reduce it. It represents a balance between the potential private individuals and companies with accounts there. benefits of innovation and the threats that change Financial laws and regulations are typically relaxed in inevitably brings. such tax havens. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014 63 Appendices The Green Quest Chairman’s message The Green Quest is a joint project with FD Mediagroep, GDF Suez Energie Nederland, Cofely and SITA, designed to explore ways in which ABN AMRO could create a more sustainable organisation. It focuses not only on achieving benefits for the environment, but also on creating opportunities for business. Strategy UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) are a global standard for preventing and addressing the risk of adverse impacts on human rights linked to business activity. UNEP FI (United Nations Environmental Protection Agency Finance Initiative) Operations UNEP FI is a global partnership between UNEP and the financial sector. Over 200 institutions, including banks, insurers and fund managers, work with UNEP to understand the impacts of environmental and social considerations on financial performance. (unepfi.org). UNPRI The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment Clients is an international network of investors working together to put the six Principles for Responsible Investment into practice. Its goal is to understand the implications of sustainability for investors and support signatories in incorporating these issues into their investment decision making and ownership practices. Society Value chain A high-level model of how businesses receive raw materials as input, add value to the raw materials through various processes, and sell finished products to customers. For a bank, like ABN AMRO, the focus was on capital inputs as raw materials are not the primary input for Services products and services. Appendices ABN AMRO Sustainability Report 2014
