An investigation not a showcase Responsible Business Update Report 2014 Business & ethics People We want to be known for We want to recruit, conducting our business develop and retain ethically and with integrity. the best people. Pro bono Communities We can have the most We aim to focus on education, impact through giving raising aspirations and legal advice. building employability skills within the communities where we operate. Environment Performance We strive to reduce our We aim to be open and negative environmental transparent in reporting impact and support climate on our responsible change adaptation projects. business activities. To access our responsible business reports please go online http://www.freshfields.com/cr/ Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Senior partner’s statement The debate about the role of business in society continues unabated. Our stakeholders, and society in general, want us to help advance a broader social agenda and not just focus on our own results. These expectations are reflected in corporate reporting requirements which are becoming ever more robust in this regard. The challenge is how, in practice, to ensure that businesses deliver on these expectations and whether they choose to go beyond the minimum level of compliance. For us, minimum compliance is not enough. We want to conduct our business in an ethical and sustainable manner. We want to act with integrity and sensitivity to our impact on the world around us. We want to make a real and positive difference to the communities in which we operate. Not only is this expected of us, it is the right thing to do. Corporate Responsibility (CR) is not an isolated programme. As part of our commitment to align our operations and strategy with the 10 UN Global Compact (UNGC) principles, we have sought to integrate CR into our business, including through our values, culture, operations and business decisions. This affects everything we do, from our client and mandate acceptance decisions, to our procurement processes, to the way we interact with the communities in which we operate. Our ambition to go beyond minimum compliance remains a journey and we invite you to comment in any way that helps us move forward. Will Lawes Senior Partner 1 Our firm We’re one of the world’s largest law firms, with over 2,500 lawyers worldwide. We provide business law and operate as an English limited liability partnership (LLP) in all our offices except Hong Kong, Japan and the US. We are a collegiate firm and have no head office; all 27 offices work together in the best interests of our clients. We want to be known as ‘the worldwide firm’. We partner with world-class law firms with know-how where we don’t have offices. We advise clients on transactional, contentious and regulatory work across all sectors. We share our strong commitments Sectors to corporate responsibility with • Consumer and healthcare many of our clients; we collaborate • Energy and natural resources with them on pro bono projects, volunteering, diversity and • Financial institutions environmental activities. • Global financial investors • Infrastructure and transport Practices • General industrial • Antitrust, competition and trade • Pro bono • Corporate • Real estate • Disputes • Telecoms, media and technology • Employment, pensions and benefits • Finance • Real estate • Tax 5,060 employees 27 offices worldwide £1,277.8m £1.65m turnover profit per equity partner (PEP) 2 2013–14 highlights £15.46m Three-year climate change adaptation partnership with the British Red Cross began in January 2014 The value of our community and pro bono programme 78% response to our global 30% increase in our pro bono and community engagement survey investment hours Winner in the Work Won CSR Programme Inclusion category of the of the Year at the Business in the Community Legal Business Awards Responsible Business for the Freshfields Awards 2014 Stephen Lawrence Scholarship programme Listed as a Top 100 employer Our London office in the 2014 Stonewall environmental management Workplace Equality Index system retained ISO 14001 3 Our approach to responsible business Beyond regulatory compliance, we want to conduct – and be known for conducting – our business ethically and with integrity. Not only is it the right thing to do, our clients expect it of us. Our ambition to be the leading international law firm is inextricably linked with our leadership in this field. Our strategy maximises the value CR can bring to our business. We focus our efforts on where we can make Responsible business at Freshfields the greatest difference: • using our professional skills for the greater good (ie pro bono); • creating a positive impact on the communities in which we operate; Supporting our • being an excellent employer, communities promoting inclusiveness and diversity; and • minimising our impact on the environment. Business Pro bono ethics Responsible business Our material issues Our report covers the issues that are important to our firm and our stakeholders. Managing our Our material issues ranked as Valuing our environmental most important by employees, people impact clients and our charitable and environmental partners are those relating to our people and our clients. They remain unchanged: • excellent client service; • business ethics; • attracting and retaining talent; • promoting a diverse and inclusive workforce; • using our skills for good; • minimising our environmental impact; and • collaboration. 4 Business & ethics We are committed to high standards of governance and conduct our business with the ethics and integrity expected from a responsible and highly regulated business. We are subject to local bar associations’ and law societies’ ethical duties. Our policies and procedures reflect the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC); the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; and the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. • We check new clients and • We continue to implement matters for their reputation, the global procurement policy NGO sanctions, other client including responsible business relationships and our suitability criteria introduced in 2013 and to act; our client engagement have set up a team and training letters refer to the UNGC. across our offices to ensure our We take on new clients regardless criteria are met in procurement of gender, race, disability, decisions. This helps us to address age or sexual orientation. any issues in our supply chain, such as the risk of forced or child labour. • We introduced procedures reflecting the UK Solicitors Regulation Authority’s Human rights and requirements in cases of labour standards client complaints which are Promoting human rights is an implemented by our global important goal for us. We were client partner. the first international law firm to • Our global privacy officer join the UNGC and have embraced, maintains our data privacy supported and enacted its 10 and protection policy with principles within our sphere regional variations, where law of influence ever since. demands it, and reports data More recently, we have introduced privacy compliance to the firm’s a number of policies to reflect the information security committee. ‘Guiding Principles’ on Business • We have a worldwide and Human Rights. whistleblowing policy in place, including a confidential hotline. 5 Valuing our people To be the leading international law firm, we need to recruit, develop and retain the best people. Talent can come from anywhere, and our employees want to work in a culture that’s diverse and inclusive. Gender Supporting LGBT employees Gender diversity at senior level is Halo, our LGBT network, operates one of the biggest challenges we face. across all our offices. It helps We’ve developed practical initiatives LGBT colleagues connect with to improve the imbalance between each other, advises the firm on the number of female lawyers LGBT issues and represents the we train and those who reach firm at external events. partnership. Our London women’s Halo holds regular meetings, network aims to help address some networking and social events, and of these issues. Its aim is to provide works with clients’ LGBT networks. a forum for discussion, and support LGBT employees from any of our women investing in their personal offices and all areas of the firm are and professional growth and increase welcome. In 2014, we achieved one the attractiveness of a long-term of our long-term goals by being listed career at Freshfields for women. as a Top 100 Employer in the 2014 Stonewall Workplace Equality Index, Social mobility the first magic circle firm to do so. In 2012 we launched a long-term partnership with the Stephen Engaging employees Lawrence Charitable Trust. Our annual employee engagement Part of this relationship is to survey helps us assess staff and develop the Freshfields Stephen workplace issues. In 2013–14 we Lawrence Scholarship Scheme, to had a 78 per cent response rate. broaden access to the legal profession, The survey showed that our people by addressing the disproportionate feel very proud about the quality under-representation of black men of the work they do for clients from low-income families in top and they’re more willing than law firms. The Scheme was formally ever to recommend Freshfields launched in 2013 with six students as a place to work. achieving a scholarship. 6 Valuing our people Employee proﬁle by gender* (per cent) Global Partner 88 12 Associate 54 46 Legal trainee 45 55 Other fee earners 33 67 Business services 25 75 Key: Male Female *Figure refers to average number of employees excluding contingency staff and contractors. This data has been independently assured by Deloitte LLP. Global workforce by region* Asia 426 DACEE (Germany and Austria) 1,344 London 1,931 MENA 85 ROCE (Rest of Central Europe) 1,005 USA 269 * Core employee numbers include employees on maternity and client secondment, and whose contract types are permanent, ﬁxed-term or self-employed. 7 Pro bono We have a professional responsibility to use our legal knowledge for the public good. We have the most impact when we do what we do best: giving legal advice. We take proactive steps to shape the areas in which we work especially around: 2013–14 highlights • the rule of law; • access to justice; and We worked on • work to support the Millennium 483 matters for Development Goals. 292 clients. The work our pro bono programme takes on ranges from one-off legal We recorded 56,323 interventions on important areas pro bono hours, of law, to supporting the legal needs an all-time record of global NGOs tasked with assisting for the firm. the world’s most vulnerable people and hundreds of different matters in between. Over the past year we have seen our programme reach over 56,000 hours – the most pro bono hours we have ever recorded. We are legal adviser to Save the 1,100 lawyers worked on pro bono cases, 42 per cent Children International, a global of average fee-earner headcount child rights NGO that operates in over 120 countries. The legal issues it faces are multi-faceted and multi-jurisdictional which, Homelessness as a global law firm, we are able Our London office has a longstanding to support fully. focus on homelessness. We staff a housing law clinic at Tower Hamlets Law Centre (and send a trainee to their housing team on secondment). We also work closely with Shelter, both on casework involving homeless children and in strategic interventions at the Court of Appeal and Supreme Court. Last year we were awarded ‘CSR Initiative of the Year’ in the British Legal Awards for our groundbreaking pro bono work tackling youth homelessness. 8 Communities At Freshfields, the global theme of our community investment programme is social inclusion. Our projects focus on education, raising aspirations and building employability skills within the communities where we operate. Examples from across our offices show how we work to achieve this. Discover Your Talent (Brussels) disclosure to later in the recruitment An annual one-day training process so candidates are judged session to help young people from on their suitability for the role disadvantaged neighbourhoods with and skills first. CV writing, interview techniques, discovering personal strengths, using Legal Outreach (New York) social media and presentation skills. A week-long internship for exceptional high school students START Foundation from underserved communities (Berlin, Cologne and Frankfurt) during which they learn professional skills through law related activities, A series of workshops which help including a mock trial and due young people from immigrant diligence exercises. backgrounds understand more about careers in law and encourage a more diverse group to consider Un jour, un métier (Paris) the legal profession. An annual discovering business day for a class of pupils from Ready for Work (London) a disadvantaged Parisian suburb followed by a trip to the Paris A work experience, training and Courts of Justice and a two-week job coaching programme, run in work experience placement. partnership with Business in the Community, which aims to break the cycle of homelessness. Winner European Law Students’ in the Work Inclusion category Association (Rome) of the Business in the Community Our Rome office has partnered Responsible Business Awards 2014. with European Law Students’ Association (ELSA), an international, ‘Ban the Box’ (London) non-political and non-profit-making We believe businesses can play a large organisation run by and for students. part in cutting reoffending through ELSA offers law students (including employment which is why we became recent graduates) a platform the first law firm to support Business to develop their existing skills, in the Community’s ‘Ban the Box’ acquire new skills and meet fellow campaign. The campaign encourages students and legal professionals employers to remove the tick-box throughout Europe, hosting asking about criminal convictions a number of academic and from their application forms, moving professional events each year. 9 Environment One of the greatest positive impacts we have on the environment is through our legal advice. Our energy and natural resources sector group brings together over 100 partners and a wide group of associates from across our network of offices who regularly advise in the wide area of energy and natural resources, one of which is the Low Carbon group. This group helps clients meet their climate change goals. Our carbon impact Our climate change adaptation Our biggest carbon impacts are from project, as voted for by staff, started energy in our buildings and business with the British Red Cross in January travel. We aim to reduce our carbon 2014. The three-year project will footprint and the impact we have benefit over 60,000 local people in on the environment. Bangladesh by preparing for natural disasters and building resilience. We are also integrating this Adapting to climate change relationship across the firm through The firm has been carbon neutral pro bono assistance and employee since 2007. We buy offsets from activities such as first aid training. projects that provide social and economic benefits as well as environmental ones. Using resources responsibly Global paper purchased Global waste disposal 1 Global water use 2 511 1,808 100,419m 3 tonnes tonnes 1. This data has been independently assured by Deloitte LLP. 2. This year’s data only counts once water has been withdrawn and returned as waste water. 10 Key performance indicators Indicator 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 Targets May 2015 Total number of employees 5,266 4,859 5,060 N/A Female partners (per cent) 12 12 12 4 N/A Gross carbon footprint 4.79 4.70 4.53 4 4.50 per capita (tonnes CO2e) 1 Gross direct and indirect 15,646 15,893 14,626 4 14,216 greenhouse gas emissions – scopes 1 and 2; fossil fuels and refrigerants; electricity (tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent – CO2e) 2 Total gross indirect greenhouse 9,654 11,325 13,249 4 10,288 gas emissions – scope 3; business travel (tonnes CO2e) 2 Gross carbon footprint 25,299 27,214 27,876 4 24,504 (tonnes CO2e) 3 Employees involved in pro bono 39 37 39 4 50 and community investment programmes (per cent) Total hours contributed to 51,498 60,878 79,105 4 N/A pro bono and community investment programmes Total community contributions (£m) 8.96 10.48 15.46 4 N/A including management costs Participation in UK 5 5 5 10 payroll giving (per cent) Turnover (£m) 1,177 1,229 1,278 N/A Profit per equity Partner (PEP) (£m) 0.94 0.94 1.65 N/A 1. Per capita figures include contractors. 2. 2011-12 and 12-13 data has been restated using DEFRA’s carbon factor. 3. Calculated by Corporate Citizenship using DEFRA’s carbon factor. 4. This data has been independently assured by Deloitte LLP. Data was estimated for six sites. Parts of the data were estimated for electricity (Washington, Amsterdam); fuel diesel (Milan); and gas (Berlin, Dusseldorf, Munich). 11 UN Global Compact (UNGC) We have been a proud participant of the UNGC since March 2009. As a result, we are required to report on how we have advanced the 10 principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption within our sphere of influence. This Responsible Business Update Report 2014 also acts as our annual communication on progress. Issue UNGC principle Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 12 Reporting and independent assurance This report includes data covering the period 1 May 2013 to 30 April 2014. For more information please see our Basis of Reporting, which outlines the scope and calculation methodology of each of our KPIs www.freshfields.com/cr/. This document also identifies the indicators where methodological or estimation changes have impacted upon our reported KPIs. We have sought external assurance selected performance indicators for our CR reports since 2007–08. contained within this Report. A copy of their Independent Deloitte LLP has issued an unqualified Assurance Statement is available opinion using limited level assurance at www.freshfields.com/cr/ in accordance with ISAE3000 on External Recognition 2013–14 Winner in the Work Inclusion category Listed as a Top 100 employer in the 2014 for our Ready for Work programme (London) Stonewall Workplace Equality Index Awarded ‘CSR Initiative of the Year’ in the London Office Operations only. British Legal Awards for our pro bono work LRQA are our UKAS accredited assessor tackling youth homelessness 13 freshfields.com This material is provided by the international law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP (a limited liability partnership organised under the law of England and Wales) (the UK LLP) and the offices and associated entities of the UK LLP practising under the Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer name in a number of jurisdictions, and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer US LLP, together referred to in the material as ‘Freshfields’. For regulatory information please refer to www.freshfields.com/support/legalnotice. The UK LLP has offices or associated entities in Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, China, England, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Russia, Singapore, Spain, the United Arab Emirates and Vietnam. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer US LLP has offices in New York City and Washington DC. This material is for general information only and is not intended to provide legal advice. freshfields.com © Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, January 2015, 02262
