1i MASTER COMPONENTS PVT LTD Use of Company Computers It is each employee's responsibility to safeguard proprietary company information. Each employee of the company should not give his/ her User ID or Password to anyone. Employees should log off all systems at the end of every business day or when a workstation is left unattended for an extended period of time. It is forbidden to copy or install any illegal software onto company computers. The company provides access to Electronic Mail and the Internet as business tools. These facilities represent considerable commitment of company resources for telecommunications, networking, software, storage, etc. All existing company policies apply to code of conduct while sending and receiving electronic mail and accessing websites through the Intemet. In addition, sexually explicit material may not be archived, stored, or distributed using company-owned computing resources. If any employee receives an inappropriate electronic mail, he/she should delete it immediately and notify the sender. The following list identifies each system that monitors activity and the type of information it monitors: Computers the network operating system records the following: a Date and time of login/logoff, and the location of the computer used to access network. a Date and time a software application is accessed, documents accessed, and how much is typed. In additioq the system allows network adrninistrators to access all documents and to restore some deleted documents. Electronic mail (e-mail) the system allows network administrators to access a[[ e-rnail files and messages composed, sent, or received by employees. Telephones the telephone system records telephone numbers dialed from the telephone. The company reserves the right to retrieve, monitor, or review any information in its electronic or communications systems, including deleted messages or files as allowed by federal and state laws. If the company reasonably believes that employee(s) is/are engaged in illegal activity or misconduct, the company may use electronic monitoring to produce evidence of that activity. {
