Sustainability Report S u st a i n a b i l i t y Re p o r t 2 014 C h i na, Huaneng a u t i ful utiful Be Bea Chi na Huaneng Gro up We are supporter of Global Compact about This Report Declaration on Sustainable Development Reporting Period Jan 01, 2014-Dec 31, 2014. This report also includes additional content and information that pre-dates the stated reporting period. Reporting Cycle Our report is annually published around the month of May. Persist in contributing to society and benefiting the people, so as Persist in relying on employees and working with the public to Persist in pursuing operational performance in a rational way, so Persist in scientific development and technological innovation, Persist in serving national interests and development strategies, This edition is the ninth report released since 2006. Main Contents This report outlines our performance in 2014 on safety, environmental, economic and social issues. It includes information and typical cases from documents, statements and information platforms of the Company and its grassroots-level enterprises. Compilation Conformance Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 3.0) develop the enterprise so as to set an example in putting people as to set an example in promoting harmony between enterprises so as to set an example in building a resource-conserving and so as to set an example in promoting economic and social The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility Guidelines on Social Responsibilities of Chinese Industrial Enterprises and Industrial Associations to set an example in practicing social ethics. References to China Huaneng Group In this report, “Huaneng Group”, “Huaneng”, “CHNG”, “the Company” and “we” refer to the “China Huaneng Group”. Online Access to the Report first and sharing benefits. and society. environmentally-friendly society. development in all respects. The report is prepared and released in Chinese and English. For more information, please go to our website: http//www.chng.com.cn. Tel: +86-10-63228800/8811 Email: hncsroffice@chng.com.cn Address: NO.6 Fuxingmennei Street, Xicheng District, Beijing Postcode: 100031 Scan QR code to access to the introduction pages of this report on WeChat 3 3 74 Our Commitment to Responsibility in 2015 Contributing to Social Welfare Join Hands with Partners to Achieve a Win-win Outcome Caring for Employees 64 Social Responsibility Protecting Ecological Environment Promoting Technological Innovation Tapping into Energy Conservation Potential Strengthening Carbon Asset Management Improving Clean Production Developing Clean Energy 48 Environmental Responsibility Globalizing Business Strengthening Supervision and Control Consolidating Our Management Basis Increasing Profitability Enhancing Comprehensive Strength 34 Economic Responsibility Improving Emergency Response Capabilities Emphasizing on Safety Education Strengthening Equipment Management Improving Safety Management System 22 Safety Responsibility CSR Management Corporate Strategy Management System Organization Structure Industrial Distribution Company Profile 12 CONTENTS About Us Huaneng’s Sustainable Development in 2014 10 Special Feature Key Performance Huaneng’s Sustainable Development Mode Message from the Company 2 Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Message from the Company President Xi Jinping has called for more efforts to revolutionize energy consumption, energy supply, energy technology and energy system, and strengthen the international energy cooperation, which has been a beacon to the sustainable development of energy enterprises. In the current and future periods, Huaneng, as an electricity-based integrated energy group, will take it as a central task to promote sustainable development. At present, China’s economic development is experiencing mind our economic, political and social responsibility, and profound changes, from focusing on growth scale and speed adhere to the general principle of seeking progress while to its quality and efficiency. Its focus has changed from the maintaining performance stable. To this end, we will focus increase of production capacity to the adjustment and good on the enhancement of competitiveness in management, use of existing and incremental capacity, and from traditional customer-oriented operation and market-based development. growth points to the development of new growth areas. Under We will further strengthen production safety and environmental the “new normal” of economic development, energy, resource protection, and promote the construction of safety management and environment remain the core issues hindering sustainable system and build a resource-saving and environmental4 development. This shows that energy industry has much work friendly enterprise. Besides, we will do whatever is necessary 5 Cao Peixi Huang Yongda to do in this respect. Mr. Xi Jinping, President of China, has to improve benefits through strengthening operational President of China Huaneng Group and Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee and instructed that we should make more efforts to revolutionize management and paying special attention to key elements, Vice Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee Vice President of China Huaneng Group energy consumption, energy supply, energy technology key points and difficulty. We will accelerate the industrial and energy system, and strengthen the international energy transformation and upgrading through the strategic guidance, cooperation. His important instruction has pointed out the benefit-oriented policy and optimal power source structure, direction for the sustainable development of energy companies. industrial structure and development layout. We will raise In the current and future periods, Huaneng, as an electricityindependent innovation capacity by innovation-driven Energy constitutes an important foundation for economic and social development of a country. President Xi Jinping stresses that based integrated energy group, will take it as a central task in development and improve management through the in-depth energy security is an overarching and strategic issue related to the national economic and social development, to the national promoting sustainable development. reform and the management of enterprise by laws. We will also prosperity and development, to the improvement of people’s lives and the essential stability in society. Faced with the new changes reinforce team building and education program. We will be adamant in advancing sustainable development, in the pattern of energy supply and demand and the new trend in international development of energy, we must promote energy Responsibility implies driving force and development creates establish the senses of risk, opportunities and innovation, and revolution to safeguard national energy security. This is an inevitable requirement for energy industry to achieve sustainable bright future. We will unswervingly implement the national pay greater attention to the improvement of development quality development. energy development strategy, practice our declaration on and benefits to promote a stronger and better enterprise. We Over the past few years, China Huaneng Group has strived to ensure national energy security, has borne in mind its economic, will put more efforts in increasing market competitiveness sustainable development and stick to our sacred duty to ensure political and social responsibilities and has provided sufficient, clean and reliable power. In 2014, we followed the leadership of to consolidate and maintain our leading position, focus on national energy security. While joining hands with stakeholders the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, persevered in our objective of building an internationally competitive company structural adjustment to optimize the allocation of enterprise for common development, we will be committed to being a focusing on better development quality and efficiency and faster industrial transformation and upgrading, and implemented the resources, and lay more emphasis on reform and innovation to responsible corporate citizen and the practitioner and promoter CPC’s mass line education and practice requirement. Motivated by them, we persisted in transforming development modes, making release more vitality. We will also strive to manage enterprise of sustainable development. By doing so, we will make new and structural adjustment, promoting growth and creating the first-class enterprise, which has led to our great progress in production by laws, control risks and ensure law-abiding operation through greater contributions towards building a prosperous society. and operation. Specifically, we greatly increased comprehensive strength and achieved the world’s largest installed capacity. stringent management. On top of that, we will focus more on We continually increased the proportion of low-carbon clean energy by new breakthroughs in structural adjustment, further strictly following political rules and disciplines, and resolutely reduced energy consumption per unit generation and kept emission reduction of SO2, NOx, dust and other pollutants through combat all corruption to ensure the healthy development of our unprecedented efforts. We achieved continuous improvement in management and put our economic benefits to a new high. enterprises. Consequently, we have stepped forward towards building a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness. 2015 marks the year for China to end the Twelfth Five-Year Plan and lay out the Thirteenth Five-Year Plan, and the year for Huaneng to celebrate its 30th anniversary. We will always adhere to the mission of “three Color Corporation”, bear in May, 2015 Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Management Team Huaneng’s Sustainable Development Mode Transforming and Upgrading Striving to Create the Best Safety Responsibility evelopment Safe D Government t O en pt pm Staff and im al hy D Investors De eve vel lo 6 opm 7 Healt Envir Culture ent Social Groups onmental Responsibility sponsibility Clients omic Re and Organizations Ma gy nag ate em Str ent Inno Community ent Econ vat and the Partners pm ive De Public elo ev ve nD lop Counterparts ee m en t Gr Harm onious Development Cao Peixi, President of CHNG and Vice Secretary of the CPC Liu Guoyue, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee (third from left in the front row) Huaneng Committee (first from right in the front row) Huang Yongda, Secretary of the CPC Huaneng Committee and Sun Zhiyong, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Social Responsibility Vice President of CHNG (third from right in the front row) Huaneng Committee (second from left in the back row) Zhang Tingke, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the Zhao Jianming, Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee and CPC Huaneng Committee (second from left in the front row) Discipline Inspection Group Leader (second from right in the back row) Guo Junming, Chief Accountant of CHNG and Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee (second from right in the front row) Ye Xiangdong, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the Building a world-class company with international competitiveness CPC Huaneng Committee (first from left in the back row) that regards power generation as its core business, coal Kou Wei, Vice President of CHNG and Member of the CPC Huaneng Committee (first from left in the front row) Liu Wencheng, Chief Economist of CHNG (first from right in the development as its foundation, finance as its supporting business, back row) and technology as the driving force, while synergizing various industries. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Key Performance Safe Development 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Healthy Development 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Major equipment accident (times) 0 0 0 0 0 Power output (100GWh) 5,376 6,046 6,092 6,493 6,461 Ordinary equipment accident (times) 0 6 1 3 2 Total assets (100 million Yuan) 6,624 7,532 7,950 8,552 9,282 Casualty-causing accident (times) 1 1 1 2* 6* Total revenue (100 million Yuan) 2,280 2,682 2,798 2,932 2,921 First class equipment failure (times) 54 62 52 55 40 Tax paid (100 million Yuan) 173 196 261 328 332 Unplanned outages (times) 83 91 89 86 71 Total profit (100 million Yuan) 78 61 140 236 268 Equipment utilization ratios (%) 94.87 94.17 94.46 94.58 94.52 Performance evaluation by SASAC (Grade) A A A A A Optimal Development 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Innovative Development 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Installed capacity (10MW) 11,343 12,538 13,508 14,224 15,149 Total number of technicians (People) – 1,170 2,017 2,202 2,325 Including: Hydropower (10MW) 1,082 1,133 1,417 1,835 2,045 Number of experts from Recruitment Program of Coal-fired power (10MW) 9,776 10,672 11,235 11,356 11,867 Global Experts (People) 3 6 7 8 7 8 Wind power (10MW) 484 726 848 973 1151 National patents (items) 47 45 96 83 166 9 Solar PV (10MW) 1 6 8 60 85 Including: Patent for invention (items) 15 22 28 29 27 Coal production capacity Scientific achievement award (10 thousand tons/year) 6,412 6,817 7,817 8,464 8,660 at or above provincial level 19 9 9 20 10 Coal output (10 thousand tons/year) 4,886 6,406 6,858 7,156 7,418 Harmonious Development 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of staff (People) 131,816 13,3270 136,510 137,779 139,780 Green Development 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of female staff (People) 27,088 31,384 32,636 32,696 35,047 Low-carbon clean energy Signing rate of labor contracts (%) 100 100 100 100 100 installed capacity (10MW) 2,003 2,397 2,830 3,504 4,100 Signing rate of collective Proportion of low-carbon clean contracts (%) 100 100 100 100 100 energy (%) 17.70 19.12 20.95 24.64 27.10 Rate of participation in the Specific coal consumption (g/kWh) 322.72 318.68 316.52 312.89 310.00 Labor Union (%) 100 100 100 100 100 Station service power Rate of physical examinations (%) 100 100 100 100 100 consumption rate (%) 5.22 5.08 4.83 4.59 4.40 Donations (10,000 Yuan) 10,770 4,603 7,439 11,425 8,188 Slag and ash utilization rate (%) 74.15 76.34 77.08 78.14 79.50 Number of volunteers among Water consumption per unit employees (person-times) 25,600 43,500 51,000 63,800 71,700 power generated (kg/kWh) 1.30 1.28 1.25 1.22 1.15 (Note: “-” means no statistics of that year, “*” means the data from coal industry is included.) Special Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Huaneng’s Sustainable Feature Development in 2014 In 2014, we proactively adapted ourselves to the new normal of economic development, firmly transformed development mode, improved development quality and benefits, and push forward the green, clean and conservation development. As a result, we further increased our profitability, competitiveness and sustainable development capabilities. Significantly improved overall strength Hezhang Jiucaiping Wind Farm ◆ Installed capacity reaching a new stage Marked by the completion of Unit 2 in Changxing Power Plant, our installed capacity exceeded Total installed capacity 151GW, becoming the world's largest power generation enterprise. We have further enhanced our ability to fulfill our responsibility for economic Greatly reducing the emission of Investment in retrofit for heat supply, energy 10 exceeded and social development. pollutants conservation and 11 151 GW ◆ Profitability reaching a new height We made effective response to market challenges and made scientific coordination of coal, electricity, ◆ Unprecedented effort in emission reduction Our annual investment in environmental protection reached Profit reached capital and other operating elements to control cost, increase output and income and turn loss into gain. In 2014, we achieved the annual retrofit for heat supply, energy conservation and environmental protection conversions reached a new record of 15.3 billion CNY. We promoted 15.3 billion CNY 26.8 profit of 26.8 billion CNY, reaching a new height. environmental protection and have significantly reduced our impact on the environment. billion CNY Structural adjustment further ◆ Energy consumption decreased significantly We achieved specific The emission of pollutants achieved year-on-year coal consumption of 310 g/kWh, a year-on-year decrease of 2.89 optimized g/kWh, and station service power consumption rate of 4.4%, 0.19 decrease percentage lower than last year, maintaining a leading level in The emission of SO2 dropped by ◆ Rapid increase of “clean” low-carbon production Our installed capacity the world. Based on the annual power output, we reduced coal Clean energy capacity reached of low-carbon energy reached 41GW, accounting for 27.1% in total consumption of 1.55 million tons per year, saving electricity of 1,128 million kWh. A great number of our power plants have been ranked 33 % 41 installed capacity, up by 2.4% over the previous year. by national organizations as excellent energy-conservation and GW ◆ Increased development capacity Out of the newly-approved, newlyThe emission of NOx environmentally-friendly enterprises. dropped by built and newly-operated projects, low-carbon energy projects 32 ◆ Emission of pollutants reduced greatly In our coal-based units, the installed The proportion of clean accounted for over 54%, 79% and 74% respectively. energy rate of dust removal, de-sulfurization and de-nitration facilities reached % ◆ Optimization for coal-based projects Over 70% of our units are CHP 100%, 100% and 94% respectively, with a high level of management and 27.1 (combined heat and power) units or supercritical and ultra-supercritical The emission of dusts operation. The emission of SO2, NOx and dusts dropped by 33%, 32% and % generating units with single capacity of 300MW or above. dropped by 21% over the previous year, maintaining a leadership position in the industry. 21 % 01 About Us Committed to building a world-class enterprise Beijing The development index Total installed capacity Fortune Global 500 of social responsibility 151 GW Ranking No. 5 -star the largest in the world 221 level Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Company Profile China Huaneng Group is a key state-owned enterprise approved by the State Council. The Company is engaged in the following CHNG is committed to building itself into a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness. By the end of 2014, the businesses: development, investment, construction, operation and management of power sources; production and sale of power Company had total installed capacity of 151GW, with assets distributed all over China and overseas. The Company is also engaged (heat); development, investment, construction, production and sale of business and products related to finance, coal, transportation, in sectors of coal, finance, technology R&D and transportation, etc. that support the core business of power. The Company was the renewable energy and environmental protection; industrial investment, operation and management. first Chinese power producer to be enlisted in the rank of Fortune Global 500 in 2009, ranking 221st in 2014, while 231st in 2013. During its years of development history, CHNG has provided rich experience in the reform, development and technological innovation for the power industry and has played an exemplary role in improving enterprise management and increasing economic Ranking in Fortune Global 500 benefit for power enterprises. Also, the Company made a great contribution in meeting power demand for economic and social growth, as well as in maintaining and adding value to state-owned assets. 313th 276th 246th 231st 221 st in 2010 in 2011 in 2012 in 2013 in 2014 Industrial Distribution Coal Industry Technology Industry Our annual production 14 capacity was 86.60 million Our principal scientific research 15 tons in 2014, and our coal and development system consists output was 74.18 million of seven national key laboratories tons. (R&D centers), two scientific research bases and several company-level laboratories. Power Industry Power is the core business of the Company. In 2014, we had wholly-owned and holding power plants with 151.49GW of installed Transportation capacity in total and 646,100GWh of Industry electricity generation. Ports that we wholly own or control had Financial Industry a handling capacity Our financial enterprises cover of 55.62 million tons capital services, securities, per year, and our insurance and trust, etc. The shipping fleets had a assets under management shipping capacity of exceeded 600 billion CNY. 2.11 million DWT. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Organization Structure Management System Departments of the Headquarters Following the “three-color” corporate mission and focusing on building a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness, Huaneng continues to improve the “three-level management system” comprising of the “headquarters – regional companies/ General Administration Department Finance Department International Cooperation Department industrial companies – grassroots-level enterprises” and the performance evaluation system focusing on safety, operation, (News Center) Department of Capital Operations and Equity Management Human Resources Department development and party building, so as to make solid progress in management and constantly improve the scientific management Department of Planning and Development Department of Safety Supervision and Production Office of Retiree Affairs level. Department of Budget and General Planning Department of Science and Technology and Environmental Protection Supervision Department Management Principles Department of Corporate Governance and Legal Affairs Engineering Department Auditing Department Adhering to the maximization of Department of Operations Material Department Department of Ideological and Political Work the Company’s overall interests Adhering to the separation of ownership Labor Union Working Committee Led by budget and the management authority Production Operation Benchmarking as the mainline Adhering to the unification of Safety safety safety Business Departments and Professional Office Performance Performance Management responsibilities, rights and interests Political safety Image safety Responsibility system as the carrier Power Development Business Department Coal Business Department Shale Gas Development and Utilization Office Performance Assessment Linking performance with Headquarters remuneration Nuclear Power Business Department Coal Chemical Management Office Operating Financial level Business level Strategic Planning Decision-making Center for Center Investment and Financing Performance Benefit level Units Directly under China Huaneng Group Debugging and Continuous Benchmarking error correction improvement Resource Allocation Performance Technical Economics Research Institute Talent Base Construction Office Management Continuous breakthrough Center Management Center CPC China Huaneng Group Party School Decision-making Center for Preliminary work (Education and Training Center) Major & Important Issues Development IT Center (Talent Base Construction Management Center) Performance Engineering work Industrial Companies Deepening the reform of Regional Companies/ professional management Professional systems in such fields as Industrial Companies 16 Huaneng International Power Development Huaneng Energy and Transportation (Holding) Co., Ltd. Huaneng Integrated Industries Company Management renewable energy, fuel, coal, Responsible for Development, Construction, Party Ideology/Organization/System 17 goods and materials, nuclear Production and Operation Activities Building Corporation (HIPDC) power, coal chemical industry, Performance Anti-corruption Democratic science and technology, etc. Profit-earning Center management GreenGen Co., Ltd. Huaneng Coal Industry Co., Ltd. Huaneng Properties Co., Ltd. Huaneng Power International Inc. (HPI) China Huaneng Group Fuel Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Hong Kong Co., Ltd. Grassroots Companies Huaneng Overseas Enterprises Management Responsible for Safe Cost Control Center Huaneng Renewables Corporation Huaneng Capital Services Co., Ltd. Production and Service Co., Ltd. Huaneng Nuclear Power Development Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Clean Energy Technology Research Institute Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute Co., Ltd. China Huaneng Group Technology Innovation Center Corporate Strategy Regional Branch Companies Transforming and Focus on optimizing and adjusting the power structure, industrial structure and regional distribution. Concentrate on the development of China Huaneng Group North China Branch China Huaneng Group Shanxi Branch China Huaneng Group Hunan Branch renewable energy, highly-efficient and clean use of traditional energy and energy service. Eliminate backward production capacity and build Upgrading Strategy a synergistic and efficient industrial system. China Huaneng Group Northeast China Branch China Huaneng Group Jiangsu Branch China Huaneng Group Hainan Branch Technology Persist in supporting the core business while being geared to the needs of production, the leading edge and industrialization; improve China Huaneng Group East China Branch China Huaneng Group Zhejiang Branch China Huaneng Group Chongqing Branch technological innovation system and mechanism; enhance the capacity of independent innovation and research on international Innovation Strategy China Huaneng Group Central China Branch China Huaneng Group Anhui Branch China Huaneng Group Yunnan Branch cutting-edge technology to lead technological progress of the power industry. China Huaneng Group South China Branch China Huaneng Group Fujian Branch China Huaneng Group Qinghai Branch Green Intensify our effort in the development of low-carbon and clean energy and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and pollutants; rely on Development technological progress and scientific management and develop the circular economy to constantly improve the level of energy conservation China Huaneng Group Northwest China Branch China Huaneng Group Jiangxi Branch China Huaneng Group Guangxi Branch (Preparatory Office) Strategy and environment protection. China Huaneng Group Hebei Branch China Huaneng Group Henan Branch China Huaneng Group Guizhou Branch (Preparatory Office) Based on global perspective, speed up the pace of “going global” and deepen international exchange and cooperation; allocate the International Operation resources of capital, talent and markets effectively; gradually expand the business abroad and strengthen the operational supervision and Regional Subsidiaries risk prevention to improve the level of international operations. Strategy North United Power Co., Ltd. Huaneng Sichuan Hydropower Co., Ltd. Huaneng Ningxia Energy Co., Ltd. Operation Give full play to the supporting role of scientific management through constantly improving the whole process management of production Huaneng Lancang River Hydropower Co., Ltd. Huaneng Jilin Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Gansu Energy Development Co., Ltd. Excellence and operation, marketing, financial costs and project construction, effectively integrating economic factors and system resources, and Strategy continuously improving the profitability and management of the Company. Huaneng Hulunbuir Energy Development Co., Ltd. Huaneng Heilongjiang Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Tibet Power Generation Co., Ltd. Talent-Intensive Stick to the “Scientific Outlook on Development” as the overall guidance in the recruiting and management of talents through constantly Huaneng Shandong Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Shaanxi Power Generation Co., Ltd. Huaneng Xinjiang Energy Development Co., Ltd. improving the incentive mechanism for fostering, attracting, employing and managing talents, while positively developing high-end, Strategy complex, innovative and international talent team to support the Company’s development. Units Directly Managed by China Huaneng Group Huaneng Shandong Shidaowan Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. Huaneng Hainan Industrial Co., Ltd. Harmonious Operate the business according to laws and regulations. Strengthen the construction of corporate culture through wholeheartedly relying Development on employees in conducting the business and actively performing corporate social responsibilities, while enhancing the economic, social Huaneng Shidaowan Nuclear Power Development Co., Ltd. Huaneng Tendering Co., Ltd. Strategy and environmental value creation capabilities and shaping Huaneng’s good image to build a harmonious enterprise. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Our Social Responsibility Work Planning (2013-2015) CSR Management CSR Strategy In 2015 CSR Culture In 2014 CHNG is committed to building a Red company serving the needs of socialism with Chinese characteristics; a Green company In 2013 Select excellent cases performing social Establish a research base for social responsibility; advocating technological innovation and environmental protection; and a Blue company advancing through innovation and Formulate the plan to advance social Improve the social responsibility responsibility practice; responsibility (2016-2020); internationalization. Building a “three-color” company is CHNG’s corporate mission and core concept in the fulfillment of its management system; Explore the establishment of a public Develop research achievements with domestic Explore the establishment of a social welfare brand with social responsibility; economic, political and social responsibility. influence; responsibility evaluation indicator system Compile sustainable development reports Enter into the excellent group in social and data-driven platform for material in specific fields. responsibility evaluations by authorities. collection; Conduct activities for establishing “pilot harmonious enterprise”. is the essence of the Company and the foundation for our mission. The construction of a Red company is our fundamental attitude and spirit, the concentrated embodiment of our efforts to the national Core Issues Red economic development, social progress and people’s higher living standards, as well as the reflection Responding to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (G4), Chinese Academy of Social Sciences CASS 3.0 and other standards and of our responsibilities. initiatives and combining the actual situation of enterprise, we have identified CSR core issues to clear major social responsibility symbolizes the coordinated development and harmonious progress between human and natural issues, scientifically determined the content boundary of the report, disclosed social responsibility practice and performance and environment. The construction of a Green company manifests our humanistic values and scientific answered the concerns of stakeholders. Green attitude to advocate science, respect talents, focus on technology, protect environment and promote the sustainable development of society. Mainline Issues General Issues General Issues Corporate Issues Source of 18 Issues ·ISO26000 ·International standard and trend ·Power enterprises at home and abroad ·Corporate development plan 19 ·G uideline on Fulfilling ·National policies and requirements ·Coal enterprises at home and abroad ·Corporate vision and mission is the basic color of the logo. It implies that we will develop our business through keeping pace with Social Responsibility by ·The focuses of social opinions ·Industry-related enterprises ·Corporate work objectives times, striving for innovation, expanding internationally and absorbing the essence of all advanced State-owned Enterprises Blue Identification technologies and cultures in the world, and embodies CHNG’s ability and ambition to coexist with of Issues Issue Pool various enterprises. High ·Environmental protection ·Ensuring power supply ·Supply chain management ·Promoting scientific innovation Relevance for stakeholders Prioritization Priority ·Managing enterprises according to laws ·Company management and control ·Providing high-quality product and service ·Human resource development ·Corporate citizen and charity ·Corporate governance ·Developing renewable energy CSR Planning We follow the guidance of Guideline on Fulfilling Social Responsibility by State-owned Enterprises and Implementation Outline of Approval and Environment Economy Society Power industry Impact on business development Harmonious Development for State-owned Enterprises during the Twelfth Five-Year Plan, persist in our objective of building a worldConfirmation Low Medium High class enterprise with international competitiveness, and implement “one strategy and two plans” to improve our social responsibility. Core Issues CSR Governance CSR Communication The harmonious development The Planning for Improving Social To maintain advanced One Two Overall Strategy strategy to create a worldPlans Responsibility Management and Objective domestically in social We have established a Social Responsibility Management Committee We have constantly improved our trinity CSR information class enterprise. We the Planning for Advancing Social responsibility. We to develop our strategy for social responsibility and our medium communication system to make daily, regular and yearly incorporate harmonious Responsibility Management. Both will achieve and and long-term development program, deliberate over and decide communication with stakeholders. We have also implemented press development strategy into our seven plans have followed the requirements of maintain advanced domestically major social responsibility issues, designate the related management spokesman system, established media open day, and released strategies to create a world-class the implementation outline of harmonious in social responsibility by three department and agency, and take the responsibility for the sustainability reports regularly. Besides, we have set up a special enterprise, integrate it into our top design development and taken the fulfillment of years’ efforts, highlight the role coordination of daily work for the construction of social responsibility CSR column on our website, taken an active part in various CSR of “Creating the Best”, and clear our social responsibility as the carrier to detail the of “Five Examples” of social and harmonious enterprise. We have also developed a three-level exchanges and made effective interactions with stakeholders. By objectives and missions to build CHNG requirements to improve social responsibility responsibility, and improve the social responsibility system comprised of the headquarters, secondary doing so, we’d like to enable all of social sectors to understand our into an enterprise with integrity, humanity management, and clear the key tasks of social Company’s image and social units and grassroots-level enterprises. In this system, the headquarter social responsibility practice and performance. and responsibility and into an honorable responsibility work from 2013 to 2015. influence. has appointed a part-time manager of social responsibility; each brand. secondary unit has set up social responsibility leading groups; and grassroots-level enterprises have also identified departments and staff who are responsible for developing social responsibility activities and reporting the related performance to CHNG. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng CSR Capacity CSR Public Classroom at Tianjin IGCC Power Station CHNG has done a respectable job in the Advancing harmonious development. Based on the fulfillment of social responsibility, construction of exemplary harmonious we deepen the construction of harmonious enterprises and build demonstration unit for On April 25, 2014, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences “CHNG Tianjin IGCC Demonstration Plant has done its best enterprise and the implementation of harmonious enterprises. In eight demonstration units including Huangtai Power Plant organized “Sharing Responsibility – CSR Public Classroom in scientific innovation, environmental protection and social Program on Harmonious Development and Tongliao Wind Power Farm, basing on their different sectors, working foundation (the 4th session)” activity at Tianjin IGCC Demonstration responsibility.” Strategy of State-owned Enterprises and external environment, we refined the objectives and requirements into concrete Plant. During the activity, the manager of the plant During the 12th Five-Year Period. —— A trainee from the 4th CSR Public Classroom measures and formed lots of useful experience and practices. The SASAC and other introduced to a crowd of more than 120 trainees what We have also explored and enriched agencies spoke highly of our efforts in the construction of harmonious enterprises. CHNG has done and achieved in recent years in the the effective ways to strengthen CSR development of “green” coal generation technology, in construction and set a worthy example Intensifying CSR training. We continued to carry out social responsibility training the research of advanced energy technology and in the for state-owned enterprises. programs through inviting experts and scholars to train our employees on social construction of demonstration projects. responsibility management, practices and indicators, and helped them embed social —— Houjie, Deputy Director of Research Trainees visited the centralized control center, air responsibility into their management and business so that they could develop social Bureau, SASAC of the State Council separation, gasification, and power generation areas to responsibility work in an in-depth and effective manner. learn more about the principle of IGCC power station, operating condition and development prospects. They Conducting theoretical research. We combined our theoretical research with the were profoundly impressed by CHNG’s actions in specific practices from within the power generation industry by engaging in the spearheading cleaner coal generation technology and discussion and formulation of domestic and overseas social responsibility standards, earnest social responsibility. studying social responsibility issues, supporting the activities organized by UN Global Compact and the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, and participating in the social responsibility seminars at home and abroad. In this way, we have laid a solid foundation for deepening our social responsibility practices. 20 Membership in Major Social Group and Organizations 21 Name of Organization Title Name of Organization Title CSR Performance China Center for International Economic Exchanges Standing Director China Association of Chief Financial Officers Standing Director ◆ Our Sustainability Report 2013 was rated as a five-star excellent social responsibility report by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. United Nations Global Compact Member National Association of Financial Market Institutional Investors Standing Director ◆ On November 13, our company was ranked the fifth among Top 300 enterprises and being rated as a five-star enterprise in Association of the Electricity Supply Industry of East Asia and Member China Federation of Industrial Economics Standing Director the Corporate Social Responsibility Blue Paper issued by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, with CSR index of 84.3 the Western Pacific points. State-owned Enterprises Party Building & Ideological and Political Vice Chairman China Corporate Culture Institute Standing Director ◆ On December 3, our Sustainability Report 2013 was awarded “Evergreen Prize for Golden Bee Excellent CSR Report 2014” at Work Seminar the 7th China CSR International Seminar. Vice DirectorVice DirectorChina Electricity Council China Electric Power Equipment Management Association ◆ Our practice of “cultural integration promoting sustainable development of overseas projects” was selected as “Best Practices General General to Promote Social Development and Cooperation in 2014” at the 2014 annual meeting of the Global Compact China Network. China Electric Power Employees Ideological & Political Work Seminar Vice Chairman China Nuclear Society Standing Director Vice DirectorChina Enterprise Confederation & China Enterprise Directors Association Director China Nuclear Energy Association General China Group Companies Association Vice Chairman China International Institute of Multinational Corporations Vice Chairman Baicheng Zhaobei Wind Farm Vice DirectorVice DirectorChina Society for Electrical Engineering Chinese Society for Hydroelectric Engineering General General China Power Supervision Standardization Technical Committee Member China Institute of Internal Audit Standing Director China Association of Work Safety Vice Chairman China Electric Power Construction Association Vice Chairman Vice DirectorChina Association for the Promotion of Industrial Development Director China Information Industry Association General First-class China Supervision Association Power Branch Vice Chairman World Association of Nuclear Operators (WANO) Member China Association of Resource Comprehensive Utilization Vice Chairman China Promotion Consortium for Special Equipment and Energy-saving Vice Chairman CCUS Industrial Tech Innovative and Strategic League Vice Chairman 02 Safety Responsibility Providing reliable energy for economic Major equipment accident Forced outages Equipment equivalent availability factor (%) and social development 0 71 94.52 times % 22 23 Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng ◆ 39 power plants in Xiaowan, Yunhe, Yimin, Shangdu, Dalian, Fuzhou and other locations In 2013 In 2014 completed their production safety systems. 55% of power plants passed company’s First-grade companies Our Action system verification process. 33 40 Stakeholders’ Expectation ◆ All of our subsidiaries standardized their management processes and daily operations  • “We hope Huaneng can establish safety awareness • Further strengthened the construction of the in accordance with the system documents and made continuous improvement in safety while also making a greater contribution to the production safety management system and management. The shareholding companies and Hulun Buir completed a system with stability of production.” consolidated the foundation for production. Second-grade companies complete coverage. • “We hope Huaneng can constantly strengthen safety management, implement safety measures, reduce the non-planned stop and derated output • Made greater efforts in equipment management and inspection of potential hazards and improve our capability of safe and reliable power and heat ◆ Huiliuhe Power Plant, Jialingjiang Company and other grassroots-level enterprises strengthened the information management for system operations and formed a closed-loop 3869 of generation units so that they can generate supply. management system, from production to execution and finally records. electricity in a more secure and reliable way and Third-grade companies • Intensified safety education and training, enhanced meet the demand of economy and society for power 4 10 safety awareness and capacity and ensured the and heat supply.” working safety and health of our employees. Progressing towards Standardization  • “We hope our enterprise will be people-oriented, • Conducted emergency drills in a normalized way, give highest priority to the safety and health of The Company deeply promoted production safety standardization and constantly enhanced our emergency response capability employees and improve production safety.” strengthened organizational leadership, plan management, talent training and culture and prevented the occurrence of emergency and • “As Huaneng has extensive experience in power serious safety accidents. cultivation. We combined the work toward standardization with the construction of production safety, we hope to have more chances production safety management system and safety evaluation and worked to build a long• Paid special attention to the weak links of safety to make mutual communication and learn from each term mechanism for continuous improvement of safety performance. management and improved the production safety other to serve our own company.” management of coal mines. In 2014, our power plants completed production safety standardization and 40 of them reached the first-grade standard. Nantong Power Plant reached the first-grade standardization in its infrastructure construction and the Zangmu, Guoduo and Liangjiang power plants reached the second-grade standardization in their infrastructure construction of gas turbine and other projects. 24 25 Safety Concerns for Outsourcing Projects The safety management of outsourcing projects is the vulnerable link of our production safety management. For this reason, we have strictly executed the Management Method for the Safety of Outsourcing Projects. More specifically, we have incorporated outsourcing Improving Safety Management System companies into our safety production management system, carefully selected outsourcing companies and resolutely cleared those companies with incomplete qualifications, chaotic management and higher occurrence of problems. We have also tightened on-site management and control in the major technical innovation and key areas and links of outsourcing projects to effectively improve the Institutional Construction management of outsourcing projects. We took the institutional construction as the key measure to build a long-term safety mechanism and strived to improve production Our special program to address the safety problems of outsourcing projects safety management. Major practices Key work Achievements ◆ Revised the Regulations of Rewards and Reprimands for Safe maintenance cost of coal-fired units. Electricity Production, the Regulations of Safe Operation in ◆ Implemented the main production ◆ Tightened the bidding management ◆ Put an end to illegal “kick-back” ◆ Revised the technical supervision standards for thermal and safety responsibility of outsourcing and inspection of qualifications bidding and partial or whole subPower Industry and the Management Measures for the Safety to prune and optimize contractor hydro power generation, formulated the technical standard projects; contracting; of Power Generation Enterprise Contracting Engineering in teams; for photovoltaic power generation and its maintenance 2014. ◆ Strengthened the safety supervision ◆ Standardized on-site operation ◆ Fully controlled the safety risks guidelines, and prepared the technical supervision of outsourcing projects; procedures and technical process, on site; ◆ Issued four technological standards for wind farm operation, standard for combined cycle generating units. improve the pre-control measures ◆ Promoted their own construction of at hazardous points and strictly ◆ Enhanced the self-management repair and maintenance and the quota standard for the followed the principles of “no outsourcing companies; of outsourcing companies and monitoring, no work”; the quality of their staff and ◆ Made inspection of unrecognized ◆ Incorporated outsourcing companies thereby significantly improved hazards in outsourcing projects; into the production safety management System Construction the safety management of system and provide them with support ◆ Fostered an enabling environment outsourcing projects; and training; for the positive development of We promoted the construction of production safety in a systematic way, focusing on the quality of our system documentation and ◆ Inspected safety management ◆ Checked 3,500 potential enterprises and their outsourcing made their content in accordance with operation requirements and management practices. We also paid special attention to the problems or risks of outsourcing problems and hazards; companies. projects; implementation and execution of system documentation, with the idea of making the standard a habit and making the habit become ◆ Improved sense of responsibility ◆ Carried out various activities the standard. to enhance comradery with and mission of out-sourced staff. outsourcing staff. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Daily supervision and management Taicang Power Plant’s “Innovative Outsourcing Management Workshop” We continued to strengthen daily supervision and management of equipment through careful In June 2014, Taicang Power Plant established an Innovative Outsourcing statistical analysis of indicators and strict Management Workshop, which is comprised of staff in charge of outsourcing equipment condition monitoring and fault management and the manager of outsourcing companies. This is a useful attempt diagnosis. The industrial/regional companies improved the good working condition of to implement outsourcing management, and also an effective measure to carry out equipment by reduction of equipment defects, the national push to improve the management of outsourcing projects. control of the occurrence of unplanned outage, ◆ Strengthened the team building of outsourcing companies and skill training dynamic inspection of technical supervision and for outsourcing staff, researched the solution to outsourcing management timely rectification of early warning problems and problems and improved the management of outsourcing companies and the unrecognized dangers of equipment. skills of their staff. ◆ We completed dynamic inspection of technical supervision in 19 thermal power ◆ Established a robust mechanism for evaluating, rewarding and reprimanding plants, 5 hydropower plants and 13 wind outsourcing companies, and cooperated with outsourcing companies which farms, followed the rectification of early have excellent qualifications, identify Huaneng’s management concepts and warning problems, and conducted closedconduct stable safety management. The turbine overhaul at Haikou Power Plant loop management. ◆ Explored the effective mechanism for outsourcing management, developed a standardization system, established a comprehensive evaluation system and ◆ Huaneng Renewables Corporation strengthened the management of regular overhaul and electrical pretest, and reduced fan formed outsourcing project management modes that have shown meaningful failure rate by 5% and loss of power failures by 8% over the previous year. 26 results. 27 ◆ 41 power plants in Tongchuan, Hanfeng, Jingangshan, Xiaowan and other places achieved zero unplanned outage throughout Outsourcing companies implement the same safety requirement, same safety the year, and 9 generating units including Taicang No. 4, Rizhao No. 3, Daba No. 3 and Yimin No. 3, 5 and 9 achieved management, same safety requirements for employees and same staff management uninterrupted operation throughout 2013. as the developer’s. ◆ We achieved equipment equivalent availability factor of 94.52% and unplanned outage factor of 0.1%, down by 0.02% over the previous year. Strengthening Equipment Management National Gold-medal Machine Units of Thermal First Prize of National Thermal Power Units Power Generation in Reliability Competition Standardized Overhaul Capacity Prize-winning Units Capacity Prize-winning Units Focusing on improving the reliability of equipment, we implemented the Guidelines to 1,000MW Unit 1 of Haimen Power Plant Unit 4 of Shidongkou II Power Plant Implement the Standard Management of Electric Power Overhaul and improved the The investment in the working condition of equipment through strengthening standardized overhaul management overhaul and modification of Unit 1 of Shidongkou II Power Plant 600MW 600MW Unit 6 of Dezhou Power Plant of generating units and promoting modification of equipment. We inspected the equipment reached Unit 2 of Jiutai Power Plant implementation of the Guidelines in Huaneng Shandong Power Generation Co., Ltd., North Unit 5 of Weihai Power Plant 5.35 Unit 1 of Dalate Power Plant United Power Co., Ltd., Huaneng Heilongjiang Power Generation Co., Ltd. and Huaneng Ningxia Energy Co., Ltd.. billion CNY Unit 2 of Dalate Power Plant Unit 3 of Dezhou Power Plant ◆ In 2014, we completed 410 overhauls of hydro and coal-fired generating units with 300MW Unit 3 of Dezhou Power Plant 300MW Unit 3 of Fuzhou Power Plant C-level and above, achieving daily average maintenance capacity of 8,905MW. The Unit 1 of Shang’an Power Plant excellent rate of overhaul units was 74%, up by 1.5% over the previous year. 29 of 52 Unit 2 of Dalian Power Plant A/B level overhaul coal units achieved continuous operation. The circulating fluidized Unit 8 of Haikou Power Plant Equipment equivalent bed boiler of Unit 10 in Baoyi Power Plant achieved continuous operation for 191 days availability factor reached after overhaul, setting an up time record. Ensuring reliable heat supply ◆ We inspected the overhaul plan and document package of 12 overhaul units including Yueyang No. 3 unit and Shidongkou I No. 2 unit, and checked their implementation of 94.52 % We established and improved heat supply management rules and regulations and strengthened our foundation for heat supply management. Our subsidiaries’ parameter control curve varying with the ambient temperature, detailed operational adjustment overhaul standards to ensure the effective execution of technological supervision mechanism. specification, and strictly enforced discipline on duty to ensure the economical and stable operation of heating network system. We ◆ The power plants in Rizhao, Weihai, Dezhou and other places modularized their overhaul also strengthened the construction of the emergency team and the reserve of emergency supplies, arranged 24-hour emergency plan, material plan, project planning, overhaul package and process and quality inspection maintenance teams during the period of heat supply and enhanced customer management to properly solve their problems in a into their SAP system and realized full-process overhaul standardization management. timely manner. By doing so, we strived to ensure safe and reliable heat supply. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng “Heat current” streaming across the pole of cold in China Genhe city, located in the north of Hulun Buir city of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, is one of the most northern cities in China. As its annual average temperature is minus 6℃ with the lowest temperature of minus 40 or 50℃ , it is also nicknamed the arctic of China. Its heat supply period lasts 9 months. Genhe Thermal Power Plant is the major heat supplier in the city. Since it started heat supply in 2,000, it has increased its heating area from 420,000 m2 to 1.46 million m2. With the increase of heating network capacity, the number of maintenance tasks rose sharply. In each summer, the Power plant inspected and eliminated the unrecognized dangers of equipment. In less than 90 days of overhaul, the workers were committed to maintaining every pipe, each valve and each bolt. They also carried out emergency drills in their 76 distribution stations and across over 30 kilometers of pipeline. During the heating period, the indoor and outdoor temperature difference was nearly 60℃ , and thus they had to scramble to monitor pressure, temperature and flow of the heating network. During 24 hours on duty, they solved problems in a rapid and timely manner. By doing so, they have achieved safe heat supply for 13 consecutive years. Employees from Zhangbei Wind Power Plant Emphasizing on Safety Education 28 Improving Emergency Response Capabilities 29 Safety Education and Training We have implemented our Management Method of Production Safety Training for Employees in Power Generation Company In 2014, we summarized the emergency management systems and rules and revised our Emergency Management Methods of Major and increased our input into safety education and training. We have paid great attention to the training and certificate of safety Events and the related emergency response plan to enhance our capability of preventing and handling all types of emergencies. supervisor, and the pre-examination training and re-education of registered safety engineer, and continued to promote the certification of thermal power, hydropower, wind power technical supervisors in shareholding companies, Huaneng Shandong ◆ The Company departments and subsidiaries carried out Diandong Mining Industry Company and Lancan River Power Generation Co., Ltd. and North United Power Co., Ltd.. Through launching the power technology forum on the internet emergency drills to deal with power failures, geological Company arrived at the disaster-stricken area at first time and making use of this platform, we encourage our electricity technicians to learn from each other and make progress, bringing disasters and fire hazards, and organized the first antiand participated in the rescue and removal of dammed Company to a higher level of expertise. terrorist emergency drill in Beijing Thermal Power Plant, lake danger, which was highly praised by Yunnan which was affirmed by the National Energy Board. Municipal Government. ◆ Hainan Company reduced the losses to the minimum ◆ Huaneng successfully completed the power guarantee task through its early deployment, effective measures and during APEC meeting and other key periods by its careful Huaneng held a variety of safety education and trainings and Huaneng organized technical supervisor training and proper disposal in the face of super typhoon Rammasun arrangement and the strict watch on duty, well-functioning provided special trainings for 650 safety managers. qualification examination for 1,504 persons. and Seagull. organization and measures and the good work of Beijing, Yangliuqing and Shangdu Power Plants. ◆ After 6.5 earthquake hit Ludian county, Yunnan province, 100% of technical supervisors were certified for 11 The number of our registered safety engineers came to thermal power technologies in 10 power plants including 1,008 persons, a year-on-year increase of 32%. Qinbei Power Plant and Shidongkou Power Plant I. Hainan Company Combated the Typhoon Rammasun On July 18, the super typhoon Rommasun moved into Wenchang city, Hainan province, which resulted in continuous storms The Construction of Safety Culture with packing winds of up to a force of 17. Haikou Power Plant suffered severe impacts, leading to failure of transmission lines, the outages at Unit 5 and 8 by water intrusion. The scheduled shutdown of Unit 9 also exacerbated the issue. The Company has attached great importance to the construction of a culture of safety. Through safety oaths, essays, speeches Hainan Company initiated the contingency plan immediately and made proper arrangements for on-site equipment protection, and contests on safety knowledge, we educated and guided our employees to improve their sense of safety and responsibility. evacuation of employees and logistics material support to ensure the safety of personnel and equipment. In the meanwhile, it Moreover, we created a strong atmosphere about safety, and realized the shift from “I was wanted to be safe” to “I want to, I will strengthened technical support and emergency response to ensure the safe and stable operation of Unit 4. It is the full-load and I can be safe” to effectively ensure employees’ and production safety. operation of Eastern Power Plant that provided strong support for the security of power grid. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Overview of the Company’s Production Safety from 2010 to 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 9 mines including Huating Coal Industry reached the national primary standard Major equipment accident (times) 0 0 0 0 0 In strict accordance with Coal Mine Safety Evaluation Method Based on Safety Quality Standardization (Trial) Common equipment accident (times) 0 6 1 3 2 and other relevant regulations, Huating Coal Industry carried out safety quality standardization activities in First-Class equipment failure (times) 54 62 52 55 40 its coal mines to consolidate the foundation for safety management, strengthen safety assurance and meet the Unplanned outages (times) 83 91 89 86 71 post standards in a dynamic and professional manner. On June 25th, Huating, Yanbei, Chenjiagou, Matigou, Xinyao, Equipment equivalent availability factor (%) 94.87 94.17 94.46 94.58 94.52 Xinbai, Jingshigou and Daliu coal mines were rated as the level-I safety quality standard coals mines in 2013. Improving Production Safety in Coal Mines Alarm Bells and Reflection: Failed to achieve the accident-free We continued to strengthen the standardized management of production safety goal in production safety of coal enterprises and carried out the construction of safety management by the implementation of two 7 point guidelines. the prevention of major disasters, the basic construction of safety, the safety management of projects under construction and the In 2014, the Company maintained general stability in production safety and achieved good results, but failed to 30 31 accountability of safety supervision. On this basis, we paid special attention to the effectively prevent accidents. In particular, 6 deaths revealed that our foundation for production safety was still weak vulnerable links in production safety such as gas prevention and strong pressure and and the principle of “safety first” wasn’t fully implemented. The Company investigated the accident, analyzing accident increased related input to improve the production safety in coal mines. causes, extracting lessons from the accident and developing prevention measures, in order to prevent the recurrence of similar accidents. ◆ Formulated the management methods of safety risk mortgage for coal industry, we came up with a 10 point guidelines for gas management and mine fire prevention Analysis of accident causes Improvement measures and control plan. ◆ Carried out “the Year of Special Program to Address Safety Problems of We didn’t effectively implement the principle of instilling Fully implement the Law on Safety Production, improve the responsibility of safety on employees. Some safety responsibility system featuring “the responsibility Outsourcing Projects” and the special campaign “six combats and six companies discussed the staff responsibility system but of the Party and government, one post with dual governances” to crack down illegal production safety practices. they didn’t put it into effective practices or ensure full responsibilities, and equal emphasis and co-administration implementation, nor did they give top priority on safety of production and safety”, and fulfill the main responsibility ◆ Developed Work Plan on Preventing Serious and Major Accidents in Coal Mine, management. of enterprise to ensure the fulfillment of production safety made great efforts in research and prevention of serious disasters in mines responsibility of personnel at all levels. such as flood, fire, gas leakage and strong mine pressure, and controlled the occurrence of major accidents. We didn’t strictly manage outsourcing projects. Draw on the experience from our special programs The proportion of mines Some companies didn’t make strict requirements to address safety problems of outsourcing projects, ◆ Made special inspection of mechanical and electrical transport of coal industry reaching the national Level-I on contractors. Their contractors couldn’t meet the incorporate outsourcing companies and their staff and made special rectification of problems identified, and implemented closedsafety quality standard was Company’s requirements because of inadequate safety into our management to follow the same standards, education, ineffective supervision and administration requirements, training, rewards and punishments, 63 loop management in production safety. inconsistencies. and promote them to shift from passive to active ◆ Diandong Mining Company learned from the accident on September 1st, 2013 % management. and implemented rectification measures until Mine No. 1 of Bailongshan Coal Mine We didn’t fully control on-site safety. The individual Strengthen the control of risks and inspection of passed the inspection of government and restored the building. companies failed to form an effective process control unrecognized danger on site, move its focus to the group a year-on-year increase of because they neither gave complete or targeted and frontline workers, play the role of safety management ◆ Matigou Coal Mine achieved consecutive safe production for 3,934 days and disclosure of safety technology nor strictly enforce system, solve the pending problems in safety supervision Dongxia and Yinmin Coal Mines won the title of “Double Top 10 Coal Mine”. The proportion of coal mines reaching the national level-I safety quality standard was 63%, up by 18.5% over the previous year. 18.5 % management regulations. In addition their staff didn’t have a thorough understanding of safety risks on site. and management, and build a long-term mechanism for safety risk management and control. We didn’t deeply draw lessons from the accident. Some Severely reprimand unsafe practices, learn from the ◆ Effectively prevented and eliminated serious and major accidents and reduced the companies didn’t truly implement the requirement of “An accidents in other companies and industries, and accident in a factory sounds a alarm for all the others, keep high vigilance to all accidents to prevent the mortality rate (in million ton+ coal production) by 0.248 over the previous year, a the hidden danger in a place arouses the vigilance of reoccurrence of unsafe events. level better than the national average. whole country” so that unsafe events reoccurred. Typical Cases Matigou Coal Mine Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Focusing on six fundamental Matigou coal mine is one of backbone mines of Huating Coal Industry Company, a subsidiary of Huaneng. Currently, the mine management tasks to build a has two mining areas, two working surfaces, one fully mechanized mining surface and one tunneling surface. In 2014, the mine produced 1.21 million tons of raw coal. Over past years, the mine has given top priority to production safety in connection with the objective of “creating a intrinsically safe mine”. It consolidated its safety standards and put production as the forefront of its first-class safe mine company culture, on-site management and control and systematic promotion, and concentrating on staff training, mass participation and technology improvements. Focusing on cultural guidance to embed safety concepts into employees’ minds Matigou’s coal mine focused on preventive and pre-control measures, developed and practiced the concept of “Building safety by prevention and strict consequences for violations.” Guided by the characteristic safety concept, the coal mine inspired employees’ wisdom and created a series of distinct production safety concepts. By doing so, employees embedded safety concepts into their mind and enhanced fundamental safety awareness. Reinforcing innovative on-site management and control The coal mine persisted in the implementation of “frontline working”, that is, leaders and managers go into the frontline to command and work, solve problems, sum up experience and deliver results. The coal mine leaders went into the workshop to make on-site inspection during regular shifts and even on Paying great attention to concerted efforts and mass participation weekends, and the team leaders joined the morning, afternoon We gave full play to the role of concerted efforts through security teams, supervisor organizations, youth safety surveillance and night shifts to inspect potential hazards on key projects. posts and family coordinators, and carried out production safety activities among Party members, such as “pilot post”, “top32 In addition, the coal mine focused its work on production and 33 notch pioneer post” and “responsible area for production safety”. Our mass safety supervisors conducted frequent patrols, formed a level-by-level management system. By doing so, they observations, reminders, processes and reports. We also established a detailed working mechanism for selecting, evaluating have assigned the production safety responsibility, its stress and and appointing the leader and member of safety supervision posts, accident and potential hazard alarm sheet, and feedback its implementation to each position of departments at all levels. records of youth safety surveillance post to document safety hazards and supervise rectification. Families of employees Strengthening systematic and stringent management regularly sent well wishes to them at the pit head. The coal mine learned from previous accidents and avoided being caught in a situation of “always putting out fires.” While Focusing on improving and safeguarding production safety by technology concentrating on work procedure, work quality, elimination of In the coal mine, we put great energy into promoting mechanized production through carrying out mechanized mining, unrecognized dangers, education on three violations, quality informative production scheduling and intelligent monitoring and control, and popularizing a number of new technologies, improvement and project quality, it conducted PDCA closedtechnical processes and equipment. This has bettered the underground working environment, reduced labor intensity of loop management through the establishment of action plans. workers and improved production efficiency. More importantly, it has enhanced the capacity of the mine to prevent and Through work procedures and quality, and elimination of potential fight disasters. We also increased investment to build a full-mine safety monitoring system, through which we have realized hazards and other management measures, it ensured that their monitoring and control under the mine and on the ground, industrial video monitoring, automatic transmission and other realmanagement reaches every aspect of production safety. In 2014, time monitoring and early warning systems. In addition, we enhanced the capacity of the mine to resist risks through building the major violations in mine fell by 59.67% and equipment failure the monitoring system for fire prevention and response, nitrogen injection and grouting, personnel tracking, underground rate dropped by 0.8% year on year. communication, online ventilation monitoring and other production safety management systems. Intensifying staff training to improve their competence The coal mine focused on the development of technical talents and established a technology and business training base. It has organized “Job Skill Competition” for 10 consecutive years and built a platform for talented employees. While combining theory with practice in the staff training, they organized the training at different stages, focuses and positions. Through text Relying on advanced technology and excellent management, Matigou Mine has messages, wechat and other channels, it carried out safety trivia activity. It also organized “one helping one”, “the experienced achieved a number of good results. In 2014, it achieve 3,934 days of continuous training the green” for young workers and introduced mentoring program to pass on the experience. It followed the “go out” safe production, the highest record for a single mine in Huating Coal Industry, and strategy and sent staff to other companies, aiming to learn advanced experience, find out its own shortcoming and improve what’s more, it was awarded a number of national honors. technical competence of employees. 03 Economic Responsibility Performing our responsibilities to preserve Total installed capacity Total profit Total revenue and increase the value of state-owned assets 151.49 26.8 29.2 GW billion CNY billion CNY 34 35 Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Stakeholders’ Expectation Our Action · “Under the current economic development, · Advanced the conversion of development mode state-owned enterprises should keep steady and the adjustment of development pattern, growth and facilitate the stable and sustainable focused on the improvement of quality and development of national economy through efficiency to get us stronger and better. focusing on transforming development mode, adjusting structure, promoting reform and · O p t i mi z e d i n d u s t r i a l s t r u c t u r e , e nhanced strengthening management.” industrial collaboration, and worked to increase production and income to achieve maximum · “We hope Huaneng can strengthen risk control, benefit. improve management and profitability, and create better performance to return our country · Paid attention to turning loss into profit, and society.” strengthened supervision and risk control to ensure our healthy and stable operation. · “We hope the Company can conduct integrity management and combat all corruptions in · Targeted the world-class level, intensified accordance with national laws and regulations, benchmarking management and accelerate because this is the foundation for the sustainable the creation of world-class enterprise with development of enterprise.” international competitiveness. · “We expect the Company can actively follow the · Opened up overseas markets and steadily strategy of going global and make use of market implemented a “going global” strategy to improve and resources at home and abroad to compete our international operations. with other word-class enterprises.” Changxing Power Plant 36 37 Enhancing Comprehensive Strength Unit 2 of Changxing Power Plant -Huaneng’s installed capacity exceeds 150GW On December 29, Unit 2 of Changxing Power Plant successfully passed the 168-hour commission period, which not only Enhancing Power Supply Structure responded to national requirements of reducing inefficient projects but also marked the completion of a “green” and modern power plant. At present, the unit is China’s most advanced 660MW coal generating unit. Its successful operation marked We implemented the national energy development strategy and seized the opportunity Huaneng’s controllable installed capacity exceeding 150GW, becoming the world’s largest generation enterprise in terms of of strategic adjustment of energy structure to promote the structural adjustment of installed capacity. installed capacity. To this end, we made adjustment plans and phased out a number Changxing Power Plant is Huaneng’s key construction project during the period of the Twelfth Five-Year Plan, with dynamic of less competitive projects with poor expected earning. We invest resources to more investment of 5.5 billion CNY. In this project, 2 sets of 66MW efficient ultra-supercritical coal generating units were made up effective and strategic low-carbon clean energy resources. We also devoted great of domestic ultra-supercritical boiler and turbine generator. The host parameters are 28 MPa/600℃ /620℃ , the highest among energy to develop hydropower, gas power, wind power, solar, nuclear power and reheat units in China. The generating units adopted the combined armament of steam-drive feed pump, fan, and booster fan other clean energy. Besides, we steadily advanced clean and efficient coal-fired and the latest cutting-edge technology such as additional low temperature economizer, digital bus and square silos, which power project by developing coal-fired units with high-efficiency, large capacity and kept its main economic indicators leading in the industry. We took the lead in adopting flue gas collaborative treatment low emission, and improved the efficient and clean use of traditional energy. technology and kept the emission of main pollutants reaching and exceeding the emission standards of gas turbine. When the ◆ In 2014, our total installed capacity reached 151.49GW, a year-on-year increase project is fully put into operation, it can generate electricity of about 7.2 billion kWh each year, becoming a powerful leverage of 6.5%, accounting for about 11% in China’s total installed capacity. We of power grid in the north of Zhejiang. became the world’s largest power generator, increasing our comprehensive Total installed capacity Main technical indicators of generating unit in 168-hour commissioning strength and improving our ability to serve economic and social development. ◆ Co-generation units and 30MW and above supercritical or ultra-supercritical units accounted for 71.8% of coal units, up by 1.8% over the previous year. 151.49 GW Unit Indicator Coal consumption of Unit Value Unit Indicator Coal consumption of Unit Value g/kWh 277.94 g/kWh 283.80 power generation power generation ◆ Our installed capacity of low-carbon energy reached 4,100MW, accounting for a year-on-year increase of Specific coal Specific coal 27.1% of total installed capacity, a year-on-year increase of 2.4%. The newlyg/kWh 287.34 g/kWh 294.00 6.5 consumption consumption approved, newly-built and newly-operated low-carbon and clean energy projects accounted for 54%, 79% and 74%, respectively. % No. 1 Station service power No. 2 Station service power % 3.27 % 3.50 consumption rate consumption rate Dust mg/Nm3 3.64 Dust mg/Nm3 3.32 SO2 mg/Nm 3 2.91 SO2 mg/Nm 3 5.91 NOx mg/Nm3 13.6 NOx mg/Nm3 15.8 Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Finance Industry Completed projects Approved projects Our financial enterprises highlighted the service and supporting role of the industry via expansion among business fields, in-depth collaboration between industry and The assets under Coal-fired finance, stronger risk monitoring and control, and effective prevention of financial management exceeded power 10 7.58GW 600 Thermal risks. Their operating income created a new record and their managed assets power 14 3.92GW exceeded 600 billion CNY. billion CNY Hydropower 4 4.054GW ◆ Construction of Platform We built a power supplier platform for finance, lease Hydropower 12 2.098GW and wealth management, developed new business channels and new sources for profit growth. In 2014, our financial enterprises obtained 9 new business Gas power 12 0.859GW permits like internet banking pilot and launched 12 innovation financial products. Windpower 33 1.773GW ◆ Integration of resources We drove financial cooperation towards diversified Windpower 48 3.2149GW collaborative development, established China’s first solar industry development fund, integrated industrial resources, and expanded new collaborations for Photovoltaic power 8 0.195GW Photovoltaic power 22 0.627GW the industry and finance. In 2014, the scale of this collaboration serving main production business increased by 8.34% over the previous year. Technology Industry We strengthened the application of innovative and technological achievements, Power projects approved and completed in 2014 and constantly improved industrialized technological development to accelerate the development of technology industry. Throughout 2014, we signed 3,716 technology contracts in the amount of 3.87 billion CNY, and increased profit by 66% over the Number of signed Strengthening Industrial Collaboration previous year. technology contracts 38 39 3,716 ◆ Effective application of technological achievements We accelerated the We continued to follow a power-centered, coal-based and technology-led development research and application of high-efficient and energy-saving technology, and strategy with financial support and industrial collaboration. Moving ahead with the demonstrated and promoted a number of advanced technologies such as wet objective of getting our core industry stronger and better, we gave further play to the dust removal, integrated removal of flue gas pollutants and de-nitration catalyst effect of industrial collaboration through the optimization of coal projects, development regeneration. of resources, expansion of financial fields, in-depth combination of industry and finance, and faster development of technology industry. ◆ Faster promotion of industrialization We strengthened the cooperation of upstream and downstream enterprises in the industry chain, and created assetlight and technology-heavy business model, focusing on the power technological Coal Industry service, the collaboration of social enterprises and the wide integration of social resources to put the development of technology industry on a fast track. We positively reacted to the difficult business situation within the coal industry and optimized the layout of industrial development. To this end, we focused more on the development of coal resources with good reservation and stronger industrial collaboration, and terminated the projects with poor expected economic returns. Faster Application of Technological Achievements ◆ In 2014, our approved coal capacity was 920 million tons per year. Gaotouyao Coal production capacity in Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute Coal Mine was completed and commenced operation and Mine 1 of Diandong 86.6 Bailongshan Coal Mine resumed construction. Our annual production capacity Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute continued market oriented research, spearheading research in production and reached 86.60 million tons, and our coal output reached 74.18 million tons. million tons/year industrialization. It accelerated the research of energy-saving technology, technological integration and promotion of ◆ Our coal output reached 74.18 million tons, a year-on-year increase of 3.7%. The achievements, developed and applied high-efficient energy-saving technology, and reserved key technologies with great amount of coal supplied by our internal suppliers increased by 4.33 million tons, market prospects. It also put more energy into improving technological services for electric power production, and promoted Coal output up by 2.4% over the previous year, further improving the collaboration between the effective conversion of technological achievements into practical applications. By doing so, it has consolidated its leading coal and power industry. Our coal companies like Huating Coal Industry, Liuxiang, and Qinggangping remained profitable in the context of widespread 74.18 million tons position in the field of power plant production technology and services. In 2014, the Institute carried out more than 60 production technology and service projects and put all of them into safe loss in the coal industry of China. operation. It made smooth progress in the development and demonstration of key technologies for power station. In particular, its double reheat technology provided support for power plants in An Yuan and Laiwu and its denitration catalyst regeneration technology was successfully applied to the Eastern Power Plant, significantly reducing the cost of denitration. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Logistics Industry Promoting Capital Operation We set up a port and shipping management department in a fuel We attached great importance to capital operation and included it into company to strengthen the management functions of companybudget management and performance assessment, so as to propel the owned ports and shipping enterprises. We launched a direct coal optimization of equity and industry structures. transportation service to 12 power plants including Luohuang, ◆ Asset integration We completed the asset integration of the Xinbei and Jinggangshan. In addition, we put the advantages of Company and development companies, and injected the equity of imported coal business into good use, and made rational allocation of Fengzhen Power Plant and Monda Company into Inner Mongolia resources, transport capacity and demand of power plants to ensure Huaneng Thermal Power Plant, and listed coal power in the stock market. By doing so, we increased our comprehensive strength internal industrial collaboration. greatly. In 2014, the internal coal transport volume of our shareholding ◆ Equity transfer We increased our proportion of equity by acquisition shipping companies accounted for 34.8% of total volume of seaborne of the development company’s equity held by the other shareholders. coal, and the shipping volume of our shipping companies reached We introduced the additional capital of national nuclear power into 37.6 million tons, a year-on-year increase of 9.8%. Taicang Port Shidaowan nuclear power project, and issued the additional share H of shareholding and Huaneng Renewables Corporation. Phase II and Haimen Port Phase I projects commenced operation. ◆ Asset disposal We disposed inefficient assets of 1.95 billion CNY, shut down and transferred Changchun Biomass Thermal Power Plant, and promoted equity restructuring of Yushe, Qinling, Mengxi, and Haimen Power Plant Shipping volume An year-on-year increase of Haibowan Power Plants and Baotou Thermal Power Plant I. 37.6 million tons 9.8 % Transferring shut-down assets of Changchun Biomass Thermal Power Plant 40 Huaneng has stepped up its pace in the elimination of losses and increase of profits and intensified its efforts in the disposal 41 of inefficient and ineffective assets. Through asset reorganization and liquidation, we have improved asset quality and optimized its asset structure. We closed down the loss-making Changchun Biomass Thermal Power Plant on November 5, Successful trial operation of Taicang Port Wharf 2014, auctioned off its shut-down assets at Beijing Equity Exchange with the final bid price of 116.5 million CNY. We made active communication and negotiation with auction brokerage firm Beijing Equity Exchange. In accordance with On August 5, 2014, Taicang Port Wharf berthed a 70,000-ton and a 50,000-ton coal ship for the first time while also being the evaluated value of asset and the actual condition of capital market, we made listing and delisting plans, determined the able to discharge cargo into storage yards and water transshipment. Noticeably, the berthing of a 70,000-ton coal ship, reasonable listing price and strategy, and made widespread publicity. In the end, we achieved the premium rate of 118.8% and effectively revitalized stock assets. which is 235 meters long, 35 meters wide, and a draft of 11.9 meters, is the largest coal shipment to have been transported through inland waterways to the coastal sea. Its successful berth showed that Taicang Port Wharf has largest loading and unloading capacity among the Yangtze River’s transit terminal. On September 2, the terminal successfully berthed the first 100,000-ton seagoing trade ship, indicating its successful trial operation. Increasing Profitability “Three Gases” Industry Focusing on the increase of production and income We developed Shale Gas, Coalbed Methane, Coal Gasification and other renewable energy sources and took it as an important In 2014, the pronounced slowdown of electricity consumption in society resulted in the growth rate of market demand lower than measure to foster new growth. For this reason, we made preparations for technical support and steadily advanced the exploration that of new installed capacity, surplus electricity production capacity, and significantly decreased power utilization hours. Faced and development of projects. with the current of economy, we strengthened the analysis and study of business situation and enhanced benchmark. While adhering to a strategy of tailoring each plan unique to each plant and implementing the requirements for stabilizing growth, we worked hard to further open up the electricity and heat market and took heat supply as a new measure to increase production Shale gas Coalbed Methane Coal Gasification and income. By doing so, we achieved remarkable results, reducing the losses of power generation enterprises by 7.3% over the previous year. We accelerated the exploration of shale East We channeled great energy in advancing We promoted the preliminary work of of Youyang. After completing the pre-drilling the demonstration project of exploring and Zhundong coal gas project in an orderly way ◆ Consolidating power market Our different industries, ◆ Expanding heating market We issued Heat Supply engineering design and construction and the developing coal bed methane resource in and developed the construction preparation regions and enterprises developed their measures to Management Measures and implemented the measure geological engineering design of well drilling Chongqing and started the exploration of a work steadily, making comparative analysis increase electricity output and income. Our market share of “opening up more heating markets and fostering new of well 1 of Youyang East, we started drilling coal bed methane well in Songzao block. We of gasification technology and similar of power generation was 0.5% higher than that of installed sources of economic growth”. We added another 131.1 on August 20 and completed it on December also promoted the gas control work in east projects, enhancing investigation and capacity and our utilization hours of composite, hydropower million square meters of heating area, increased the heat 14. Now the pre-drilling work of well 2 is of Yunnan and formulated Diandong Surface demonstration of technical lines and starting and coal power led in the industry. In addition, our utilization supply and income by 16% and 28% respectively, and already underway. In addition, we steadily CBM Extraction Plan, aiming to achieve the preparation for project design. hours of coal power were ranked the first place in 12 reduced the losses of heating industry by 140 million push forward the preliminary work of shale environmentally friendly extraction and regions and our growth rate of electricity in 11 regions was CNY. gas exploration in Qianjiang and Yunnan. circular development. higher than the local average level. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Improving Performance Management Asset-liability ratio 82.39 “Trinity” Heating Supply Mode We strengthened the monitoring and execution of key budget elements and made reasonable adjustment of assessment indicators in accordance with the % Linyi Blue Sky Heating Company adopted a trinity different characteristics of finance, technology, coal and other enterprises. We mode to directly supply heat to users. In this way, it also improved performance assessment management, regulated the setting realized full-process management and control of heat of incentives for windfalls to highlight the orientation of value creation and A year-on-year decrease supply from production, then to pipeline transmission, Customer enhance the contribution of value. 0.12 Control Operation Toll Collection Center Team Service Center Center and finally terminal sales. The Company made full In 2014, our combined profit, net profit, EVA and other key performance % use of the advantages of 4 sets of 140MW and 2 sets indicators reached a new high and our asset-liability ratio dropped to 82.39%, of 350MW cogeneration units in Linyi Thermal Power the lowest in recent years. Plant, and took them as the main source of central heating in Linyi city. After completing 229 kilometers of pipelines, 4 relay pumping stations and 202 secondary heat transfer stations, it was responsible Consolidating Our Management Basis Heat Source Heating Network Users Heat Supply Unit Heat supply station, Heat transfer for supplying heat to more than 60% of urban area, station, Relay pumping station heating area reaching 185.7 million square meters Promoting the Creation of the Best and heat users exceeding 150,000. One-stop stable Trinity Heat Supply Mode heating service was greatly praised by society. We formulated the Regulations on Creating the Best and Management Improvements, established an effective mechanism for it, and strengthened the tracking analysis of the overall process of “Creating the Best” to drive these two tasks forward in a stable and 2,932 2,921 sustainable way. 3,000 2,798 2,682 2,280 2,000 42 ◆ We formulated the Guidelines for Enterprises on Planning enhancement of indicators for Creating the Best, put 43 1,000 the Creating the Best, the Examples of Index Database forward improvement suggestions for the problems for Creating the Best in Enterprises and the Formation of reflected by the indicators, and developed improvement Sales Income (Unit: 100 million) 0 Index System for Creating the Best in Enterprises and the measures to realize closed-loop management. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Examples of Index Evaluation. ◆ We organized meetings to plan and promote how best to ◆ We prepared the comprehensive analysis report on develop and move forward. Strengthening Cost Control While firmly establishing the cost control concept of “a penny saved is a penny earned” throughout the Company, we put more energy in strengthening the cost control in the entire production process, tapping into the potential of cost reduction, tightening up Deepening Enterprise Reform Informatization System Construction fuel procurement management, controlling fuel cost, enhancing financial management and optimizing financing structure. By doing so, we achieved tangible results in cost control. We developed guidelines to deepen reform, establish We moved ahead with our objective of improving fine, intensive leadership and special groups for comprehensively deepening and real-time management to promote information system reform and determined objectives, principles and measures by construction and strengthen information security and its 2020. maintenance and management. Fuel Cost Cost Control Financing Cost ◆ We formulated a plan to integrate infrastructure ◆ We formulated the Plan for Promoting Information ◆ We optimized and adjusted ◆ We strengthened budget ◆ We persisted in the strategy construction with material management, completed the Technology Application Projects 2014-2015 and the coal procurement strategy, execution and cost control, by involving a focus on credit and signed multi-year contracts joint operation of development companies and GreenGen Regulations on Information System Management to which the cost of production and securities and a supplement of with large coal mines and three items lowered 4.1% and diversified products, optimized and integrated shale gas, coal bed methane and coalimprove information system construction. strengthened the mediumand 1.4% than the budget. financing structure to lower to-gas management resources to establish specialized long-term cooperation. financing cost. ◆ We put the Online Business Analysis System into ◆ We gave play to the Company’s management. ◆ We intensified the intensive overall advantage, strengthened ◆ We created financing modes, operation, covering more than 30 business entities management of seaborne coal, the centralized fund management explored a variety of financing ◆ We promoted intensive regional management of renewable including company’s headquarter and shareholding maximized the price advantage and achieved fund collection rate channels such as ultra-longof imported coal and got of over 95%. term debt and finance leases energy projects. Huaneng Renewables Corporation in companies, and saw to the online integration of financial refined our imported coal to ensure capital needs. Liaoning completed their integration. Fuel company assets in 148 subsidiaries. business. ◆ We intensified the efforts to collect arrears and clear ◆ We closely followed the realized the direct management of Ruining Shipping ◆ We carried out the research of soft science subjects like ◆ We enhanced internal coal debts. Huaneng Renewables production needs and the Company and the entrusted management of Caofeidian management. 19 power Corporation made encouraging changes of capital market “Research of IT Application in Energy Group” to provide plants including Yingkou progress in the collection of and timely solved problems to Port. support for the construction of an information system. Thermal Power Plant passed CDM arrears. prevent capital risks. the acceptance for fuel ◆ The innovative management achievements of Shandong, management model power Lancangjiang and Huaneng Renewables Corporation plant. were awarded the Prize of 21st National Business Administration Modern Innovation Achievement. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Intensifying Risk Management and Control Strengthening Supervision and Control In 2014, we continued to intensify risk management mechanism and promoted the construction of internal control system. While putting the internal control evaluation into full swing, we established the internal control evaluation and accountability system for the Company and secondary units. In our entire system, we eliminated, revised and established 160 rules and systems, and completed the three-year legal work plan. By doing so, we further improved Making Greater Efforts to Combat Corruption and our legal management system and mechanism, and increased our legal risk prevention capacity significantly. Uphold Integrity ◆ We carried out the risk evaluation 2014, prepared Comprehensive Risk Management Report 2014, and issued Implementing “Two Responsibilities” We issued and implemented and implemented the common internal control evaluation standards for hydropower and renewable energy Opinions of China Huaneng Group Corporation on the Implementation sectors. of Main Responsibility for Improving Party’s Style and Building a Clean Enterprise (Trial) and Opinions of China Huaneng’s Party ◆ We stepped up the construction of internal risk management information platform and started the construction of Group and Discipline Inspection Group on the Implementation of internal control management module in the system. Main Responsibility for Improving Party’s Style and Building a Clean Enterprise (Trial), interviewed the secretaries of Party leadership ◆ We established an appraisal system for legal risk prevention. group (committee) and leader (secretary) of the discipline group ◆ We promoted the application of the online contract system of legal management information system throughout (committee) and made a thorough inspection on the implementation the Company. of responsibility system for improving the Party’s style and building an above board enterprise. Preventing and controlling corruption risks We revised and improved Employees of Huaneng Singapore Tuas Power Ltd. Globalizing Business 741 anti-corruption rules, improved 456 collective decision-making systems including 343 revised ones, and promoted the construction of rules and systems that enterprise officials dare not, can not and do not We proactively adapted ourselves to new situations and requirements, developed the strategy to implement want to entertain the possibility of unethical or questionable business international operations, and improved its management system and mechanism. While paying as much attention to practices. domestic development, we focused more on foreign assets management, risk prevention and benefit improvement to Constructing anti-corruption culture We strengthened law-compliance enhance all-round international cooperation and push international operations to a new level. 44 and warning education, carried out the education and training on Improving 45 professional integrity and ethical quality, and reinforced our anticorruption culture by tracking transactions via 5 indicators Strengthening efficiency inspection We inspected 463 projects, 456 collective decision-making Strategic Guidance We established a leadership group Improved Benefits Based on improving the profitability of Project Development We maintained steady progress in In-depth Cooperation In response to the national OBOR initiative, developed 1,183 regulations and systems, avoided the potential loss for international operations, and overseas assets, we strengthened power the development and construction we expanded international cooperation of 7.6 million CNY, recovered the economic losses of 5 million CNY, systems formulated and implemented the production management of Huaneng of new projects, completing in the energy field, communicated with saved 160 million CNY and achieved an additional economic benefit of Strategy for International Operations Singapore Tuas Power Ltd, Australia Project A of Tembusu Phase II of United States Department of Energy, and the Instructions on Improving the Power Company and International Huaneng Singapore Tuas Power Singapore Economic Development Board 283.4 million CNY. Management System of International Power Company, tapped into the Ltd. and putting it into production, Inspected and other governmental organizations, Operations. We also cleared our potential to reduce cost and increase starting the construction of Grade and exchanged ideas with enterprises in 463 strategic direction, basic principles efficiency, strengthened risk control and II hydropower project on River San, America, Italy, France, Japan, Denmark, Strengthening Internal Audit and tasks, reinforced organizational management, and regulated the disposal Cambodia, and steadily propelling Kazakhstan and other countries to seek and institutional construction, and of inefficient and ineffective assets. the development of projects in cooperation opportunities and increase our guaranteed qualified personnel. By By doing so, we further improved the Mexico, Pakistan, Myanmar and international influence. We put more effort in the economic responsibility audit, infrastructure efficiency inspection projects doing so, we laid a solid foundation for profitability of our overseas assets. other countries. investment audit and special audits and strengthened auditing international operations. supervision. We also promoted the management of enterprises by laws, regulated internal management and prevented operational risks to improve economic benefits. Huaneng Tembusu Coal Power Project -the Successful Model of ◆ Economic Responsibility Audit Our audit agencies at all levels examined 159 leaders at the end of their term, and 102 leaders State-owned Enterprises Going Global during their term. In 2013, Phase I of Huaneng Singapore Tembusu Cogeneration Project -our first large-scale clean coal overseas power ◆ Infrastructure Investment Audit We conducted 232 engineering settlement audit, project completion settlement audit and followThe number of audited plant -was put into operation. In 2014, its Phase II project commenced production. This is the first coal power station we up auditing among various infrastructure engineering, involving a enterprises built in Singapore with our world’s leading technology and experience in the coal-fire power field and built. total investment of 77 billion CNY. ◆ Special Audit We completed 1,039 audits of financial revenues, equipment overhaul, fuel management, internal risk 248 Clean Production Model The emission of CO, NOx, SO2, mercury and solid particles in Tembusu Project is much lower than the emission limits set by Singapore Environmental Protection Department. More noticeably, the emission of CO, SO2 and control, procurement and other special audits, as well as audit investigations. The amount of audited assets mercury kept the same level as natural gas unit and the emission of NOx and solid particles was even lower than that of natural gas unit. 657.5 ◆ Audit Corrective Action We implemented 2,402 corrective recommendations of previous year, corrected 4,359 problems Financing Mode Model We adopted international syndicated loan without recourse for project financing. billion CNY discovered last year, achieved a correction rate of 86%, and Project Operation Model We gave play to the financial leverage effect of market financing, increased return on investment revised and supplemented 333 rules and systems. and achieved positive results. Through Tuas Power, we developed a number of professional talents who are familiar with international market operation rules and good at the management of international operations. Typical cases Shandong Company Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Enhancing three capacities to promote the improvement of quality and efficiency In 2014, Shandong Company moved ahead with its objective of improving intensive production management capacity, lean the standardized maintenance management. It built “one-stop platform” for maintenance management and management capacity and market competitiveness. Through more intensive operation and synergistic effect, it coordinated and incorporated environmental data into real-time production monitoring platform. By doing so, it realized fulloptimized electricity, coal, fund, materials and other operating elements to operate the Company strategically to maximize its benefits. process monitoring of production performance. It also intensified production and management performance assessment and on-line monitoring to ensure the realization of its More importantly, it conducted internal control evaluation, strengthened auditing supervision and efficiency inspection, objectives. In addition, they worked hard to establish its differentiated competitive advantage and maximize its profit through focusing and standardized management of labor force to prevent and eliminate major operational risks. It also improved on conversion and upgrading, putting the existing and additional financial resources to good use, giving equal attention to the standard management and innovative management to provide powerful support for production and management. extension and intension of development, adjusting installed structure, expanding heat supply market and reinforcing capital operation. Focusing on collaboration to improve intensive operation capacity Sharpening focuses to enhance market competitiveness Moving ahead with its core work such as improving net profit, turning loss into gain and maintaining growth, Moving ahead with its focus on differentiated competitiveness and marketing management, the company Shandong Company made overall optimization of operating elements and increased synergistic effect. made differentiated analysis and put the advantages of large-scale high-efficient and clean generating units To control the downside risks in power market, it scientifically organized regional power generation plan, into good use to deal with the actual condition of more small and ageing generation units. It also strived for strengthened the adjustment of power structure, annual electricity plan and improved the utilization hours of units to create both economic and social benefits. and gave priority to large-scale clean and highIt channeled effort toward expanding the heat supply market, focusing particularly on direct supply, to foster efficient generating units. In 2014, the company a new economic growth point. It increased another 9.89 million square meters of heating area and by the end achieved alternative power generation of 585 of the year, its heating area exceeded 100 million square meters. Through strengthening heating business million kWh among power plants. Its utilization management and striving for reasonable heat prices, it increased marginal contribution of heat supply and hours of 60MW generating units were 450 hours, protected its own interests while ensuring heat supply to residents. In terms of fuel cost, it paid great attention 1,056 hours and 1,606 hours higher than 30MW, to competitive price-based procurement, promoted this procurement mode and took advantage of central 20MW and 10MW generating units. Through its procurement of key accounts to effectively control fuel cost. Moreover, it focused on innovative financing, 46 scientific and practical plan on arrangements adopted a variety of financing channels like financing lease to ensure the fund needs of production and 47 of plant operations, it reduced the startup and operation and effectively reduce the cost of capital. shutdown of generating units, a year-on-year In 2014, Shandong Company created a new record in its business performance and increased its profit sharply. decrease of 14 times, saving more than 300 tons Through significant reduction of the loss-making scale among thermal power plants and optimization of the of fuel oil. It also strengthened coal collaborative profit structure, its net asset yield was 0.49% higher than the budget and its EVA increased by 1.312 billion management through building stable fuel CNY year on year. In terms of the Company’s annual performance assessment, its composite score of four supply channels, signing long-term cooperation performance indicators stayed ahead and earned A-level performance. contracts with Yanmei, Jinneng, Yanzhou and other key coal companies, implementing marketbased price adjustment mechanism and promoting unified distribution. In this way, it regulated 1.4 million tons of coal across power plants. Through the coordination of funds and materials management, it worked to meet the needs of production and operation, adjusting internal idle materials of 4.79 million CNY, and maximizing the overall benefit. Strengthening management and control to enhance lean management capacity The company put online business platform into good use, and gave full play to its management and decision-supporting role. It also strengthened the prediction of monthly operating performance and comprehensive budget management to provide effective support for production and operation. By full-process fuel management and nonpersistent fuel data, it aimed to achieve closed-loop management of fuel contracts. In order to mobilize the grassroot-level enterprises, the company improved performance assessment structure, and strengthened the orientation of business objectives. It also focused on the assessment of key performance and the implementation of key measures and applied motivation and reprimands consistently. Besides, it deepened the integration of information technology and management, and promoted 04 Environmental Responsibility Contributing clean energy to economic and Investment in heat supply, energy conservation and environmental Installed capacity of lowcarbon and clean energy Specific coal consumption Station service power consumption rate conversions reached social development 15.3 41 310 4.4 billion CNY GW g/kWh % 48 49 Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Stakeholders’ Expectation Our Action • “We hope for clearer sky’s, safer water, cleaner air • Put great weight behind the development of and better life.” hydropower, wind power, nuclear power, solar and other clean energy sources and promoted the • “In the context of global warming, frequent haze and strategic adjustment of installed structure. other extreme environmental problems, we hope Huaneng can take more actions to cope with climate • Strictly implemented the national environmental laws change and develop clean energy.” and regulations, and put greater energy in the more environment-beneficial conversions of coal units to • “We need more clean energy to meet the demands of further enhance the level of clean production. social development and environmental protection.” • Strengthened adequate management in energy • “We wish to join hands with Huaneng to develop conservation, developed and applied advanced innovative environmental technology and step up energy-saving technology, and strived to produce energy conservation and emission reduction.” more electricity with less coal. • “We hope we have a healthy and green working • Intensified our efforts in technological innovation, environment to discharge our duties in the enhanced innovation and application of cutting-edge construction of beautiful China and beautiful technology, and promoted the conversion of energy Huaneng.” production. • Protected biodiversity, advocated low-carbon life and work and started to protect natural environment from 50 ourselves. 51 Developing Clean Energy Following the guidance of national energy development strategy, we seized the strategic opportunity to adjust energy structure and speeded up the conversion of development Clean energy installed capacity from 2010 to 2014 mode to put great weight behind the development of lowHydropower carbon and clean energy project. We pressed ahead with the The proportion of low-carbon energy in total installed capacity In 2014, another 2098MW of hydropower went into operation. Nuozhadu hydropower steady development of hydropower projects in combination Low-carbon energy installed capacity (unit: 10MW) station, the largest station along the Lancang River. We pressed ahead with the steady In 2014,another with the construction of the transmission channel, stepped 4,100 development of hydropower stations on upper stream of the Lancang River and middle up the construction of wind power projects on the basis of 2098 40% 4,000 3,504 reaches of Yajiang, and made solid progress in the preliminary survey and design of optimized layout, and actively developed solar and other MW 30% 2,830 3,000 controlling reservoir for hydropower on the downstream of Yajiang. The hydropower low-carbon and clean power projects with reliance in the 27.1% 2,397 24.64% projects in Huangdeng, Wunonglong and Dahuaqiao have been approved. of hydropower went into adjustment of investment strategy. 2,003 19.12% 20.95% 20% 17.7% 2,000 operation In 2014, our low-carbon energy installed capacity exceeded 10% 1,000 41GW, of which the installed capacity of hydropower, wind power and solar energy exceeded 20GW, 11GW and 800MW. 0% 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The proportion of clean energy installed capacity reached 27.1%, up 2.4% over last year and nearly 10% over 2010. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Wind power Gas turbines Improving Clean Production ◆ We actively promoted the adjustment of energy layout, ◆ The new gas turbine project in Dongshan Thermal Power and speeded up the development and construction of Plant was approved. The gas turbine extension project in Beijing Co-generation Thermal Power Plant and the new Intensified efforts to Environmental Conversion wind power projects in Yunnan, Guizhou, Sichuan and gas turbine project in Jiangyin Power Plant have been Guangdong. green lighted. ◆ Reinforcement of measures We issued Notice on Improving ◆ Standardization conversion We made intensive efforts ◆ 1.773GW of wind power units went into production and the ◆ We conducted distributed energy trials at Shanghai Environmental Protection Level of coal Units in Key Control total installed capacity of wind power exceeded 11GW. Mansion and Qingdao Emergency Center. to de-sulphurization, de-nitration and dust removal ◆ The gas turbine projects in Zhejiang, Chongqing and Region and implemented Technical Conversion Line for ◆ 2.95GW wind power projects were listed into the engineering, and raised the environmental design Tianjin went into production, and the scale of gas turbine Improving Environmental Protection Level of Typical Units. fourth group of national approved projects, and standards for our projects. reached 7.9GW. ◆ Increase of investment We increased our investment 1.2GW offshore wind power projects were included in ◆ Jinling gas turbine co-generation project was awarded the ◆ Upgrading conversion We formulated technical conversion national development and construction program. National Quality Awards. in heat supply, energy conservation and environmental plan for increasing emission limits, built coal ultraconversions. In 2014, we invested 15.3 billion CNY, low emission conversion demonstration project. Unit 9 accounting for 16.7 of total investment, an increase of 4.75 of Huangtai Power Plant was included in the national Nuclear Power Photovoltaic Power billion CNY over the previous year. demonstration projects. 12 sets of 4.44GW units reached ◆ We improved the top design of the nuclear power management ◆ We focused on the reserve of photovoltaic power ultra-low emission standard. framework and established a robust integrated management resources and the preliminary work of project and put system to enhance the management and control capability of nuclear power. greater energy in the development of photovoltaic project. Performance of Environmental Conversions in 2014 ◆ We set up a nuclear power expert committee, developed the ◆ 195MW of photovoltaic power projects went into operation guidance to the development of nuclear power, and formulated the Increased De-nitration and 627MW of photovoltaic projects were filed. development strategy the 13th Five-Year Plan for nuclear power Item De-nitration dust control industry. ◆ The installed capacity of photovoltaic power reached capacity ◆ We pressed ahead with the steady development of HTGR nuclear 850MW. power demonstration project and ensured its safety, quality, Transformed unit (set) 104 44 65 progress and investment under control. ◆ The feasibility report of large advanced PWR CAP1400 Transformed capacity (10MW) 2,995 1,713 2,243 demonstration project passed the review and its construction 52 engineering contract was officially signed. Installed rate (%) 94 100 100 53 国家科技重大专项 —— 高温气冷堆核电站示范工程扎实推进 In 2014, we continued to give the central attention to the construction of nuclear power projects and effectively fulfilled our management and control responsibility for nuclear safety. We pressed ahead with the steady construction of Shidaowan HTGR nuclear power demonstration project, ensured the safety, quality, progress and investment of projects under control, and made positive progress in the development of nuclear power talents and the construction of nuclear safety culture. ◆ We set up an on-site headquarters for ◆ We pressed ahead with the manufacture of demonstration projects, established a chief main equipment, and completed the test of commander meeting system to make on-site HTGR fuel elements. Its indicators reached coordination, strengthened the management and international advanced level. control of project and made overall coordination to ◆ We carried out production preparation work promote the progress of project. and 27 of our second round of reserved ◆ The main construction carried out smoothly, operators were awarded HTR-10 advanced building nuclear island plant to 20.45 meters high, operator license by the National Nuclear starting the main construction of conventional Security Administration. island and completing the installation of shield ◆ We intensified efforts towards nuclear safety, cooling water module D in the cabin of reactor. and organized the first self-assessment on ◆ We completed consecutive 500-hour fullnuclear safety culture. Our management Effect drawing of HTGR Nuclear Power Demonstration Project The construction site of HTGR Nuclear Power Demonstration Project load operation of helium circulator engineering system entered the stage to integrate prototype, the heart of nuclear power plant, and management and embed rules and systems. completed all experimental verification of key equipment. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Strengthening Environmental Management Tapping into Energy Conservation Potential ◆ We strengthened real-time monitoring of pollutant emission, and made pollutant emission of coal units be a part of the Company’s real-time supervision. In 2014, we inspected Strengthening fine management more than 50 power plants and implemented corrective Moving ahead with our starting point to create the excellence of main model indicators measures. and build excellent environment-friendly and conservation-minded enterprises, we strengthened fine management in energy conservation through the implementation ◆ We strictly implemented the environmental impact of energy-saving measures, the energy-saving benchmark analysis, the improvement assessment (EIA) system of construction projects. In 2014, of energy-saving incentives, and the mobilization of enthusiasm in various sectors, a group of key projects in Yingliangbao, Caohu Phase II, aiming to promote the continuous improvement of energy consumption indicators of Zhengning and Yushen obtained the EIA approval. The EIA units and achieve the industry-leading position in the energy consumption, especially of Dailan Thermal Power Plant II and Daba Phase IV were large high-efficient units. accepted. ◆ We advanced the standardization of small indexes, optimized and enhanced major indexes by improving small ones and created demonstration unit in the industry. ◆ We issued the Rewarding Methods on Creating Excellence and Improvement in Energy Consumption Indexes of Supercritical or Ultra-supercritical Generating Units, Strengthening Carbon and focused on improving energy consumption indexes of 1,000MW and 600MW supercritical or ultra-supercritical units and main model units. Asset Management ◆ In 2014, 24 power plants reduced specific coal consumption by over 5 g/kWh and 13 Technological transformation site of generator power generation enterprises reduced station service power consumption rate by In a major push to advance carbon asset management, we over 0.3%. 54 55 implemented a carbon trading strategy in pilot enterprises, and established the emission inventory of our thermal power units to provide the basis for drawing a plan for carbon emission control. We implemented 31 voluntary emission Best Thermal Power Generating Units in the Energy Promoting Energy Conservation reduction projects. 5 of them became part of the national Efficiency Benchmarking of State-owned Enterprises Conversion emission reduction program approved by the National of Power Industry Upholding the energy conservation conversion principles Development and Reform Commission. of “Led by institutions, safeguarded by innovation and Capacity Prize-winning Unit focused on implementation”, we formulated the Energy Conservation Conversion Action Plan 2014-2020, and Unit 4 of Shidongkou II Power Plant promoted energy conservation conversion throughout the Huaneng established China’s first carbon fund Company by means of technological conversion in heat Unit 5 of Weihai Power Plant supply, turbine flow and others. In November, 2014, our carbon asset company initiated and issued China’s first carbon fund – Lion Fund Win 1 carbon emissions special asset management plan. According to the plan, the first round of 30 million CNY was invested in Hubei 600MW Unit 6 of Pingliang Power Plant ◆ In 2014, we held a conference to discuss and Carbon Trading Market with the fund trade targeting carbon credit and CCER. We aimed to achieve total control of demonstrate renewable energy conservation technology greenhouse gas emission through financial pressure and thus have created a practical impetus for emission reduction. This Unit 2 of Shidongkou II Power Plant and its application, organized field investigation is useful for pushing innovation in carbon financial models, integration of social resources,and expansion of business market. in power plants and carried out the overall energy Carbon credit: It refers to a permit representing the right to emit a certain amount of CO2 and other greenhouse gases into Unit 7 of Qinling Power Plant conservation optimization of Weihai Unit 6 and Shangdu the atmosphere according to the laws. The government allocates the credit to each enterprise. When the actual carbon Unit 2 and demonstration of advanced technology emission of enterprises exceeds the resulting credits, they must purchase the credit at carbon trading market, paying for their excessive emission. On the contrary, they can also sell their surplus credits at the market, gaining the benefits of Unit 3 of Fuzhou Power Plant integration. emission reduction. 350MW ◆ We put greater efforts in screening and approval of CCER (China Certified Emission Reduction): Through renewable energy or energy-saving technology, enterprises achieved Unit 1 of Nantong Power Plant comprehensive upgrading and conversion projects. surplus energy for their projects. After their energy-saving projects are certified by third-party agencies, the National 11 conversion projects in Yangliuqing, Xindian and Development and Reform Commission will issue enterprises with CCER, which can be used to offset carbon emission targets Unit 4 of Pingliang Power Plant of enterprises under carbon emission control. other places passed the review of National Energy 300MW Administration, which was evaluated to save 300,000 Unit 3 of Yushe Power Plant tons of standard coal each year. The projects passed the review can save a total of 2 million tons of standard coal. Shangdu Unit 4 and Weihai Unit 4 were listed as comprehensive upgrading and conversion demonstration projects by National Energy Administration. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Specific coal consumption (g/kWh) Station service power consumption rate (%) 400 6% 5.22 5.08 4.83 322.72 318.68 4.59 4.40 316.52 312.89 310.00 300 4% 200 2% 100 0 0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Tongchuan Zhaojin Power Plant Achieved Remarkable Effect in Energy Conservation Conversion Tongchuan Zhaojin Power Plant was the supporting project of national air cooling unit localization. Its 2 sets of 60MW generating unit in the first phase went into operation at the end of 2007. In particular, Unit 1 was first China-made 60MW subcritical condensing air cooling coal power unit with desulphurization facilities. With the objective of creating a conservation-minded and environment-friendly power plant, the Tongchuan Zhaojin constantly improved its management and optimized its technical and economic indicators through benchmarking and promoting 56 57 production management and energy conservation conversion at the same pace. It completed 17 major energy-saving Promoting Technological Innovation technological conversions including condensate pump frequency conversion and steal turbine seal, and made continuous improvement of unit energy efficiency. Noticeably, the average efficiency of induced draft fun increased by 20% after it was retrofitted, thereby reducing specific power consumption rate by 0.2%. After conversion to the turbine seals of Unit 1 and 2, Strengthening Technological Innovation Management the power plant reduced coal consumption by 3.5 g/kWh and 2.2 g/kWh respectively. What’s more, the power consumption Following the requirements of national policies, we worked to grasp the trend of of ESP power control system dropped by 50% after its conversion. technological change and innovation. From our Xi’an Thermal Power Research In 2014, the Power Plant achieved specific coal consumption of 328.53 g/kWh and specific power consumption rate of Institute and Clean Energy Technology Research Institute, we created the Medium 5.29%, a decrease of 21.4 g/kWh and 1.69% respectively over the initial period of operation, saving a total of 620,000 tons and Long-term Development Plan for Science and Technology (2014-2030), and of standard coal. The specific power consumption rate and net coal consumption rate of Unit 1 was the best among similar issued the Guidelines on Strengthening the Management of Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights. In addition, we set up a special technological innovation units across China. award, strengthened initialization management of major technological projects and encouraged multi-level technological innovation. Carrying out Green Office Propelling the Development of Technological Projects We strengthened the publicity of “green” development concept, energy conservation and environmental protection, guided our We increased our resources towards technological development by putting more than employees to low-carbon life, and enhanced their awareness in this respect. 500 million CNY towards research and development. We have set up 32 technological projects at the corporate level, 130 projects in industrial companies, and carried out 170 projects. Among them, there were 7 national-level and 3 provincial-level technological projects. The Company sharply streamlined The Company advanced The Company purchased and The Company strictly controlled The Company used water-saving The Company strictly regulated ◆ We continued to advocate research in cutting-edge technology of alternative and renewable energy such as solar power, wave power, shale gas and coal bed methane. 166 national patents meetings and information used office supplies the temperature of devices, and used the use of official ◆ We completed 6 special studies of double reheat technology, and technical design briefings and gave system as required, and air-conditioners and reclaimed water vehicles and review of national 700℃ experimental platform and 200 KW wave power generation high priority to video conferences; construction and paperless office; advocated replacing new cartridge with the old one and printing promoted the use of energy-saving lights; as supporting resources for production, controlled the purchase of vehicles and the devices. ◆ We made great breakthroughs in the development of 700 high-temperature materials, methane catalyst and others, and achieved 166 national patents, including 27 27 invention patents on both sides of greenery and fuel consumption invention patents. paper; landscape; of each vehicle. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Leading innovation in industry collaboration We compiled the Thermal Power Industry Technology Innovation Successfully developed 2 KW MCFC power generation system and Development Plan (2015-2020), successfully hosted CCUS To be a world-class enterprise requires three Beijing International Forum, and participated in the demonstration On December 30, 2014, the 2 KW molten carbonate fuel cell (MCFC) elements to be in place: being ranked among of national major technological mechanism for gas turbine power generation system developed by Clean Energy Technology the world Top 500 enterprises, being ranked system. Huaneng Nanjing Power Plant and its Unit 2 were named Research Institute successfully went into operation. Its peak output among the first 10 places of the global industry as “national experimental platform for key components of 700 power was up to 3.16 KW, achieving the currently highest power and creating its own brand and mastering supercritical or ultra-supercritical power generation technology” output in China. With a load of 220V bulb, the entire system converts independent core technology. The third one is the and as “host unit” by the National Energy Administration. direct current into alternate current through DC-AC converter and most critical element. Tianjin IGCC demonstration conducts discharge test, producing stable output power of 2.16 KW. station is characterized by its “green” The entire system at a load of 220V, converted direct current into development, optimized coal power generation alternate current and produced a stable output power of 2.16 KW. Construction Demonstration Project and technological innovation. In particular, its gasification equipment was made with Huaneng’s We pressed ahead and made progress with the construction and The successful development of MCFC marks that we have completely own independent technology. It is the first time to operation of technological innovation demonstration projects. mastered the key technology of MCFC and have been able to meet design and manufacture two-stage dry pulverized The IGCC project acts as the supporting engineering for major international standards. It has also laid a good foundation for the coal gasifier in China. This has greatly improved projects in the national “863 Program” and also China’s first development of large-area and high-power MCFC power generation the core competitiveness of Huaneng Group. large-scale IGCC generating unit. In 2014, Tianjin IGCC Power systems and provided assurance for a coal-fire power plan to have a Plant made breakthroughs in the operation, management and comparatively lower environmental impact. – Hu Anang, Director of National Conditions optimization of IGCC demonstration projects. It was able to Research Institute, Tsinghua University maintain high-loads for over 1500 hours with the highest load of 265MW. Its emission of SO2, NOx, dust and other pollutants 58 matched that of gas-based units. As supporting part of IGCC 59 demonstration power station, the main construction of China’s first Technological Awards pre-burning CO2 capture device will be completed and be put into commission. Shidaowan HTGR nuclear power demonstration SN Project Award project which is an important national major scientific and technological project, is also currently being constructed. We The Second-class National Science and 1 Ultra-high Core Rockfill Dam Key Technology and its Application have made dramatic breakthroughs in the production of main Technology Progress Award equipment and have completed tests and verification. Development and Application of Trace Amount TOC Analyzer for Power The First-class China Electric Power Science 2 Plant and Technology Award Oxide Scale Growth and Exfoliation Mechanism on Heat-absorbing The Second-class China Electric Power 3 Surface of Inner Wall of Boiler and Research of Control Measures Science and Technology Award The main capturing part in the pre-combustion CO2 The Second-class China Electric Power capture demonstration device is nearly completed 4 Design of IGCC Power Station Controlling System and Application Science and Technology Award Research and Application of SSR Mitigation by Extreme Damping The Third-class China Electric Power Science China’s first set of pre-combustion CO2 capture device with 5 Control Technology and Technology Award complete independent intellectual property rights starts its construction in Tianjin IGCC Power Plant and is scheduled to Key Technology and Engineering Application of Recycled Filter Element The Third-class China Electric Power Science 6 complete the construction and commissioning of the capturing and Extending Lifespan and Technology Award part in 2015. Development and Application of Fieldbus Device Monitoring and The Third-class China Electric Power Science 7 Management System and Technology Award This 30MWth pre-combustion CO2 capture device is designed Independent Research of Large CFB Boiler Simultaneous Efficient DeThe Third-class China Electric Power Science and developed on the basis of Tianjin IGCC Power Plant and 8 the National 863 Project — “The research and demonstration nitration Key Technology and its Engineering Application and Technology Award of CCUS technology of IGCC system”. It is a coal-based Line-focus Direct Steam Condensing Solar Power Technology and its The Third-class China Electric Power Science clean energy technology innovation project developed by 9 Demonstration and Technology Award Huaneng Clean Energy Technology Research Institute. This demonstration system with the annual capturing capacity of 6 to 10 tons of CO2 has opened a new channel to the reduction of CO2 emission. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Protecting Ecological Environment Fostering environmental protection awareness We propagated environmental protection concepts, spread awareness Development and Construction of Coal Mines among our employees and advocated energy-saving and living a low-carbon lifestyle. We also organized employees to participate in environmental public In the process of opencast mining, we reclaimed the mining area in time through backfilling, planting trees and actions and worked hard to create a positive atmosphere of environmental grass and other ways, and made ecological restoration and protection of land destroyed by mining activities, protection with concerted efforts. improper excavation and cover occupation. ◆ Hohhot Thermal Power Plant, Dalian Power Plant and others ◆ By the end of 2014, Yimin Open Mine Company put a total of 72 million CNY into carried the activity “Energy conservation, Youth first” to ecological environment recovery and management, completed reclamation publicize environmental welfare. area of over 600 hectares, and landscaping of nearly 500 hectares, keeping reclamation and landscaped rates above 95%. ◆ We reclaimed Gaotouyao Coal Mine by flattening Gangue mountain, covering the area with soil and planted shrubbery, pine, alfalfa, hickory, wild apricot trees and other plants. Waste Recovery We channeled great energy in advocating the development mode of “resource > product > waste > renewable resources”. Through ash separation and grinding, processing gypsum into new building 60 61 Development and materials and other technology, we promoted the comprehensive utilization of ash and desulfurization byproducts to reduce the Construction of Power Projects emission of solid waste from coal power plants and realized the In the construction of hydropower projects, closed-loop circulation and recovery of resources as much as we took into account the requirements of possible. utilization in the aspects of power generation, flood control, irrigation, sediment interception, ◆ Luohuang Power Plant is one of many power plants that shipping, water conservation, aquaculture, tourism spearheaded the utilization of desulphurization gypsum and ash, and regional development. We implemented the which helped maintain a ~100% utilization rate for several years. measures to protect the surrounding environment and biodiversity, and carried out environmental Building a Water-saving Enterprise protection measures to protect biodiversity. By doing so, We adopted a series of water-saving technology such as airwe strive to achieve harmony between project development and cooling technology, sea water desalination, sewage treatment, eco-environment. water reclaimation, dry slag removal and pneumatic ash conveying, built water-saving power plants in line with the local conditions and ◆ Nuozhadu Hydropower Station used gated stratified water intake facilities to take water and treated coal mine drainage water. According to the level of water adjust water temperature. This measure effectively reduced the impact of low-temperature discharged quality, we used cascading water to effectively use reclaimed water on river ecosystem and fish breeding. water, reduce consumption of freshwater and achieve zero sewage discharge. ◆ In 2014，Nuozhadu Hydropower Station, just as an illustrative example, released 2.15 million fishes into the reservoir, including 100,000 fishes native to the Lancang River. ◆ Yuhuan Power Plant first applied dual membrane technology to sea water desalination and built the largest desalination projects ◆ Ziyili Hydropower Station built an overflow dam in its river reaches, promoted the application of cushioned surge among the coastal power plants, saving more than 10 million tons chambers, prevented more than 200,000 square meters of vegetation from damage, and effectively protected the river of fresh water each year. Sea water desalination has become a wetland. major water source for coastal power plants. ◆ In the development of Huoxi River, we built more than 90 overflow dams (0.3-0.8 meters high) with about 16,000 cubic meters ◆ Huating Coal Industry invested more than 30 million CNY and built of stone to reduce the flow of river reaches according to the local conditions in order to maintain the ecology. By doing so, we 10 sewage treatment plants with the daily treatment capacity of maintained the water table within the river and irrigated the surrounding vegetation. 15,000 cubic meters of waste water. Over 90% of mine water was treated and over 85% of water was reused. Typical Cases Improving traditional clean coal power Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng production through The conflict between economic development and environmental protection is increasingly obvious in China. In particular, the air ultra-low emission conversion pollution has given such a serious threat to people’s health that we have had a thorough understanding of our responsibility. Since 2010, we have implemented the Green Development Action Plan which focuses on green, low-carbon and circular-economic development. Since 2013, we have put greater attention on clean production. We took the lead in transforming coal units to ultraPlaying an exemplary role to bring a clearer sky and cleaner water low emission in the eastern developed regions with the independent research and pilot application of advanced technology to At present, coal power generation further reduce pollutant emission of coal units and improve traditional clean coal power production to a new level. Since 2013, we have completed the ultra-low emission conversion of 12 sets accounts for nearly 70% of the energy mix of 444MW generating units in Huangtai, Baiyanghe and Jinling power plants. in our country. The natural endowment Among them, Unit 6 and 7 in Baiyanghe Power Plant were included in Shandong in China’s primary energy mix has Tackling more technological problems to develop and apply new technology Demonstration projects of ultra-low emission technology; Unit 1 in Jinling Power determined the cost of coal power We have equipped our units with desulfurization, denitrification and dust removal Plant and Unit 9 in Huangtai Power Plant were listed into National Energy generation is much lower than that of and other conventional environmental protection equipment. On this basis, we Administration’s coal unit conversion demonstration projects meeting the emission gas power, wind power and solar power organized the Xi’an Thermal Power Research Institute and other research agencies standard of gas units. These projects have played a better demonstration effect. generation. Faced with the severe to tackle technological problems to improve clean coal production. They developed situation of air pollution in our country, the We put greater energy in tapping into the existing technological potential and and promoted de-nitration conversion and secondary desulfurization technology ultra-low emission of coal-fire units is an converting units to allow for ultra-low emissions conversion, which is not only the to further increase the efficiency of desulfurization and de-nitration. Through appropriate roadmap to ensure both the full manifestation of implementing the national energy strategy of “economical, continuous improvement of air quality and application of wet electrostatic precipitator (ESP) and other advanced technology, clean and safe”, but also an effective way to improve clean production of urban stable energy supply. Huaneng’s success they helped power plants increase the efficiency of dust removal and made the coal power plants and achieve sustainable development. This has proven to be of in its ultra-low emission demonstration pollutant emission of their coal units comparatively to that of gas units. In 2014, wet great significance to national energy production and and improve the development projects has fully demonstrated the ESP technology was successfully applied to a number of units in Huangtai, Mengxi, of traditional clean coal power generation. feasibility of this technology. It will play a Shidongkou and other power plants, which laid a technological foundation for the stronger effect in high-efficient control of further improvement of clean coal power generation. Diagram of wet ESP and secondary flue gas in the coal-fired power industry. desulphurization system 62 flue gas Wet ESP is curren tly one of the most – Economic Daily 63 Achieving ultra-low emission of flue gas advances environmental protection flushing water advanced technologies to control fine dust. ◆ It has low power consum ption (the We increased investment in environmental conversion to promote the environmental dust-collecting electrode power consumption of 300MW unit is technology to a new level. For example, Baiyanghe Power Plant upgraded its less than 300 KW) and low resistance 300MW generating units. On the basis of its original environmental protection discharge electrode (less than 350 Pa). facilities, it added a secondary serial desulphurization tower and converted to ◆ It has higher efficiency of fine condensed water particl e remova l. Fine dust emissi on low nitrogen burners. After improving efficiency by four layers of SCR denitration, concentration is less than 1.5 ridge-type demister the Power Plant installed another six-field wet ESP device. As it acted like a dust mg/m3 and particulate emission concentrations is less than 10 mg/m . 3 spraying layer removal mask on the purged flue gas before emission, the device can give a better ◆ It can effectiv ely remove the gypsum filtering of dust and reduce emission of SO2 and NOx. After conversion, its emission flue gas generated from desulfurization system, of flue gas pollutants can be comparable with that of gas-fired units, burning a slurry pond and solved the curren t proble m of ton of coal is the equivalent to burning a piece of charcoal at home in term of their “gypsum rain”. emission. The Power Plant achieved its emission reduction target in Action Program on Energy Conservation Conversion of coal Units (2014-2020) 6 years ahead of schedule. Emission indicators of Unit 7 after ultra-low emission conversion in Baiyanghe Power Plant in Baiyanghe Power Plant Flowchart of flue gas ultra-low emission system of generating units Limit of coal units Limit of gas-fired units Actual emission(1) Dust (mg/m3) SO2 (mg/m3) NOx (mg/m3) 20 200 100 Wet dust 20 200 100 collector 5-field double-chamber dry electric dust precipitation 15 150 75 Low-nitrogen burner Low-nitrogen burner Boiler Secondary wet 10 50 flue gas 10 100 50 desulphurization chimney 36~38 Using high-efficiency 5 50 25 <5 35 low-nitrogen burner 7-8 Four layers of Primary wet flue gas 0 0 0 SCR Denitration desulphurization (1) The unit was commissioned for 168 hours after its conversion on November 26, 2014. Testing conditions: 100% power load, about 1.7% of sulfur in fired coal, and 6% of reference amount of oxygen. 05 Social Responsibility Dedicating to the promotion of social harmony Benefits of employees’ Coverage of labor contract Amount of donations technical innovation 100 418 81.88 % million million CNY CNY 64 65 Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Improving education and training Stakeholders’ Expectation Our Action We implemented the strategy of developing the enterprise by talent management and established multi-level education and training system, in which the Company is responsible for management training, secondary units for professional training and grassroot-level enterprises for skill training. We strive to improve the overall quality of our staff through special training, workshop for technology • “I hope to receive complete education and • Safeguarded the rights and interests of training, acquire more professional skills and employees, cared about their growth and and exchanges and discussions. have more potential.” persisted in sustainable development. ◆ We established a training base for the first round of skilled ◆ We set up 72 labor model innovation workshops and • “I’d like to develop and progress with our • Conducted education and training, strengthened talents and advanced the investigation and development of our developed 1,687 technical innovation activities, yielding company and take care of it to build it into a the development and selection of talents and “Huaneng Networking Training Academy”. economic benefits of 418 million CNY. truly century-old company.” provided more channels, platforms and favorable environments for their career development. • “We hope for sincere cooperation and ◆ We organized 14 company-level technical talents workshops ◆ We organized labor competition for more than 88,000 common development with Huaneng and • Improved strategic layout and built cooperation and 28 skilled talents trainings for 1,971 employees. employees. 7 achievements and 3 operating methods expect it to treat business partners in a fair, platforms to achieve common growth with were rated as innovative achievements and advanced just and responsible manner.” partners. ◆ We carried out competitions for relay protection and wind power operating method by China Energy Chemistry Trade • “We hope Huaneng can always help the • Gave full play to our advantages and put great operations, with more than 200 participants entering the finals. Union. distressed by creating more jobs and more energy into industrial projects to support and opportunities.” assist underdeveloped areas; and continued to benefit people’s livelihood and carried out poverty ◆ Our industrial/regional companies held 94 skill contests for ◆ We provided company-level trainings for more than 4,500 alleviation in a practical way. 10,978 employees and grassroots-level enterprises organized managers, 5,000 technicians and 5,500 skilled workers 875 competitions for 37,358 employees. over past five years. • Constructed power stations, stimulated the local economy, protected the local environment, benefited local people and promote a positive society. 66 67 Caring for Employees Safeguarding employees’ rights and interests Abiding by the Labor Contract Law and the relevant laws and regulations, we sign labor contracts with employees, pay them social “Huaneng’s Example”—Fan Zhiquan insurance and protect their privacy to improve the management foundation for labor and employment. By the end of 2014, we had 139,780 employees. Salaries and EqualOccupational Democratic Rest “Huaneng’s Example” Fan Zhiquan Welfare employment Health Management Mr. Fan Zhiquan has worked in Wulashan Power Plant for more than 40 years. In his electrical operation position, he ◆ Paid on time and ◆ Adhered to the ◆ Organized ◆ Held the Company’s first ◆ Each staff made electrical indication plates and simulation diagrams for primary electrical system and DC system by hand, saving gave reasonable policies of equality regular physical conference of Worker’s enjoyed paid more than 70,000 CNY for the Plant. So promptly and successfully were the equipment failures found and handled at salary increases; between genders examination for Congress; leaves of 5-15 his job that four major accidents were avoided. Even more remarkably, he worked two years of overtime than the others ◆ Promoted the and equality of the employees and ◆ Carried out the activity days ranging in more than 9 years, in which he devoted much of his rest time of shift work to major and minor overhauls and urgent intensive and people from different those engaged for accepting proposals, with the years of repair work., standardized minorities; in special types receiving 15,266 service; management of ◆ Protected the of work; suggestions from ◆ Consistently annuity; legitimate rights and ◆ The rate of staff employees, adopting 5,720 allowed When working as Party branch secretary in the boiler workshop, he led workers to tackle tough technological problems, ◆ Persisted in equal interests of female covered under policies, created a value of maternity leave repair the old and utilize the waste. Led by him, more than 30 equipment transformation and technological innovation pay for equal work; workers in accordance the physical 643 million CNY; were completed, creating benefits of more than 5 million CNY for the Plant. After being promoted to Deputy Director ◆ Skewed the salary with relevant laws and examination and ◆ Strengthened the of the Plant, he, together with greening group, tackled the greening problem of salt marshes. With seven years of hard towards frontregulations; the rate of staff institutionalization of work, they changed the plant into an oasis of a barren hill. line workers and ◆ Strictly complied with under healthy trade unions and workers’ production team; national laws and records both congresses. The rate Over past forty years, he and his wife have lived a frugal life but donated a total of 110,000 CNY to needy students, ◆ Achieved 100% regulations and signed reached 100%. of workers’ congresses lonely old people, employees in trouble and people in disaster-stricken areas. He has been known as the living Leifeng in the coverage labor contract with institutionalized and trade around Wula Mountain. In 2014, he was awarded the titles of “Northern Great Model” and “Huaneng’s Example” by rate of social 100% of employees; unions established reached insurance. ◆ Developed a recruitment 100%. Every employee Propaganda Department of Party Committee of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and the Party Committee of Huaneng platform for graduate joined the trade union. Group, respectively. students as well as for direct recruitment. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Promoting Career Development Visited need employees 10,332 We issued the Management Methods to Select Senior Professional and Technical Talents, established a three-tier talent selection persons mechanism comprised of the Company, Industrial/regional companies and grassroots-level enterprises, and built Huaneng talent pool. We also built a platform for career development and a career development channel for technical and skilled talents. Distributed funds and materials ◆ We introduced 7 experts in the Thousand Talents Program and had 140 national-level technical talents including academics and experts who have outstanding contributions and receive a special 35.09 million CNY grant award by the government. ◆ We launched the first round of chief engineer and expert selection Vibrant and youthful Huaneng employees activity, in which Yangxun and Yang Shoumin were appointed as honorary chief expert, Yao Wei and other 11 persons as chief expert, as well as Wang Jian and 16 others as chief engineer. Their tenure is three years. Strengthening Employees’ Care “Everyone has a lot of dreams in his life. After we We issued the Management Methods to Assist Needy Staff and improved our three-tier assistance system. We also organized a ◆ We organized job title assessment and engineer and senior have experienced these dreams in our life, the variety of recreational activities to help our employees achieve work-life balance. engineer evaluation. Throughout 2014, a total of 60 people got the rest is what we should follow. My dream is to work title of state-owned enterprises, power industry or the Company carefully and to hope my family happy and healthy. I am grateful to Huaneng for its support to hold our technical expert, 336 people got the senior titles and 158 people ◆ We paid visits to 223 enterprises and more than 5,300 ◆ We had more than 500 venues for leisure activities and held 68 dreams.” 69 obtained engineer or senior engineer qualifications. employees and gave out funds and goods worth 9.81 million more than 1,800 cultural and sport activities. – Wu Wei from Xiaowan Hydropower Station CNY during New Year’s Day and Spring Festival. ◆ We made public selection of talents for overseas companies ◆ We sponsored micro-film competitions themed like “The Most and 63 people were selected as the reserved general manager, ◆ We distributed financial and material support worthy of 35.09 Beautiful Huaneng Employee” and “Huaneng Dream • Youth manager of functional departments and senior manager. million CNY to help 10,332 needy employees throughout Promotion”, and recognized and exhibited 47 outstanding 2014. works. Offering heartfelt services with heart-to-heart care Join Hands with Partners to Achieve a Win-win Outcome We adhere to the mission to develop enterprises by relying on employees wholeheartedly. Along with the goals to build harmonious labor relations, inspire the creativity of workers and promote the common development between enterprises Improving responsible procurement system and its staff, we have started with the efforts to solve the most basic, practical and direct concerns of employees. We have also explored a normalized mechanism that can well serve employees and safeguard their rights and interests. In In a major push to improve procurement management regulations, we strengthened the bidding management, implemented 2014, we formulated the Management Method on Aiding Needy Employees (Trial) on the basis of in-depth investigation of the accountability system in offers and hiring and strictly regulated offer letters. We also completed the functional development various needy employees and serious summary of our experience in assisting the treatment of serious diseases. of material management platform and strengthened the dynamic management of supplier and realtime monitoring to build a The Method follows the principles of caring the poor, giving continuous support, making all-round arrangements, and responsible industry chain. In 2014, the amount of material purchase through e-commerce platform increased by 40% over the easing the urgent situation. It aims to extend the assistance to more people, clear the specific requirements, strictly obey previous year and the proportion of centralized procurement of materials rose by 192%. the rules for use of funds and intensify process control. Through the establishment of sound and complete records for needy employees in a scientific and standard way, we can really have a comprehensive and timely understanding of their situation, conduct dynamic management and implement responsibility at all levels. By means of living allowance for Building Strategic Cooperation Platforms needy employees and subsistence allowances caused by natural disasters and serious disease, we provide support and assistance for our employees and perform our responsibility of doing good and practical things and solving problems. In We have further improved our industrial/regional layout and expand regional energy cooperation. While proactively building 2014, we assisted the first group of 984 needy workers, bringing our care and warmth to them. platforms for communication and cooperation with local governments and enterprises, we signed cooperation agreements with Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, Shenhua Group and Shanghai Electric Company to promote mutually beneficial cooperation and common development. While deepening the construction of international platforms, we signed the letter of intent for strategic cooperation with Joint Stock Company Inter RAO UES and signed a cooperation framework agreement with Enel. In addition, Huaneng Power International signed strategic cooperation memorandums with Siemens and Shanghai Electric. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Contributing to Social Welfare Financing and Caring students We persist in the philosophy of “constructing a power plant, stimulating the local economy, protecting the local environment, benefiting the local people and promoting complete harmony”, and follow the general strategy that we should synchronize industrial stimulation with poverty alleviation and pay equal attention to the development and the improvement of people’s livelihood. Along with such philosophy and strategy, we give full play to our advantages, devote to supporting and aiding the people in difficulties and strive for harmonious development between the enterprise and society. Over the past years, we have participated in various activities to support Huaneng • Tuohe Primary School built by the Company No. 2 National Secondary School built by students. We hope to empower people in poverty-stricken areas by improving in Akqi County, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region Huaneng in Jianzha County, Qinghai province educational infrastructure conditions and providing financial aid to students. In 2014, we donated a total of 81.882 million CNY toward poverty alleviation. Our key poverty alleviation projects in 2014 Making efforts in disaster relief and reconstruction Projects Amount (10,000 CNY) At 16:30 on August 3, 2014, the 6.5 magnitude earthquake hit Ludian County, Co-built No. 2 National Secondary School in Shaotong City, Yunnan Province. The Company and Lancangjiang subsidiary “Huaneng Diandong mine rescue 460 Jiazha County, Qinghai Province immediately responded: team is the last one to be called, but Co-built Yalangqi New Town Primary School was the first to arrive － Longjing 70 in Akqi County, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous 670 ◆ Donated 5.26 million CNY (including employees’ contribution of 260,000 RMB) at Village. They are real heroes.” 71 Region the earliest time to assist the people in earthquake-hit area and rebuild their home. –Yang Xuehui, Donated to Hope Project in Kunming 648 an official of Yunnan Co-built Jiaxiaowagou Primary School in ◆ Diandong Mine rescue team saved two seriously wounded people and transferred Administration 200 Guanghe County, Gansu Province three victims. They searched 64 houses, cleaned up a collapse area of 640 of Coal Mine Safety Supported the construction of new countryside square meters and moved more than 60 tons of relief supplies. 100 in Shantou City, Guangdong Province Built primary and secondary schools for ◆ The rescue team of Lancangjiang company travelled 800 km to join the relief 529 immigrant children near Lancang River effort. They suffered over 100 aftershocks and made emergency evacuation 5 Helped one of old revolutionary bases in times and removed over 1,500 cubic meters of debris, which ensured the smooth 423 Hengshan County, Shaanxi Province transportation of relief supplies. Advocating Volunteer Work Efforts Towards the “Shangri-La” Adhering to the volunteer spirit of “dedication, friendship, mutual support and progress”, we strengthened the construction of –– Wunonglong • Lidi Project Management Bureau assisted the development in Tibet volunteer teams and organized employees for various volunteer work. In 2014, we carried out more than 1,000 volunteer activities involving more than 70,000 volunteers. Dedicated Khatag to “Shangri-La” Meri Snow Mountain is near the legendary area known as Shangri-La. Wunonglong • Lidi Project Management Bureau is building Yuliu Road at the foot the mountain. The road is about 31 kilometers long with a total investment budget of more than 800 million CNY. After its completion, the project will greatly improve the local traffic conditions and completely solve the traffic difficulties of travelers. Spreading the “three-color sail” volunteer services in Huailai County From “survival” to “life” While promoting the construction of a power plant, the project management bureau organized the “100-1000-10000” Campaign. It started from solving the most urgent, realistic and necessary problem of the migrant Upholding the mission of building a three-color company, our Youth League created “three-color sail” volunteer population and donated over 8 million CNY to support the construction of new countryside in Diqing and Weixi counties. activities. After we cooperated with Huailai county at the beginning of 2012, we recruited more than 600 volunteers, In 2014, the bureau intensified its effort in the development of countryside and invested more than 1.4 million CNY to raised more than 1.5 million CNY, and organized “Guomingyi volunteer team” to Huailai county nine times. We carried gradually change rain-dependent production mode and living conditions of farmers and create a more comfortable life for out a variety of activities to support student and education, optimize ecological environment and exchange and them. communicate with youth. By the end of 2014, we donated 14 rural primary schools, benefiting more than 2,000 students. Education ignites the future Since 2009, the project management bureau has donated more than 2.3 million CNY to Hope Project and supported the development of local education. The bureau also carried out activities to support students in hope to bring promising future to the children in mountain regions. Typical Cases Walking into Tibet and sending our Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng love and power to Tibetan Plateau to Tibet is a snow-covered sacred land. However, the under-developed power capacity has been a bottleneck to its economic and social development and its long-term stability. We entered Tibet in 2004, as an earnest response to the instructions of the Party light up the snow-covered area Central Committee for developing western regions, in order to solve the most pressing problems of local people and providing for their urgent needs. At that time, we were the first company of China’s power industry to start aiding Tibet. Aiding Tibet for free to remove the obstacle to power supply in Medog County Consolidated the foundation for benefiting local people In August, 2009, facing the challenge of power supply caused by the dry season in autumn and winter of Tibet, we invested By the end of 2014, more than 300 of our employees have 360 million CNY to build a 11MW emergency power source from Lhasa to Ali. We transferred technical infrastructure and been established in Tibet. They have provided much needed At Huaneng Zangmu Hydropower Station, the builders have overcome numerous difficulties and completed the project at an support which has also helped improve relations with the done a lot of effective and fruitful work. They have unprecedented speed. Before Tibetan people. fully performed the social responsibility of statethe arrival of a blizzard in 2010, owned enterprises. Our Tibetan people have seen their efforts and kept it in mind. the project went into operation, Ten years of time is replaced with a miracle. Over the past which ensured a warm winter for ten years, Huaneng’s employees in Tibet closely followed – Luosang Jiangcun, Chairman of the People’s the local people. In remote Motuo the instruction of CPC committee of Tibet Autonomous Government of Tibet Autonomous Region County, one four th of people Region “consolidating the foundation for benefiting people’s “With the rapid economic and social development had no access to electricity. On livelihood”. They organized working group to develop targeted today, Huaneng’s employees have retained the March 25, 2013, Huaneng Tibet poverty-alleviation and work in villages such as Maluo Village essence of old Tibetan spirit: having special Subsidiary officially took over 9 in Lasui Town, Jiacha County and Zatang Village in Baidi ability to endure hardship, to go into battle, to micro power stations and assets Town, Laqiazi County. Tibet subsidiary invested a total of 221 overcome difficulties, to keep solidarity, and to make contributions.” including Yadong Power Plant in million CNY in the improvement of power supply facilities and 72 Motuo County, and spent eight school conditions, the promotion of agricultural technology, the – Local cadres and masses in Tibet 73 times as much as the average construction of roads and canals and other projects benefiting cost of power plant in the inland of people. By the end of 2014, we provided job opportunities for China building the power station. 23 local university students and gave priority to take on more By the end of 2014, we completed than 10,000 local people for our projects. This has effectively 12 small rural hydropower stations, boosted the local economic and social development. solving the electricity problem for 3,392 inhabitants. In the future, the completion of Yarang Hydropower station will completely solve the power supply shortage. Developing hydropower to fuel the local development Tibet abounds with hydropower resources in China and even in the world. Its theoretical reserve reaches 201.36GW . In order to convert hydropower resources into the driving force to the development of Tibet, our company speeded up the development of hydropower stations. On July 8, 2010, Zangmu hydropower station was approved by the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and it started construction in September of the same year. Huaneng’s employees challenged the engineering limits on low oxygen-containing and high-radiation Zangmu site with their strict control of quality and technological “Our town is innovation. On November 23, 2014, the first unit of Zangmu Hydropower Station went into operation. This is the world’s highestbright and ou still. Without r hearts are your presence brighter altitude large hydropower project and also a landmark project in the history of Tibet’s power industry, increasing the level of ou r dr ea m of , we wouldn’t ha vin g ac ce ss realize electricity, we to el ec tri ci ty . hydropower station from 100MW to 500MW. This project has injected new impetus to the construction and development of can connect wi W ith th the world.” Tibet. – Words of loca l youth after el ectricity was supplied to M otuo County Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Our Commitment to Responsibility in 2015 ◆ Fully implement the Law on Safety Production, and improve safety production responsibility system focusing on “the Safety responsibility of the Party and government, one post with dual responsibilities, and equal emphasis and co-administration of production and safety”; Responsibility ◆ Strengthen the construction of long-term mechanisms, focus on safety at an institutional level, establish institutional authority Measures and develop consistent production safety; Goals ◆ To prevent serious accidents; ◆ To prevent incidents that may exert negative impacts on the ◆ Intensify safety education and skill training, increase technical supervision and equipment management, and drive safety image of our Company. work towards more scientific and standard development; ◆ Rigorously implement the main responsibility, strengthen on-site management and control, promote experience and practice and effectively improve the management of outsourcing projects; ◆ Enhance risk management, strengthen the construction of coal mine safety production system and effectively curb the occurrence of major accidents. Economic ◆ To examine and approve a power source project capable of 10GW; ◆ Strengthen full-process management, optimize power source structure and promote upgrading and conversion; ◆ Channel energy to the development of low-carbon energy projects and optimize the development of profitable clean and Responsibility ◆ To raise the proportion of installed low-carbon energy efficient coal power; Measures facilities to over 28%; ◆ Intensify budget management, give play to the directing role of performance evaluation, and focus on the improvement of Goals 74 ◆ To achieve electricity output of 657.8 billion kWh; business performance; 75 ◆ To achieve coal output of 72.35 million tons; ◆ Persist in market-based direction, tighten up marketing management, and actively expand power, heating and coal markets; ◆ To achieve operation revenue of 291 billion CNY. ◆ Fully advance lean cost management, strictly control various expense and ensure to control each expense in the budget scope; ◆ Strengthen capital operation and prevent funding risks. ◆ To achieve special coal consumption of 308 g/kWh and achieve Environmental an industry-leading position in major energy consumption indexes; ◆ To complete the tasks related to environmental responsibility ◆ To promote the construction of excellent environment-friendly and conservation-minded enterprises; ◆ Strengthen fine management in energy conservation and promote the development, application and integration of renewable Responsibility of the Twelfth Five-Year Plan; energy-saving technologies; Measures ◆ Carry out the “Year of Improving Environmental Protection”, and promote the ultra-low emission conversion; Goals ◆ To achieve the annual goal of energy conservation upgrades and conversions; ◆ Enhance carbon asset management and put greater efforts to the development of voluntary emission reduction projects; ◆ To improve the construction of technological innovation ◆ Strengthen top design and planning and establish a mechanism suitable for technological innovation; management system; ◆ Accelerate the development of technological industry focusing on energy conservation, environmental protection and ◆ To enhance the innovation and application of cutting-edge intelligence. technology; ◆ To improve the development of technological industrialization. Social ◆ To achieve common growth of both enterprise and our ◆ Strengthen team construction, channel greater energy to implement the strategy of developing the enterprise by talent Responsibility management, and optimize an enabling environment for talent growth; Measures employees; Goals ◆ To achieve mutual benefits and outcomes between the ◆ Intensify human care and mental counseling and increase the employee mental health; enterprise and its partners; ◆ Enhance the cooperation with regions and partners, and actively expand cooperation; ◆ To achieve positive progress together with society. ◆ Put resources targeted at alleviating poverty and participate in social public welfare. Sustainability Report 2014 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng Indicator Index Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact requires companies to comply with, support and carry out a set of ten universally accepted Page principles in the aspects of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption within. These principles are from Contents GRI (G4) CASS-CSR3.0 Numbers Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work by International Labor G4-3, G4-5, G4-18, G4-19, About This Report P1.1-P1.5 Title page Organization, and Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. G4-28, G4-30-G4-32 Huaneng’s Declaration on G1.1 Title page Sustainable Development Huaneng joined the United Nations Global Compact in November, 2007, becoming the first power generation company in China to Message from the join the United Nations Global Compact. It actively performs the ten basic principles of the UN Gloal Compact through promoting G4-1 P3.1-P3.2 P4-5 Company safe development, optimal development, green development, healthy development, innovative development and harmonious Management Team G4-19 P6 development. Huaneng’s Sustainable G4-19 G1.1 P7 Development Mode P5.2, S3.7, S3.9-S3.13, M2.2, Ten Principles Page Number Implementation G4-10, G4-11, G4-13, M2.3, M2.5, E2.2, E2.3, E2.5, Key Performance P8-9 G4-17, G4-EC1, G4-LA6 M1.4, M2.8, -M2.10, S1.5, S2.1-S2.4, S2.22, S4.11, S4.13 Abide by laws and regulations at home Human Respect and support the protection of internationally Special Feature: Huaneng’s P66-67 and abroad, support international P5.1, S1.6, E2.5-E2.7, Right proclaimed human rights Sustainable Development in P10-11 conventions on human rights approval E2.9-E2.13, E1.9, M2.3, M2.4 2014 by the central government, safeguard Company Profile G4-2, G4-7 P4.1-P4.2 P14 and respect human rights, and Not complicit in human rights abuses P68 guarantee employees’ legal rights and Industrial Distribution G4-4, G4-8, G4-9 P4.4 P14-15 interest. About Us Organization Structure G4-13, G4-34 P4.3 P16 Uphold the freedom of association and recognize P66 G4-14, G4-15, G4-16, G4-24P22.2-P2.3, G1.1, G1.3-G1.4, Abide by the national laws and G4-27, G4-33, G4-37-G4-40, CSR Management G2.1-G2.5, G3.1, G4.1, G5.1, P17-21 G4-42, G4-45, G4-47, G4-53, regulations on labor issue, forbide the G5.3-GG5.6, G6.1-G6.4, M1.3 Labor Eliminate all forms of forced and G4-56 P66 use of child labor, and oppose any compulsory labor Improving Safety forms of forced labor; adhere to equal 76 Management System G4-14 S3.1-S3.2 P24-26 77 and just labor policies and democratic Strengthening Equipment Effective abolition of child labor P66 management, make public the affairs of E2.8, S3.8 P26-28 Management Safety Responsibility enterprises, and respect the rights of Emphasizing on Safety labor. G4-14 S3.3-S3.4 P28 Education Improving Emergency Eliminate discrimination in employment and industry P66 G4-14 S3.2, S3.6 P29-33 Response Capabilities Enhancing G4-14, G4-EC8 M2.2, M2.3 P36-41 Take a precautionary approach to environmental Continue to optimize industrial structure, Comprehensive Strength P50-52 challenges accelerate the elimination of outdated Increasing Profitability M1.4-M1.6 P41-43 capacity and develop various clean Consolidating Our Actively increase responsibilities on environmental energies to cope with global climate Economic Responsibility G4-47 P43 Environment P55-56 Management Basis protection change; Develop clean coal power Strengthening Supervision generation technology, establish energy S1.3, S1.4 P44 and Control Encourage the development and promotion of conserving and environmental-friendly P50-51 Globalizing Business G4-6 S1.6 P45-47 environmental-friendly technologies coal-fired. Developing Clean Energy G4-EC7 M2.3, M2.5 P50-52 Continue to optimize industrial structure, Improving Clean accelerate the elimination of outdated M2.2, M2.3 P53-54 Production capacity and develop various clean Strengthening Carbon AntiCounter any forms of corruption, including fraud, energies to cope with global climate G4-14, G4-EC2, G4-EN15 P54 P10-11, P69 Environmental Asset Management corruption blackmail and offering or accepting bribery change; Develop clean coal power Responsibility Tapping into Energy generation technology, establish energy G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN8 E2.1, E2.2, E2.9, E2.10 P55-56 Conservation Potential conserving and environmental-friendly Promoting Technological coal-fired. M2.6, M2.7-M2.10 P57-59 Innovation Protecting Ecological G4-EN2, G4-EN12_G4-EN14 E3.1-E3.6 P60-63 Environment G4-10, G4-11, G4-EC3, S2.8, S2.15-S2.18, S2.3, Caring for Employees P66-69 G4-LA8 S2.10, S2.11, S2.24-S2.26 Join Hands with Partners Social Responsibility to Achieve a Win-win G4-12, G4-LA15, G4-SO7 M3.1, M3.9 P69 Outcome Contributing to Social G4-15, G4-SO1 S4.3-S4.4, S4.8, S4.11-S4.13 P70-73 Welfare Our Commitment to A1 P74-75 Responsibility in 2015 72 / 73 Beautiful China Beautiful Huaneng 美丽中国 美丽华能 Rating Report on Sustainability Report of China Huaneng Group 2014 Feedback Questionnaire 3年可持续发展报告》评级报告 反馈意见表 Upon the delegation of China Huaneng Group, Research Center for Corporate Social Responsibility of Chinese Academy of Social Science selected experts from Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating to form China Huaneng Group Sustainability Report 2014 Rating Team. The rating team rated the China Huaneng Sustainability Report 2014 (hereinafter referred to as the Report) 称“中心”）受中国华能集团公司委托，从“中国企业社会责任报告评级专家委员 Dear Readers, Your Personal Information I. Rating Basis Guidelines for China Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting (CASS-CSR 3.0), and the Standard for China Corporate Social 可持续发展报告》（以下简称《报告》）进行评级。 Name: Responsibility Rating (2014). This report is a Sustainability Report (2013) issued to the public by China II. Rating Procedures Huaneng Group. We are looking forward to your advice and suggestions Organization: 暨《中国企业社会责任报告评级标准（2014）》。 1. The Process Evaluation Group interviewed members of China Huaneng Group’s social responsibility department. so that we can improve our reporting in the future. We would be grateful 2. The Process Evaluation Group reviewed on site the documents involved in the compiling process of the Sustainability Report of Position: if you would answer the following questions and send this questionnaire China Huaneng Group and its subsidiary companies. 员； back to us in one of the following ways. Tel: 3. The Rating Group evaluated the management procedure of China Huaneng Group’s sustainability report and the information disclosed in the Report, management procedures and the information disclosed in the Report. 可持续发展报告编写过程相关资料； III. Rating Results Fax: +86-10-63228866 Fax: 的披露内容进行评价； Process :（★★★★☆） The Political Work Department of China Huaneng Group led the reporting team, and the senior leaders were engaged in facilitating Mail to: No. 6, Fuxingmennei Street, Xicheng District, Beijing (100031) E-mail: the compilation and review of the report; 2) the team identified the stakeholders, and collected suggestions from some stakeholders through interview, expert workshop and other ways; 3) the team identified the essential subjects based on China Huaneng’s strategy and industrial benchmark analysis; and 4) the team planned to release the report on Huaneng’s official website and presented the report in printed, electronic, and H5 versions. A transparent exhibition of the process has been observed. 告审定；编写组对利益相关方进行识别与排序，并对部分相关方意见进行调查；根据 Materiality:（★★★★★） 行界定；拟定报告发布方案，并将以印刷品、电子版、多语种版本等形式呈现报告， Readers Feedback Questionnaire on this Sustainability Report The Report discloses in details the key issues in the power industry, including “implementing macro policies”, “power supply assurance”, “green power development”, “production safety”, , “resource and energy conservation”, “eco-environment protection”. An outstanding substantiality has thus been observed. It shows a high degree of substance. Single Choice (Please mark your choice with “√”) Yes Average No Completeness:（★★★★☆） “发展绿色电力”、“建设项目的环境评估制度”、“节约资源能源”、“发展循环 The Report covers 83% of the core indicators in the power generation industry from the perspective of “safety responsibility”, 述详细充分，具有卓越的实质性表现。 “economic responsibility”, “environmental responsibility”, and “social responsibility”. An excellent degree of completeness has thus 1. Do you think this report reflects Huaneng’s significant impacts on safety, environment, been observed. economy and society？ 78 Balance:（★★★★★） 79 ”、“绿色发展”、“健康发展”、“创新发展”、“和谐发展”等角度披露了电力 The Report contains negative information and data including “the number of serious equipment accidents”, “the number of human 2. Do you think this report makes an accurate and complete analysis of the relations between casualties”, “the number of unplanned outage”. It discloses in the form of special features the cause of the accident and the Huaneng and its stakeholders？ corrective measures. An outstanding balance has thus been observed. Comparability:（★★★★★） ”、“一类障碍数”等负面数据信息，并以案例形式，对“白龙山煤矿一井‘9·1’ The Report contains historical data of 38 key performance indicators in 3 consecutive years and makes horizontal comparison of 3. Do you think the information disclosed in this report is clear, accurate and complete？ 果进行详细披露，平衡性表现卓越。 the “installed capacity”, “world Top 500 enterprises” and other facts. An excellent comparability has thus been observed. Readability（★★★★★） 4. Do you think this report is convenient for reading with respect to contents and design？ The Report is well written in a reasonable structure and rich in cases, properly arranged with a large variety of expressive forms 并就“装机容量”等在行业内进行国内外对比，可比性表现领先。 including images and tables to complement each other, and is well designed. An outstanding readability has thus been observed. Innovativeness:（★★★★★） 言表达流畅；采用图片、表格、流程图等较多表达方式，色调清新自然，设计风格具 The Report is well arranged, starting with its description with “Stakeholders’ expectation － Our action” to summarize the focuses 的可读性表现。 of each chapter and ending with “typical cases” to reflect Huaneng’ practices in fulfillment of social responsibility. An excellent Open Question capability to advance has thus been observed. Overall rating:（★★★★★） 等专题以及报告展望，全面地展现了企业的可持续发展要点、实践重点、责任目标和 Upon evaluation by the Rating Group, China Huaneng Group’s Sustainability Report 2013 is awarded five stars and acknowledged 1. In your opinion, which part of this report is most satisfactory？ as an outstanding CSR report. 方对企业可持续发展现状和趋势做出综合判断，具有领先的创新性。 IV. Suggestions 2. What information that you need to know is not included in this report？ 1. Strengthen the management of full life circles of reporting and boost stakeholder engagement. 报告》为五星级，是一份卓越的企业社会责任报告。 The Rating Group Head: Z hong Hongwu, Director of the Research Center for Corporate Social 3. What’s your advice on our future sustainability reports？ Responsibility of Chinese Academy of Social Science Members: W  ang Zhixuan, Secretary General of China Electricity Council Xiuli Wei, Associate Professor of the School of Economics and Management, North China University Thank you for your support and cooperation. 王志轩 Central Process Evaluators: Wang Mengjuan, Chen Xiaofei Chairman of Rating Panel Head of Rating Panel 评级专家委员会主席 评级小组组长 Executive Vice Chairman Director of the 中心常务副理事长 评级专家委员会委员 of the Research Center Research Center for Corporate Social for Corporate Social Responsibility of Chinese Responsibility of Academy of Social Chinese Academy of Science Social Science Issuing time: June 3, 2015 CHINA HUANENG GROUP Sustainability Report 2014 80 nability R tai G ort 2014 CHN Sus ep
