Corporate Responsibility Performance Report 2015 Welcome to WorleyParsons’ 2015 Corporate Responsibility WorleyParsons is committed to making the Global Compact and its Performance Report. principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. It is our intent to continue our engagement in collaborative projects that The report provides an overview of corporate responsibility-related advance the broader development goals of the United Nations and aid performance for the period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 and serves to the communities in which we work. demonstrate our commitment to supporting the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We have identified the following key themes to align our corporate responsibility activities across our operations: education; enterprise In my closing statement in 2014 report, I outlined the areas of focus development; diversity and inclusion; and skilled volunteering. Further for the coming year. These were diversity reporting and participation; detail on these activities can be found as case studies throughout the WorleyParsons' Foundation projects; and management of our report. environmental impact at our largest locations. Our efforts to continuously improve our corporate responsibility I am pleased to say we delivered progress in each of these areas performance have been recognized through major industry awards for throughout the year. Chief our commitment to gender diversity, achievements in philanthropy, Diversity Reporting and Participation community initiatives, reporting and safety. For the first time, we During the past year, we launched a new diversity and inclusion engaged Ernst & Young to provide limited assurance on FY2015 nonprogram, supported by a set of key expectations, and introduced Executive financial performance commitments covered in 2015 Annual Report gender diversity targets for the Board, executive leadership teams which are reiterated in this report. and our organization in general. Measureable objectives have been We recognize WorleyParsons’ reputation for honesty, integrity and established against which progress will be reviewed annually. Further Officer ethical dealings is one of its key business assets and a critical factor information on our performance can be found on page 35. in ensuring continued success. All of WorleyParsons’ people continue WorleyParsons Foundation to strive to maintain the standard of ethical behavior expected by Statement The WorleyParsons Foundation supported an increased number our customers, suppliers and shareholders. We will continue to refine of projects and community partners during the year. Additional our corporate responsibility efforts across all the parts of the world information on our Foundation projects can be found on page 13. in which we do business, in an effort to ensure that our programs Management of our Environmental Impact are as effective and efficient as possible in delivering value to the Our operations have worked to reduce carbon emissions and communities we support. introduced an emission reduction target. Activities include behavioral change programs, encouraging the use of public transport, flexible ‘work from home’ arrangements, engaging in bush regeneration, waste and recycling programs, trail clean-up activities and FollowMe smart printing to name a few. We have introduced environmental targets to measure our progress on these commitments. Further details can be found on page 56. Andrew Wood Chief Executive Officer WorleyParsons Limited | 1 Contents Page 3 Page 7 Page 15 Page 21 Page 27 1 2 3 4 5 Introduction Organization Materiality Governance, Ethics Our People and Transparency Page 38 Page 45 Page 50 Page 55 Page 64 6 7 8 9 10 Economic Human Rights Society Environment GRI 4.0 (Community) (Fair Operating Content Index Practices and Supply Chain) 1 Introduction 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index $1.56m $2.32m Contributions by Contributions by our people WorleyParsons 16,302 88 ~24% Volunteer hours Diverse nationalities Percentage of by our people of our people women employees | 3 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency Corporate Risk Health, Safetyand and Supply Chain)Ready, Response and Quality IndexPolicy Corporate Risk Health, Safety and Ready, Response and Quality Policy Management Policy Environmental (HSE) Recovery (R3) Framework Management Policy Environmental (HSE) Recovery (R3) Framework Policy Policy We have identified four key corporate Education Education Enterprise Development Diversity & InclusionEnterprise Education Development Enterprise Development Skilled Volunteering Diversity & Inclusion Skilled Volunteering responsibility topics arising from our The United Nations International Covenant on Economic, Enterprise development offers the opportunity for Social and Cultural Rights recognizes the right of everyone WorleyParsons to support the communities in which we stakeholder engagement and analysis: to an education. Prioritizing education initiatives gives operate by helping the community evolve and grow their us the opportunity to reinvest in the local community. economies. Continuous enterprise development creates We recognize that education is a basic human right and jobs, funds the tax base for local and federal governments an essential tool in improving a location or an individual’s and increases the aggregate standard of living. standard of living. WorleyParsons is committed to helping communities We invest in our people’s education and facilitate programs through our localization programs in many locations, which outside our organization to encourage the uptake of take the form of recruitment, training and development science, technology, engineering and mathematics subjects of local professionals to provide our customers with in the communities in which we operate. sustainable, profitable solutions grown on a foundation of strong local infrastructure. In addition, we provide support to those with financial and social barriers to education, as well as addressing We have implemented a number of programs to meet our the gender imbalance in the engineering and technology commitment to enterprise development such as providing fields with not-for-profit organizations such as Robogals. office space, training facilities and internet access to We are proud of continuing our support for CareerTrackers Engineers Without Borders in Timor-Lesté and ongoing in Australia and the Aboriginal Student Services Centre support and mentorship to 10 promising small businesses in Canada who provide their students with professional in South Africa in areas such as marketing, financial development and employment opportunities within advice, tender preparation, human resources, and business WorleyParsons. processes, as well as office space and equipment for those businesses. WorleyParsons has extensive experience in stakeholder engagement with the Indigenous peoples in Canada, the United States, South America and Australia. They provide us with an understanding on how to interact and communicate effectively with Indigenous customers, community leaders, elders and contractors, to build mutually trusting and respectful relationships and partnerships. | 5 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 h, Safety and Ready, Response and Quality Policy Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content nmental (HSE) Recovery (R3) Framework Policy Corporate Risk Health, Safety and Transparency Ready, Response and Quality Policy and Supply Chain) Index Management Policy Environmental (HSE) Recovery (R3) Framework Policy e Development Diversity and Diversity Inclusion & Inclusion Education Skilled Volunteering Enterprise Development Diversity & Inclusion SkilledVolunteering Skilled Volunteering WorleyParsons welcomes a diverse range of employees, The skills of our people can make a significant positive reflecting the range of countries, cultures and contexts impact on our community stakeholders in many ways, spanned by our operations. We consider this diversity to plus our people can benefit from developing skills and be one of our strengths. The diversity of our employees relationships beyond their everyday roles. This year, includes factors such as race, ethnicity, gender, sexual 16,300+ hours were tracked for our people contributing orientation, socio-economic status, culture, age, physical unpaid hours towards assisting in community based ability, education, language, skill levels, family status, organizations or internal WorleyParsons activities linked religious, political and other beliefs and work styles. to corporate responsibility events and activities. Many of these hours are dedicated to sharing knowledge for We know from experience that differences in ideas, local community empowerment. The success of these backgrounds, patterns of thinking and approaches to work activities is attributed to a network of passionate corporate can generate value for our stakeholders. We undertook responsibility champions across over 30 countries. various diversity and inclusion activities over the reporting period, including launching six key areas of the Diversity To encourage more skilled volunteering this year, the and Inclusion Expectations – diverse and inclusive WorleyParsons Foundation was awarded the status of a workplace, recruitment and promotion, closing pay gaps, ‘National Community Partner’ with Australian Red Cross, flexibility, accountability and engagement, and community. where we integrated our skilled volunteers into their international disaster recovery projects. This collaboration is the first of its kind for the Australian Red Cross and will provide innovative support to their community partner organizations. The pilot project provides an opportunity for WorleyParsons employees to volunteer in the Philippines over a period of three months each, assisting a Red Cross Community Partner in disaster preparedness and recovery. The in-country volunteers are coupled with remote WorleyParsons volunteers, who will provide ‘pro bono’ skilled volunteering support from their home offices. | 6 2 Organization 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index We are a professional services business, a partner in delivering OUR VALUES sustained economic and social progress, creating opportunities for Leadership Agility individuals, companies and communities to find and realize their • Energy and excitement • Smallest assignment to world-scale developments own futures. • Integrity in all aspects of business • Comprehensive geographic presence We can only do this with the support of our shareholders, • Minimum bureaucracy • Global expertise delivered locally earned by delivering earnings growth and a satisfactory return • Committed, empowered and technically • Responsive to customer preferences on their investment. capable people • Optimum customized solutions • Delivering profitable sustainability WorleyParsons delivers projects, provides expertise in engineering, Performance procurement and construction and offers a wide range of consulting and Relationships advisory services. We cover the full life cycle, from creating new assets to • Industry leadership in health, safety and sustaining and enhancing operating assets, in the hydrocarbons, minerals, • Open and respectful environmental performance metals, chemicals and infrastructure sectors. Our resources and energy are • A trusted supplier, partner and customer • Consistent results for our customers, delivering focused on responding to and meeting the needs of our customers over • Collaborative approach to business on our promises the long term and thereby creating value for our shareholders. • Willing to challenge and innovate • People accountable and rewarded for • Enduring customer relationships performance • Innovation delivering value for our customers • Creating wealth for our shareholders Advisian is a Unique Global Consulting Firm Advisian is our independent advisory and consulting business, launched in FY2015. Advisian provides management and strategy advisory services, with technical consulting and deep domain expertise, leveraging the real world practical experience and technical depth of our consultants. Advisian consulting services are focused on asset intensive businesses operating within the hydrocarbons, minerals, metals, chemicals and infrastructure sectors. | 8 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index WorleyParsons Limited is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). It is subject We are a leading global provider of professional services to the resources and energy to Australian disclosure requirements and standards, including the requirements of the sectors and complex process industries. WorleyParsons employs 31,400 people globally. Corporations Act 2001 and the ASX Listing Rules. WorleyParsons’ corporate headquarters WorleyParsons has 148 offices in 46 countries. Social, economic and environmental is located in Sydney, Australia. sustainability activities involve over 15,000 participants across the business. Fort Chicoutimi Stavanger Anchorage St John Cold Lake Alma Aberdeen Trois-Rivières Grande Prairie Lloydminster Leeds Teesside Moscow Montreal Fermont London Edmonton Saskatoon Brossard Manchester Warsaw Kitimat Astana Blackfalds Markham Gloucester Delft Aksai Vancouver Sept-Îles Calgary Mississauga Bristol Plzen Sudbury St John’s Farnborough Belene Atyrau Bellevue Woking Tengiz Ulaanbataar Billings Bismarck Sofia Almaty Sarnia Quebec City Stara Zagora Aktau Vancouver, WA Tashkent Saint John Madrid Reading Istanbul Beijing Folsom Tulsa Tianjin Phoenix Chattanooga Tripoli Cairo Chengdu Nanjing Azusa Basrah Ahmadi Shanghai Houston Bahrain Arcadia Al Khobar Deer Park Jacksonville Dubai Monrovia Bayport Yanbu Muscat Riyadh Doha Hong Kong Abu Dhabi Hanoi Hyderabad Mumbai Chennai Bangkok Sriracha Port of Spain Ho Chi Minh City Kota Kinabalu Bogotá Lagos Accra Kuala Belait Kuantan Kerteh Miri Kuala Lumpur Bintulu Quito Duri Singapore Balikpapan Luanda Jakarta Timor-Leste Lima Townsville Belo Horizonte Mackay Windhoek Pretoria Port Hedland São Paulo Rio de Janeiro Polokwane Gladstone Maputo Rustenberg Brisbane Santiago Kathu Durban Upington Perth Johannesburg Newcastle Kimberley Secunda Adelaide Sydney East London Bunbury Auckland Bloemfontein Cape Town Port Elizabeth Geelong Melbourne New Plymouth Hastings Wellington WorleyParsons Limited Christchurch ABN 17 096 090 158 Level 12 141 Walker Street North Sydney NSW 2060 Australia Phone: +61 2 8923 6866 Fax: +61 2 8923 6877 Web: www.worleyparsons.com | 9 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Scale of Organization Significant Changes The financial overview of WorleyParsons’ performance for the past four reporting periods In April 2014, before the fall in oil prices, we restructured the business, refreshed the is shown in the following table: leadership team, reduced our overhead costs and initiated programs to enable our staff to deliver better customer satisfaction. We created the business lines of Services, Major $’M 2012 2013 2014 2015 Projects and Improve transferring direct accountability for performance to the leaders of Aggregated revenue1 7,362.6 7,627.0 7,363.7 7,227.5 those business lines. More recently we introduced the fourth business line, Advisian, to complete this restructure. EBIT2 537.9 527.0 428.2 87.1 EBIT margin 7.3% 6.9% 5.8% 1.2% Strategy Our strategy is built around our five strategic themes leading to one differentiated Net profit after tax 353.2 322.1 249.1 (54.9) strategy to ‘Realize our future’. WorleyParsons’ financial performance and our ‘Realize our Net profit margin 4.8% 4.2% 3.4% (0.8%) future’ strategy (new in FY2015) is covered comprehensively in our 2015 Annual Report. Cash flow from operations 437.5 443.5 550.1 251.3 Return on equity 3 18.0% 16.2% 12.5% 9.2% Basic EPS4 normalized5 (cents) 152.7 137.8 108.5 (14.7) Basic EPS (cents) 143.7 130.8 101.0 (22.2) Dividends per share (cents) 91.0 92.5 85.0 56.0 1 Aggregated revenue is defined as statutory revenue and other income plus share of revenue from associates less procurement revenue at nil margin, interest income and net gain on revaluation of investments previously accounted for as equity accounted associates. The directors believe the disclosure of revenue attributable to associates provides additional information in relation to WorleyParsons’ financial performance. 2 Earnings before income tax. 3 Based on underlying net profit after tax and underlying equity. Realize 4 Earnings per share. 5 Before amortization of intangibles including tax effect of amortization expense. our future. | 10 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Risk Management WorleyParsons follows a precautionary approach through the support of the following policies and frameworks: Corporate Risk Corporate Risk Health, Safety Corporate RiskandCorporate Health, Safety Ready, Riskand Health, Health, Safety and Response Ready, Safety and and Response Ready, Response andQuality Policy Ready, and Quality Response and Quality Policy Quality Policy Policy Management PolicyManagement PolicyEnvironmental (HSE) Management Management Policy Environmental Policy Recovery Environmental (HSE) (HSE) (R3) Framework Environmental Recovery Recovery (R3) Framework Recovery (R3) Framework (HSE) (R3) Framework Corporate Risk and Assurance Framework Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) Ready, Response and Recovery (R3) Quality Policy Policy Policy Policy Policy Policy and Integrity Framework OneWay™ Framework Aims to increase shareholder value by Reinforces our commitment to creating a culture of risk management Reinforces WorleyParsons’ Provides a framework for the R3 System to understanding and meeting our to enable our entrepreneurial spirit. commitment to achieving our vision of manage WorleyParsons’ exposure to critical customer needs and complying with Zero Harm to people and assets and incidents, major business interruptions statutory and regulatory obligations. zero environmental incidents. and commercial crises that might threaten the safety and security of our people and imperil the viability of our business. Education EducationEnterprise Development Education Education Enterprise Enterprise & Inclusion Enterprise DiversityDevelopment Development DiversityDevelopmentSkilled Volunteering Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Skilled Volunteering Skilled Volunteering & Inclusion Skilled Volunteering | 11 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Global Endorsement of External Charters and Memberships United Nations Global Compact Carbon Disclosure Project Workplace Gender Equality Report We support the 10 principles of the Global Our commitment towards the environment WorleyParsons complies with all mandatory Compact with respect to human rights, labor, has always been part of our OneWay™ vision diversity reporting requirements. In accordance environment and anti-corruption. We are towards Zero Harm to people and assets with the Australian Workplace Gender Equality committed to making the Global Compact and and zero environmental incidents. We have Act 2012, relevant entities within WorleyParsons its principles part of the strategy, culture and participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project have submitted Workplace Gender Equality day-to-day operations of our company and to (CDP) since 2009. CDP is an international Reports for the reporting period. These reports engage in collaborative projects which advance not-for-profit organization providing a are available on our company’s website. the broader development goals of the United global system for companies and cities to United Nations Road Safety Program Nations. measure, disclose, manage and share vital We support the Decade of Action for Road environmental information. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Safety 2011-2020 through our organization’s We align our corporate responsibility reporting Australian National Greenhouse and management of work-related road safety. We process with the internationally recognized GRI Energy Reporting recognize that everyone has the right to use the sustainability reporting framework. WorleyParsons is registered under the Australian roads without the threat to life or health. National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Corporate Governance Australian Red Cross (NGER) Act 2007 as the controlling corporation As an Australian incorporated company, WorleyParsons was awarded the status of a as prescribed by section 12. We lodged our NGER WorleyParsons Limited must comply with the ‘National Community Partner’ with Australian Report for FY2014 in October 2014 and intend Corporations Act 2001. In addition, as an entity Red Cross. This collaboration is the first of to lodge in October 2015 for FY2015. This listed on the ASX, WorleyParsons Limited must its kind and demonstrates commitment to report contains information in relation to the comply with the ASX Listing Rules. Those rules our communities and support for skilled greenhouse gas emissions, energy production required listed entities to publish a Corporate volunteering. It also showcases our global and energy consumption from the operation of Governance Statement on an annual basis. reach of knowledge, and should position facilities under the operational control of our WorleyParsons as an industry leader amongst company. our peers in large scale ‘pro bono’ services, focusing on disaster recovery. | 12 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index WorleyParsons established the WorleyParsons Foundation Awards were given to the individuals Foundation Council which provides governance to responsible for 38 outstanding corporate the WorleyParsons Foundation. The WorleyParsons responsibility activities across 18 countries aligned Foundation Council is comprised of a member from to the four key themes. the Group Leadership Team, the business line Four WorleyParsons Foundation projects leaders and a corporate responsibility community commenced in this reporting period which will champion. continue into the next reporting period: The WorleyParsons Foundation objectives are to: 1. collaboration with the Red Cross for disaster • support the execution of high impact strategic recovery in the Philippines, with a pilot project community projects; commencing for large scale skilled remote • become a vehicle for direct corporate investment, volunteering; fundraising and volunteering; 2. capability development of Robogals • expand opportunities for our personnel to be preparedness for global expansion, so they can directly or indirectly involved in foundation scale their model to introduce careers in science activities; and and technology to schoolgirls across the world; Students of Kelicha Pada village (India), where WorleyParsons provided • raise awareness of WorleyParsons’ corporate 3. project delivery of community bore well water, school infrastructure, solar power systems and the digging of bore wells. responsibility credentials with its stakeholders. solar power and school buildings for families in Kelicha Pada village, India; and The WorleyParsons Foundation recognizes and 4. project delivery of a shelter house for preschool acknowledges the volunteering and participation children for the community of Island of Queullín, in activities that help promote the four key themes Chile. of education, enterprise development, diversity and inclusion, and skilled volunteering, . | 13 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Awards In October 2014, WorleyParsons was In December 2014, WorleyParsons Chile In March 2015, WorleyParsons was awarded recognized with a high commendation for was recognized by the Australia-Chile the status of a ‘National Community Partner’ ‘The Most Ambitious Company in Gender Chamber of Commerce as ‘Company of with Australian Red Cross. This collaboration Diversity’ category at the Engineers the Year’. WorleyParsons was recognized is the first of its kind and demonstrates Australia Women in Engineering Gender for its ongoing participation and support commitment to our communities and support Diversity Awards. of the chamber. for skilled volunteering. It also showcases our global reach of knowledge, and should position WorleyParsons as an industry leader amongst our peers in large scale ‘pro bono’ services, focusing on disaster recovery. In October 2014, WorleyParsons In February 2015, WorleyParsons in In April 2015, WorleyParsons Europe Canada was recognized for the second Western Australia proudly received received the GOLD MEDAL Award for its consecutive year by Mediacorp Canada as the Australian Red Cross Blood Service ‘approach to occupational safety and health’ one of the ‘Top 100 Employers in Canada’ Award for West Australia’s ‘Highest Total from the Royal Society for the Prevention for 2015. The advisory board compared Corporate Blood Donations’ in 2014. The of Accidents (RoSPA). Receiving this award WorleyParsons to other organizations donations have saved 426 lives. for a sixth consecutive year is testament to which offer progressive and forwardWorleyParsons’ commitment towards Health, thinking programs. The award is based on Safety & Environment and underpins our best practices in recruitment, engagement journey towards Zero Harm. and retention. In November 2014, WorleyParsons In February 2015, WorleyParsons Calgary In May 2015, WorleyParsons was rated at United Kingdom was presented with in Canada was honored with a prestigious the level of ‘Leading’ for the 2014 financial the prestigious ‘Payroll Giving Silver ‘Spirits of Gold Award’ from the United reporting cycle by the Australian Council Award 2014’ for fostering a culture of Way of Calgary and Area. The award of Superannuation Investors. The ‘Leading’ philanthropy and committed giving in was based on fundraising, participation, rating is the highest of the five categories the workplace by making Payroll Giving engagement and education initiatives. and demonstrates to investors that the available to employees. The National WorleyParsons has supported United Way Company takes investor issues seriously Payroll Giving Excellence Awards for more than 20 years and in 2014, the and gives investors valuable information to showcase the best Payroll Giving schemes office giving campaign raised more than better inform their investment decision. in the UK. $430,000, with an overall participation rate of 51%. | 14 3 Materiality 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index The Board requires management to design In our first year of reporting, corporate Materiality outlines the process involved in determining relevant and implement risk management and responsibility material aspects were (or ‘material’) topics for an organization that have a direct or internal control systems to identify, assess identified through discussions, surveys and indirect impact on the ability to create, preserve or erode economic, and manage WorleyParsons’ material workshops with our people, our customers, environmental and social value for the organization, its stakeholders, business risks and report on whether those the Board, the Group Leadership Team (GLT) the environment, and society at large. risks are being managed effectively. Details and our shareholders. Feedback from of the management of material business stakeholders was consolidated and aligned risks can be found in the 2015 Corporate with guidance from ISO 26000 Social Governance Statement. Material exposures Responsibility, the GRI and the United to economic and sustainability risks Nations Global Compact. WorleyParsons have been identified. Mitigation of these Corporate Responsibility Policy highlights exposures is set out on pages 43 and 44 of our commitments in six aspects: the 2015 Annual Report. • Our People; As an extension to the risk management • Community; process, WorleyParsons has developed • Governance, Ethics and Transparency; the following corporate responsibility materiality process to determine corporate • Human Rights; responsibility-related material aspects • Fair Operating Practices and that might not be captured in business Supply Chain; and material risks. This process aligns with the • Environment. GRI Reporting Framework which highlights focus areas in economic, environmental and We review key topics and focus areas social topics. under our corporate responsibility aspects annually through the corporate responsibility materiality test. Key topics WorleyParsons comprises more identified as focus areas are constantly than 200 entities. All references monitored and reported back to our in this report to ‘WorleyParsons’ stakeholders. or ‘company’ are references to WorleyParsons Limited and each of its controlled entities. | 16 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Corporate Responsibility Planning and Performance Process (Materiality) Year 1 Internal People Customer WorleyParsons Shareholders Surveys Feedback Board and GLT Guidance from ISO 26000, GRI and UNGC Corporate Responsibility Policy Statement of Commitments Year 2 and Beyond INPUTS INPUTS INPUTS Feedback: 1. CR Location 1. Investors External Stakeholders: WorleyParsons Committees and Corporate Responsibility (CR) Team 2. Cusotmers Investor Relations, Customers Key Functional Owners Champions 3. Our People 2. Location Activities 1. Material Business Risks from the Risk List of All Material Aspects and Relevant Indicators and Assurance Framework 2. Company Strategic Materiality Test Overview Recommendation Ongoing Monitoring and Reporting The material aspects that are defined in our corporate responsibility materiality process are: Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Material Aspects Key Topics and Focus Material Aspects Key Topics and Focus Our People • Health and Safety Human Rights • Indigenous Rights • Road Safety • Labor Rights • Diversity and Inclusion • Employee Training Community • Education Fair Operating Practices and • Anti-Corruption • Enterprise Development of Local Communities Supply Chain • Skilled Volunteering Governance, Ethics and • Business Practices and Unethical Behavior Environment • Energy Transparency • Reputation • Greenhouse Gas Emissions | 17 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Boundaries Significance WorleyParsons’ boundaries are defined Material Aspects Internal Aspect Boundary External Aspect Boundary External Boundary Examples Rating both inside and outside the organization. Our People Entities over which we have Road users including Safe Schools project in Highest Internal boundaries for each material Safety, road safety, diversity financial and operational motorists, cyclists and collaboration with International aspect are determined by the entities and inclusion, employee control (e.g. offices, project pedestrians utilizing road Road Assessment Program which were under our financial and training offices, etc.) and the infrastructure where we have operational control during the reporting employees and contractors local presence period and the employees and contractors engaged by those entities engaged by those entities. External Community partners Community Moderate High boundaries for our organization are supporting diversity education programs determined by various factors depending on the extent of our community and Community Local businesses and Community activities, enterprise Highest environmental initiatives. Indirect exposure Education, enterprise education system related development projects from our customers’ project work is outside development to science, technology, our reporting boundary. engineering,and mathematics The following table provides a summary of Governance, Ethics Providers of debt and Continuous disclosure, stakeholder High internal and external boundaries for each and Transparency equity capital engagement processes, material aspect arranged based on the Business practices, unethical investor days significance to our company: behavior, reputation Human Rights Contractors and Contractors and Moderate High Indigenous rights, labor rights sub-contractors who deal sub-contractors supply directly with WorleyParsons chain which aligns with Fair Operating Practices and WorleyParsons best practice Moderate High Supply Chain Anti-corruption Environment Scope 3 emissions, excluding Our people’s air travel Moderate Energy, greenhouse gas customer impacts emissions | 18 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Key Stakeholders Identification and Engagement of Stakeholders WorleyParsons recognizes that we have a wide range of stakeholders who Key stakeholders are identified based on their influence and the experience of the people have an interest in our activities. Key internal and external stakeholders involved. The priority and frequency of engagement with stakeholders are determined by that we have identified are: our material aspects. We recognize the importance of transparency and communicating openly with all stakeholders: i. Customers • Hydrocarbons Stakeholders Engagement Frequency • Minerals, Metals & Chemicals Customers Meetings As required • Infrastructure Alignment sessions At project commencement ii. Our People Reports At project completion • Board Our People Employee briefings As required • Group Leadership Team Intranet, email, newsletters, social events, notice As required (daily, • Employees boards and toolbox meetings weekly and monthly) iii. Shareholders Town hall meetings Quarterly • Shareholders Shareholders Annual reports, and half yearly financial reporting Half yearly/annually • Investor groups Website and email, and investor briefings As required • Fund managers Investor days As required iv. Local Communities Market announcements As required • Community representatives Annual General Meeting Annually • Community partner organizations Investor surveys As required Local Communities Direct engagement on matters of local importance As required v. Suppliers and Contractors Website Annually • Local suppliers Social media As required • Non-local suppliers Projects and activities with partner organizations As required vi. Government and Regulators Suppliers and Open and collaborative face-to-face engagement and As required • Local, state and federal governments for each of our locations Contractors discussions Regular performance meetings As required Contractual agreements, including WorleyParsons As required Supply Chain Code of Conduct Government and Face-to-face contact As required Regulators Annual reports, website and email Half yearly/annually Direct engagement on matters of local importance As required | 19 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Materiality Key Topics Report Profile Standard Disclosure Level Our corporate responsibility materiality test Information in this report highlights our Our 2015 Corporate Responsibility aligns to the GRI Framework and is revisited efforts from 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015, Performance Report is prepared in accordance on an annual basis. This covers economic, unless otherwise stated. Our previous with the GRI 4.0 Framework and the content environment and social categories of our Corporate Responsibility Performance Report as ‘Comprehensive’. This report contains all the business. The identification of gaps and for the period from 1 July 2013 to 30 June generic disclosures on management approach risks is reviewed for each material aspect 2014 was released in September 2014. The and indicators of each identified material with appropriate levels of reporting on reporting cycle of our report aligns with our aspect. It should be noted that there are no those aspects. financial year (1 July to 30 June). restatements in our previous reports. The full Gaps against expectations from our A summary of our corporate responsibility GRI 4.0 Indicator Table is provided at the end stakeholders have been identified in our performance was published in our 2015 of this report. gender diversity reporting, environmental Annual Report and a comprehensive version Independent Limited Assurance Report (energy management) global processes of our Corporate Responsibility Performance and our socially responsible supply chain Report will be hosted on our website. Selected corporate responsibility performance management. The reviews also confirmed data in our 2015 Annual Report were Contact provided limited assurance by Ernst & Young. some recurring themes across the business, Marni Oaten During the assurance process, a number with the topics that were identified as Director, Corporate Responsibility of recommendations were incorporated to significant to our community programs being WorleyParsons Limited improve the reporting process with embedded education, enterprise development, diversity Level 12 controls and other enhancements. The extent and inclusion, and skilled volunteering. 333 Collins Street of this assurance activity is described in These topics fall under Our People and Local Melbourne VIC 3000 Australia the Independent Limited Assurance Report Community aspects. www.worleyparsons.com provided as a link on page 33 of the 2015 We have also included information on our Annual Report. Governance, Ethics and Transparency, Human Feedback and Suggestions Rights, Fair Operating Practices and Supply corporate.responsibility@worleyparsons.com Chain and Environment aspects. Each material aspect is constantly monitored to measure our overall performance and to identify potential improvement. | 20 4 Governance, Ethics and Transparency 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Governance Structure Delegation of Authority and Consultation The Board has ultimate authority over and oversight of the company Our process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and and regards corporate governance as a critical element in achieving the social topics involves a series of written delegations. The Board has company’s objectives. provided the CEO with a written delegation of authority. The authority The Board has four standing committees to assist in carrying out its includes authority to manage the company’s operations and to establish responsibilities: Audit and Risk Committee; Nominations Committee; and maintain an appropriate framework for good governance. This is in Remuneration Committee; and Health, Safety and Environment Committee. respect to economic, environmental and social topics. Each of the committees has a formal charter in place. In turn, the CEO has provided his direct reports with written delegations of The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is responsible for the day-to-day authority corresponding to their areas of responsibility. Those delegations management of the company within the corporate governance structure encompass authority with respect to economic, environmental and social set by the Board. topics as relevant to the role of the direct report. The GLT is our company’s highest management body. The GLT’s role is to While the particular scope of authority varies between members of the work together to advise the CEO with respect to the effective and efficient GLT, all team members have been delegated authority for managing some functioning of the company’s global business. aspects of economic, environmental and social topics. For example, the Group Managing Directors of our business lines have authority to manage social topics such as health and safety, employee training and anticorruption. In turn, those team members will have delegated some or all of that authority to their direct reports. The CEO reports directly to the Board and all members of the GLT report directly to the CEO. This section summarizes our approach to governance, ethics and transparency. Greater Given WorleyParsons’ size and geographical spread, it is not practical for detail regarding our corporate governance other members of our Board to consult directly with our stakeholders on practices is set out in our Corporate economic, environmental and social topics. However, the Board receives Governance Statement 2015. regular reporting in relation to matters including: health and safety, diversity and inclusion, unethical practices and other matters that may affect our reputation. This enables the Board to monitor both management and company performance in relation to those topics. | 22 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Composition of Highest Governance Body Our Board of Directors is identified below, along with each committee of which they are a member. In addition, the secretary to the Board is Peter Janu, the Company Secretary and General Counsel Corporate. Andrew Wood John Grill AO Catherine John M Green Wang Xiao Bin Ron McNeilly Erich Christopher Larry Benke Peter Janu Chief Executive Chairman and Livingstone AO Non‑Executive Non‑Executive Deputy Chairman Fraunschiel Haynes OBE Non‑Executive Company Secretary Officer Non-Executive Non‑Executive Director Director and Lead Non‑Executive Non‑Executive Director and General Counsel Director Director Independent Director Director Corporate Director John is Chairman Catherine is a John is Chairman Xiao Bin is a member Ron is a member of Erich is Chairman Chris is Chairman Larry is a member of the Board and member of the Audit of the of the Audit and the Audit and Risk of the Audit and of the Health, of the Audit and Chairman of the and Risk Committee Remuneration Risk Committee and Committee, Risk Committee Safety and Risk Committee, Nominations and the Nominations Committee and a the Nominations Nominations and a member of Environment the Nominations Committee and Committee. member of the Committee. Committee, the Nominations Committee and a Committee, and the a member of the Nominations Remuneration Committee. member of the Health, Safety and Remuneration Committee. Committee and Nominations Environment Committee and Health, Safety and Committee. Committee. Health, Safety Environment and Environment Committee. Committee. Note: Jageet (Jeet) Bindra joined the Board of Directors on 1 July 2015 and is not pictured here. | 23 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Highest Governance Body Overview The Board receives regular reporting in relation to matters including: risk, corporate responsibility, health and safety, diversity and inclusion, unethical practices and other The Board’s key responsibilities are set out in the Board Charter. Those responsibilities matters that may affect our reputation. In addition, Board members participate in a include: program of site visits aimed at increasing Board members’ understanding of the HSE • approving the company’s strategic direction; risks faced by the company and to further raise the profile of HSE risk management • setting goals for and monitoring the company’s performance; with our people on site and, in particular, with site management. • overseeing the implementation of the company’s risk management systems; and The reporting and site visit program develop and enhance the Board’s collective knowledge of health and safety, diversity and inclusion, unethical practices and other • authorizing key company policies. matters that may affect our reputation. In addition, in carrying out those responsibilities the Board approves goals with respect A review of Board performance is conducted every 12 months. The review includes: to diversity and inclusion. • comparing performance against agreed relevant criteria; and Given the company’s size and geographic spread, it is not practical for the Board to be involved in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social • examining the Board’s effectiveness of composition. impacts, risks and opportunities. However, the Board delegates authority to identify The key criteria for evaluation include monitoring of business performance, regulatory and manage such impacts, risks and opportunities to the CEO, who in turn delegates compliance, strategy formulation and succession planning. aspects of that authority to his direct reports. The review of Board performance is sufficiently wide in scope that directors can make WorleyParsons has processes to systematically identify, assess and report on both suggestions in relation to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. For financial and non-financial material business risks. Part of this process requires the example, directors might request greater or different reporting be provided in relation company’s Internal Audit function to report to the Board as to the effectiveness of the to those topics. company’s management of its material business risks and internal controls. The GLT is involved in updating our values, strategies, policies and goals related to many aspects of our economic, environmental and social topics. For example, the GLT is To the extent that economic, environmental and social topics comprise material involved in setting our values, strategies, policies and goals with respect to: health and business risks (e.g. health and safety risk and reputation risk), the company’s Internal safety, diversity and inclusion, education and training, Indigenization of our workforce, Audit report will deal with the company’s management of those topics. That report is anti-corruption and business practices and unethical behavior. then reviewed by the Board. A strategic and operational Corporate Risk Management report is prepared and analyzed Communications by both management and the Board twice a year in relation to the company’s material Critical concerns are communicated to the Board through: business risks. That report relevantly addresses impacts, risks and opportunities with • the Internal Audit report as to the effectiveness of the company’s management of its respect to: health and safety, business practices and ethics and the consequences for material business risks and internal controls; WorleyParsons’ reputation if a material business risk were to occur. • the Corporate Risk Management report; In addition, the Board’s Health, Safety and Environment Committee meets six times a • the CEO’s monthly reports; and year to review health and safety impacts, risks and opportunities. • other specialist reporting (e.g. in relation to health and safety, corporate responsibility WorleyParsons’ Corporate Responsibility Performance Report is approved by the Group and diversity and inclusion). Managing Director – Assurance & Development and the Company Secretary and General Counsel Corporate. | 24 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Highest Governance Body Remuneration on the Remuneration Report at the Annual General Meeting into consideration when The remuneration structure for the non-executive directors is not related to determining the company’s remuneration policies. performance. Non-executive directors receive fees which reflect their skills and During each of the last seven years, the Remuneration Report has been approved by in responsibilities and the time commitments required to discharge their duties. excess of 97% of shareholders voting on the Remuneration Report resolution. WorleyParsons does not pay retirement benefits to non-executive directors (other than superannuation contributions in accordance with its statutory superannuation Highest Governance Body Nomination obligations). The Nominations Committee assists and advises the Board on matters relating to The remuneration structure for senior executives reflects the company’s performance Board composition and performance, including director independence. The Nominations culture: there is a direct correlation between the executive’s reward and individual and Committee reviews, assesses and advises the Board in relation to the necessary company performance. This ensures that the company’s remuneration policy is aligned and desirable competencies of directors. It also oversees director selection and with its long term business objectives and the interests of shareholders and other appointment. All non-executive directors are members of the Nominations Committee. stakeholders. In considering the nominations and appointments of directors, the Board seeks to Further details of the remuneration policies and practices of the company and the ensure that its membership is such that each director: remuneration paid to directors and senior executives are set out in the Remuneration • is a person of integrity who will observe the company’s Code of Conduct; Report on pages 51 to 66 of the 2015 Annual Report. • has sufficient abilities and time available to perform their role effectively; While some of our GLT members have more performance criteria related to • brings an independent and questioning mind to their role; WorleyParsons’ economic, environmental and social objectives than others depending on the nature of their responsibilities, all GLT members have at least some performance • enhances the breadth and depth of skills and knowledge of the Board as a whole; and criteria related to those objectives. Examples of those criteria or key performance • enhances the experience and diversity of the Board as a whole. indicators (KPIs) include those relating to: health and safety; reputation; education; and While recognizing that each director will not necessarily have experience in each of the diversity and inclusion. following areas, the Board seeks to ensure that its membership includes an appropriate The Remuneration Committee assists and advises the Board on matters relating to mix of directors with experience in engineering, relevant industry sectors, general Board remuneration, and the performance and remuneration of the members of the GLT. management and finance. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for ensuring that the company has and Directors are required to notify the Chairman of any contracts, offices (including other observes coherent remuneration policies and practices which enable it to: directorships) held, and interests in other companies or transactions which might involve a real or potential conflict and at each Board meeting directors declare any • attract and retain executives, directors and other people who will create value for conflicts or changes to their independence. In the event of such a conflict, the Board shareholders; acts appropriately and takes minutes of its actions. The Board Charter sets out the • generate sustained business performance; and process that the company applies if a conflict arises for one or more of its directors. In • support the company’s objectives, goals and values. particular, a director who has a conflict with respect to a matter will not, without the As it is required to do so under the Corporations Act 2001, each year, at its Annual Chairman’s approval, receive relevant Board papers, or be present during any discussion General Meeting, the company puts a non-binding resolution to its shareholders to or vote on that matter. adopt its Remuneration Report. The vote is advisory only and does not bind the Board The Chairman is not an executive officer and is not involved in the day-to-day or the company. However, the Board takes the outcome of the vote and the discussion operations of our organization. | 25 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Ethics and Transparency All our people: An Ethics Helpline and an online breach reporting WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct guides our people, site are available to our people to enable them to • receive a copy of the Code of Conduct and training in including directors, as to the standards of behavior report breaches or potential breaches of the Code relation to it when they start with the company and expected of them. of Conduct. The helpline is available 24 hours a day, thereafter on an annual basis; and seven days a week. 48 enquiries were made to the The Code of Conduct specifies that the company • can access the Code of Conduct from the company’s WorleyParsons Ethics Helpline in FY2015 across 14 of expects its people will uphold the Code of Conduct by: intranet or request a copy from their local human the 30 countries where it is available. resources leader. • striving to achieve the highest ethical conduct, In addition, our people may also contact a member of questioning unethical behavior and reporting The Code of Conduct is available in 16 local languages our Ethics Committee, GLT, management and people breaches and potential breaches of the Code of in addition to English. teams directly if they: Conduct; Generally, our people are encouraged to seek advice • complying with the law and avoiding conflicts of • believe the breach or potential breach is serious; on ethical and lawful behavior and matters related to interest; • have concerns about making a report; or organization integrity from their manager. However, • acting honestly and fairly in all their business • are not satisfied with the response to the report. if the manager is unavailable or involved in a breach dealings; or potential breach of the Code of Conduct, our people Finally, the Code of Conduct and our ethics • being open, accurate and professional in all their should approach their location human resources investigation executive directive set out our policies communications; leader for advice. for the protection of whistle-blowers. • being economical and responsible in using company and customer resources; Our people are obliged to report any breach or • respecting the confidentiality of any information potential breaches of the Code of Conduct. Those Case Study from or about our customers and others; breaches encompass unethical or unlawful behavior • being reliable and diligent in meeting their and matters related to organizational integrity. Our Prevention of Bribery Training, Global responsibilities; and people may make those reports to their manager, or if the manager is involved in the breach or potential WorleyParsons rolls out the Code of Conduct • respecting the rights of others and supporting breach, to their location human resources leader. refresher training annually in order to provide our community values. people with a simple, effective and regular means The Code of Conduct requires our people to report of refreshing their understanding of the Code of breaches and potential breaches of the Code of Conduct. In this reporting period, the focus was on Conduct and sets out a process for that reporting. the business critical area of ‘Prevention of Bribery’. Bribery and corruption undermine society and can have a devastating impact on the economic prosperity of local communities. In FY2015, over 22,000 personnel completed the ‘Prevention of Bribery’ course. | 26 5 Our People 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Commitment People Policies Key People Outcomes ‘We apply fair labor practices and comply with the WorleyParsons’ policies and business practices are compliant The key people outcomes over the reporting period were: applicable national and local labor laws of the with the applicable national and local labor standards of the • announced our new measurable objectives for increasing countries and communities that we work in.’ countries in which we operate. Our People Policy underlines gender diversity in the 2015 Annual Report; our commitment to be an equal opportunity employer and • reported our global Gender Diversity statistics to the ‘Our people are our greatest asset and we support not to discriminate on grounds of race, gender, marital Workplace Gender Equality Agency (Australia); them by providing a work environment that is status, creed or disability. Our commitment includes: • launched and developed training packages to support positive and safe and by committing to their ongoing development.’ • selecting the best person for a position based on the new Diversity and Inclusion Expectations and new individual merit, knowledge, skills and abilities for the role; standards; and ‘We promote a diverse and inclusive workplace as • actively supporting our people to assist their personal and • conducted a global gender remuneration gap analysis. outlined in our Diversity and Inclusion Policy.’ professional development; and • complying with legislative requirements and as such permitting freedom of association and recognizing the right to collective bargaining. Our People Policy was revised in 2015, and specifically outlines commitments to the development, safety and support of our people. It combined previous policies such as our Equal Opportunity, Work and Life Balance Policy and Prevention of Harassment Policy and sets out the minimum expectations for our operations. Some of our commitments include: • promoting a safe and healthy working environment for our people. We provide our people with access to protective equipment and training to perform their tasks safely; • supporting our people to achieve their choices in work and life balance; • providing a work environment that is free of any form of harassment or discrimination, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats; and • maintaining an open channel for communication where we provide a mechanism for hearing, processing and settling grievances for our people. In many locations, our people are provided access to an Employee Assistance Program (EAP). | 28 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Diversity and Inclusion WorleyParsons’ commitment to • we are committed to equal access WorleyParsons believes in the inherent diversity and inclusion is supported to and equivalent remuneration benefits of a diverse and inclusive by the Diversity and Inclusion parameters for roles of comparable workplace, to maximize our business Expectations that apply to all our value at all levels of our organization; results and attract, recruit, engage people, in all our locations, contracts • our workplaces promote flexible work and retain a talented workforce. and projects. The Diversity and practices to support the needs and We are committed to providing an Inclusion Expectations are: responsibilities of our people; environment free of discrimination and • our diverse and inclusive workplace • we are all accountable and engaged to unfair bias, where everyone has an is representative of the countries and create an inclusive work environment opportunity to fully participate in communities in which we operate; where individual difference is creating business success and where • our recruitment and promotion understood, respected and fully each person is valued, respected and practices are transparent, consistent valued; and supported for his or her different and fair; • we are a diversity and inclusion leader attributes, skills and experience. in our industry and community. Diverse & Inclusive Recruitment & Closing Pay Gaps Flexibility Accountability & Community Workplace Promotion Engagement | 29 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Case Studies Robogals boosting the number of girls studying science and engineering As part of its commitment to increasing the number of women entering the engineering profession, the WorleyParsons Foundation has pledged further financial and mentoring support to Robogals the student led organization encouraging the study of science and engineering by high school girls. Robogals, with its origins from The University of Melbourne, has expanded to a global network of 31 chapters across six countries over the past seven years. To date, 34,200 students have been introduced to the potential of careers in engineering and technology through the Robogals programs. Inspiring future female engineers. WorleyParsons Russia ignites spirits through Paramusic Festival The Paramusic Festival for Physically Challenged Children is an event described by its organizers as ‘the triumph of talent and spirit of young artists, who have been able to cope well with themselves and their situation’. The festival took place over two full days in December 2014, with support from five WorleyParsons staff from the Moscow office. In the months leading up to the event, staff volunteered their time to assist with the preparation of the remarkable festival. The WorleyParsons Moscow office also contributed financially towards the preparation of the event. “WorleyParsons employees found it a privilege to create a once in a lifetime experience for these special artists.” Ekaterina Nadezhdinskaya, WorleyParsons Russia employee. WorleyParsons Russia organized and funded the Paramusic Festival for Physically Challenged Children. | 30 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Employment During the reporting period, our workforce decreased due to business reorganization and challenging trading conditions. At 30 June 2015, WorleyParsons had 31,400 people. WorleyParsons’ voluntary employee turnover rate was 9.0% for this reporting period, an improvement from 10.2% for the last reporting period ended June 2014. Each location within WorleyParsons has its own locally defined employee benefit schemes. Full benefits are provided to full-time and part-time employees. For casual employees, support from the EAP and ongoing contributions to retirement funds are provided to our people depending on national regulations. The organization benefits for full-time and part-time employees include: • insurance (e.g. life, long term disability, accidental death and dismemberment); • salary continuance insurance; • contributions to retirement fund; • health and dental coverage; • parental leave; and • paid time off and illness. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave will be measured for our Australian operations, available in our 2016 Workplace Gender Equality Agency report. | 31 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Labor and Management Relations WorleyParsons locations comply with the local employment law with typically two weeks to three months depending on national regulations. Occupational Health and Safety WorleyParsons’ Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy articulates our commitment to achieve Zero Harm to people and assets and zero environmental incidents. It expands on WorleyParsons’ HSE values and the control framework that applies to our operations. At WorleyParsons, there is a key mandatory requirement that each location will have a formal joint management and employee health and safety committee. Locations are responsible for seeking to ensure that: • critical location HSE risks are identified and managed; • adequate HSE resources are in place; • there is a location HSE strategy and plan link to identified HSE risks and the company-wide HSE strategy; • the HSE incident and near miss reporting and investigation procedure is understood and applied; • all incidents and near misses are recorded in the company HSE database and classified in accordance with United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) reporting criteria; • an incident review board is operational and effective; • regulatory training is identified and implemented; and • location assurance schedules include HSE plans. It should be noted that we have not measured the percentage of total workforce represented for each joint management and employee health and safety committee as each location differs in terms of size and participation levels. WorleyParsons uses the OSHA reporting requirements for Lost Workday Case Frequency Rate (LWCFR) and Total Recordable Case Frequency Rate (TRCFR). The results reflect the safety records for WorleyParsons employees. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 LWCFR 1 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.01 TRCFR 0.11 0.12 0.13 0.10 0.12 1 Employees only. | 32 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Training and Education Talent Management and Development Lead First The WorleyParsons Academy, a Houston based WorleyParsons has a comprehensive talent Lead First is designed to grow and enhance the campus, was launched with the Project Excellence management and development program that provides leadership skills of our first level leaders across and Project Management training program for over internal technical and non-technical training resources the organization and achieve greater competency 400 participants, and will be expanded in FY2016. for our people. and performance. All WorleyParsons locations also undertake local Each year, WorleyParsons locations review their Mentoring Program training programs such as on-boarding and technical training and development needs to seek to ensure Our mentoring program is an integral part of the training programs and compulsory training programs each office achieves their desired results effectively development of our people. The mentoring program such as those on the Code of Conduct. and efficiently. WorleyParsons offers a number of involves mutually beneficial partnerships that programs and activities for training and development promote professional and personal growth. In FY2015, over 30,000 active users accessed over 37,000 hours of our online training system, Skillport. including leadership programs, technical training (e.g. Online Learning Management System/Skillport project management, and pump fundamentals) both EduCentral is WorleyParsons’ Online Learning Also, over 1,000 people attended in-classroom electronically and classroom based, Code of Conduct Management System. The internal site contains leadership, bias awareness and project management and OneWay™ online training, commercial acumen structured learning programs for informal, instant programs globally. Approximately 23% of attendees training, GDP and widespread coaching and mentoring learning that are tailored to our people. With these were female. schemes. programs/activities, WorleyParsons aims to encourage In total, there are over 600 graduate professionals and maintain a work environment that fosters Examples of our key talent management and across WorleyParsons offices, many involved in The learning and a desire to constantly improve. For this development programs are: Graduate Development Program (GDP). reporting period, over 90% of our locations applied The Graduate Development Program the talent management and review process. The GDP is a three year holistic approach to building excellence in technical and managerial skills while Gender Focused Training and Workshops focusing on professional development. The GDP WorleyParsons also focuses on developing and components focus on our people’s personal strengths supporting women through gender focused training and professional requirements – tailoring our young and workshops that provide project management, professionals to cross-regional drivers, cultural factors career charting and leadership skills. Some examples and other considerations to match their individual of our programs include: expertise and ambitions. • Women in the Workplace program, Oman (24 participants); • Chief Executive Women’s Talent Development Program, Australia (nine participants); and • Career boot camps, Australia (20 participants). | 33 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Performance Reviews WorleyParsons is committed to identifying, developing and retaining our core talent, An overview of the performance review process is shown by the following diagram: critical professionals and ‘high potentials’. A global performance review tool ‘PeopleSuccess’ was extended to 12,000 users in four countries for performance management, which will assist greater transparency My success, Vision/ of performance reviews. The intent is to expand both the user base and functionality Our success Values over the coming period. This tool also provides managers with detailed information on relativities within their teams, for use in performance and pay review processes. During the talent review process for all our people, managers assess our people Per Strategic Business Plans a. In against a number of criteria, including performance results and leadership UNTABILITY ACCO fo b. F competencies, to determine leadership potential and technical competencies. a From the talent review process, training issues for our people are discussed and needs Coaching are identified. Pe ew rfo LY vi JU JUN E Re r ce Final Perfo an Mid m rm Conti a. R nual improvement an nning b. R Pla c. A ce p Performance Ratings C o m m u nic Preliminary ratings Collaboration g Final ratings hin ation Co a Employee conversations ac Fin ch Co a. R in g b. D Mi a d-Y iew c. R ear ev ol Perfor m ance R y nc la e C bo i st rat ns io n Co JANUARY | 34 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Diversity and Equal Opportunity For future reporting periods, the Board has set the following measurable The Diversity and Inclusion Expectations provide the framework for our goal to develop objectives for achieving gender diversity: and maintain a diverse and inclusive workplace, and the implementation of all diversityrelated initiatives and guidelines within our businesses. All of our leaders are accountable Gender Diversity Measures Objectives to monitor the effectiveness of the Diversity and Inclusion Expectations and provide Women employees1 Increase the proportion of women employees to visible leadership for this policy. 30% by 2020 The Board has established measurable objectives for achieving diversity at WorleyParsons. The Board will annually review the objectives and WorleyParsons’ progress in achieving Women senior executives2 Increase the proportion of women senior them. The Diversity and Inclusion Expectations seek to support the achievement of the executives to 25% by 2020 Board’s measurable objectives. Women non-executive directors Increase the number of women non-executive The FY2015 measurable objective for increasing gender diversity was to increase the directors to three by 2020 representation of women at all levels of our organization over time. Progress towards achieving that objective, along with the proportion of women employees, women in senior 1 This includes both employees and contractors. 2 ‘Senior executives’ comprise all employees at the CEO-1, CEO-2, CEO-3 and CEO-4 levels. executive positions and women non-executive directors as at the end of the reporting period, is set out in the table below: Workforce Profile by Gender 2015 2015 2014 2014 2013 2013 Measures % Females Total % Females Total % Females Total 45,000 Women employees1 ~24% 31,400 ~25% 35,600 ~25% 39,800 40,000 Women senior executives 2 ~18% 71 ~18% 64 ~15% 40 35,000 Women non-executive ~25% 8 ~25% 8 ~22% 9 30,000 Number of Employees directors3 1 This includes both employees and contractors. 25,000 2 For the 2015 and 2014 reporting period, “senior executives” means all members of the GLT including the CEO and all executives reporting directly to a member of that team. For the 2013 reporting period, “senior executives” means all members of the Executive Committee (including the CEO) and all 20,000 executives reporting directly to a member of that committee. 3 WorleyParsons has chosen to report the percentage of women non-executive directors rather than the percentage of women board members, because it has only one executive director, the CEO, who is counted as a senior executive. 15,000 76% 75% 75% 75% 76% 10,000 5,000 24% 25% 25% 25% 24% Male Female 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 | 35 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Diversity Tracking • provided ongoing support to the Australian Indigenous community internship We track and review diversity within the leaderships teams (a group of approximately opportunities and mentoring; and 400 executives) across business lines with measures of gender, age, nationalities and • continued our support and funding of a wide range of external organizations who languages spoken. The analysis by business line has been successfully trialed as a share our values and objectives around diversity and inclusion; these include: proxy measure of diversity, and will be expanded to a larger pool of leaders in FY2016. Robogals (promoting engineering as a career for young women); Our people represent 88 different nationalities, spread over 46 countries. The table CareerTrackers (providing paid internships and career pathways to Australian below represents the top 10 nationalities: students of Indigenous heritage); and Chief Executive Women’s Program (networking and leadership skills for high Nationality Nationality potential women). 1 Canadian 6 Australian 2 American 7 British Flexible Workforce 3 Malaysian 8 Brazilian 4 Indian 9 Kazakhstani 5 Indonesian 10 Filipino 8% Contingent Worker Additional diversity and inclusion activities over the reporting period were: Direct Contractor • developed local diversity and inclusion priorities for implementation aligned to the 7% Contingent Worker 77% Employee new expectations; Agency Contractor Full-time • ran three photo competitions around themes of diversity which attracted over 6% Employee Casual 2,000 participants; 2% Employee Part-time • strengthened the diversity and inclusion champions network and the Women of WorleyParsons virtual and local networks which include regular networking opportunities and profiles of successful role models within the company. The network now has over 770 members in 37 local committees; • launched a global campaign for International Women’s Day inviting locations to schedule events, resulting in 22 events across 18 locations; • implemented internal career boot camps and leadership training aimed at providing women with skills, tools and networks to achieve their potential as leaders; • collaborated with customers on events focused on gender equality and diversity; • participated in the thematic discussion on the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles; • continued the ongoing annual performance review of employees to identify personal development needs and training requirements, to be actioned where feasible; | 36 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Closing Pay Gaps between Women and Men Workforce Profile by Age Group A gender remuneration gap analysis was conducted for the first time globally during the reporting period and, as a result, appropriate remuneration adjustments were implemented across some locations. The implementation of a remuneration framework 7,000 provides analysis of gender relativities for remuneration bands associated with job grading (tiers). 6,000 5,000 People Grievance Mechanisms Refer to Section 4 Ethics and Transparency. 4,000 4,593 4,147 3,000 3,158 2,000 2,036 Male 1,000 1,821 1,773 1,195 331 Female 988 6 24 811 17 199 0 <=19 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 >=70 Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Age Group Note: This data was derived from available data in our Global Business System (GBS) and represents 68% of our people. | 37 6 Economic (Community) 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Commitment Community Policies Key Community Outcomes ‘We integrate corporate responsibility in our business WorleyParsons is committed to working with our The key community outcomes for the reporting planning and decision making and measure, monitor customers and suppliers to achieve results that period were: and report our corporate responsibility performance grow our company, reward our shareholders and • participating directly in over 533 community based on a regular basis.’ our people and contribute to our communities. We and environmental projects across 30 countries; ‘We are committed to making a positive impact in the acknowledge our responsibilities to the communities • assisting community organizations through communities and environments in which we operate. in which we operate. Our Corporate Responsibility employee fundraising contributions of $1.56 million; Our people will be involved in community based Policy outlines our commitments to: Governance, • WorleyParsons’ operations has contributed more initiatives, creating benefits for both the community Ethics and Transparency, Our People, Human Rights, than $2.32 million towards health, education, and our people.’ Community, Fair Operating Practices and Supply Chain environment and community development projects; and Environment. • supporting local communities across 78 offices as ‘Our locations will support programs and initiatives Our corporate responsibility location and business line well as ongoing engagement in local programs: specific to their locations and wherever possible, in standard provides guidance to the various corporate DeltaAfrik Charitable Foundation in Nigeria, We conjunction with our customers.’ responsibility location committees and champions. Care Program in Canada and various corporate ‘We will support local businesses, train and employ responsibility and local social committees; It explains how our selected corporate responsibility local people, and utilize other local resources • contributing over $442,000 towards educational activities should align to our company values and wherever we can.’ programs and $52,829 in scholarships to over beliefs, strategic goals and commitments. It includes guidance in the selection of the type of community 40 offices; projects that the company will pursue. • participating in and contributing to various workshops and forums on diversity, antiIn general, the recommended inclusions for the corruption, Indigenous issues, ethical supply chain, selection of community projects are: mega-trends including the United Nations Global • a direct impact or benefit to the communities Compact, and globally launching an internal skilled where WorleyParsons has a permanent office volunteering program through partnership with or project site; Australian Red Cross; and • measurable benefits and results and explicit • donating 328 liters of blood across 16 timeline of commitment; offices and 700 participants to local health • an opportunity for our people to get involved organizations and hospitals. through volunteered hours or donations; and • an ability for charitable organizations to demonstrate a specific need for support and have sound financial management beyond WorleyParsons’ involvement. | 39 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Case Studies Hack-a-Toy initiative, Singapore Volunteers from WorleyParsons Singapore participated in the Hack-a-Toy initiative to transform ordinary toys into practically-designed toys for children with special needs. This initiative has been organized by Engineers Without Borders Asia, which was seed-funded by WorleyParsons Singapore. The Hack-a-Toy program brings joy to children with special needs, so they can play with toys that they would normally find hard to operate. During the half day event with volunteer led workshops, our volunteers performed the modifications and also provided step-by-step instructions to parents on how to modify toys themselves for their children. The toys were modified by attaching larger push buttons that are easy to activate and control. In addition to that, the toys encourage movement and may improve the child’s motor skills – assisting in physiotherapy sessions. Making a difference by re-engineering toys. “The event made me realize the simple things we can do with everyday toys to enable children with special needs to play better. I had fun retrofitting the toys and presenting them to the children and their caregivers. Seeing how the children were able to interact with the retrofitted toys was amazing.” Sindhu Tjahyono, a Hack-a-Toy volunteer. Walking for cancer with WorleyParsons Oman Every year, the Oman Cancer Association organizes the Cancer Walkathon to boost awareness of their initiatives and to change lives. This year was the 10th annual Walkathon, and the third year that WorleyParsons Oman has actively participated. With the overwhelming support of management, staff walked to the motto of ‘Together let’s exemplify the WorleyParsons values and walk for the cure’. In October 2014, over a hundred WorleyParsons Oman employees and their families, including the Managing Director Michael Dunn, participated in the Walkathon and donated over $5,000 to the Oman Cancer Association. In recognition and appreciation of their support, WorleyParsons Oman was presented with an award by the WorleyParsons Foundation. “Each step all of us take is a step closer to a cure for all those with cancer.” Dr. C Radhakrishnan, Corporate Responsibility Lead, WorleyParsons Oman. Walkathon for the Oman Cancer Association. | 40 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed WorleyParsons Community Performance WorleyParsons measures and focuses on those areas that are important to the long term success of its business and are desirable to all of its stakeholders. Contributions by WorleyParsons’ people and operations are 3.5 25,000 measured in terms of Australian dollar contributions and volunteer time contributions. The direct economic value generated and distributed is as 3.0 follows: 20,000 Volunteer Hours 2.5 Source 2012 2013 2014 2015 15,000 $’M 2.0 Aggregated revenue1 ($’M) 7,362.6 7,627.0 7,363.7 7,227.5 1.5 10,000 EBIT ($’M) 1 537.9 527.0 428.2 87.1 1.0 5,000 0.5 Contributions by 2.67 2.25 3.09 2.32 operations ($’M) 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Contributions by 1.95 1.90 1.75 1.56 personnel ($’M) AUD Contributed by Employee AUD Contributed by Operations Volunteer Hours by Volunteer Hours 23,748 10,473 18,091 16,302 personnel (hours) 1 Full details of our financial performance are covered comprehensively in our 2015 Annual Report. Community partners who received these contributions in FY2015 are listed on page 35 of 2015 Annual Report. | 41 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Financial Implications and Other Risks and Opportunities for the Organization due to Climate Change As an organization that provides professional services to the resources and energy sectors and complex process industries, our business is predominantly office based and is not directly exposed to any financial risks from activities due to climate change. In our Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) response for 2014 (released June 2015), we identified inherent climate change risks that have the potential to generate a substantive change in our business operations and revenue. These risks are driven by changes in regulation, changes in physical climate parameters and changes in other climate-related developments. For more information, refer to WorleyParsons’ CDP profile. Coverage of Benefit Plans Each location within WorleyParsons has its own defined employee benefit schemes. For example, in countries with a shortfall of public health care and pension system support, our operations have local policies that benefit our people. Examples of organization benefits include but are not limited to: • insurance (e.g. life, long term disability, accidental death and dismemberment); • salary continuance insurance; • contributions to retirement fund; • health and dental coverage; • parental leave; and • paid time off and illness. | 42 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Market Presence Leadership Training Program WorleyParsons is committed to the recruitment, training and development of Professional development is provided through a combination of on-the-job local professional employees who provide our customers with sustainable, training, in-house and external training courses, workshops and seminars using profitable solutions grown on a foundation of strong local knowledge and expert professionals from across the global WorleyParsons organization and infrastructure. local institutions. WorleyParsons’ in-country employment and development programs are based Technology Transfer and Cross-Learning Programs on two fundamentals: Selected employees are sent on cross-learning assignments to other WorleyParsons offices where they are exposed to different work, cultural and • focused selective recruitment of local people who demonstrate a keen social environments. Such assignments seek to enable best practice sharing, interest in developing their career; and effective skills transfer and development of informal networks across the • establishment and management of formal training programs for local people broader WorleyParsons organization. at all levels throughout the company. Mentoring Programs To seek to ensure a continuous quality local talent pipeline, our locations Each participant is assigned a mentor to maximize the benefit of on-the-job implement localization programs based on the following key elements: training and provide feedback and support to help in their development. WorleyParsons invests considerably in localization programs to seek to ensure all local employees are provided with the tools necessary to develop their technical, managerial and leadership skills. Case Study Motivating Omani Women in the Workplace WorleyParsons Oman organized the first Women in the Workplace program, inspired by the response from the International Women’s Day 2015. The goal of the workshop was to empower and instill confidence in participants to design and charter their own career. 24 women employees took part in the two-day program covering topics such as: examples of successful Omani women, balancing home and work life, understanding communication differences between men and women and short and long term goal setting. “This course has built more trust and confidence in myself and showed me a way and, how talented I can be. I became more self-motivated and empowered in order to keep on with building my career and achieve my extreme goals.” Participant in the program. Sabria Al-Balushi and Julia Calleja motivating women in the WorleyParsons Omani office. | 43 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Indirect Economic Impacts For this reporting period, we were involved in two major community projects. These projects were developed with company support and provided significant positive indirect economic impact to the local community. Case Studies The WorleyParsons Foundation and the Mumbai office provide basic needs in India WorleyParsons India began Project Maya in December 2014 in the rural village of Kelicha Pada as a way to empower this disadvantaged community and help them transform the small village to a model village for sustainable growth. Following a feasibility study in the village, employees in Mumbai identified severe water shortages, inadequate access to power, and education to be top priorities where WorleyParsons could help. Collaboration between the WorleyParsons Foundation and WorleyParsons India offices ensured the success of this project. In addition to the $12,000 of local fundraising by WorleyParsons personnel, $22,000 of WorleyParsons Foundation support allowed for construction of school infrastructure, solar power systems and the digging of bore wells for water infrastructure. “The community is poor and State funds difficult to come by. We are so excited that through the support of WorleyParsons India, the dream of a WorleyParsons India and the WorleyParsons developed village will now be realized.” Sanjay Bhoye, village head man, Kelicha Pada village. Foundation are supporting the development of Kelicha Pada village in Maharashtra, India. The WorleyParsons Foundation and the Chilean office build a preschool WorleyParsons Chile personnel have spent over 30 years volunteering in an isolated island community of Queullín, in the south of Chile. Annual visits from the Chile leadership team and WorleyParsons volunteers organize workshops and activities with the local community. Gifts collected from the Chilean office are distributed to the community. This is an event the children look forward to every year. Recent financial support from the Australian Embassy and the WorleyParsons Foundation has enabled construction of a preschool that allows the youngest children to learn and to gather in a common space. “We as an embassy are very proud to be associated with the tremendous work you and your colleagues have undertaken on the island over so many years.” Timothy Kane, the Australian Ambassador to Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela. Construction of a preschool will allow children to learn and to gather in a common space. | 44 7 Human Rights 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Commitment Human Rights Policies Key Human Rights Outcomes ‘We will respect the basic rights of the people we deal WorleyParsons’ Human Rights Policy states Key human rights outcomes for this reporting period with and will not be complicit or engage in activities WorleyParsons’ business principles and confirms included: that solicit or encourage human rights abuse.’ our commitment to respect the basic rights of the • achieved ongoing participation and contribution people we deal with and not be complicit or engage ‘We do not employ or condone the employment of from key employees on the ‘Human Rights in activities that solicit or encourage human rights forced or child labor.’ Leadership Group for Business’ workshops held abuse. The policy applies to all WorleyParsons’ by the United Nations Global Compact Network employees and extends to all our business dealings Australia in Melbourne and Sydney. Lessons shared and transactions in all countries in which we operate. and learned in the workshop are communicated The objectives from the Human Rights Policy are to: broadly to our key stakeholders; • support and respect the protection of internationally • reviewed our business exposure and impact proclaimed human rights and make sure that we are of human rights as part of our annual global not complicit with human rights abuses; risk assessment; • align with the United Nations Human Rights • provided ongoing support to the Australian Council’s Guiding Principles on human rights and our Indigenous community by hosting Indigenous Supply Chain Code of Conduct; and business forums, mentoring schools in Perth and internship job opportunities; and • demonstrate and acknowledge our commitment to uphold human rights, to our people, stakeholders • supported Canadian Aboriginal vocational and communities. training in the Edmonton area. WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct sets out the standards for professional behavior that we expect all of our people and partners to uphold in seeking to ensure that WorleyParsons’ reputation is protected. The code has been translated into Arabic, Indonesian, Malay, Bulgarian, French, Hindi, Kazakh, Mandarin, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Tagalog, Thai and Vietnamese. | 46 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Case Studies CareerTrackers, Australia WorleyParsons is a proud sponsor of CareerTrackers, a paid internship program offered to full-time university students of Indigenous and Torres Strait Islander heritage. CareerTrackers is an Australian not-for-profit organization that works to create career pathways through a structured internship program and future employment opportunities. WorleyParsons has supported the program since 2011 and currently sponsors six interns across Australia. Our Australian locations contributed $11,000 per student to CareerTrackers and a paid role to the students. The program provides students with a chance to contribute to the ongoing success of national and global organizations such as WorleyParsons. “I believe my time with WorleyParsons has been positive, and will impact positively on not only my studies but also my future as an Indigenous professional.” Gabrielle Morgan, CareerTracker participant, Brisbane. Natalie Harper, People Group Manager (left) and CareerTracker intern, Gabrielle Morgan (right). The Right to Sight campaign, South Africa This initiative has been running for many years and has changed the lives of underprivileged children throughout South Africa. Our most recent location was the Riverlea Primary School in Johannesburg where 1,200 students and staff had their eyes tested, 308 of whom needed spectacles. These were funded by WorleyParsons and donated to the recipients free of charge. This life changing initiative goes a long way towards removing the barriers to learning and reducing the high South African pedestrian fatality rate. Uplifting communities through sight. | 47 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Investment and Procurement Practices Freedom of Association and Collective Security Practices WorleyParsons’ Supply Chain Code of Conduct sets the Bargaining WorleyParsons’ Ready, Response and Recovery (R3) minimum and preferred requirements for our suppliers WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct and Human Rights System is an integrated business resilience and and contractors. The Supply Chain Code of Conduct Policy state our business principles and confirm critical incident management tool that includes our includes commitments and practices in human rights, our commitment to fair working conditions. They approach to crisis, emergency, business continuity and labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. acknowledge that our businesses operate under security management. Our people are trained on policies, procedures and freedom of association principles and comply with Our R3 System incorporates security arrangements concerning aspects of human rights through the local regulations that align with local human resources that are in accordance with internal human rights mandatory Code of Conduct training via our online professional body associations around the world. principles for law enforcement and the use of force. It training system. No incidents of violations of freedom of association also ensures that the safety of our people is protected and collective bargaining were reported during the when they travel overseas. Non-Discrimination reporting period. WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct outlines that it is vital that our workplace is free from all forms Child, Forced and Compulsory Labor of harassment, discrimination and intimidation. WorleyParsons does not engage in, or condone, Behaviors, such as sexual advances, bullying, hostility, any form of child, forced or compulsory labor. abusive language, physical violence or the threat WorleyParsons’ Human Rights Policy, employee of physical violence, are not tolerated within our Code of Conduct and Supply Chain Code of Conduct company. each confirm WorleyParsons’ commitment to respect the basic rights of the people we deal with and not WorleyParsons’ policies and business practices are be complicit or engage in activities that solicit or compliant with the applicable national and local labor encourage human rights abuse. standards of the countries in which we operate. Our Personnel Policy and Diversity and Inclusion Policy WorleyParsons’ employee Code of Conduct clearly underline our commitment as an equal opportunity states that: ’We respect the basic rights of the people employer and do not discriminate on grounds of race, we deal with and will not engage in activities that gender, marital status, creed or disability. encourage human rights abuses. We do not employ or condone forced, bonded or child labor.’ A number of incidents of discrimination were reported and investigated during the reporting period. No incidents of child, forced or compulsory labor were reported during the reporting period. | 48 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Indigenous Rights WorleyParsons is a strong supporter of Indigenous rights and has supported activities such as cultural festivals, art awards, Indigenous education sponsorships and community engagement activities in Australia, Canada and the United States. No incidents of violations of Indigenous people rights were reported during the reporting period. Case Study WorleyParsons job training initiative for Aboriginals Edmonton operations initiated a job training initiative to satisfy a gap in their construction sector recruitment by tapping into the local Aboriginal community. The program will train more than 600 Aboriginal students for careers in construction. “Students receive employment training, job-coaching and counseling and are finally offered job placements in construction.” Ruby Littlechild, Manager at NorQuest’s Alberta Aboriginal Construction Career Centre. Ruby Littlechild, Manager at the Alberta Aboriginal Construction Career Centre. Photograph by: Ed Kaiser, Edmonton Journal. | 49 8 Society (Fair Operating Practices and Supply Chain) 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Commitment WorleyParsons’ Supply Chain Code of Conduct Key Fair Operating Practices and Supply Chain ‘We conduct our business in an open, honest and explains the minimum and preferred requirements Outcomes ethical manner as described in our Code of Conduct to our suppliers and contractors. The areas that it Our key fair operating practices and supply chain and our integrity framework, OneWay™.’ covers include corporate governance and ethics, outcomes for this reporting period were: labor/workplace management, occupational health ‘We will actively strive to implement socially and safety, environment, suppliers and community • ensured through annual Code of Conduct training responsible supply chain practices and anti-corruption engagement. provided for all our people and initial training practices working closely with our customers and provided for new starters that they understand WorleyParsons favors suppliers and contractors who suppliers as partners.’ WorleyParsons’ expected behavior and antishare our commitment to: corruption commitment; Fair Operating Practices and Supply Chain • supporting corporate responsibility; • implemented the practice of conducting corruption • supporting human rights and fair employment Policies risk assessments at several high risk locations each practices; WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct includes standards year; • maintaining and improving the work environment so and expectations that our people: that it is safe and healthy for all staff and visitors; • reviewed procurement processes in several key • are law abiding and work to avoid conflicts of • conducting their business operations in a way that locations; interest; protects and sustains the environment; • conducted ethical business practice assessments • act honestly and fairly in all our business dealings; • adopting similar principles and practices to these in across our locations; • are open and accurate in all our communications; the code in selecting, monitoring and managing their • conducted a comprehensive internal audit program • are economical and responsible in utilizing our own suppliers and contractors; and in locations to ensure compliance to WorleyParsons’ company and customer resources; • understanding their responsibility to the local corporate governance standards in areas of • respect the confidentiality of the technical and communities on which they have an impact and from operational risk, legal, regulatory compliance and commercial information of our customers; which they profit. Our approach is to understand the financial reporting standards; and • are reliable and diligent in discharging company and issues facing the communities in which we operate, • participated in the United Nations Global Compact job responsibilities; and and to endeavor to conduct business in a way that Network Australia, Anti-Corruption Leadership Group • respect the rights of others and support community builds social capital and achieves a positive impact. for Business in Sydney and Melbourne to share our values and expectations. All our project procurement and contracting values, learn from others and understand the key WorleyParsons supports an open and honest teams operate within the executive directive for risks occurring globally. culture. The executive directive concerning ethics procurement and contracts. That directive mandates investigations provides protection to whistle-blowers the principles and policies by which goods and and encourages reporting of contraventions. The key services are acquired by WorleyParsons. mechanisms for the protection of whistle-blowers are confidentiality, anonymity, protection of employment conditions and appropriate support to prevent any other forms of retaliation (e.g. loss of opportunities, shunning, ill treatment, harassment, etc.). | 51 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Management Approach Risk management is an integral aspect of our • recommending to the CEO and the GLT the WorleyParsons regards good corporate governance day-to-day business practice. A number of ethical objectives, policies, codes and procedures, and as a critical element in our business practices and business practice reviews are conducted each year to amendments to them, that will promote and support culture. The cornerstone of our OneWay™ integrity monitor the application of our policies and integrity high standards of ethical conduct in carrying out framework is ethical, sustainable business practices. framework. WorleyParsons’ activities. WorleyParsons’ Ethics Committee was established Managing our supply chain for both our customers Our Code of Conduct is a key part of our integrity by our CEO and comprises members from senior and ourselves has always been as an important part framework and encompasses our obligations and management and representation from the legal of our business. A milestone was reached in 2012, values of legal, ethical and professional behaviors. department, human resources, corporate governance when WorleyParsons released a Supply Chain Code of The code includes requirements to assess and report and the Internal Audit functions. The role of the Conduct, which expanded on our employee Code of transgressions from these behaviors. committee includes: Conduct. The Supply Chain Code of Conduct includes WorleyParsons complies with all applicable prevention criteria for minimum standards and for best practices of bribery and corruption legislation and extends the • assessing, developing, implementing and overseeing across a range of sustainability issues. We use these requirement of compliance, including the prohibition WorleyParsons’ ethical culture on a global basis; criteria during supplier selection processes at both of facilitation payments, to third party providers via • providing the oversight necessary to guide senior the corporate and individual project level. our Supply Chain Code of Conduct. management and employees in their collaborative efforts to adhere to high standards of ethical WorleyParsons recognizes the risk that can be posed conduct consistent with WorleyParsons’ objectives, by the offering and acceptance of inappropriate gifts, policies, codes and procedures; and entertainment and hospitality. WorleyParsons thus maintains gift registers to ensure transparency in relation to gifts, entertainment and hospitality. Case Study Integrating local and indigenous participation into our projects WorleyParsons is committed to the achievement of local content and Indigenous participation objectives in relation to our major projects. In this regard, our social performance team is currently supporting WorleyParsons’ major contracts with QGC, Arrow Energy and KEPCO by preparing and implementing Local Content and Indigenous Participation Plans. These plans include concrete actions for increasing the proportion of project employment and procurement opportunities awarded to local and Indigenous people and businesses over the duration of our contracts. We take our commitments in these plans seriously, and monitor and report on our teams’ progress against KPIs on a biannual basis. WorleyParsons’ Australian social performance team also has a long history of supporting customers directly to meet their own local content and Indigenous engagement targets, both in Australia and abroad. For example, we previously supported Woodside in exceeding their Indigenous participation targets and we are presently assisting ConocoPhillips in improving the local content of their supply chain in Timor-Lesté. WorleyParsons’ Joana Belo assisting local Timorese business owners to register for supply chain opportunities. | 52 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Fair Operating Practices Core Indicators Local Community to their immediate manager, an ethics officer, their Anti-Competitive Behavior Throughout this reporting period, we recorded 81 people manager, their managing director and the CEO, WorleyParsons supports fair and open competition offices actively participating in local community without the fear of retaliation. WorleyParsons also and believes in competing for business and using engagement programs such as the ongoing Enterprise provides access to an ethical reporting helpline, which competitive procedures in the supplier selection Development Program in South Africa, the United Way is managed by NAVEX Global and is accessible and process. In most countries in which we perform work, community activities in the United States and Canada available by email and telephone for all our people. we are subject to laws that encourage competitive and skilled volunteering activities in the Philippines, We provide all relevant employees with training in and fair business markets. South Africa and Australia. anti-bribery and anti-corruption. In FY2015, over When our customers engage us to conduct Sixty percent of our operations are active in 22,000 personnel completed the ‘Prevention of procurement for them, we will also comply with any implementing local community programs and we Bribery’ courses. rules those customers impose on us when they are continue to investigate methods for the measurement No bribery cases were reported to the Board or GLT in more stringent than our own. and understanding of the impact assessments of our this reporting period. local community projects. Law and Regulation Compliance Public Policy No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for There are no known potential or actual negative impacts on local communities for this reporting period. WorleyParsons respects the authority of governments non-compliance with laws and regulations were in all countries at all levels (national, state and recorded for the reporting period. In addition, no legal Bribery local), by maintaining open and honest relationships. action has been taken against WorleyParsons for antiWorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct, which is aligned Although we may perform work for government competitive behavior, or anti-trust or monopolistic with the expectations of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and entities, WorleyParsons maintains impartiality with practices. other international compliance regulations, provides respect to partisan politics. a benchmark for professional behavior at all locations throughout WorleyParsons. In our Code of Conduct, standards and expectations are set forth in relation to bribery and corruption with strong emphasis on the avoidance of money laundering. Our Code of Conduct provides clear guidelines for our people in reporting unlawful and unethical behavior | 53 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Supply Chain Core Indicators Assessing and Selecting Top 10 Supplier Registrations per Country Supplier Assessment Suppliers No reported impacts to labor Local content plans are in place practices, human rights, community in many countries where there and environment in the supply chain Canada 938 are legislative requirements for were identified in this reporting United States 824 minimal local content of both period. Australia 562 suppliers and employees. United Kingdom 396 Supplier Grievance Mechanisms WorleyParsons assesses suppliers for China 345 282 South Africa There are currently no formal supplier our operational businesses as well as 246 Chile grievance mechanisms available our project delivery services, often 206 India for labor practices, human rights, representing our customers. Various 179 United Arab Emirates community and environment. tools track supplier performance 142 Malaysia and key metrics, with our supplier portal developed for project delivery services. WorleyParsons SUPPLIER PORTAL SUPPLIER PORTAL WorleyParsons has a supplier portal which tracks key information on our suppliers and contractors, including some information on their sustainable practices. Over 5,000 Case Study suppliers have registration and have had their input validated against areas such as corporate governance Developing local enterprises, South Africa and ethics, labor/workplace South Africa is in its third year of the Enterprise Development Program, which provides mentoring and management, occupational health support for 10 young local businesses throughout the region. WorleyParsons has provided this skills and safety, environment, suppliers transfer on an ongoing basis from all available technical experts within South Africa. and community engagement. The success of the initiative has seen a combined turnover growth of the 10 businesses by 204% and the creation of over 100 permanent and temporary jobs in South Africa. The third year running for the Enterprise | 54 Development Program. 9 Environment 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Commitment • requiring our contractors and suppliers to manage • ensured our suppliers and contractors adhere to our ‘We recognize the importance of operating sustainably health, safety and the environment using relevant minimum and preferred expectations to conduct and commit to continually identify opportunities for international standards and practices that align with their business operations in a way that protects and improving our environmental performance.’ our own; and sustains the environment; • driving continual improvement in health, safety • reduced the carbon footprint across a number of ‘We believe that all our people are responsible and environmental performance through open offices by encouraging use of public transport, for performing their work in an environmentally reporting, effective assessment and analysis of our recycling and smart printing; sustainable manner.’ performance, leadership and engagement with our • initiated a global energy reduction program working ‘We will continue to deliver profitable sustainability with the locations with the largest energy footprint, stakeholders. to our customers through our EcoNomics™ service setting targets and selecting high impact changes to offering.’ Key Environmental Outcomes implement in the next reporting period; Our key environmental outcomes for this reporting • commenced office space consolidation in FY2015, Environmental Policies which will continue into FY2016. This includes period included: WorleyParsons is committed to our vision of Zero application of minimal density office layouts; Harm to people and assets and zero environmental • set an FY2016 energy target for a 2.5% reduction • encouraged our employees’ participation in incidents. Our company-wide Health, Safety and of total carbon dioxide equivalents (tCO2-e) against environmental activities including bush regeneration, Environment (HSE) Policy highlights our commitment base year FY2014. This target applies to work waste and recycling programs and trail clean-up towards the environment as follows: conducted within WorleyParsons offices only, and activities across a number of countries; and excludes any work conducted at project sites or • complying with all applicable laws, regulations and • maintained active ISO 14001 Environmental customer or non-WorleyParsons controlled premises. standards, and customer requirements and applying Management System certification for approximately The target excludes any mergers or acquisitions company standards where laws do not exist; 20% of our global operations based on offices/ made in FY2015 and FY2016; • consulting and seeking contributions from our locations. We now have achieved ISO 14001 • participated voluntarily and on an ongoing basis people on issues that have the potential to affect certification in 11 locations, an increase of one from in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) monitoring and the environment and their health and safety; the previous reporting period. measurement of our environmental performance • identifying, assessing and managing risks that since 2009, with consistent improvement in energy impact HSE prior to commencing activities and when and water management under the CDP; circumstances change; • lodged the Australian National Greenhouse and • fostering a culture that empowers and supports Energy Reporting for FY2014 in October 2014. anyone intervening to safeguard people and to This report contained information in relation to protect the environment; greenhouse gas emissions, energy production and energy consumption from the operation of facilities under the operational control of WorleyParsons; | 56 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Case Study WorleyParsons Energy Efficiency Program The WorleyParsons Energy Efficiency Program was launched in December 2014 and is being implemented across selected locations throughout 2015. The program has been established to reduce energy and resources which in turn will support our Corporate Responsibility Policy and environmental ratings. Implementation will focus on major WorleyParsons offices that combine to contribute approximately 60% of our total carbon footprint. Presently, representatives are working on developing location specific Energy Efficiency Plans that will focus on implementing measures to increase efficiency and in turn give a competitive advantage to gain some quick project wins in FY2016. Participation not only stems from our internal champions and managers, but we are seeking involvement from all employees. Our communal efforts will not only enable us to do our part in conserving the environment, but also reduce operational costs and send a message to the market that we are competitive from the corporate responsibility aspect. WorleyParsons is establishing a leadership position in low carbon technologies through pilot, demonstration and commercial scale projects. For example, WorleyParsons is involved in the Australia-China Post Combustion Capture Feasibility Study WorleyParsons Republic of South Africa Office. Project. The project scope involves considering the technical, economic, social, environmental and legal and regulatory feasibility of retrofitting post combustion carbon capture technology to a power plant owned by Huaneng Group in the Jilin Province of China. The facility has the potential to capture approximately one million tonnes per annum. WorleyParsons also participated in a bidding consortium to build Australia’s first large scale solar thermal power station and has since delivered and operated wind solar thermal projects throughout the world. WorleyParsons is also undertaking assessments of energy efficiency Best Available Technologies and Practices for Australia’s industry sectors under the International Partnership for Energy Efficiency Cooperation TOP TENs Task Group. These will be shared across developed and emerging nations in sectors such as mining, manufacturing, electricity generation and services, enhancing the rate of uptake of energy efficiency initiatives worldwide. | 57 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Energy Overall Energy consumption within WorleyParsons can be allocated into two categories, being The total direct and indirect energy consumption is shown in the table below: direct energy consumption (Scope 1) and indirect energy consumption (Scope 2). Source 20101 2011 2012 2013 2014 Energy consumption outside WorleyParsons is captured under other relevant energy Total Scope 1 Energy, MWh 71,330 178,344 192,724 195,978 145,082 consumption (Scope 3). Total Scope 2 Energy, MWh 93,011 85,043 83,826 92,623 110,656 Direct energy consumption (Scope 1) is defined as being the consumption from sources whether non-renewable or renewable that are owned or controlled by the reporting Total Scope 3 Energy, MWh n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a entity. Indirect energy consumption (Scope 2) is purchased energy generated offsite 1 Data for Exmouth Power Station was collected from 2011. which is exported to our offices in the form of electricity, steam or fuel. Other energy consumption (Scope 3) is defined as any other energy consumption not captured under Scope 1 or Scope 2. Energy Consumption For WorleyParsons, our Scope 1 energy consumption can be divided into three: stationary consumption from our offices, company owned vehicles and our sub contracted agreement to operate Exmouth Power Station. For Scope 2, the energy 350,000 consumption can be divided into direct cooling and heating and electricity consumption 300,000 from the grid. In the future, we will identify Scope 3 emissions upstream or downstream of our supply chain. 250,000 Location Offices 200,000 Each of our global offices consumes fuel for cooling and/or heating purposes and is a MWh 150,000 focal point for transportation of our employees to project sites and customer offices. Exmouth Power Station 100,000 Exmouth Power Station is a gas-fired power station that is located in the northwest of 50,000 Western Australia. The power station has reliable generating capacity of six Megawatts (MW) for supply to Western Power’s residential and business customers in Exmouth. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 This year, the energy consumption and emissions associated with the Exmouth Power Station is grouped within the Australia West region. This facility has now been sold and Scope 1 48,754 71,330 178,344 192,724 195,978 145,082 future reporting will reflect this from the FY2016 reporting period. Scope 2 81,583 93,011 85,043 83,826 92,623 110,656 | 58 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Energy Intensity Energy Initiatives In WorleyParsons, we benchmark our energy intensity ratios with those of our peers WorleyParsons’ Global Energy Efficiency Program was launched in late 2014. This by normalizing our data per person (employees and contractors). As a professional has thus far focused on the top 10 highest consumption offices, identifying and services business, it is appropriate that our intensity is measured against our implementing energy saving actions. The 2014 energy consumption for each location most important resource, our people. Additionally, to ensure our energy intensity will be used as a baseline, with a target of 2.5% carbon emissions reduction identified measurements are meaningful to a range of stakeholders, we provide our energy for implementation in the next reporting period. intensity ratio to revenue. Energy intensity is calculated for both our direct energy Further energy efficiency initiatives include new and ongoing activities as follows: consumption (Scope 1) and indirect energy consumption (Scope 2). • identification of opportunities for office space consolidation; Scope 1 and 2 MWh per employee (full-time equivalent (FTE)) for the last five years • increasing application of minimal density office layouts; is shown below. While Scope 1 energy intensity per person (including petrol, diesel, • active ISO 14001 certification offices/locations; LPG, etc.) has decreased, Scope 2 (electricity use) has increased in the past reporting • updating of flexible work policies and training, encouraging appropriate use of ‘work period. However, there is a steady decline in the total energy intensity ratio to revenue from home’ arrangements; and since 2011. • improvement in data collection processes and comprehensive coverage via Insight2. Energy Intensity by Employee 9.00 8.00 7.00 MWh/Employee 6.00 5.00 4.00 3.00 2.00 1.00 0.00 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Energy Intensity 5.48 8.38 7.01 7.25 7.18 | 59 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Water As predominantly an office based business, our water consumption is measured either through water bills or average water consumption assumptions. The water is source surface water harvested and distributed by local municipal water suppliers. Water Consumption Water Intensity per Employee 800 0.025 700 600 0.020 ML/Employee FTE 500 0.015 ML 400 300 0.010 200 0.005 100 0 0.000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Water 286 288 752 457 444 401 Water Intensity 0.010 0.010 0.021 0.010 0.011 0.011 Water Intensity by Revenue 0.14 0.12 0.1 ML/$’M 0.08 0.06 0.04 0.02 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Water Intensity 0.05 0.06 0.13 0.06 0.06 0.05 | 60 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Greenhouse Gas Emissions Our total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight are divided into two categories, being our location offices (including company owned vehicles) and Exmouth Power Station. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (resulting from electricity usage and direct cooling and heating) are included in the emissions calculation. Overall The total greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2-e) are shown in the table below: Source 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Scope 1 and 2 Emissions 77,043 97,840 96,168 101,085 101,415 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Our greenhouse gas emissions intensity ratio is calculated by normalizing our data per person (employees and contractors): Source 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Scope 1 and 2 Emissions Intensity, 2.57 2.80 2.36 2.54 2.90 tCO2-e per employee | 61 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Emissions Intensity by Employee Emissions Intensity by Revenue 3.5 18 3 16 tCo2-e/Employee 14 tCo2-e / Revenue 2.5 12 2 10 1.5 8 1 6 4 0.5 2 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Emissions Intensity 2.57 2.80 2.36 2.54 2.90 Emissions Intensity 16.00 17.00 13.06 13.25 13.77 Scope 3 emissions, such as employee business travel and employee commuting to and from work, have not been measured. | 62 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index Products and Services WorleyParsons plays a key role in supporting our customers’ transition Environmental Compliance to a low carbon economy, adapting and managing their risks The company did not receive any environmental fines or non-monetary associated with climate change. We offer a seamless extension to sanctions for this reporting period. our established project delivery capability by providing our customers with a competitive business advantage, by enhancing their project Overall Environmental Expenditures and Investment risk management and improving sustainability performance through WorleyParsons has contributed approximately $30,000 from our EcoNomics™. business operations and $85,000 raised by our staff towards Our EcoNomics™ framework comprises three components: environmental activities including: Sustainable Decisions • environmental protection, biodiversity and restoration of habitat We use our EcoNomics™ assessment process to qualify and monetize (Australian Red Cross, Philippines typhoon victims, Al Khobar); relevant environmental, social and financial project factors across • climate change mitigation and adaption (Mercy Malaysia); and the asset life cycle, helping our customers develop profitable and • sustainable environmental resource use (Engineers Without Borders sustainable decisions. Our unique process is audited and approved by and Sirindhorn International Environmental Park Bangkok). Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance under ISO 9001:2008. Additionally, our employees have volunteered 600 hours towards Project Delivery work supporting environmental initiatives such as those described Through our proprietary project delivery systems, we integrate above, of which 100 hours was paid hours. As well as reduced or offset sustainability based systems, tools and expertise into our customers’ environmental impacts, the benefits to WorleyParsons from these projects, enhancing project risk management and converting their projects include: sustainability objectives into profitable project outcomes. • enhanced employee engagement; Sustainable Operations • increased positive community relationships; We utilize our established Improve Operating Platform to identify and • enhanced recruitment marketing; and deliver projects that improve the environmental, social and financial • increased diversity in the workplace. performance of existing assets. | 63 10 GRI 4.0 Content Index 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index GRI 4.0 Content Index GRI Indicators LA Social Performance – Labor Practices SO Social Performance – Society DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL and Decent Work EN Environmental Performance ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE EC Economic Performance PR Social Performance – G4-10 Size of the organization workforce Organization Included HR Social Performance – Human Rights Product Responsibility G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by Not applicable collective bargaining agreements Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable G4-12 Organization supply chain Fair Operating Included DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL Practices and Supply Chain STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting Significant Included G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker Chief Executive Included period regarding organization size, structure, Changes of the organization Officer Statement ownership, or its supply chain G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and Key Topics Included G4-14 Organization precautionary approach or Risk Management Included opportunities principle ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental Global Included G4-3 Name of the organization Organization Included and social charters, principles, or other Endorsement of initiatives to which the organization subscribes External Charters G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services Organization Included or which it endorses and Memberships G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Organization Included G4-16 Membership of associations (such as industry Global Included associations) and national or international Endorsement of advocacy organizations External Charters G4-6 Number of countries where the organization Organization Included and Memberships operates, and name of countries where either the organization has significant operations IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-17 List of all entities included in the organization’s Materiality Included consolidated financial statements or equivalent G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Organization Included documents ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-18 Process for defining report content and the Materiality Included aspect boundaries G4-8 Markets served (including geographic Organization Included breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4-19 List of all material aspects in the process for Boundaries Included customers and beneficiaries) defining report content G4-9 Scale of the organization Scale of Included G4-20 Report the aspect boundary within the Boundaries Included Organization organization for each material aspect | 65 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES GOVERNANCE G4-21 Report the aspect boundary outside the Boundaries Included G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, Delegation of Included organization for each material aspect environmental and social topics from the Authority and highest governance body to senior executives Consultation G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatements Standard Included and other employees of information provided in previous reports, and Disclosure Level the reasons for such restatements G4-36 Appointment of executive-level position or Delegation of Included positions with responsibility for economic, Authority and G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting Significant Included environmental and social topics and whether Consultation periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Changes post holders report directly to the highest STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT governance body G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Key Stakeholders Included G4-37 Consultation process between stakeholders Delegation of Included organization and the highest governance body on economic, Authority and environmental and social topics Consultation G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Identification and Included stakeholders Engagement of G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body Composition Included Stakeholders and its committees of Highest Governance Body G4-26 Organization approach to stakeholder Identification and Included engagement, including frequency of Engagement of G4-39 Indicate whether Chair of the highest Highest Included engagement Stakeholders governance body is also an executive officer Governance Body Nomination G4-40 Nomination and selection process for the Highest Included G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Materiality Key Included highest governance body and its committees Governance Body through stakeholder engagement Topics and the criteria used for nominating and Nomination REPORT PROFILE selecting highest governance body members G4-28 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for Report Profile Included G4-41 Processes for highest governance body to Highest Included information provided ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and Governance Body managed Nomination G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Report Profile Included G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior Highest Included G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial) Report Profile Included executives’ roles in the development, approval, Governance Body G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report Report Profile Included and updating of the organization’s purpose, Overview or its contents value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, G4-32 Table identifying the table of the Standard Standard Included environmental and social impacts Disclosures in the report Disclosure Level G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance Highest Included G4-33 External assurance for report Not applicable the highest governance body’s collective Governance Body G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, Governance Included knowledge of economic, environmental and Nomination including committees Structure social topics | 66 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest Highest Included G4-53 Stakeholders’ views sought and taken into Highest Included governance body’s performance with respect Governance Body account regarding remuneration, including the Governance Body to governance of economic, environmental and Overview results of votes on remuneration policies and Remuneration social topics proposals, if applicable G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the Highest Included G4-54 Ratio of annual total compensation for the Not included identification and management of economic, Governance Body organization’s highest-paid individual in each environmental and social impact, risks and Overview country of significant operations to the median opportunities annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing Highest Included same country the effectiveness of the organization’s Governance Body risk management processes for economic, Overview G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total Not included environmental and social topics compensation for the organization’s highestpaid individual in each country of significant G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s Highest Included operations to the median percentage increase review of economic, environmental and social Governance Body in annual total compensation for all employees impacts, risks and opportunities Overview (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally Highest Included same country reviews and approves the organization’s Governance Body sustainability report and ensures that all Overview ETHICS AND INTEGRITY material aspects are covered G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and Ethics and Included G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to Communications Included norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and Transparency the highest governance body codes of ethics G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns Not included G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking Ethics and Included that were communicated to the highest advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and Transparency governance body and the mechanism(s) used to matters related to organizational integrity, such address and resolve them as helplines or advice lines G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest Highest Included G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Ethics and Included governance body and senior executives and Governance Body concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, Transparency performance criteria in the remuneration policy Remuneration and matters related to organizational integrity, related to the highest governance body’s and such as escalation through line management, senior executives’ economic, environmental and whistle blowing mechanisms or hotlines social objectives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Highest Included Governance Body Remuneration | 67 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Training and Education Our People G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per Training and Included employee by gender, and by employee category Education G4-DMA Material aspects and how the organization Our People Included LA manages Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Talent Included Performance lifelong learning that support the continued Management and employability of employees and assist them in Development Employment managing career endings G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires Employment Included G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Performance Included and employee turnover by age group, gender, performance and career development reviews, Review and region by gender and by employee category G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Employment Included Diversity and Equal Opportunity are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Diversity and Included breakdown of employees per category Equal Opportunity G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after Employment Partially according to gender, age group, minority group parental leave by gender Included membership, and other indicators of diversity Diversity Tracking Labor/Management Relations Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA4 Minimum notice period regarding operational Labor and Partially G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Equal Closing Pay Partially changes including whether these are specified Management Included employee category, by significant locations of Gaps Between in collective agreements Relations operation Women and Men Occupational Health and Safety Supplier Practices and Labor Practices G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in Occupational Included G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Assessing and Included formal joint management-worker health and Health and Safety screened using labor practices criteria Selecting Suppliers safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative Supplier Included impacts for labor practices in the supply chain Assessment Occupational Health and Safety and actions taken G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Occupational Included Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total Health and Safety number of work-related fatalities, by region and G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices People Grievance Included by gender filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Mechanisms grievance mechanisms G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of Not applicable Supplier Grievance diseases related to their occupation Mechanisms G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal Not applicable agreements with trade unions | 68 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL ECONOMIC Procurement Practices Community G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Not included significant locations of operation G4-DMA EC Material aspects and how the organization Community Included manages ‘Economic Performance’ HUMAN RIGHTS Economic Performance Human Rights G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Direct Economic Included G4-DMA HR Material aspects and how the organization Human Rights Included distributed Value Generated manages ‘Human Rights’ and Distributed Investment G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Financial Included opportunities for the organization's activities Implications and G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant Investment and Partially due to climate change Other Risks and investment agreements and contracts that Procurement included Opportunities for include human rights clauses or that underwent Practices the Organizations human rights screening due to Climate G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human Investment and Partially Change rights policies or procedures concerning aspects Procurement included G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit Coverage of Included of human rights that are relevant to operations, Practices plan obligations Benefit Plans including the percentage of employees trained G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Direct Economic Not Non-Discrimination Value Generated applicable G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Non-Discrimination Included and Distributed actions taken Market Presence Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared Market Presence Partially G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the Freedom of Included to local minimum wage at significant locations included right to exercise freedom of association and Association of operation collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and Collective G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from Market Presence Partially and actions taken to support these rights Bargaining the local community at significant locations of included Child Labor operation G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having Child, Forced and Included Indirect Economic Impacts significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Compulsory Labor G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure Indirect Economic Partially measures taken to contribute to the effective investments and services supported Impacts included abolition of child labor G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including Indirect Economic Included Forced or Compulsory Labor the extent of impacts Impacts G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having Child, Forced and Included significant risk for incidents of forced or Compulsory Labor compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor | 69 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL Security Practices Local Communities G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Security Practices Included G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential Local Community Included organization's policies or procedures concerning negative impacts on local communities aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Anti-Corruption Indigenous Rights G4-SO3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Bribery Included G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving Indigenous Rights Included actions taken rights of Indigenous people and actions taken G4-SO4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Bribery Included Assessment actions taken G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that Not included G4-SO5 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Bribery Included have been subject to human rights reviews or actions taken impact assessments Public Policy Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country Public Policy Included G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Assessing and Included and recipient/beneficiary screened using human rights criteria Selecting Suppliers Anti-Competitive Behavior G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human Supplier Included G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiAnti-Competitive Included rights impacts in the supply chain and actions Assessment competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Behavior taken practices and their outcomes Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Compliance G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights Supplier Grievance Not Included G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Law and Included impacts filed, addressed and resolved through Mechanisms number of non-monetary sanctions for nonRegulation formal grievance mechanisms compliance with laws and regulations Compliance SOCIETY Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Fair Operating Practices and Supply Chain G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were Assessing and Included screened using criteria for impacts on society Selecting Suppliers G4-DMA Material aspects and how the organization Fair Operating Included SO manages Fair Operating Practices and Supply Practices and G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative Supplier Included Chain Supply Chain impacts on society in the supply chain and Assessment actions taken Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented Local Community Included Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society local community engagement, impact G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society Supplier Grievance Not included assessments, and development programs field, addressed, and resolved through formal Mechanisms grievance mechanisms | 70 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL ENVIRONMENTAL Water Environment G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Not applicable withdrawal of water G4-DMA EN Material aspects and how the organization Environment Included G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Not applicable manages Environment and reused Materials Biodiversity G4-EN1 Material used by weight or volume Not applicable G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Not applicable G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Not applicable adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high input materials biodiversity value outside protected areas Energy G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Not applicable products, and services on biodiversity in G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Energy Included protected areas and areas of high biodiversity G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Energy Included value outside protected areas G4-EN5 Energy intensity Energy Intensity Included G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not applicable G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Key Environmental Included G4-EN14 Total number of species and national Not applicable Outcomes conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction Case Study: risk WorleyParsons Energy Efficiency Emissions Program G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope Greenhouse Gas Included Energy Initiatives 1) Emissions Energy G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Greenhouse Gas Included (Scope 2) Emissions G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of products Not included G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Not included and services (Scope 3) Water G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse Included Gas Emissions G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water Included Intensity G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Not included G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not included G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Not included | 71 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL Effluents and Waste Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and Not included G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Assessing and Included destination screened using environmental criteria Selecting Suppliers G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Not included G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Supplier Included method environmental impacts in the supply chain and Assessment actions taken G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Not included G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Not included Environmental Grievance Mechanisms treated waste deemed hazardous under the G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental Supplier Grievance Not included terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through Mechanisms and VIII, and percentage of transported waste formal grievance mechanisms shipped internationally PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Not included value of water bodies and related habitats Not applicable significantly affected by the reporting G4-DMA PR Material aspects and how the organization Not applicable organization's discharges of water and runoff manages Product Responsibility Products and Services Customer Health and Safety G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental Products and Included G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service Not applicable impacts of products and services Services categories for which health and safety impacts G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their Not applicable are assessed for improvement packaging materials that are reclaimed by G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Not applicable category with regulations and voluntary codes Compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and Environmental Included type of outcomes total number of non-monetary sanctions for Compliance non-compliance with environmental laws and Product and Service Labeling regulations G4-PR3 Type of product and service information Not applicable Transport required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Energy Partially and percentage of significant product and transporting products and other goods included Greenhouse Gas service categories subject to such information and materials used for the organization's Emissions requirements operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Not applicable with regulations and voluntary codes Overall concerning product and service information G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures Not included and labeling, by type of outcomes and investments by type | 72 1 Introduction 2 Organization 3 Materiality 4 Governance, 5 Our 6 Economic 7 Human 8 Society (Fair 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0 Ethics and People (Community) Rights Operating Practices Content Transparency and Supply Chain) Index DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL Product and Service Labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Not applicable satisfaction Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Not applicable G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Not applicable with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Not applicable regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Not applicable non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services | 73
