2014 AMOREPACIFIC GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Six Key Issues | Acceleration of Growth in the Global Market | Expansion of Sustainable Product Development | Reinforcement of Win-Win Relationships with Partners | Fostering of Experts and Leaders | Advancement of SHE Management System | Social Contribution Activities for Women 2014 AMOREPACIFIC Group Creating a Beautiful Life Sustainability Report 01 02 03 04 05 06 AMOREPACIFIC Group AMOREPACIFIC Group Material Issues Sustainability Performance Sustainability Performance Appendix Business Overview Sustainability Overview of AMOREPACIFIC of Subsidiary Companies 06 CEO Message 34 Sustainability Management 42 Materiality Assessment 70 Innovation for Customers 96 innisfree 112 Independent Assurance Report 08 History Strategies and Performance 44 Acceleration of Growth in the Global 77 Minimization of Environmental Impact 100 ETUDE 114 GRI G4 Index 36 Ethical Management Market 10 Worldwide Business 81 Harmonious Growth 103 AMOS Professional 118 List of Participants 37 Risk Management 48 Expansion of Sustainable Product 12 Governance Structure 89 Together with society 106 AESTURA 119 About This Report 38 Communication with Stakeholders Development 15 Brand Portfolio 109 JANGWON 52 Reinforcement of Win-Win 26 Vision Relationships with Partners 27 Financial Performance 56 Fostering of Experts and Leaders 60 Advancement of SHE Management System 64 Social Contribution Activities for Women 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 05 01 AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview For the past 70 years, AMOREPACIFIC Group has continued the 06 CEO Message journey of beauty in response to our customers’ expectations and 08 History support. Based on Asian wisdom regarding nature and human 10 Worldwide Business 12 Governance Structure beings, we have played a pioneering role in the field of beauty care, 15 Brand Portfolio and we are now moving toward our new future of recreating the 26 Vision beauty of Asia on the world stage. 27 Financial Performance 06 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 07 CEO Message First, as part of these efforts, we have established and implemented strategies to minimize social and environmental impact in the entire life cycle of our products from technological development to disposal. In addition, we will maximize the customer value by continuing to launch innovative products that consider the diverse preferences shown by our customers around the world, and offering differentiated shopping experiences through digital innovation. Second, we are engaging in various green activities to reduce the environmental impact of our corporate activities and protect our planet. In response to the global issues of climate change and water scarcity, we are not only trying to reduce carbon emissions and water consumption, but also strengthened our safety We will endeavor to and environmental management systems. We also made efforts to preserve biodiversity by conducting research on the recovery and efficacy of rare indigenous plant species. emerge as an esteemed Third, we are reinforcing our win-win relationships with our executives, employees and partners. We company heightened our education and training standards to foster global talents and enhance the competencies of our executives and employees. Also, we are committed to creating a pleasant working environment that changes the world that helps our employees maintain a good balance between their work and personal life. Meanwhile, with beauty and health to ensure a harmonious mutual growth with our business partners, clients and beauty partners, we strengthened financial and educational support, and prepared the foundation to promote open comfor a more beautiful munication and active participation. future. Fourth, we, as a responsible corporate citizen, are dedicated to fulfilling our corporate social responsibility by helping women and the members of local communities to realize beautiful and healthy lives, AMOREPACIFC Group will endeavor to become a great global company that brings brighter future to the thereby creating a prosperous society. By spreading the value of beauty in three areaswomen, natunext generation by changing the world into a more beautiful and healthier place. ral ecosystem and culture, we will discover and create new values that can be shared with society, and spread those values beyond our national borders across the whole world. Honoring our founder’s philosophy of contributing to mankind by creating beauty and health through technology and heartfelt sincerity, AMOREPACIFIC Group has continued the journey of beauty for the Lastly, as a global citizen, we will support and adhere to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact past 70 years to change the world with our unique Asian beauty. Under our mission to spread the es(UNGC) regarding the human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and we will continue to sence of Asian beauty around the world as the Asian Beauty Creator, we have been fully devoted to disadvance with respect to these principles in our management practices. cover the value of harmony and beauty based on Asian wisdom and deliver them to our customers all over the world. Honorable stakeholders Despite the fast-changing global business environment and economic uncertainties in the recent few 2015 is a meaningful year as it marks the 70th anniversary of AMOREPACIFIC Group’s foundation. Now years, we have never ceased to grow by constantly innovating ourselves to provide better products and is also a time of transition as our 70-year journey that has travelled through a pond, stream and river has services based on the voices of our customers and by always reminding ourselves to stay humble and learn finally set sail for the greater ocean. AMOREPACIFIC Group will never cease its efforts to make a positive from our customers. Today’s success could not have been possible without the great support from our cusimpact on people’s lives through beauty and health, and engage in sustainable management to become tomers as well as the society in which we have been working together and the nature that we owe to the a great global company that is trusted and supported by customers throughout the world. next generations. For this reason, we have engaged in various sustainable activities in order to promote Thank you. harmonious co-existence and co-prosperity between our customers, society and natural environment. Kyung-bae Suh, Chairman & CEO of AMOREPACIFIC Group 08 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 09 History ~1940s 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s 1932 1951.11 1962.11 1971.04 1982.04 1990.09 2000.07 2010.09 Launch of cosmetic business in Kaesong by Dok-jeong Release of ABC pomade, Korea’s first plant-derived Completion of the Launch of Establishment of the Pacific Museum Establishment of a subsidiary in France Establishment of the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation Completion of the construction of Mizium a 2nd Yoon (mother of Sung-whan Suh) product factory construction Korea’s first of Cosmetics History (present-day R&D center Production of camellia oil in Yeongdeungpo AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation) (Korea’s largest makeup campaign 2001.09 2010.10 1954.08 automated cosmet(Oh, My Love) 1992.01 Opening of O’sulloc Museum (Seogwang Tea Garden Incorporation into the Dow Jones Sustainability ics manufacturing on Jeju Island, present-day OSULLOC Tea Museum) Index (DJSI) World facility) (Service to Establishment Mankind, Respect of the industry’s first research lab for Humanity and Future Creation) 2002.03 2011.05 1945.09 1973.03 Change of Platinum sponsor 1964.08 company name to of the 22nd World Foundation of Pacific Chemical Korea’s first to export cosmetic products Establishment of the Pacific Scholarship and Cultural Foundation 1984.05 AMOREPACIFIC Congress of Dermatology (Oscar Cosmetics) (present-day AMOREPACIFIC Foundation) Opening of Amore No. 1, 1973.05 a beauty center 1992.08 1956.08 (Myeong-dong, Completion of the construction Relocation of the headquarters 1964.09 Initial public Seoul) of the R&D center (Giheung, Yongin) 2003.06 (Hangang-ro, Yongsan-gu, Seoul) Launch of Amore offering of AMOREPACIFIC Set-up of the Beautiful World Fund by the late founder 2012.05 and introduction of the door-toChemical Industries Co., 1993.03 Sung-whan Suh(Support fund for Heemang Store) Completion of construction of 1958.08 door sales system Ltd. Change of company name to Pacific Co., Ltd. AMOREPACIFIC Publication of 2006.06 Beauty Campus Osan Korea’s first Initiation of the holding company system 1948.01 monthly beauty 1993.09 (AMOREPACIFIC Group) magazine, 1978.10 Total Commitment Release of MELODY cream ‘Hwajanggye’ Establishment of the R&D center Initiative 2007.11 2013.09 1966 1987.06 (Quality, Service, Environment) Registration in the UN Global Opening of Story Garden Change of company name Launch of the 1979.12 to Pacific Chemicals Co., Ltd. Compact (UNGC) world’s first Opening of the 1959.09 herbal medicinal cosmetic prodMuseum 2014.09 of Cosmetics Groundbreaking ceremony for the new Incorporation as Pacific Chemical Co., Ltd. uct, ABC Ginseng History AMOREPACIFIC Group headquarters Signing of the industry’s first technology licensing Cream agreement with Coty France (release of Coty powder) 2008.02 2014.10 Declaration of the AMOREPACIFIC WAY Completion of construction of AMOREPACIFIC Beauty Campus Shanghai 10 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 11 Worldwide Business AMOREPACIFIC Group, changing the world with beauty AMOREPACIFIC Group, which was first established as Pacific Chemical Industries in 1945, is celebrating its 70th anniversary this year. Together with our affiliates such as AMOREPACIFIC, innisfree, ETUDE, AMOS Professional, AESTURA, JANGWON, it is spreading the value of Asian beauty around the world. AMOREPACIFIC Group is endeavoring to develop into a global beauty company that contributes to the beauty and health of our customers throughout the world by discovering the value of beauty based on Asian wisdom. History of Global Expansion by Brand 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Hong Kong China U.S. Vietnam Taiwan Thailand Brunei Philippines Indonesia Singapore Malaysia Canada New Zealand China Thailand Hong Kong U.S. China Taiwan Malaysia Singapore Vietnam Thailand Indonesia China Hong Kong Taiwan India Malaysia Singapore Thailand Indonesia Vietnam Myanmar Japan Singapore China Malaysia Taiwan Brunei Hong Kong Philippines 1) Number of employees at China office incl. indirectly hired employees * The sales figures are based on the consolidated financial statements of AMOREPACIFIC Group. 12 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 13 Governance Structure Transparent Governance Structure BOD Composition and Authority In order to ensure a transparent governance structure and concentrate our core capacity in the fields The BOD of AMOREPACIFIC Group has authority as the top decision-making party of our organization. of beauty and health, we are operating a deliberative corporate governance structure in our holding As of the end of March 2015, the Board is comprised of 5 registered members, including 3 executive company and a responsible management system for each business. Based on this, we are continualdirectors and 2 NEDs. The BOD for AMOREPACIFIC is comprised of 8 registered members, including 3 ly reinforcing our competency and expertise for our beauty and health care businesses, which include executive directors and 5 NEDs as of the end of March 2015. Each director on the Board is obligated to cosmetic, personal care and health products. Furthermore, we are enhancing our corporate value by faithfully exercise his duties and fulfill the responsibilities as a good manager based on the Commercial promoting our stock value and dispersing management risks through the improvement of our corporate Act of Korea and the company’s Articles of Incorporation, striving to promote the interests of shareholdgovernance structure, thereby continually increasing benefits for our stakeholders. ers and other stakeholders. BOD Operation Each of the executive and NEDs of AMOREPACIFIC Group has been nominated by the Board among To ensure efficient management, the AMOREPACIFIC Group Board of Directors(BOD) deliberates on key those with abundant expertise and experience in their respective fields and requires approval from the management issues. In 2014, a total of 6 Board meetings were convened at AMOREPACIFIC Group. At shareholders at a general meeting of shareholders to be appointed to be as directors. In the case of AMOREPACIFIC, which is one of our major affiliates, there are expert committees in operation including AMOREPACIFIC, executive directors are the head of their respective divisions and are nominated by the Executive Committee, Audit Committee, and Non-Executive Director(NED) Nominating Committee. the Board, while the NEDs are external experts in their respective fields including but not limited to In 2014, the BOD of AMOREPACIFIC convened 8 times, Executive Committee 2 times, Audit Committee business management, finance, global affairs, environment and marketing. Those who are nominated 5 times and NED Nominating Committee once. Public announcements were made through the Financial by the NED Nominating Committee need shareholder’s approval at a general meeting of shareholders Supervisory Service and the Korea Exchange to inform the stakeholders of the important decisions made to be appointed as non-executive directors. The Board guarantees the independence of NEDs, allowing at the meetings. active presentation of one’s opinions on all aspects at the board meetings to be reflected in the decisionmaking processes. AMOREPACIFIC Group AMOREPACIFIC Board of Directors Major Shareholders Board of Directors Major Shareholders Category Name Position/Affiliation Major responsibility 7.0% Category Name Position/Affiliation Major responsibility 1.9% Treasury stock Domestic Executive Kyung-bae Suh CEO, Chairman of BOD Supervision of management Executive Kyung-bae Suh CEO, Chairman of BOD Supervision of management individuals directors 1.4% directors Domestic individuals Sang-bae Shim President Supervision of management 0.1% Jeong-gy Baek Vice Chairman Supervision of management Dong-hyun Bae Executive Vice President Supervision of Treasury stock management support Seung-hwan Kim Executive Vice President Group strategies 12.6% Non-executive Jae-yong Song Professor of Business Administration, Chairman of Non-executive Dong-youb Shin Professor of Business Overall business Domestic institutions directors Seoul National University Audit Committee 20.9% directors Administration, management Domestic institutions Yonsei University Based on common shares Eon-oh Lee President of Proper Management Audit Committee held as of the end of Research Institute member Based on common shares Woo-young Lee Former president Overall business December 2014 held as of the end of of PACIFIC PHARMA management Eun Namkung Professor of Environment Audit Committee December 2014 and Energy Engineering, member Auditor Sung-ho Kim Full-time auditor Audit Myongji University As of March 2015 Seong-su Kim Professor of Business Administration, Overall business Seoul National University management 17.4% 61.6% Foreigners Major shareholders Dong-won Park Former ambassador to Paraguay Overall business 27.5% 49.6% and affiliate persons management Foreigners Major shareholders As of March 2015 and affiliate persons 14 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 15 Top Management Brand Portfolio 1 2 3 From left 1 Kyung-bae Suh, Chairman & CEO, AMOREPACIFIC Group Jeong-gy Baek, Vice Chairman, AMOREPACIFIC Group Sang-bae Shim, President, AMOREPACIFIC Young-chul Son, Auditor General, AMOREPACIFIC Group 2 Dong-hyun Bae, Executive Vice President, Corporate Support Unit, AMOREPACIFIC Yang-sun Chai, Executive Vice President, Marketing Strategy Unit, AMOREPACIFIC Jae-cheon Yoo, Executive Vice President, Luxury BU, AMOREPACIFIC Min-jeon Rhee, Executive Vice President, Premium BU, AMOREPACIFIC Chan-hoi Kim, Executive Vice President, Mass BU, AMOREPACIFIC 3 Byeong-do Kang, Executive Vice President, SCM Unit, AMOREPACIFIC Sang-hoon Han, Executive Vice President, R&D Unit, AMOREPACIFIC Jae-wan Shim, Executive Vice President, New Growth BU, AMOREPACIFIC Seung-hwan Kim, Executive Vice President, Strategy Unit, AMOREPACIFIC Group 16 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 17 Holistic Beauty Unleash the Sparkling from Asian Wisdom Beauty in You Sulwhasoo revives Asian medicinal herbs with the advanced modern science for offering holistic skin solution that treats the skin from deep inside and delivers holistic beauty where the body and mind are in optimum balance. Focusing on the cyclical imbalances, we LANEIGE pursues Sparkling Beauty. Not just only in the form of clear, transparent and glowing skin, but we also seek to unleash that provide the optimum skin balancing care by rigorously selected Asian medicinal herbs and formulation. We comfort your body and mind dazzling charm within you. We lead with an open mind, create trends with new energy, and transform women’s lives every day, making through indulging the senses(scents, texture etc.)and optimize skin care effects through Asian beauty ritual. By doing so, Sulwhasoo them more beautiful. Beauty that glows more radiantly than before, smiles that look more lively than before, live a life more confidently completes holistic beauty for harmony and balance. than before. www.sulwhasoo.co.kr www.laneige.co.kr 18 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 19 Natural Benefit Blooming Beauty from Flowers from JEJU Inspired by flowers ; Mamonde researches the source of beauty based on the beauty possessed by flowers. It creates beauty similar to innisfree means ‘an island that relaxes the skin’ with an effort to provide healthy beauty for customers with the benefits of nature offered flowers that give rise to life with their incredible energy and produce beauty. by the pure island of Jeju and to actualize an eco-friendly green life that treats nature with respect. www.mamonde.co.kr www.innisfree.co.kr 20 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 21 High Performance Anti-aging Skin Care Powered by Asian Botanicals The flagship brand of AMOREPACIFIC Corp. representing the company’s history and philosophy in beauty, Amorepacific specializes in antiaging skin care products which provide fast action through carefullyselected Asian botanicals and advanced delivery technology. www.amorepacific-cosmetics.com Exceptional Beauty, Exceptional Moments Beauty evolves. HERA has harmonized the new with the beauty of the times for the superb aesthetical sense of Korean women. And now, HERA is heralding a new iconic woman, SEOULISTA, under the theme of Exceptional Beauty from Seoul. www.hera.co.kr The Most Advanced Bio Science Cosmetics Brand An Iconic and Fun Makeup Brand that Helps all Women that Provides Optimal Skin Care Solutions Realize Their Dream of Becoming a Princess With highly effective ingredients and products that are developed using cutting-edge bio technology, IOPE provides optimal solutions for every skin concern and helps you obtain naturally beautiful skin. ETUDE House, which was the first makeup brand in Korea, has been presenting women with magical experiences of becoming alluring www.iope.co.kr princesses. It has been spreading the ‘fun makeup culture’ by showing that makeup is fun and easy, and it is arguably the no. 1 K-beauty makeup brand in Asia. www.etude.co.kr 22 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 23 French High Perfumery House Global Premium Hair Brand which Completes the Inspired by Emotion Beauty through Balance and Harmony The High Perfumery House Annick Goutal is defined by Excellence for its Ryo is a premium brand incorporating carefully selected ingredients perfumes, its olafctory creativity and French Art de Vivre. The secret of originating from Korea and herbal care principles of Korean medicine for our perfumers(Annick Goutal and now Camille Goutal and Isabelle Doymore natural and balanced care of the hair and scalp. en) lies in their ability to transform their emotions into perfumes. www.ryohair.com www.annickgoutal.com Inner Beauty for Completing A Hair Care and Styling Brand the Healthy and Beautiful Look Leading Hair Trends We believe that healthy beauty comes from within. We help our cusmise-en-scène, derived from the a French film term, reflects our brand tomers realize beautiful living and beautiful aging based on the strictly philosophy, which is to set the stage for creating trendy modern hairverified inner beauty science. styles by producing innovative hair solutions, just as a quality film rewww.vbprogram.co.kr quires the producer’s meticulous effort in every scene. www.mjsen.co.kr The Elegant Lifestyle and Inner Healing Offered Natural Body Care Brand Pleasing the Senses by the Aroma of Jeju Tea OSULLOC is the finest tea brand that offers the benefits of a beautiful naHappy Bath is a natural body care brand offering products that please the ture of Jeju Island. It is worth more than just a tea, providing the value of senses of the body. Its product line includes body washes, moisturizers, health and inner healing. Our unique tea culture created from Jeju helps cleansers and sun care products that the entire family can use. modern day customers slow down for a moment with a sip of green tea www.happybath.co.kr so that they enjoy more valuable and elegant lives. www.osulloc.com 24 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 25 Revitalizing the Skin Traditional and Natural A Romantic Scented illi, with Skin Care Products Cosmetics from Korean Skin Care Brand the Only Logical Solution Made with Ingredients Nature and for Men for a Beautiful Figure from Germinated Seeds Mother’s Wisdom www.primera.co.kr www.hanyul.co.kr www.illi.co.kr Prestige Marine Brand A Fascinating Designer Dental Cosmetics Brand Professional Touch Creating Natural Beauty Perfume that Captures for a Beautiful Smile for Professional through Discovery and the Hearts of Men and Expertise Women Alike www.lirikos.co.kr www.lolitalempicka.co.kr www.median433.co.kr www.amosprofessional.com Professional A Reasonable and Sensuous A Derma-Care Brand Life Beauty Device Brand Makeup Brand Beauty Brand that Reflects Based on Skin Researches that Brings Changes the Latest Trends and Technology to the Beauty Routines www.espoir.com www.aritaum.com www.aestura-dermacare.com www.makeonbeauty.co.kr 26 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 27 Vision Financial Performance Vision 2020 : Great Global Brand Company At AMOREPACIFIC Group, we set forth our 2020 vision of ‘Great Global Brand Company’ in 2013 and Despite the sluggish economy at home and abroad in 2014, AMOREPACIFIC Group managed to achieve established the implementation strategies for the three directions toward this vision. Based on this, we steady growth with innovative products, differentiated services and aggressive global expansion. As a reare dedicating our efforts to emerging as a great company that changes the world by offering beauty sult, we recorded 4,711.9 billion KRW in sales, a 21.0% year-over-year growth, and 659.1 billion KRW and health solutions, and beautifies the world with Asian beauty care. Accordingly, in order to create in operating profits, a 40.3% year-over-year growth. The domestic business continued to see strong a platform for sustainable growth, we are making ceaseless efforts to discover our future growth engrowth thanks to the strengthened brand equity, expanded sales of hit products, diversified distribution gines such as global expansion, endless technical innovations and development of products that satisfy channels and reinforced retail capacity. Digital and ARITAUM channels showed marked growth, and the customer needs. In addition, we are striving to be an esteemed company by minimizing our impact sales through duty-free channels rose significantly due to the increase in Chinese visitors to Korea. As for on the environment and fulfilling our corporate social responsibility through the stakeholder-centered our global business performance, the five global champion brands branched out further into the global management practices. market and achieve high growth resulting in over 17% contribution to the overall sales. With improved profitability in emerging markets, we successfully achieved a surplus in our global business. Vision 2020 Great Global Brand Company Sales of AMOREPACIFIC Group Operating Profit of AMOREPACIFIC Group Goal Great Direction Global Value Brand Company 4,711.9billion KRW 659.1billion KRW 21.0% year-over-year growth 40.3% year-over-year growth · Good to 'Great Company' · 50% contribution to total sales · Transforming into brand company · Leading global beauty company by overseas sales · Nurturing of the top five global · Achieving ‘qualitative growth’ · Expansion into emerging markets champion brands · Reinforced global HR competency · Brand innovation from customers’ Domestic Business Performance perspective Due to the changes in the distribution environment and the widespread trend of reasonable consumption, the 2014 Korean cosmetic market is characterized by a shift from the heavy reliance on conventional luxury sales channels to new distribution channels and a rise in the sales of innovative products. In Core Values : AMOREPACIFIC WAY addition, the sales at duty-free shops surged as a result of an increased number of Chinese inbound tourThe AMOREPACIFIC WAY encompasses the core values of our corporate culture that need to be upheld ists. By actively responding to these changes in the market environment, the domestic sales of AMOREby all of our organization members and serves as the code of conduct. The five core values are Openness, PACIFIC Group reached 3,883.0 billion KRW, which was a 15.7% increase from the previous year, and Integrity, Innovation, Proximity and Challenge, which serve as the most fundamental basis for every profitability also improved substantially. decision made by AMOREPACIFIC Group. The essence of ‘Openness’ focuses on the importance of engaging in external communication, i.e. dialogues with customers, ‘Integrity’ on considering every aspect of one’s work as having direct impact on themselves and their families, ‘Innovation’ on maintaining the Domestic Sales of AMOREPACIFIC Group passion to present something new to the world, ‘Proximity’ on maintaining closeness with the customers, and ‘Challenge’ on avoiding complacency. 3,883billion KRW 15.7% year-over-year growth 28 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 29 Luxury Businesses (door-to-door sales, department stores, duty-free shops ) while the growing number of Chinese tourists and the expansion in the global business led to favorable With the traditional luxury sales channels in a slump, AMOREPACIFIC Group concentrated its efforts results in the duty-free shop and export channels. to securing business soundness and achieving qualitative growth in the door-to-door and department ETUDE reestablished its brand value as ‘princess fantasy’ and became committed to enhancing its brand store sales channels. The visibility of the door-to-door sales channel was secured by innovating the sales attractiveness by innovating its products, designs and store spaces. By improving the constitution of its methods and adjusting inventory levels. On the other hand, for department stores, the stores recording domestic and foreign businesses through qualitative management, ETUDE will re-emerge as a makeup deficits were placed under management and the profitability was improved due to the solid sales per brand for youth that spreads the fun makeup culture. door growth. As for the duty-free sales channel, there was a considerable boost in sales resulting from In addition, the eSpoir Business Unit, which had been operating under the umbrella of ETUDE, has been our brands gaining more fame and recognition in China and the increase in Chinese visitors to Korea. In spun off and became an independent affiliate of AMOREPACIFIC Group. By offering quality makeup addition to Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE and HERA, IOPE, which newly opened stores in duty-free, also achieved product and differentiated services, eSpoir plans to grow as professional makeup brands. fascinating growth in sales. AESTURA Premium Businesses (ARITAUM, digital channels, discount stores) AESTURA turned over the Pharmaceutical Business Unit to Handok Co., Ltd. in February 2014. AfterARITAUM devoted its efforts to providing an enjoyable shopping experience for the customers and reinwards, it concentrated on the medical beauty businesses, centering on the skin care, hair care and obesity forcing its retail capacity by diversifying product types and improving its customer service. The heightcare products. Although its sales and profits declined due to the transfer of the Pharmaceutical Business ened popularity of the ARITAUM exclusive brands and the rising sales of the major brands such as IOPE, Unit, the increased sales of its main products such as ATOBARRIER and CLEVIEL helped the company LANEIGE, HANYULand Mamonde led to steady sales growth. As for the home shopping and online sales achieve growth in the medical beauty care division. channels, there was substantial growth resulting from the increased popularity of digital sales platforms among consumers. In addition, the increased fame of VERITE, digital exclusive brand, and the diversified Overseas Business Performance product categories also led to sales increase and strengthened market leadership. As for the discount The accelerated growth of the global champion brands, Sulwhasoo, LANEIGE, Mamonde, innisfree and store channel, profitability was improved backed by efficient cost management. ETUDE resulted in overseas sales of 828.9 billion KRW, a 53.6% year-over-year growth. Personal Care Product & Green Tea (Mass & Sulloc) Business Ratio of Global Sales to Total Sales of Personal care business saw increased contribution from the premium products backed by strong sales Global Sales of AMOREPACIFIC Group AMOREPACIFIC Group growth of the functional products. The slower growth of the discount store channel resulted in a slightly decreased sales, but there was a major increase in sales of the functional products across the categories 828.9billion KRW Global sales ranging from hair and body care to oral care product lines. Of particular note, we gained the No. 1 market share in the body cosmetic market thanks to the increased sales of the premium moisturizer lines of Happy Bath and illi. As for the green tea business, the strengthening of the brand power of OSULLOC led to sales growth accompanied by improved profitability. The scope of the customer contact points was expanded through 53.6% year-over-year growth 17.6% the opening of the OSULLOC Tea House, OSULLOC Tea Shop at department stores and OSULLOC.com Domestic sales website, while the expanded product lines such as fermented and blended tea lines resulted in the growth of the premium product business. Emerging Markets innisfree and ETUDE As a result of dedicating our efforts to diversifying the distribution channels and improving brand awareinnisfree accomplished strong sales growth accompanied by improved profitability based on differentiness in the key emerging markets, specifically China and ASEAN countries, we achieved sales growth ated brand assets and swift market response. The rising sales of products made with ingredients origiaccompanied by improved profitability. The solid qualitative growth of our existing brands and the sucnating from Jeju Island and the increased flow of customers led to stable sales growth at existing stores, cessful market entry of the new brands in China contributed to strong growth. LANEIGE and Sulwhasoo 30 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 01. AMOREPACIFIC Group Business Overview 31 Key Financial Performance delivered strong same-store sales growth thanks to the increased number of the hit products such as AMOREPACIFIC Group1) Sales Operating profit Net profit the BB cushion compacts, sleeping packs and First Care Serum and also the expansion of the customer (Unit: billion KRW) 4,711.9 base. On the other hand, innisfree accomplished strong growth based on its free standing store business 3,895.4 model, providing optimized shopping experience for customers and offering a differentiated brand story 3,431.7 based on Jeju Island. Mamonde prepared the platform for sound growth by reorganizing its distribution channels and renewing its stores. Furthermore, distribution channel portfolio has been more diversified 659.1 450.4 469.8 497.4 by expanding free standing stores and online stores as well as department stores. As a result, we record346.7 355.0 ed 464.9 billion KRW in sales in China, which was a 38.2% year-over-year growth. As for the other Asian markets excluding China and Japan, we achieved a surplus thanks to the qualitative growth of Sulwhasoo and LANEIGE. The improved brand awareness, successful new product launch2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 ing and reinforced customer services contributed to the strong same-store sales growth accompanied by improved profitability. Meanwhile, innisfree newly branched out into Taiwan and Malaysia amid an explosive response from the local consumers. We also consolidated our position in the Hong Kong marAMOREPACIFIC2) Sales Operating profit Net profit ket by acquiring the shares of the joint venture, through which we have been operating the businesses of (Unit: billion KRW) 3,874.0 Sulwhasoo and LANEIGE since 2001. 3,100.4 2,849.5 AMOREPACIFIC Group : Sales in China AMOREPACIFIC Group : Sales in Asia(excl. China) 563.8 365.3 369.8 385.1 464.9billion KRW 265.1billion KRW 269.3 267.4 38.2% year-over-year growth 151.8% year-over-year growth 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 AMOREPACIFIC Group1) China Asia Europe North (excl. China) America Global Sales by Region Developed Markets 464.9 (Unit: billion KRW) In the developed markets such as the U.S., France and Japan, our objective has been to raise brand awareness and achieve a stable profitability together with solid sales growth. 336.5 280.3 In the U.S., we recorded a surplus for the first time since entering the American market as a result of the 265.1 success we gained at department stores with our Amorepacific brand and ARITAUM shops. The Amorepacific brand achieved substantial growth in sales at the existing stores with the successful launch of 102.1 105.3 79.7 74.2 64.0 new products and increased sales of the main products, while the ARITAUM shops continually grew with 27.2 23.5 34.9 improved profitability by increased sales of major brands, expanded customer base, and reinforced the customer services. In France, there was a decline in sales due to the domestic recession and a slump in 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 export, but the amount of deficit was reduced through efficient execution of the budget. Meanwhile, in Japan, we dedicated ourselves to ensuring the soundness of our businesses by reorganizing our brand and channel portfolios. 1) Calculated based on the consolidated financial statements of AMOREPACIFIC Group 2) Calculated based on the consolidated financial statements of AMOREPACIFIC. 02 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Overview AMOREPACIFIC Group seeks to create a beautiful world where nature, people, and businesses co-exist in harmony. Through our sustainability management activities under the four 34 Sustainability Management Strategies and Performance strategic directions relating to customers, environment, employees and 36 Ethical Management business partners and social contribution, we aim to fulfill our corporate 37 Risk Management social responsibility and achieve business growth at the same time. 38 Communication with Stakeholders 34 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 02. AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Overview 35 Sustainability Management Strategies and Performance Vision and Strategic Directions of Sustainability Management In pursuit of creating a beautiful world in which there is harmonious coexistence of nature, people and enterprises, AMOREPACIFIC Group has been engaging in sustainability management Beauty for Good activities under the four strategic directions relating to ‘customers,’ ‘environment,’ ‘employees and partners,’ and ‘social contribution.’ Each year, we set out new initiatives in accordance with Asian Beauty Creator, changing the world with beauty the four strategic directions and make public our performance results in a transparent manner. In 2014, we conducted 14 sustainability management projects while strengthening our sustainability through organic collaboration among departments involved. The report is to provide Strategic directions Good Product Good for Planet Good Relationship Good Citizenship reliable information to all the stakeholders who are keenly interested in the sustainability manCustomer Environment Employees & Partners Social Contribution agement activities of AMOREPACIFIC Group and its affiliates. Through these efforts, we wish to · Reinforcing product safety · Minimizing environmental impact · Pursuing HR development and bal· Fulfilling social responsibility as a communicate the sustainable values pursued by our group to wider audiences. · Creating growth opportunities throughout the entire value chain ance between work and personal life corporate citizen through strategic through sustainable research to improve economic and ecological · Establishing fair and long-term social contribution activities and innovation efficiency(eco-efficiency) partnerships Sustainability Management Organization Major activities in 2014 Enhancement of corporate Reinforcement of SHE1) Reinforcement of Creating shared value CEO capacity to produce sustainable management external partnerships products Sustainability · Comprised of the executives of AMOREPACIFIC Group · Established sustainable · Established SHE systems at produc· Reinforced win-win · Re-established the corporate social Management · Final decision-makers in regard to sustainability manageCommittee ment issues technology roadmap tion plants and non-manufacturing relationships with production contribution system · Developed sustainable packaging establishments and business partners · Set the direction for the social contribution strategies of the brands AMOREPACIFIC Growth Support Division Sustainability · Sustainability Management Coordinator Number of sustainable Energy intensity Employee engagement Social contribution products expenses Management Team · Establishes sustainability management strategies and discover potential projects 714 0.701 TOE2) / 100 mil. KRW 79 points 22.7 bil. KRW Working Group for Each · Operation of 5 working groups: Sustainable Technology, SHE, Mutual Growth, Strategic Direction for Beautiful Purchase, and Eco-friendly Consumption Major performance records in 2014 20.6% 12.7% 4.8% 96.8% Sustainability Management · Implement sustainability management and derive projects for each job position Ratio of R&D expenditure Greenhouse gas emissions intensity3) Accident rate Volume of empty bottles collected to sales through GREENCYCLE Campaign The Sustainability Management Committee which is the top decision-making body 2.08 % 1.823 tons of CO2 / 100 mil. KRW 0.043 238 tons is responsible for making strategic decisions on sustainability management and reviewing our key initiatives. In 2014, two committee meetings were convened. As part of the efforts to enhance the effectiveness of sustainability management, the 0.08%p 14.0% 25.5% 35.2% performance of the initiatives under each strategic direction is measured in a form Number of patents Water intensity4) Percentage of women Number of participating patients in of evaluation index and the executives are given monetary rewards according to the in management the Makeup Your Life Campaign performance results. 748 14.150 ton/ 100 mil. KRW 19.5 % 1,424 patients Major Awards and Incorporations* 22.8% 2.2% 2.9%p 3.2% 1) SHE : Safety, Health and Environment Rate of increase or decrease from the previous year N% 2) TOE (tonne of oil equivalent) : amount of energy released by burning one ton of crude oil Incorporation into the Incorporation into FTSE4Good Designation as one of the climate change 3) GHG emissions calculation method is based on IPCC 2006 Dow Jones Sustainability for four consecutive years response carbon management sector winners 4) Excl. the volume of water use by PACIFIC PACKAGE Index (DJSI) World for five and excellent company in essential consumer * The basic units for the ratio of R&D expenditure to sales and environmental performance are based on sales records consecutive years goods by CDP Korea in the consolidated financial statements of AMOREPACIFIC Group. * The environmental performance records exclude the performance of the production site in France and JANGWON. *Based on the award and incorporation statuses of AMOREPACIFIC 36 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 02. AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Overview 37 Ethical Management Risk Management Since the announcement of the Ethical Management Policy in 2003, AMOREPACIFIC Group At AMOREPACIFIC, we are running an effective risk management system with the aim to has continuously engaged in ethical practices in order to deliver its promise and spread ethical promptly respond to the changes in the management environment such as unstable econocorporate culture in the entire corporate ecosystem. The corporate ethics of AMOREPACIFIC mies and various political issues globally. The Risk Management Committee, primarily comGroup is based on honesty, one of the five core values of AMOREPACIFIC WAY. As the code of prised of the members of top management, has classified 44 major risks based on the levels conduct for all members of the group, it serves mental and behavioral guidance on our journey of importance and severity. Of these, 14 key risks that can have a companywide impact are of beauty. classified as AMOREPACIFIC Group risks for extra attention. The group risks are managed through the operation of a sub-committee for each type of risk and project, and their statuses Campaigns and Education & Training are monitored on a regular basis. Since the announcement of the Ethical Management Policy, AMOREPACIFIC Group has consistently carried out ‘No Gift Giving, No Gift Receiving’ campaign. We encourage all employees to Advancement of Risk Management Communication participate in the campaign through various education and training programs and, send out Due to the rapid increase in the incidence of crises resulting from social, cultural and economic campaign notices twice a year to our 6,000 or so business partners. We also operate a Gift factors, we have advanced and segmented our crisis management communication responses. Report Center to send back the gifts delivered from external stakeholders or to donate them to We have separate committees for domestic, global, regular and emergency issues, and there is social welfare organizations. a cooperation system set in place for the PR Team, acting as the control tower, and the relevant In addition, cases of unethical practices were shared regularly while offline training on ethical departments to work closely together for an integrated response. Of particular note, each case practices was provided to the leaders of each division for the purpose of strengthening the at home and abroad is added into the database in order for us to build competency in risk ethical leadership of our employees in managerial positions. management. Furthermore, we developed a fun online educational program, ‘AP Ethics Expedition: Season 2,’ to provide education to about 3,100 employees through practical ethical dilemma cases Response to the Franchise Act that will better prepare them for such experiences. ‘AP Ethics Expedition’ was also produced in We have continuously strengthened our institutional framework to eliminate unfair practices Chinese for 860 employees of our China office. and protect our franchisees. Upon the franchise agreement, we prohibit the establishment of Reported Cases of Unethical additional franchises or branch stores in the areas where there are existing franchised stores. Practices in 2014 Ethics Pledge by Employees We inform the franchisees of projected sales volume and revenue in advance so that they can All of employees of AMOREPACIFIC Group are annually required to sign an ethics pledge online secure stable income. In addition, we are seeking ways to improve the conventional business as part of our efforts to raise ethical awareness based on the value of honesty. Starting in 2014, Internal policy 18cases practices and reduce partnership risks by promoting open and mutual communication with employees of our overseas offices in China, Japan and the U.S. have also joined the movement. Customer consultation 5cases our business partners. Through these efforts, we aim to abide by the laws and social norms and to fulfill our social responsibilities in order to contribute to the creation of a beautiful and healthy society. Partners 9cases Introduction of a Security Control System In the first half of 2014, we established an information security control system with the aim to Ethical We held an Ethics Management Meeting with a design partner in DecemTotal 32cases efficiently prevent various violations of our information system on the online platform and leak Management ber 2014, during which we provided the guidelines on ethical practices, Reporting channels : ethics of important information such as confidential business and personal information. This system Meeting with cases of unethical practices and other relevant information, and listened to management website (anonymous is expected to safeguard the valuable information of our group and customers. Partner the difficulties and predicaments of our partner. tips), e-mail, phone, fax, etc. Enhancement of In-house Security Launch of In January 2014, we launched our ethical management website (ethics. In 2014, we conducted two semi-annual education programs that provide employees with seEthical amorepacific.com), where we introduce our ethical management system, curity guidelines on management of important corporate and customer information. Hacking Management provide ethics consultation services and collect reports of unethical cases. simulations are regularly performed to identify the loopholes of our security system, thereby Website One of the objectives of this website is to allow all of our stakeholders inpreventing any potential hacking threats and information theft in reality. Also, we conduct cluding our employees and partners to easily report any unethical situations the ‘post-disaster recovery’ simulations to better prepare ourselves to promptly respond in the and cases causing them ethical dilemmas. event of a disaster. 38 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 02. AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Overview 39 Communication with Stakeholders Communication with Stakeholders in 2014 Since 2011, AMOREPACIFIC Group has engaged in communication with various 6 cumulative meetstakeholders to listen to their voices and gather their opinions to be reflected in ings for CommunicaAMOREPACIFIC Group communicates with various stakeholders through diverse commuour management activities. The meetings are held once or twice a year with vartion with stakeholders nication channels. Through this way, we analyze the sustainability management issues ious experts. In 2014, we held a discussion on the topic of green consumption since 2011 which are the most concerned about among the stakeholders and rank our priority issues based on responsibility marketing with NGO experts as new members. to solve and, discover opportunities for growth and prepare for potential crisis in advance. Promoting Green Date: April 29, 2014 Consumption Attendees: Jae-cheon Ryu(KIST professor), Eun-hee Lee(Inha Univ. professor), Target Communication channels Notable opinions Actions taken in response Based on Ja-hye Kim(President of Consumers Korea), Hak-hee Kim(President of Consum◦ ‘Customer consultation service’ ◦ Reinforce customer services ◦ Shared customer complaints and Responsibility Marketing ers Union of Korea, Gyeonggi-do Branch), Jeong-su Jangi(Co-President of Korean Customers satisfaction surveys and CGAP ◦ Reinforce product safety improvements through CGAP exhibition Women’s Environmental Network), Yun-mi Jo(Co-President of Green Consumer ◦ Prosumer activities ◦ Expand the sustainable products ◦ Established a technology roadmap and ◦ Corporate and brand websites and executed relating tasks to develop Network) SNS sustainable products ◦ Employee satisfaction surveys ◦ Spread a positive corporate culture ◦ Conducted the Gratitude Campaign ◦ Regular labor-management ◦ Provide more opportunities for ◦ Promoted the Career Market Employees consultation meetings the build-up of employees’ individual ◦ Reinforced the SHE management ◦ AMOREPACIFIC People competency (In-house online community) ◦ Create a safe working environment Business partners ◦ General assembly for win-win rela◦ Reinforce management support ◦ Assisted partners in branching out into the tionships (for each business channel) ◦ Create a culture that encourages overseas markets ◦ Seminars on win-win practices mutual communication and active ◦ Reinforced the field training for partners ◦ Online purchasing portal participation ◦ Held a win-win relationship agreement ceremony Major Agendas for Discussion ◦ Corporate and brand social ◦ Assist women in gaining healthy beauty ◦ Conducted the Makeup Your Life Campaign 1 As a leading cosmetics company, AMOREPACIFIC Group needs to establish a companywide green management system and engage in proactive corporate pracLocal responsibility activities ◦ Assist low-income women in entering ◦ Conducted the Pink Ribbon Campaign Building tices transcending the recommended national guidelines. We should categorize ◦ Social contribution portal the workforce Supported the Heemang store (Micro Credit) a green management communities ◦ ◦ Cultural Mecenat activities ◦ Provide support to marginalized classes system the multiple activities we are involved in, discover the common objectives and as a leading company establish strategies for each objective to more effectively communicate them to the involved parties. ◦ Visit relevant government ◦ Manufacture and sell safe, ◦ Monitored and observed the relevant laws and agencies for meetings high-quality products in compliance regulations Government We should provide accurate and scientific information to consumers for accurate 2 ◦ Korea Cosmetic Association with regulations ◦ Suggested ideas for improvement through (KCA) activities Provide cooperation and support for the committee activities of relevant organizations understanding of our products including ingredients that may cause harm or ◦ regulatory improvement for industrial Supported government policy research ◦ Providing side-effects. Moreover, we should form a multi-party consultative body in condevelopment fair information nection with consumer organizations and the government for inspections and ◦ Communication with external ◦ Provide accurate information and ◦ Developed sustainable packaging improvements. External stakeholders (academic and encourage sustainable consumption ◦ Reinforced GREENCYCLE(bottle recycling) experts consumer organizations) Campaign 3 We should promote public marketing and green marketing, which exert a positive impact on society. We should also reinforce our bottle recycling campaign, raising ◦ General Shareholders meeting ◦ Present management performance ◦ Shared the mid and long-term business directions Promoting awareness of the product life cycle from production and distribution to disposal, Shareholders ◦ IR Analyst Day results and business outlook ◦ Provided performance results and IR data green marketing and carry out full-fledged promotional activities in combination. We should also ◦ Expand corporate access ◦ Held the Analyst Day event ◦ Attended global conferences develop customer participation programs promoting green consumption and eco-friendly practices. 03 Material Issues AMOREPACIFIC Group selected six material issues 42 Materiality Assessment in sustainability management, in terms of 44 Acceleration of Growth in the Global Market the stakeholders’ interest and impact on business. 48 Expansion of Sustainable Product Development 52 Reinforcement Win-Win Relationships with Partners We are conducting multi-faceted management activities 56 Fostering of Experts and Leaders with six material issues such as global growth, win-win relationships, 60 Advancement of SHE Management System and social sontribution activities reflected in our management strategies 64 Social Contribution Activities for Women 42 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 43 Materiality Assessment Results of the Materiality Assessment Through the first-stage selection process, 26 issues were selected and ranked according to their business impact and the level of stakeholders’ interest. Based on the results, the selected six material issues are 1) Acceleration of growth in the global market, 2) Expansion AMOREPACIFIC Group selected six material issues related to sustainability management, of sustainable product development, 3) Reinforcement of win-win relationships with partin terms of stakeholder interest and impact on business. We are conducting multi-facetners, 4) Fostering of experts and leaders, 5) Advancement of SHE management system, 6) ed management activities and focusing on these six material issues, which include global Social contribution activities for women. In this report, we delve into these six issues, the growth, win-win relationships, and the social contributions reflected in our management information on which can be found in the following pages. strategies. HIGH 08 16 07 17 18 06 11 15 1 2 03 Business impact 05 21 20 04 Selection of external and Analysis of external issues 24 23 14 13 internal issue pools 22 09 Media analysis 12 10 Collecting issues related to sustainability Articles regarding the sustainability management 02 25 19 26 01 management on top of the existing issues, practices of AMOREPACIFIC Group were retrieved across all the affiliates of AMOREPACIFIC through media research and classified into their Group respective categories. Benchmarking companies in the same industry LOW Analyzing the sustainability management LOW Level of stakeholders’ interest HIGH 5 reports and related practices of the industry’s leading companies Selection of Material Issues Six Material Issues Stakeholder Impact Page Selection Process for Analysis of global guidelines Selecting six material issues 06 Acceleration of growth in the global market Customers, Employees, Business partners, 44 based on the results Material Issues Analyzing GRI G4(international Local communities, Shareholders guideline for sustainability reports), 11 Expansion of sustainable product development Customers, Employees, Local communities, 48 ISO 26000 and the inquiries of external Government, External experts evaluation institutions(DJSI, etc.) 16 Reinforcement of win-win relationships with partners Business partners, Customers 52 18 Fostering of experts and leaders Employees, Customers, Local communities 56 17 Advancement of SHE management system Customers, Employees, Local communities, Government 60 4 3 21 Social contribution activities for women Local communities, Customers 64 Priority ranking Analysis of internal issues Issues 05 Companywide sustainability 20 Work-life balance 14 Sustainable packaging 26 Human rights Ranking priorities among 26 issues Analysis of internal sustainability management system of employees development management according to the level of stakeholders’ management strategies 04 Communication with 13 Sustainable water 09 Green marketing 01 Transparency of interest and their potential business impact Analyzing the agendas discussed at major stakeholders management governance structure management meetings, CEO Messages, 07 Brand management 23 Diversity of 12 Conservation of 22 Information issues introduced at the Sustainability employees biodiversity protection policy Management Committee meetings 08 R&D innovation 03 Risk management 10 Response to climate 19 Labor-management and internal strategic issues change relations 15 Enhancement of 24 Spreading the 02 Ethical management 25 Alternatives to customer satisfaction corporate culture animal testing 44 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 45 1 OUR APPROACH Achievements of Our Global Brands While our market expansion is accelerating, infinite potential Sulwhasoo concentrated its efforts in videos, while its makeup line has been newlies in the global market for us. The global market is a channel gaining the reputation as a holistic beauty ly launched to add strength to its product 81% through which AMOREPACIFIC Group can spread the essence brand through various marketing activities portfolio. In addition, the Mamonde Global of Asian beauty and a stage on which we can reconfirm the in China, a key market for the growth of Blooming Tour was held for the global mevalue of our existence. Year-over-year growth AMOREPACIFIC, including outdoor adverdia and press to inform them of its brand of sales in China tising in major cities and VIP communicaphilosophy. tion. The launch of the 'Perfecting Cushion' innisfree is managed only through directly OUR STRATEGY and the opening of stores in 13 new departoperated-stores under the so-called ‘Cluster In line with our role as the 'Asian Beauty Creator' we aim to ments led to a huge increase in new cusStrategy’ in the vast territories of China. Acceleration become the No. 1 cosmetics company in Asia and rank in the top 5 in the world by 2020. For this purpose, we are actively introducing diverse brands and innovative products, centering tomers followed by an 81% year-over-year growth. According to a survey conducted by People’s Daily Online, Sulwhasoo was selectSince entering the East(Shanghai) and North (Beijing) clusters in 2012, it has expanded to the South(Guangzhou and Shenzhen) and of Growth on our top 5 global champion brands that encompass the essence of Asian beauty and wisdom to meet the needs of our 35% Year-over-year growth ed as the No.1 premium Korean cosmetic brand loved by Chinese people in 2014. to the West(Chongqing and Xi’an) clusters in 2013 and 2014, respectively. In Septemcustomers in global markets. LANEIGE achieved strong sales growth in ber 9, 2014, the 99th innisfree store was of overseas sales China through department stores and onin the Global opened on Chunxi Road in Chengdu, which OUR ACHIEVEMENTS line distribution channels, centering on the had been assessed to have the highest costop 3 hit products, which are BB cushion, metic purchasing power in China. In Decem· 81% year-over-year growth in sales of Sulwhasoo in China Sleeping pack and Water Bank Essence. In ber, another store was opened at Joy City Market · LANEIGE, now purchasable at TARGET in the U.S. the ASEAN countries, it opened additional in Xidan, Beijing. By the end of 2014, there · Mamonde, reorganizes its distribution channel free standing stores(FSS) in Hong Kong, were 108 stores in 20 cities under 4 clusters, · innisfree, branches out into Taiwan and Malaysia Singapore, Malaysia and Vietnam, thereserving Chinese customers. As a result, innis· ETUDE, opens new stores in Asia by creating new momentum for further free’s sales volume in China, which had been · Cumulative sales of cushion compacts reach 46,867,848 growth. In 2014, it established shops at 3.5 billion KRW in 2012, increased dramat· Construction of a Beauty Campus Shanghai completed 294% Year-over-year growth TARGET, a major retailor chain in the U.S, and actively promoted the brand to Americally to 25.4 billion KRW in 2013 and 100 billion KRW in 2014. of sales in China ican consumers by introducing its brand ETUDE has constantly expanded its busiOUR PLAN identity and key technologies to the editors ness in Southeast Asia and now, it is operatWe endeavor to continue strengthening our foothold in the of major magazines. ing stores in 12 countries throughout Asia. global market, and become a global leading cosmetics comMamonde secured business visibility in ChiIn 2014, it opened the first global flagship pany with overseas sales contributing more than 50% of our na by rearranging its distribution channels, store on Nanjing East Road, the busiest total sales volume by 2020. and stabilized its platform for qualitative street in Shanghai, and the second global growth. It renewed 150 or so counters in flagship store in Zhongguancun, a college department stores and its retail stores at district in Beijing. These flagship stores opWatson. In addition, it has secured momenerate a makeup zone, where customers can Flagship store opened in tum for further growth in China by expandcheck out the latest Korean-style makeup Shanghai ing its business area to major online retail sites. Stories of the five major floral ingrediand other experience zones that provide customers with much insight into the brand ents used in Mamonde products are being value of ETUDE. On Orchard Road, which communicated to consumers through digiis the city center of Singapore, it opened its tal contents such as web cartoons and music largest flagship store. 46 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 47 Cushion – An Innovation that Changed Sales of Cushion Compacts Beauty Campus Shanghai in Numbers Completion of Construction of Beauty Campus Shanghai the Global Makeup Culture Beauty Campus Shanghai was constructed Warehouse Management System (WMS). Lot Area Cushion compacts are a special cosmetic in October, 2014 in order to respond to The upgraded logistics center operates in product that contain basic makeup products such as sunscreen, makeup base and 92,787m 2 the rapidly growing cosmetics market in China. As an integrated hub of producconnection with the local logistics centers in Shenyang and Chengdu, processing foundation that are absorbed in a special tion, research and logistics, the Beauty orders and delivery from all over China. sponge. Since the launch of IOPE Air CushAnnual Production Capacity Campus Shanghai spans 92,787m2 which Well-connected logistics centers will re100million products ion ® in 2008, cushion compacts have is 12 times the size of a soccer field with a spond more quickly than the past to the been affecting global makeup market building area of 41,001m2. It boasts a vachanges in the distribution environment trends and driving innovation at home and riety of eco-friendly facilities that are best by shortening the product delivery times abroad. The cushion compacts introduced Time Required for Shipping in class in China. to an average of 3-4 days. The new site through the 13 brands of AMOREPACIFIC (all over China) Beauty Campus Shanghai has production also represents AMOREPACIFIC Group's 3~4 days Group achieved more than 641 billion capacity of 13,000 tons, which amounts commitment to environmental sustainKRW in sales in 2014 alone and the cuto 100 million products. The production ability. It features various eco-friendly mulative sales volume reached over 46.8 site will be organized into both cell profacilities such as a wastewater treatment million. Of particular note, over 1,000% duction methods suited for small-quantity system, rainwater recycling system and year-over-year growth was observed in production and mass production methods water heat storage system which uses offthe global market, evidencing the cushion prepared for rapidly growing demand in peak electricity. compact craze. AMOREPACIFIC Group’s the China market. In order to ensure abAMOREPACIFIC Group will continually encushion compacts led to the creation of solute quality products that can be trusted hance the management standards of the a brand new makeup category and are by our customers, we adhere to the Good Beauty Campus Shanghai to keep upgradtransforming the global makeup culture. Manufacturing Practice (GMP), and ening our production efficiency and fulfill our Its innovativeness has also been recoghanced the standards for product quality corporate social responsibility in relation nized through the 114 domestic and overand inventory management through the to the environment. seas patent applications and 13 patent Cumulative Sales Volume Up to 2014 46,867,848 registrations. In addition, it received the View of the Beauty Campus Shanghai Excellence Award at the 2012 Korea Technology Awards and the Grand Prize at the Korea Technical Innovation Management Sales in 2014 641.1billion KRW Awards, followed by the Next-Generation Global Premium Product in 2013 and the IR52 Jang Yeong-sil Award in 2014. This attests to its highly regarded reputation as an Year-Over-Year Growth in Overseas Sales in 2014 iconic innovative product. AMOREPACIFIC Group, which brought forth a brand new product category of cushion compacts 1,000% and caused a major change in the makeup culture, will never cease to innovate and Launch of the First evolve its cushion compacts through endCushion Compact less technical innovation and R&D. 2008 2014 48 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 49 2 OUR APPROACH Development of Sustainable Products(AMOREPACIFIC Promise) Product sustainability must be ensured in order to achieve AMOREPACIFIC Group has been developexternal certification standards. The certisustainable development and better quality of life. Indiscriming sustainable products under the name, fication criteria for each of the sustainable inate development of products and unsustainable consumpAMOREPACIFIC Promise, since 2011 product types were first established in tion will cause environmental pollution and depletion of with the aim to promote sustainable con2011 and have been continually revised resources which will eventually lead to the total destruction sumption. Based on the three principles of according to amendments to the domestic of our natural ecosystem. AMOREPACIFIC Group, as a con‘reinforcing product safety for customers’, and international laws and regulations as sumer goods manufacturer, takes full responsibility to ensure ‘minimizing environmental impact’ and well as expert opinions. The number of product sustainability for our own future as well as that of our ‘harmonious coexistence with the local sustainable products has increased steadcustomers and society. communities’, the sustainable products of ily every year, and in 2014, a total of 714 Expansion of OUR STRATEGY AMOREPACIFIC Promise are divided into three categories: customer-friendly products, environmentally-friendly products types of AMOREPACIFIC Promise-certified products are on sale. AMOREPACIFIC Group will dedicate its efforts to encourSustainable AMOREPACIFIC Group has always pursued effective co-existand socially-friendly products. Products aging sustainable consumption and fulence with our customers, environment and society. As part are given ‘Sustainable Product’ certificafilling its corporate social responsibility by of the efforts, we have been developing sustainable products tions, only when they meet the strict interdiversifying its sustainable product lines through creative innovation activities since 2011. Sustainable Product nal guidelines which are equivalent to the and expanding the scope of their sales. products are developed under the three principles of ‘reinforcing product safety for customers’, ‘minimizing environmental Type of Sustainable Products and its Development impact’ and ‘harmonious coexistence with the local commuDevelopment nities’. We are also engaging in various efforts to promote sustainable consumption in the market. Customer-friendly products Additive-free products LOHAS certified Organic products Ecosystem Environmentally-friendly products conservation Carbon footprint Recycled products Refillable and replaceable Beautiful Socially-friendly products Fair Trade Universal design Social contribution products products products products products products products OUR ACHIEVEMENTS Products Products Products Products that Products that Products with Products that Products that Products created Products providing that fit into that received received the received the packaging are refillable use raw matein consideration developed · A total of 714 sustainable products(AMOREPACIFIC Promise) customer a healthy and Ecocert or certified ecocertified carmade from or packaged rials purchased of the needs and with emphasis reassurance sustainable external label from bon footprint recycled in replaceable through convenience on social · Green Technology certification for the manufacturing techand earning lifestyle organic the Korea labeling from materials containers a win-win of socially contribution in their trust certification Environmental the KEITI relationship underprivileged, the planning nology of innisfree’s Squeezed Green Tea Water with improved Industry & with local such as stage safety Technology communities people with · 10 Beautiful Fair Trade agreements(cumulative) Institute (KEITI) physical disabilities OUR PLAN We are aiming to reinforce sustainability for customers, the environment and society in each of the stages of a product lifecycle, ranging from procurement of raw materials to production, consumption and disposal while expanding the scope Mamonde Happy Bath primera Happy Bath Happy Bath innisfree innisfree HANYUL mise-en-scène HERA Extra Bio Bebe Organience Real Lavender Super Olive Real Rice Essential Damage Care Cell Essence of sustainable product development. Moisture Soothing Cure Eye Moisture Essence Volcanic Cleansing Oil Skin Softner Shampoo Pink Ribbon Emulsion Lotion Cream Body Wash Relaxing Body Pore Clay Edition Wash Mask (large size) 714 in total, year-over-year growth 20.6% 50 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 51 Development of the Squeezed Green Tea Water by innisfree primera Products Containing the Indian Procuring Socially-Friendly Ingredients through the Beautiful Fair Trade Mango, the First Global Beautiful In 2014, innisfree developed Squeezed manufacturing technology applied in the Fair Trade Raw Materials Beautiful Fair Trade is the name for in an effort to contribute to the local comGreen Tea Water, using undried green tea development of the Squeezed Green Tea AMOREPACIFIC Group’s unique method munities. Mangos purchased through the leaves. By implementing an extraction Water and the products containing this of raw material procurement from local Beautiful Fair trade are used in primera’s technology that involves compressing fresh ingredient (a total of 10 items) gained communities. The Beautiful Fair Trade Mango Butter Comforting Body Lotion, green tea leaves without the high-heat recognition for their technological and program helps us maintain sustainable Body Wash and Hand Cream. Furtherdrying process, we were able to reduce eco-friendly significance. It received the relationships with local communities and more, since 2013, primera has donated the CO2 emission by 50.6% compared to Green Technology and Green Product our consumers are clearly informed of the part of the revenues it gained from the the conventional method of using dried certifications from the Ministry for Food, original producers of the raw materials of product sales through the Let's Love Camgreen tea leaves. In addition, in order to Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in adMango Butter our products. paign, which donates mango tree saplings minimize environmental impact, a 100% dition to the Best Beauty Innovator Award Comforting Hand Cream Starting with the procurement of camellia to households with young daughters in natural preservative system was used at the 13th World Korean Business Confrom Jeju in 2010, we have signed 9 doJamui, India. In 2014, a total of 1,000 during the manufacturing process without vention. By developing green technologies mestic agreements and 1 overseas agreemango tree saplings were given to some the use of organic solvents. Wastes genand products that benefit the environment ment for the Beautiful Fair Trade program 100 households to be planted. Through erated in the manufacturing process were and customers, innisfree is endeavoring as of the end of 2014. In addition to the the Let's Love Campaign, which resumed then reused as compost in order to further to further enhance the sustainability of its materials prescribed in the agreements, in December 2014, primera is continuing minimize the environmental impact. The products. we purchase other local specialty products its donation efforts. 3 Principles of Beautiful Fair Trade Green Technology Certification Technical Excellence Mango Butter of the Squeezed Green Tea Water Manufacturing Technology Sustainable material development technology Comforting Body Lotion 1 Safety of the natural raw materials 2 Protection of the ecosystems 3 Win-Win relationships with and Applied Products and skin improvement effects local communities We reassure our customers We make an effort not to use We contribute to local comof the product safety and chemical fertilizers to premunities by making a promEco-friendliness quality by ensuring the transvent damage to the natural ise to continually purchase parency of the producers of environment in the process their products at reasonable Reduction in CO2 emission by 50.6% the raw materials. We strive of cultivating and acquiring prices. compared to the use of dried to obtain quality ingredients raw materials. green tea leaves that were cultivated in a clean natural environment. Mango Butter Squeezed Green Tea Water Comforting Body Wash Manufacturing Technology The Emblem Used on Packages Eco-friendly Packaging Made with Jeju Tangerine Paper Made with Jeju Tangerine Paper In 2014, innisfree successfully developed packages as well as productivity. The packJeju tangerine paper by unifying previously aging material containing 95% recycled developed green packages including green paper and 5% tangerine peel has also tea, tangerine, seaweed, and bean papers. been found to be more eco-friendly than The Jeju tangerine paper was developed in the previous packaging materials. Furthercollaboration with Hansol Paper, which is more, it also made it possible to improve (from left) one of the top paper manufacturers in Kothe design thanks to the enhanced quality innisfree The Green Tea Seed Serum rea. This project led to the improvement and stability of the paper material. innisfree The Green Tea Seed Cream innisfree Green Tea Mineral Mist of quality compared to the existing green 52 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 53 3 OUR APPROACH Cooperation with Production and Assistance Partners In order to achieve sustainable growth as a global company, Increased Financial Support we need to coexist harmoniously with the surrounding environment. We at AMOREPACIFIC Group believe that building For the purpose of achieving mutual to about 3.5 billion KRW, provides fawin-win relationships with all of our business partners engrowth with our partners, AMOREPACIFIC vorable interest rates when our partners hances not only our competitiveness, but also lays groundintroduced a financial support program in are in need of loans. Also, AMOREPAwork for qualitative growth. Mutual growth based on mutual 2014, which is an integrated support proCIFIC contributed 400 million KRW to trust and cooperation is a precondition for co-existence and gram created through cooperation with the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund to help co-prosperity, which are part of our ethical principals. In this several financial institutions. This is on top our partners get support from financial manner, we seek to achieve harmonious development in the of the existing direct assistance fund of 20 institutions more easily and receive the corporate ecosystem. billion KRW. This fund, which amounts additional benefit of lower interest rates. Reinforcement Reinforced Education & Training for Human Resources OUR STRATEGY In 2013, AMOREPACIFIC Group was deskeen interest. of Win-Win In order to build strong partnerships, we are implementing a win-win relationship strategy by engaging in activities that ignated as the official institution for the ‘National HR Development Consortium Project’ organized by the Ministry of EmAs a result, the number of partners that signed the apprenticeship agreement increased by 46% and the budget for support growth and to promote communication and parRelationships ployment and Labor. In 2014, our aim was education training also increased by 30% ticipation of our partners through our fair trade culture. We to upgrade the overall technological level compared to the previous year. are providing a great deal of assistance ranging from finance of the Korean cosmetics industry. Upon The education and training policy placed to education and training in order to support our partners’ with Partners the apprenticeship agreement, we shared emphasis on ensuring that our partners growth and operating a close communication system for the our manufacturing and production-relatshare our knowledge and use it in the field. stakeholders of each of our partners for the purpose of proed knowledge and technologies with our By doing so, we were able to enhance the moting open communication and active participation. partners and soon after, our first and secquality of the education and the satisfacond-tier partners joined the project with tion rate among the participants also grew. OUR ACHIEVEMENTS Main Activities for Mutual Growth · Evaluated as satisfactory by the ‘Mutual Growth Index’ · Creation of a ‘Mutual Growth fund’ of 23.9 billion KRW Co-existence and Co-prosperity · 1,337 participants in the training for the National HR Development Consortium Project Production & Support Partners Sales Partners · More than 16 cases of joint patent applications with partners Support for • Financial support Promotion of • Signing and implementation of mutual growth · Win-Win relationship agreement ceremony for each partner Growth • HR and technical support Communication & agreements with distributors and reinforced communication programs • Management support Participation • Reinforced on-site education and communication Support for Growth Educational Support Better Communication OUR PLAN • Financial support • Apprenticeship agreements •Reinforced communication system We plan to engage in diverse cooperation activities with Operation of a Mutual Growth signed with 182 companies Real-time communication via social fund of 23.9 billion KRW • 33 education and training networking sites and messengers, etc. the aim to create an ecosystem where we can harmoniously • Management support programs • Announcement of the intent for co-exist with our partners and firmly establish the foundation -250 million KRW as rewards • 1,337 trainees co-existence and co-prosperity practices necessary for our mutual growth. for Excellent Partners • Education and training budget Operation of an official consultative body -16 joint patent applications of 350 million KRW for each channel 54 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 55 Reinforced Management Support Of particular note, ETUDE launched the Franchise Council (IFC) and vowed to dediIn order to continue growth in the global improve the technology level of our partPink Hot Line, an exclusive call center for cate its efforts to achieving mutual growth market, it is necessary for AMOREPACIFIC ners through joint research, and applies franchises, in order to enhance the bilateral in compliance with the agreement. Also, Group as well as its partners to implement for joint patents for excellent research communication between franchises and during March and April of 2014, it consustainability management. To this end, outcomes. In 2014 year alone, we applied the headquarters. In October 2014, we ducted the Clean Jeju Campaign five times we conduct sustainability assessments of for more than 16 joint patents, adding launched ‘Free Talk’, a SNS mobile applicain order to protect the natural environour suppliers with the aim to encourage strength to our efforts in pursuit of mution for real-time compilation of VOCs and ment of the pristine island of Jeju, along quality improvement, fair trade, ethical tual growth. Meanwhile, we selected four provision of feedback, and this digital comwith approximately 150 business owners. management and environmental manexcellent packaging suppliers and offered munication channel brought more effective We also held the Shop Owner Festival with agement practices. We also hold a mutual them a trip to a cosmetics trade fair called communication with our sales partners. participation of shop owners and innisfree growth seminar on a yearly basis to award ‘CosmoProf’ held in Las Vegas in July 2014 In March 2014, innisfree concluded a muemployees in order to strengthen their some of the partners with excellent perforas a means to reward their excellent pertual growth agreement with the innisfree partnership. mance. In 2014, we selected 13 awardees formance and increase their morale. Reinforced Field and Educational Support and offered them a total of 250 million From 2015, we plan to provide expanded KRW in prize money and a trip overseas opportunities to our raw material suppliAMOREPACIFIC Group established various and 4 elective courses(female psychology for training. ers so that we can promote mutual growth support systems for its distribution partand functional health food). As for the ARAMOREPACIFIC Group always seeks to with more partners. ners for the purpose of providing practical ITAUM business sector, an incubating prosupport in the actual field. In order to gram was conducted for new shop owners Booths of Our Excellent Partners boost the ability of those on the frontline in order to help them quickly build their at Cosmoprof responding to customer inquiries, we atmanagement skills and become familiartempted to improve the on-site response ized with the work. Product and business processes for each distribution channel strategy education programs were proand the functions of the call center. vided on a monthly basis on both online In addition, we expanded our educational and offline platforms to enhance the comsupport for our distribution partners to petency of the field employees. As for the enhance their competency. For the doorinnisfree, we have well-trained internal to-door sales business sector, we provided instructors for the educational programs. a successful business owner program They are also trained before they educate consisting of 3 sessions(establishing our partners. They are taught about shop Cooperation for Coexistence with Sales Partners strategies, understanding marketing, reoperation and informed by case-studies to inforcing counsellor coaching skills, etc.) be passed on out in the field. Reinforced Communication and Cooperation for Mutual Growth In 2014, we set up a new special team to communicate with sales agents in real Clean Jeju Campaign with innisfree Shop Owners within the Group responsible for promotime through social networking services tion of mutual growth and cooperation (SNS) and messengers so that their inquirwith our distributors and franchise operies and ideas can be discussed and shared ators. The team has carried out various as quickly as possible across the entire activities to improve our business culture, group. In addition, we operate an official communication and support for each disconsultative body for each distribution tribution channel. As part of the efforts to channel to discuss opinions more effiestablish a companywide business culture ciently with our partners and reaffirm our and to better hear the voice of our sales willingness to enhance mutual trust and partners, we encouraged our employees to achieve co-prosperity. 56 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 57 4 OUR APPROACH Reinforced Organization for HR Development Our journey towards the uncharted world of innovative beauty In 2014, AMOREPACIFIC Group reorgantion plans and contribute to enhancing the cannot go on without our valuable Asian Beauty Creators. We ized the HR Development Center into 6 competency of our Beauty Partners, who believe that enhancing the capabilities of our employees leads teams with the aim to assist domestic and spread the value of beauty out in the field. to stronger competitiveness of our company. In this sense, the overseas employees develop their comThrough these efforts, AMOREPACIFIC Group’s HR Development Center plays an important role in petency and attain individual growth. Of Group plans to nurture the Asian Beauty fostering our next global leaders. particular note, the HRD Planning Team Creators who, as global leaders, spread was newly established to bring forth better Asian beauty throughout the world. results of the midand long-term educaOUR STRATEGY Fostering of AMOREPACIFIC Group is endeavoring to nurture Asian Beauty Creators, who are willing to take new challenges and ready to respond nimbly to fast-changing global trends. To this end, Specialized Education & Training System Sales, Digital and Marketing Experts Nurturing of Specialized Experts In order to help ‘Quality Management’ duties. In addition to the existing Makeup, Experts and we are trying to foster experts in diverse sectors with a global business mindset and good understanding of other cultures. take a firm foothold in our corporate manCounseling, Nail Care and Inner Beauty POP Level 3 (2014~) agement system, we have devoted all our certification systems, the qualification certiWe are also providing leadership programs to employees in managerial positions. energy to nurture ‘strategy-management fication systems that were newly established Leaders • Education on specialized theories Sales: distribution, data analysis, experts’ and enhance the capabilities of in 2014 include Service Master Certification negotiation, etc. • Digital: digital marketing, home the beauty experts who are working on the for customer service experts, Specialized OUR ACHIEVEMENTS shopping, etc. frontline of our company. As of late 2014, a Instructor Certification for product and • Marketing: female psychology, · Reinforced organization for HR development total of 152 experts were trained based on service educators, and Hair Care Master CRM, perfumes, etc. · Roadmap for nurturing experts the three-stage HR development roadmap Certification for experts in hair and scalp · Makeup Master Certification System recognized as consisting of sales, marketing and digital care. Accordingly, there are a total of 8 qualan internal qualification verification system Level 2 (2015~) training stages. ification certification systems in operation · Global talent nurturing program • Intensive theoretical education AMOREPACIFIC Group is helping beauty at present. Of particular note, the Makeup (Hyecho Project and Global Internship Program) • Hands-on group assignments partners who are working in the fields of Master Certification System was recognized · Onboarding program for newly appointed individuals and projects aesthetics, sales and services improve their as an internal qualification verification sysand E-MBA program for executives key competencies through AMOREPACIFIC tem by the Human Resources Development Level 1 (2016~) Beauty University (APBU). APBU runs a qualService of Korea, following the Counseling • Individual assignments and projects ification system in relation to the key work and Nail Care Master certification systems. OUR PLAN centering on business aspects AMOREPACIFIC Group is endeavoring to nurture various ex• Education provided by external perts in diverse sectors with strong global leadership thereby institutions paving the way towards becoming a Great Global Brand Company. Makeup Master Training 58 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 59 Areas of Dispatch for Hyecho Project Participants Reinforced HR Development in China For the purpose of enhancing the combased on which education and training petency of our global beauty partners, we programs are being developed. The HRD established the AMOREPACIFIC Beauty strategies were established with respect to University China (APBU China), a frontleadership and job competency improveline beauty partner education system. ment, and tailored education is provided This project holds strong significance as for the trainees to enhance their job comit is our first step of providing equal edpetency. We plan on disseminating the ucational opportunities to our overseas beauty partner education system in ASEAN global beauty partners under universal countries and Japan, with the ultimate obstandards. In China, we have created an jective of ensuring that our global beauty organization specifically for HR developpartners create our estimation of beauty ment, and established related strategies, wherever they are. Establishment of the Leadership Enhancement System AMOREPACIFIC Group is operating leadticipants were able to gain an entrepreGlobal Talent Nurturing Program ership programs at different levels caterneur-like mindset and strengthen their ing to the needs of each promotion stage business management skills. In addition, The Hyecho Project is an HR development During the dispatch period, the particiin a way to encourage our employees to in order to encourage the executives to program named after Hyecho, a Korean pants engage in diverse activities such as strengthen their leadership step by step as make constant efforts to enhance field Buddist monk who was the first global market research, cultural studies and local their position moves upward. This year, we performance and nurture their junior citizen in Korean history. The project is to networking. Upon returning, they are asadded a pre-promotion training program workers, we provided leadership coaching develop our employees into global leaders. signed global business tasks to contribute to the existing trainingfor the employees and leadership solutions that were taiSince its launch in 2011, AMOREPACIFIC to the strengthening of the overseas operon the promotion list. The Onboarding lored to each individual needs. Group has been continually upgrading the ations of AMOREPACIFIC Group. Program for the newly promoted employIn the latter half of 2014, we assessed project. In the beginning, the participants As part of the effort to reinforce the overees helps them to execute their new work the leadership skills of the employees in were mostly dispatched to Chinese-speakseas operations and recruit professionals tasks more efficiently and learn the true team-leader positions and above both ing regions and Southeast Asia but now, with global competency, AMOREPACIFIC meaning of cultural leadership based on in domestic and overseas offices, with they are stretched out across the world Group began conducting the Global Indeep understanding of the company’s core the aim to help them identify their own including the Middle East, South America, ternship Program in 2014. It is highly values. strengths and weaknesses. We provided Europe and the Americas. important that we recruit talented indiIn order for us to step closer to our vision them with feedback and competency With diversification of the dispatch reviduals from diverse countries in order to of becoming the Great Global Brand development guidelines based on the asgions, we have recently redesigned the edensure customer satisfaction worldwide. Company, management executives need sessment results so that they could specify ucation programs to be more customized For this reason, AMOREPACIFIC Group to reinforce their business management their own directions for their leadership to the local characteristics of each country is operating an internship program for competency. To this end, in 2014, the development. In particular, the team while extending the preliminary education international students studying in Korea, main executives of AMOREPACIFIC Group leaders of AMOREPACIFIC Group were and training period to ensure that the and nurturing them at the headquarters attended the monthly Executive Forum mandated to attend the basic leadership project participants can adapt to the forin Korea before dispatching them to the and Breakfast and completed the E-MBA program for team leaders. This program eign culture and have the basic language foreign subsidiaries. program at Seoul National University. encourages our team leaders to change proficiency before they are dispatched. Through these opportunities, the parfirst and set a positive example for others. 60 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 61 5 OUR APPROACH Establishment of Global SHE Management System As global market growth accelerates, there will be greater AMOREPACIFIC Group, which is expandfor employees of our overseas offices and emphasis on the importance of promoting the safety and ing its global business areas in order to those on business trips, we expanded the health of our stakeholders and protecting our planet. At this achieve sustainable growth and future scope of application of our International important stage of readying ourselves to leap forward as one competitiveness, plans on strengthening SOS services to include all of our emof the world’s leading companies, we must remember that the global SHE management system. In ployees for management of safety and minimizing environmental impact and reinforcing safety and 2014, we created the comprehensive SHE health risks overseas. Meanwhile, the SHE health are our first step and an important platform for susmanual to be observed by our domestic operation and reporting systems were tainability management. and overseas offices thereby enhancing upgraded in order to improve the compaour ability to manage the potential risks nywide communication of important SHE Advancement OUR STRATEGY AMOREPACIFIC Group is actively seeking ways to cope with that may arise in the process of our global expansion. To ensure safety and health issues and to ensure swift decisions, so as to reinforce our risk management. of SHE1) environmental change arising from climate change and water Major SHE Activities in 2014 shortage, and making persistent efforts to provide a safe and healthy environment for all of our employees and customers, who are important participants in our business management. Management In order to establish an integrated SHE management, we are conducting diverse activities under four strategic directions‘reinforcement of SHE risk management and performance Establishment of an integrated management system Reinforced the SHE audit system Spread the safety culture System management’, ‘systematization of Global SHE Standards’, ‘establishment of SHE monitoring system, and ‘expansion and enhancement of SHE culture’. • Comprehensive SHE manual for the Group • Reinforced performance management and established a performance • SCM health and safety audit • Thorough safety diagnosis of domestic production sites • Reinforced education for employees • Emergency response dril and training reporting system OUR ACHIEVEMENTS · A comprehensive SHE manual for the Group Thorough Audit by External Experts · Thorough audit by external institutions and improvement of safety while addressing environmental issues The audit of the SHE management sysin activities to make improvements. In · Activities for expansion of the safety culture tem was conducted by external experts addition, in collaboration with the Korea · GHG emission reduction at each production site twice in 2014 with the aim to gain Environmental Preservation Association, · Water consumption reduction at each production site external confidence regarding our SHE we ensured there were no violations of management practices and to strengthen relevant safety laws and regulations, and our internal management competency. conducted an environmental awareness In cooperation with the Korean Industrial survey targeting our employees. The OUR PLAN Safety Association, we conducted thorinspection and survey process took 7 AMOREPACIFIC Group plans to establish the integrated ITough safety inspections of our 9 business months and we identified a total of 1,108 based SHE management system in 2015. While reinforcing sites with respect to fire prevention, environmental issues, for which we will SHE management at our overseas production sites, we will building structures and electrical safety. develop a tailored checklist and start opalso strengthen our supervision of management practices by Based on the 506 risk factors found from erating a systematic audit system. creating a systematic SHE audit system. the inspection results, we are engaging 1) SHE : Safety, Health and Environment 62 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 63 Companywide Safety and Health Culture Water Resources Conservation AMOREPACIFIC Group is making an effort our offices and stores regularly. Moreover, Activities for GHG Emission Activities for Water Resources AMOREPACIFIC Group is preparing a in order to conserve water in the local to improve the awareness of safety and we held a companywide idea contest for Reduction and Performance Conservation and Performance response system for water conservation, communities, the wastewater that does health among all its employees. In 2014, 'Creating a Safe Workplace' to encourage which is one of today’s most important not meet the water quality standards for the purpose of improving awareness our employees to identify the risk factors environmental issues. was recovered for a secondary treatment among some 3,500 office and sales staff, on their own and present improvement At the Beauty Campus Osan, the existing before being discharged into the water we developed an online education promeasures accordingly. At the production Beauty Campus Osan Beauty Campus Osan transport line of the rainwater facility was system. Moreover, an external institution gram. At the Beauty Campus Osan, we site for AESTURA’s health care products, Installation of waste heat expanded to increase the average rainwawas commissioned to decrease the COD of Expansion of initiated the Green Cross Program in order we held a ceremony to declare the ‘Golden recovery device, etc. the rainwater transport line ter consumption by approximately 57.5% wastewater to 34.1ppm, which is about to promote autonomous safety practices Rule’ for Safe Environment’, encouraged from 1,685 tons in 2013 to 2,655 tons 53% lower compared to the previous year. and prevent accidents. The Green Cross the employees to voluntarily participate CO2 emission reduction of Rainwater use increased by in 2014. The coolant used in the freezers PACIFICGLASS is operating a wastewater 2,505 tons 57.5% Program was participated in by the emin improving the work environment and and air compressors was substituted with treatment facility with an application of ployees of AMOREPACIFIC as well as our took swift actions to correct a total of rainwater, which effectively reduced the the advanced nitrification treatment techproduction contractors. By rewarding 360 non-conformity cases. Meanwhile, monthly water consumption by 970 tons nique as a means to minimize the environthe division with the best presentation, PACIFIC PACKAGE initiated the Clean 3D on average for an annual reduction of mental pollution caused by wastewater. the program encouraged voluntary par(Danger, Dirtiness and Difficulty) Program 11,640 tons. Also, it identified the areas of the producticipation in safety practices among the in joint cooperation with its 6 partners, as At Beauty Campus Shanghai, a green tion process where water is unnecessarily employees. In addition, in order to provide a part of the effort to eliminate any and all Beauty Campus Shanghai Beauty Campus Shanghai project was carried out to reduce the use spent, and established a recycling system a safe environment for our staff and cushazards at its production sites. It effectiveof cleaning water and increase the use to reuse water that would otherwise be Installation of additional Reduction of cleaning water tomers, we conduct a risk assessment of ly removed a total of 370 hazards. of rainwater. This resulted in an annual wasted. Moreover, it saved about 7,500 low-energy compressors and increased use of rainwater saving of 8,500 tons of water. Meanwhile, tons of water in 2014. Power saving of Water consumption reduction of Condensate Circulation Waste Heat Recovery Device Response to Climate Change In recognition of the seriousness of cli(CO2) emissions by 92.6 tons at the same 320,000kw 8,500 tons mate change, AMOREPACIFIC Group is time. Also, a compressor with low power carrying out a wide range of programs. In consumption was additionally installed in 2014, various energy-saving efforts were the ion water tank, which resulted in an made at the Beauty Campus Osan such as annual power saving of 320,000kW and optimizing the operation of the air condiGHG (CO2) emission reduction of 248 tons. AESTURA PACIFICGLASS tioning facilities, adjusting the number of PACIFIC PACKAGE used waste heat generboilers and heat exchangers operating in ated from the production facilities, which Establishment of measures Recycling of water according to the energy uses the regenerative heat system, etc. These helped reduce the GHG (CO2) emissions by efforts brought a reduction of 2,505 tons 29 tons, while the production site for AESEnergy intensity reduced by Water consumption reduction of in GHG (CO2) emissions and a cost reducTURA’s health care products established tion of 780 million KRW. At the Beauty Campus Shanghai, the optiimprovement measures based on the energy consumption level, and successful19.3% 7,500 tons mum intensity of illumination was ensured ly reduced it by 19.3% compared to the to save energy by eliminating about 700 previous year. PACIFICGLASS improved its unnecessary lightings. This helped save energy facilities and began actively using about 120,000kW of electricity on a yearly the waste heat generated during the furbasis (60.67kW/hour), and reduce GHG nace processes. 64 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 65 6 OUR APPROACH Makeup Your Life Campaign Awakening the Inner Beauty of Female Cancer Patients Considering that women are the main customers of AMOREPACIFIC The chances of experiencing changes in changes in their appearance so that they Group, we believe it is our most important duty to ensure that one’s physical shape for female cancer pacan regain beauty and confidence. This in women maintain their inner and outer beauty in a healthy tients are twice as much as ordinary womturn helps them overcome a sense of loss way. In order to fulfill this obligation to society, we are actively en. The amount of stress accompanying and depression that most female cancer carrying out our social contribution programs. these changes in appearance is 13 times patients experience during their treatment higher than for ordinary women, and period, and gain a more positive attitude prolonged treatment tends to cause lower toward life. Since AMOREPACIFIC Group is OUR STRATEGY self-esteem and deteriorate their mental a cosmetics company with many makeup Under our mission to 'help women and their families attain healthy health1). experts, we encourage them to share their Social beauty' as a responsible corporate citizen, AMOREPACIFIC Group is implementing social contribution programs in three major areas -women, natural ecology and cultureunder the slogan, 1)This study was sponsored by In the 7 years since its launch in 2008, the Makeup Your Life Campaign has been providing skin care and hair styling lessons talent for good causes. In addition, the AMORE counselors from the door-to-door sales channel and our educational instrucContribution 'Beautiful Change in Your Life, Makeup Your Life.' In addition, AMOREPACIFIC and carried out by the to female cancer patients, who are suffertors are also engaging in the campaign as we perform research to develop products customized to the Cancer Center of Samsung Medical Center. ing emotional distress due to the sudden volunteers. needs of female cancer patients so that they can be assured of the safety of our products. Expansion as a Global Campaign Activities for AMOREPACIFIC Group began conducting the Makeup Your Life Campaign in China campaign, we are closely cooperating with local institutions and universities in OUR ACHIEVEMENTS in 2011 under the title, 'JangjeonsaengChina. Our efforts and contributions were Women · Supporting cancer patients to regain confidence through the Makeup Your Life Campaign myeong,' to spread the value of healthy beauty in China. After initiating the campaign in Shanghai, we have expanded it to recognized, and we were designated as an excellent social contribution company by a local community in China. We plan on im· Raising the awareness of breast cancer through the Pink Ribbon Campaign cover other regions all the way to Hangplementing more Social contribution pro· Expanding scope of social contribution programs to other zhou so that we can help more female grams in China, and spread our corporate AMOREPACIFIC Group affiliates cancer patients regain their self-esteem. value of changing the world with beauty. · Cosmetics research centering on cancer patients In order to facilitate the operation of the 9,958 Makeup Your Life Campaign Records in 2014 (cumulative) OUR PLAN of cancer patients participating in AMOREPACIFIC Group will continually fulfill its corporate sothe campaign cial responsibility in the areas of women, natural ecology and culture in order to change the world with beauty. As the number of our global customers increases, we plan on expanding the scope of our social contribution programs to include not only Asia, but also the Americas and Europe. Each brand of AMOREPACIFIC Group will proactively undertake social 3,055 of volunteers participating in the contribution activities that conform to the core values of the campaign brand. 2008 2014 66 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 03. Material Issues 67 Pink Ribbon Campaign Records Pink Love Therapy Campaign of AMOS Professional in 2014 (cumulative) Our affiliates are also taking part in our every unit of the best-selling Repair Force social contribution program called the Therapy Oil sold, which is one of their best Total Number of Pink Ribbon Campaign. AMOS Professionsellers, and donating the accumulated Beneficiaries al, for instance, has been conducting the amount to the Korea Breast Cancer Founapprox.460,000 Pink Love Therapy Campaign for early predation every year. In 2014, they raised 22 vention of breast cancer since 2011. This million KRW, which exceeded the 2013 campaign involves saving 100 KRW from donation of 16 million KRW. Beneficiaries of Financial Assistance for Breast Cancer Treatment Research on Products Tailored to Female Cancer Patients 780 Pink Ribbon Love Marathon 2014 After surgery, the majority of breast cancer cer patients, who received chemotherapy, Pink Ribbon Campaign Promoting Healthy Life for Women patients undergo chemotherapy to prevent in collaboration with Samsung Medical Beneficiaries of Preventive Examination recurrence, and this has a negative impact Center in Seoul. Then, in 2014, through Of the female-specific cancers, breast tion. As part of our campaign efforts, we on their hair, skin and nails, resulting in patient reports and skin assessments, we cancer is reported to have the highest incidence. Approximately 1.38 million have organized the Pink Ribbon Love Marathon, the largest Pink Ribbon Campaign 28,000 hair loss, dryness of the skin and skin discoloration. These changes, especially the gained an understanding of certain skin conditions after anti-cancer treatment. women are diagnosed with breast cancer event in the country, for 14 consecutive changes in the facial skin and dryness, can Based on the results, we are developing a worldwide on a yearly basis, which means years since 2001. Under the slogan, 'My Participants in the Health continue for up to a year after terminating product that can effectively improve the that breast cancer occurs in one out of Beautiful Breasts 333 1)' the marathon lecture chemotherapy. Accordingly, we have been skin conditions suffered by female cancer every 8 women. While the incidence has aims to not only raise awareness with reconducting research to develop products patients. This product, which is set to be been decreasing in the U.S. and Europe, spect to breast health and the importance tailored to female cancer patients, using released at a later time, will undergo a the number of breast cancer patients in of early discovery, but also provides other our R&D capacity to develop skin care strict verification process in terms of its Korea has increased 4-fold over the course useful information. At the same time, it products. efficacy and safety, and it is expected to of 15 years. At present, it has the highest is emerging as a major event that celeStarting in 2011, we have been tracking help female cancer patients gain healthy incidence among female-specific cancers, brates women together with their famand observing the changes in appearance beauty and experience improved quality of excluding thyroid cancers. It’s been said ilies. The participation fees paid by some and quality of life of some 400 breast canlife. that one-third of breast cancer patients 13,900 marathon participants in 2014 185,000 Research on Products Tailored to Female Cancer Patients do not notice any symptoms and are only were entirely donated to the Korea Breast diagnosed during medical examinations. Cancer Foundation to sponsor research on Marathon Participants In case of discovering breast cancer in its breast cancer and low-income cancer paearly stages, however, it is curable in more tients. Furthermore, as part of our efforts than 90% of the cases, meaning that early to inform the public of the importance of discovery and treatment are essential. self-examination for breast cancer, every In 2000, a non-profit organization called year, we hold the Pink Tour, a health lecthe Korea Breast Cancer Foundation was ture conducted by breast cancer patients, established, with full funding provided by and the Pink Generation, where ordinary AMOREPACIFIC Group. Ever since then, people participate as the ambassadors of we have been proactively conducting the the campaign. These programs also im1)‘My Beautiful Breasts 333’ is a message Pink Ribbon Campaign for the purpose of prove public awareness of the importance raising awareness of the importance of of maintaining breast health. reminding women to raise three fingers and draw three circles, three days after 254,000 the end of their monthly menstrual breast health and breast cancer prevenperiod. Cumulative records from 2001 to 2014 04 Sustainability Performance of AMOREPACIFIC Innovation for Minimization of Harmonious Together with AMOREPACIFIC has been implementing sustainability management to Customers Environmental Growth society Impact ensure a better future for the natural environment, society and businesses. 71 Reinforced Product 78 Response to Climate 82 HR Management 90 Corporate Social We are leading the movement in creating a more beautiful world through Sustainability Change and Development Responsibility Programs 73 R&D Innovation and Open 78 Water Resources and 84 Great Work Place 92 Brand Social Contribution our innovation activities for consumers, efforts to reduce our environmenInnovation Waste Management 85 Safety and Health of Activity 75 Customer Satisfaction 79 Conservation of Employees 93 Public Foundation Activity tal impact, win-win cooperation with our business partners and social Activities Biodiversity 86 Human Rights 87 Mutual Growth with contribution programs. Partners 70 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Performance by AMOREPACIFIC 71 Innovation With our top priority being our customers, we are committed to deliver innovative products Innovation for Customers by continuously seeking ways to purchase palm oil in a for Customers of the highest quality that can provide customers with pleasant experiences and move their hearts. Also, we take into account the environmental and social impacts of our business proReinforced Product sustainable manner. Along with these efforts, currently, the entire volume of the ingredients primarily processed cesses from procurement of raw materials to disposal as part of our effort to promote sustainable consumption. Sustainability from palm oil used by AMOREPACIFIC is supplied from RSPO members. This way, we are trying to fulfill our social responsibility Development of Sustainable Products in a wider scope and implement sustainable procurement (AMOREPACIFIC Promise) of palm oil from our partners. AMOREPACIFIC has been trying to promote sustainable consumption by developing sustainable products Number of Sustainable 2012 2013 2014 (AMOREPACIFIC Promise) since 2011. Sustainable Products products are divided into 3 categories: customer-friendly products, environmentally-friendly products and socially-friendly products. The Sustainable Product certification is issued by AMOREPACIFIC when a product meets the 100% 311 340 460 strict internal guidelines which are equivalent to the external certification standards. The certification standards for sustainable products are The Rate of RSPO Certified Palm Oil constantly revised based on the amendments to the do1) RSPO : Non-profit organization established to promote sustainable promestic and overseas regulations and expert opinions. We duction and use of palm oil Number of Patents are endeavoring to expand the development of sustaina286 ble products by establishing new product categories. Establishment of a Sustainable Technology Roadmap AMOREPACIFIC understands that securing source 230 120 228 technology is the most important factor to strengthenDomesticapplication ing product sustainability. Accordingly, we set up the 115 112 Domesticregistration 460 Cross-Functional Team (CFT) in the R&D sector in 2014 and came up with the 2020 Sustainable Technology 262 Roadmap. 209 210 The Number of AMOREPACIFIC Sustainable Products The Sustainable Technology Roadmap suggests the susOverseasapplication 80 tainable technology platforms necessary to us as well as 51 57 AMOREPACIFIC’s future core technology sector based Overseasregistration Purchase of Sustainable Palm Oil on 5 years of reviewing our past sustainable technology Indiscriminate cultivation of palm plantation and deactivities and analyzing the trends observed among the 2012 2013 2014 forestation not only cause climate change and damage global leading companies. Sustainable technologies were to ecosystems, but also induce labor exploitation of local categorized based on 3 focusescustomers, environment Number of published papers (cases)ㅤ 48 47 ㅤ 64 people. AMOREPACIFIC uses as much as about 7,000 and society, and they were prioritized by importance to R&D expenditure (million KRW) 71,483 83,167 97,108 tons of palm oil and other ingredients derived from palm decide on yearly performance tasks. Ratio of R&D expenditure to sales (%) 2.51 2.68 ㅤ 2.51 oil annually. And thus, we are trying our utmost to mainAMOREPACIFIC is not only planning to strengthen the Resolution of customer complaints resolved (%) 99.2 98.4 ㅤ 98.1 tain the sustainability. related technological capacity, but is also trying to conAverage consultation satisfaction rate (points) ㅤ93.0 92.8 ㅤ 93.6 In 2012, AMOREPACIFIC joined the Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil(RSPO1), an international consultative front future issues and promoting the development of its group aiming to maintain sustainability of palm oil, in ordistinguished sustainable products through the impleder to reaffirm our commitment to the principles of RSPO mentation of the Sustainable Technology Roadmap. 72 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Performance by AMOREPACIFIC 73 Development of Natural Polyol partnership with a firm that can produce the PCR PETG1) Innovation for Customers Technology Development as a Solution to Polyol is one of the most commonly used raw materials to control the level of moisturizing and hydration functions material which is a recycled material and, we jointly developed the PCR PETG material that has the physical R&D Innovation Environmental Pollution While the environmental pollution has become a serious of cosmetic products, but most of the polyol substances properties and post-processability equivalent to the and Open Innovation problem worldwide, concerns of pollution-related skin probused today are synthetic materials derived from petroleexisting PETG materials used in our over-cap products. lems are especially rising among Chinese customers. In reum. In order to address this issue, AMOREPACIFIC began AMOREPACIFIC is planning to expand the scope of apReinforcing Research for Global Customers sponse, AMOREPACIFIC Shanghai research institute is anaresearch to develop natural polyol as an alternative and in plication of the PCR PETG material and verify its quality In line with our fast growing business in China, lyzing the effect of harmful components in the atmosphere 2014, developed Whitebiol, an upgraded polyol obtained by producing various samples and conducting packaging AMOREPACIFIC established the 2020 R&D Roadmap in on human skin, and carrying out solution development from microbial fermentation of natural tapioca starch. material tests with the aim to use the material in our finShanghai research institute in order to develop products research. In 2015, we are planning to carry out a research We filed patent applications for Whitebiol after verificaished products in 2015. tailored to the local customers’ needs. We will continue to on the skins of the inhabitants of major cities and develop tion of its applicability for cosmetics by carrying out skin carry out phased studies until 2020 in cooperation with skincare and cleansing products that are effective against safety mechanism tests based on clinical and in vitro exReduce: Participation in the pilot program to reduce the leading universities, hospitals and research institutes environmental pollution. periments. Moreover, AMOREPACIFIC continues research the packaging volume of product containers in China to launch products specifically targeting female on Whitebiol to understand the differences in the texture Since signing the agreement on the pilot program for Chinese customers with certified safety and effectiveness. Development of Appropriate Moisturizing Solution of varying formulas. reducing the packaging volume of cosmetic product confor Extremely Arid Region tainers initiated by the Ministry of Environment in 2013, AMOREPACIFIC Shanghai Research Institute We found that the biggest skin concern among our ChiDevelopment of Water-saving Cleansing Formula AMOREPACIFIC has reduced the packaging volume of R&D Roadmap nese customers is dryness as our studies show that many AMOREPACIFIC has been seeking various ways to reduce three products by the end of 2014. In 2013, the packagcustomers, especially those who live in major cities such as Regional study and development of solutions to water consumption of cleansing products that usually reing volume of IOPE plant stem cell skin renewal emersion Beijing, suffer from extreme dryness in winter. Dryness can quire extensive amount of water in the rinsing phase. In was reduced. In 2014, about 9% of the volume of HA1st varying regional and climatic conditions cause secondary skin issues such as wrinkles, itchiness and research Development of solutions to the fundamen2013, we developed the defoaming system that functions NYUL Cleansing Cream was reduced, and about 28% of tal skin troubles of Chinese customers through erythema. Therefore, AMOREPACIFIC Shanghai research 2015 -2016 only when it becomes diluted with water during rinsing, volume of LIRIKOS Marine Expert Restoring Eye-Cream studies on regional and climatic characteristics institute initiated studies to analyze how the extremely of China without affecting the amount of foam created. In 2014, was reduced. dry environment affects the skin and continuously tried to we developed and released a product that gets washed seek solutions. off more quickly than other existing products, meaning To develop products that are suitable for the regional that this product needs less amount of water for use and Before After characteristics of China, we are planning to perform face 2nd Research on more diverse skin types to attract new customers also generates less amount of wastewater. research and body skin research on the inhabitants of Inner MonAs part of our consistent efforts to create eco-friendly 2017 -2018 Research on more diverse skin types as a measure golia and Guangzhou jointly with various local hospitals to analyze potential customer groups and diverproducts, we are currently working to develop water-free sify our customer portfolio in order to quickly and institutes. cleansing products. Meanwhile, we are building a datarespond to the changes in the national policies, lifestyles and income levels in China. base on the quantity of water required for each raw maHANYUL Cleansing Cream Development of Self-Gel Nail Kit terial type so that we can use this data during the product Since April 2013, AMOREPACIFIC has been carrying out planning process to create more water-saving products. open innovation activities with JCK, a nail care company Before After 3rd Application of AMOREPACIFIC’s main ingredioperating a luxury nail salon chain called Dashing Diva. ents in products sold in China Development of Sustainable Packaging research It developed MODI self-gel nail kit in 2014 by combining 2019 -2020 Provide the best customized solution to Chinese Recycle: Development of PCR PETG materials the results of its customer survey and product developcustomers through consistent and in-depth comAMOREPACIFIC is developing sustainable packaging based parative studies, focusing on Korea and China, with ment capacity as well as JCK’s nail care product developon four strategies of Reduce, Recycle, Reuse and Renewrespect to natural ingredients such as ginseng, ment know-how and color embodiment technology. green tea and beans in which AMOREPACIFIC able, with the goal of 25% reduction of package use per LIRIKOS Marine Expert Restoring Eye-Cream possesses the highest know-how. MODI self-gel nail kit was launched with various types product until 2020. In 2014, AMOREPACIFIC made a 1) PCR PETG : Post-Consumer Recycled PETG(Polyethylene terephthalate) of accessories such as nail stickers and jewel stones so 74 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Performance by AMOREPACIFIC 75 that women themselves can have their nails polished as Research on Animal Alternative Testing Methods Innovation for customers beautifully as those done by the experts. In 2015, we are planning to launch some other gel nail-care products unAMOREPACIFIC had early started the animal alternaCustomer Satisfaction der different brands. tive test research with recognition of importance and Activities performed the alternative test research project headed Development of Cosmetic Devices by the Ministry of Health and Welfare from 1997 to Customer Complaints Management Activity CGAP as the Next Growth Engine 1999. As a result of continuous research, AMOREPACIFIC Customer Gift for AMOREPACIFIC(CGAP) is AMOREPACIFIC’s Following the development of applicable cosmetics and discontinued animal testing for cosmetic materials and unique customer complaints management program edible cosmetics, AMOREPACIFIC is now making extenfinished products from 2008. Furthermore, AMOREPAwhich collects customer complaints and suggests solusive efforts into developing portable cosmetics which CIFIC declared the principle of banning any unnecessary tions to improve their inconveniences. AMOREPACIFIC refer to high-tech cosmetic devices as the next growth animal testing for cosmetics and banning animal testing considers the complaints of our customers to be a ‘gift’ 2014 CGAP VOC Exhibition engine. Such devices can improve skin conditions with except in unavoidable situations where animal testing is that motivates us to keep improving our products and the use of physical energy such as light, electricity, heat required by local governments or laws. AMOREPACIFIC service. In 2014, a total 53 of CGAP improvement activiReinforced Consultation Services and vibration after makeup application. We performed operates a pre-verification system to exclude the cosmetic ties were performed. In order to adequately respond to customers’ fast-changvarious studies on cosmetic devices and conducted open ingredients and cosmetics which have a previous record ing needs, AMOREPACIFIC has constantly carried out innovation activities for 3 years since 2012. As a result, in of animal testing not only in AMOREPACIFIC but also in customer service satisfaction assessments and customer August 2014, we launched a special brand for cosmetic our partners and also is performing additional post-verSolutions to Customer Complaints in 2014 consultation studies for the employees of the customer devices called MakeON. We released a Cleansing Enhancification through the ‘Animal Experiment Monitoring Complaint Solution service center, based the principle of improving customer er that has cleansing and skin improvement effects with Committee’. service through empathetic consultation. This shows Request for display of the date of Date of manufacture and lot micro-motion technology and a Makeup Enhancer that In 2013~2015, AMOREPACIFIC is performing collaboramanufacture on sample products number are displayed on the our commitment to heightening customer satisfaction offers customers with brighter and more transparent fative research project on skin irritation, ocular irritation, sold through home shopping sample products through better understanding of our customers’ opinions. channels cial makeup through fitting motion activity. skin sensitization and oral mucosa irritation KoCVAM In order to strengthen the professionalism of the custom(Korean Center for the Validation of Alternative Methods), er service supervisors, we have been holding meetings to KSAAE (Korea Society for Alternative to Animal Experistudy the collected customer complaints on a monthly ments), 13 labs in academic and industry. In particular, basis and bimonthly meetings to improve the consultaAMOREPACIFIC has participated in validation studies for tion methods. We developed the empathetic consultation ocular and skin irritation for purpose to submit proposal evaluation system jointly with Korea Management Assoof OECD guidelines. Furthermore, pre-validation research ciation Consulting and reviewed 3 customer consultation on skin sensitization was initiated in collaboration with Before After calls based on service type so that improvements can be EU and the US research institutes in 2014. made for practical consultation. Voice of Customers (VOC) Management1)(cases) 2014 CGAP VOC Exhibition Phone Internet Cleansing Enhancer by MakeON, the Cosmetology Device Specialized CGAP VOC Exhibition is an annual in-company exhibition Brand in which the employees discuss about the customers’ 2012 194,269 24,786 complaints collected through customer reviews and share These products were tested and verified to have improved their ideas to improve our products and services. In 2014, 2013 209,681 16,826 cleansing ability and makeup coverage power. We have registered 81 domestic patents and applied 74 foreign the 7th CGAP VOC Exhibition was held under the theme of ‘à temps-on time,’ and we resolved to consistently 2014 186,076 8,557 1)‘General customer service’ and ‘Beauty Point’ customer service’ depart patents for the devices thus far. track the results of the improvement measures taken for ments were integrated in 2014 and therefore, the 2012 and 2013 data 7 major complaints. were recalculated based on the 2014 standards. 76 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Performance by AMOREPACIFIC 77 Prosumer Activity Minimization of With keen awareness of the potential environmental consequences of corporate activities, AMOREPACIFIC operates a prosumer community called AMOREPACIFIC has established an environmental management system and made continuous ‘Suhedang’ consisting of Korean and Chinese customers Environmental efforts to reduce its environmental impact. As part of these efforts, we have been engaging in living in Korea who actively participate in the fields of Impact a wide range of activities, from lowering GHG emissions in the production process to reducing water consumption for sustainable water use, and leading the biodiversity preservation beauty and health. The feedbacks we collected from the movement. prosumers through the focus group interviews or surveys 2014 Nail Products for Beauty Point Membership were often reflected in product development. For example, the development of the Cleansing Enhancer launched by MakeON in 2014 started from the suggestion of the Customer Information Protection Domestic data1) Energy consumption Greenhouse gas emissions3) Water consumption prosumers. Conference on Personal Information Protection with 31,638 31,178 357,937 358,916 10,287 10,179 9,957 340,661 29,086 Number of reflected opinions of prosumers in 2014 information security agencies 170 In June 2014, AMOREPACIFIC hosted a conference to raise awareness of the importance of personal inforcases 0.137 Total(TOE2)) 1.110 Total 4.764 Total(tons) 4.268 (tons of CO2) mation protection. We invited the board members of 0.122 0.118 1.006 4.086 0.751 Beauty Point Exchange Campaign about 40 personal information security agencies to the Basic unit(TOE/tons of Basic unit(tons of CO2/ Basic unit production) 100 million KRW) (tons/tons of production) AMOREPACIFIC is putting its best effort in increasing the conference and, during the conference, provided several 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 satisfaction of Beauty Point membership customers by seminars on importance of personal information security Wastewater discharge Non-recycled waste amount COD generation offering customers with special edition items that can experts as well as introduced AMOREPACIFIC’s security 8,735 be purchased only through Beauty Points. In 2014, we policy. AMOREPACIFIC would like to participate actively 203,396 221,092 1,060 1,034 185,796 7,502 carried out the 3rd Beauty Point Exchange Campaign in in personal information protection with our partners 6,030 collaboration with the artist-and-actor Ha, Jung-woo. through yearly conferences and guide issuance. 549 About 46,000 umbrellas he designed were exchanged for 2.786 0.027 Total(tons) Total(tons) Total(kg) 2.629 0.104 0.092 Beauty Points and we saved 100 KRW per exchange to Change in Registration Method for 2.284 0.007 0.083 donate about 4.5 million KRW to the 2014 ‘Hope Ondol, Beauty Point membership Basic unit(tons/tons of 0.014 Basic unit(tons/tons of Basic unit(kg/tons production) production) of production) Warm Winter Project’ organized by the Community Chest AMOREPACIFIC simplified membership registration 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 of Korea. process to require just the cell phone number for authenIn December 2014, MODI Nail received a favorable retication, instead of the resident registration number. CusOverseas data4) Energy consumption Greenhouse gas emissions5) Water consumption sponse by releasing the Christmas limited edition MODI tomers do not feel uncomfortable when signing up for 5,436 92,680 1,689 Sonny Angel Collection nail products for Beauty Point membership and it also adheres to related regulations. members though collaboration with Sonny Angel Brand. Moreover, we have reduced the chance of personal inforAMOREPACIFIC will consistently provide diverse Beauty mation leakage by allowing our registering customers to 1,115 1,189 Total(TOE) Total(tons of CO2) 15,064 Total(tons) 71.403 320 1.301 296 4.188 12,850 Point benefits by developing Beauty Point products for use tablet PCs instead of paper application forms. 0.234 0.241 0.881 0.895 11.905 Basic unit(TOE/tons of Basic unit(tons of CO2/ 9.668 Basic unit(tons/ member customers. production) tons of production) tons of production) Compartmentalization of the personal information 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 process system network (Internet cutoff) 1) The domestic environmental management performance was assessed based on the 3 domestic production sites: We have separated employees’ PC that accesses important The Beauty, Mass Cosmetic and Sulloc Tea Production Sites. data process system including personal information from 2) TOE (Tonne of oil equivalent): amount of energy released by burning one ton of crude oil 3) Scope of GHG emission assessment: SCM (production & logistics), R&D unit, headquarters and regional offices, and business locations, etc. the general internet network. This helps us protect our 4) The global environmental management performance was assessed solely based on the AMOREPACIFIC China. The increased environmental performance confidential information and personal information from index compared to the previous year resulted from the completion of the Beauty Campus Shanghai and the operation of new facilities in 2014. ‘Share Your Umbrella’ Campaign where Customers could Exchange 5) The GHG emissions were calculated based on the standards of the pilot emissions trading system implemented in Shanghai by the National Development Beauty Point for Umbrellas external internet attacks such as viruses and hacking. and Reform Commission of China. 78 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Perfomance by AMOREPACIFIC 79 Minimization of Environmental Impact status can be determined in real time, and the delivery tons in 2013 to 2,655 tons in 2014, which was a 57.6% Minimization of Environmental Impact Response to Climate personnel can check their driving records and practice eco-driving. After the introduction of this system, fuel efyear-over-year increase. In addition, the coolant used in the cooling system and air compressor cooling tower at Conservation of Change ficiency was improved by 2.3%, while diesel consumption the Beauty Campus Osan was replaced with rainwater. Biodiversity was reduced by 22,581L and GHG emissions by 59 tons Instead of using service water from the waterworks as Reduction of GHG Emissions at Production Sites and Offices compared to the previous year. was the case in the past, rainwater began to be filtered Research on Restoring and Utilizing Rare Indigenous AMOREPACIFIC has strived toward our goal of reducing to eliminate any foreign matter and used in the cooling Species GHG emissions by 30% per unit of sales by 2020 comMinimization of Environmental Impact tower after a thorough water quality inspection. This Due to the nature of its business, AMOREPACIFIC uses pared to 2010. In 2014, the outdoor air conditioning Water Resources and contributed to the reduction in annual average service large amounts of biological resources. For this reason, it system of the cafeteria was changed, which helped rewater consumption by 11,730 tons. has been endeavoring to turn bio-resources into assets ducing power consumption by 37,888kWh and LNG use Waste Management and protect biodiversity for better utilization. In addition 3 by 15,751Nm . Also, an eco-pulley, called the V-BELT, Broader Scope of Waste Recycling Activities to protecting and restoring biological diversity including was applied to the air supply and exhaust pans inside the Reduction of Water Consumption with the Use of Rainwater AMOREPACIFIC is dedicated to lowering the amount of the white mother chrysanthemum, efforts have been air conditioning unit in order to reduce the power loss With the goal to reduce our water use by 30% per unit waste it discharges through the means of recycling. The made to develop differentiated plant materials using bionon-recyclable wastes generated from the Beauty Camcaused by the frictional force, thereby decreasing power of output by 2020 compared to 2010, AMOREPACIFIC diversity. pus Osan in 2013 consisted of 11 types of wastes includconsumption by 18,201kWh and GHG emissions by 8.5 has put effort into reducing water use cosistently. The Since 2011, research has been conducted on indigenous ing spent organic solvents, process sludge and byproduct tons of CO2. At the Beauty Campus Shanghai, the standimprovement of the rainwater facilities in 2014 led to the bean species in Manchuria and Korea that have gradually wastes, and 401 tons were disposed of as wastes in the ardization of the heating and cooling system operation reduced amount of service water consumption. The rainsame year. In 2014, the number of waste types falling been disappearing due to the increased use of genetically led to 216.6 tons reduction of CO2 emissions, while 266.3 water stored in the 500 tons capacity water quality manunder this category was reduced from 11 to 4 through modified (GMO) beans, which can be cultivated easily and tons of CO2 emissions were reduced by enhancing the agement facility was used for landscaping purposes and the countermeasure activities performed with a waste produce high yields. Of the indigenous bean species excooling efficiency of the water heat storage system and supplied to the restrooms, wastewater treatment facilities, treatment company. The collaborative efforts paid off, amined, Napjakong(Glycine gracilis Skvortsov) was found the efficiency of the waste treatment center. In addition and dehydrator line, but the capacity of this facility was and the volume of non-recyclable wastes was reduced to contain secondary metabolites, which were confirmed to the improvement activities at the production sites, insufficient to have any significant effect on the amount of by 297 tons compared to the previous year to 104 tons, to have an exceptional antioxidant effect and promote while the per unit non-recyclable waste was reduced to AMOREPACIFIC has been attempting to lower the energy service water use. Accordingly, improvements were made the growth and development of skin cells, in 2014. Then, 0.008, which was a 176% decreased from the previous consumption and GHG emissions at the general offices. to transport the rainwater from the storage facility at the we have succeeded in mass cultivation of this particuyear. Based on these efforts, the waste recycling rate of For instance, the Regional Business Unit for Busan is manlogistics center to the water quality management facility, the Beauty Campus Osan was improved from 87% in lar bean species in the clean regions of Yeongwol-gun, aging the energy consumption records on a monthly basis thereby increasing the rainwater storage capacity to 900 2013 to 97% in 2014. In addition, at the Beauty Campus Gangwon-do Province, together with Grace of Nature. and conducting energy saving activities according to the tons. As a result, the monthly average rainwater use by the in Shanghai, the conventional paper packaging material performance results. Of particular note, in 2014, all of the Beauty Campus Osan of AMOREPACIFIC rose from 1,685 used by the packaging material supplier was replaced Sponsoring the Biodiversity Foundation halogen lamps were replaced with LED lamps to reduce with reusable plastic packaging material to reduce the AMOREPACIFIC sponsors the research and education energy use. There are plans to engage in continuous efamount of waste paper, and this switch was made by activities of the Biodiversity Foundation to conserve the 54% of the packaging material suppliers in 2014. forts to reduce energy consumption by raising the efficiennatural ecosystems. The Foundation is a non-profit orcy mechanical equipment and facilities in the future. ganization, which conducts research and surveys on the wild flora and fauna to contribute to the basic science of Waste recycling rate at the Beauty Campus Osan Reduction of GHG Emissions during Transport biology and the environment and dedicates its efforts to 2013 2014 AMOREPACIFIC is continuing its efforts to reinforce its resolve the underlying causes of environmental destruceco-friendly logistics system. Digital tachographs have been installed on a total of 182 transport and delivery vehicles and a control tower was established for moni87% 97% *11 types of non-recycle *4 types of non-recycle tion as a way to respect all forms of life. It is also the Korean partner of Roots and Shoots founded by Jane Goodall, a primate researcher who led a global environmental toring purposes. Using this system, vehicle location and Rainwater Filtering Equipment wastes, 401 tons wastes, 104 tons movement through this program. In 2014, a Roots and 80 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Performance by AMOREPACIFIC 81 Shoots organization was formed within the company, and they carried out activities under the slogan, ‘Love Your traditions, culture and other intangible assets of Jeju as well as plant information provided by the Advisory Group Harmonious AMOREPACIFIC is striving to not only achieve corporate growth, but also fulfill its corporate social responsibility. It is seeking to realize mutual growth together with its companions in the Environment, Neighbors and Animals.’ on the Traditions and Plants of Jeju (4 botanists and exGrowth corporate ecosystem through communication and cooperation. It is also providing education primera, a naturalist brand of AMOREPACIFIC, launched perts in Jeju’s traditions). and training to employees for personal growth and development and making innovations to improve their quality of life. the large-volume version of primera Watery Gel Cream in May 2014 and promoted the aquatic habitat conservation project of the Biodiversity Foundation at the same time. In commemoration of the Environmental Day, which is celebrated annually on the 5th of June, it sponsored the Employee engagement1) Ratio of female employees1) Environmental Day: Talk Concert, where participants were 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 encouraged to share their thoughts on the best ways to (Unit:%) protect the environment and practice prudent consumpDomestic tion. In addition, there was an exhibition shedding light on the possible eco-friendly practices that can be perSecond Edition of ‘Beautiful Story of Native Plants in Jeju’ 77 points 81 points 78 points 63.6 64.0 65.3 formed in our daily lives such as the use of empty primera Overseas containers as flower pots. Participation in the 12th Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 12) 92 points 89 points 88 points 76.6 76.0 75.6 The Convention of Biological Diversity (CBD), adopted 2012 2013 2014 for the purpose of maintaining biological diversity, is recognized as one of the three major international enviPercentage of women Domestic ㅤㅤ 18.0% 18.1% ㅤ 20.1% ronmental conventions along with the UNFCCC1) and the in management1)2) Overseas 56.2% 51.9% 50.3% 2) UNCCD . In awareness of its position in an industry that is Employment retention rate 81.1% 80.8% 61.8% after maternity leave3) highly reliant on bio-resources, AMOREPACIFIC has been Education & training hours per person 105.6hours 82.8hours ㅤ 71.4hours Support provided to the Biodiversity Foundation committed to preserving biodiversity and making better uses thereof. A delegation from AMOREPACIFIC attended Education & training costs per person 4) 830,000KRW 570,000KRW ㅤ 650,000KRW Publication of the Second Edition of ‘Beautiful Story of the senior-level business panel discussion at the Business Percentage of employees in the labor unionㅤ 50.6% 50.7% ㅤ47.1% Native Plants in Jeju’ and Biodiversity Forum of COP12 held in Pyeongchang, Accident rate (Domestic) Accident rate5) 0.11 0.04 0 In order to facilitate people’s understanding of the native Gangwon-do Province in October 2014. There, the deleFrequency rate of injury6) 0.52 0.22 0 plants of Jejudo Island and contribute to their preservagation presented AMOREPACIFIC’s activities on restoring Accident rate (Overseas) Accident rate 0.26 0.11 0.10 tion, AMOREPACIFIC issued the second edition of ‘Beautiand discovering the efficacy of rare indigenous plant speFrequency rate of injury 1.34 0.56 0.52 ful Story of Native Plants in Jeju,’ the first edition of which cies and discovering the native plant species of Jeju, and Amount of Mutual Growth fund in operation 20.0 bil. KRW 23.9 bil. KRW was released in 2012. The latest edition introduced the shared their opinions on reinforcing the efforts for biodiplant species used as ingredients by AMOREPACIFIC as versity conservation. 1) The overseas performance was assessed solely based on the AMOREPACIFIC China. 2) ‘Management’ includes managers and higher positions. well as 20 other plant species growing in Gotjawal, re3) Employment retention rate after maternity leave(calculation method): Number of employees who returned from maternity leaves last year ferred to as the repository of Jeju’s ecosystem. This book and are still employed this year / Number of employees who returned from maternity leaves last year x 100 holds high artistic value as it presents miniatures of the 4) Recalculation of the training costs for 2012 and 2013 based on the revised calculation method(excl. cost of overseas events and etc.) 5) Accident Rate=(number of injuries/number of workers) x 100 plant species in addition to their information and efficacy 6) Frequency rate of injury=(number of accidents/annual work hours) x 1,000,000 in skin care. It also provides the local names of each of the 1) UNFCCC: United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change plant species mentioned and gives insight into the local 2) UNCCD: United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification 82 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Performance by AMOREPACIFIC 83 Harmonious growth performances, while discrimination in the processes of reconsultation with the departments offering job positions AMOREPACIFIC re-established the system to disseminate HR Management cruitment, job assignment and promotion, etc. based on gender, place of birth, educational background, disability that they desire. In 2014, nearly 90% of the interns participating in the Channel Booster program were recruited the corporate values for an improved internalization of the AMOREPACIFIC WAY(AP WAY), which is the core and Development and nationality is strictly forbidden. Moreover, in complifor regular positions in the first and second half of the value upheld by the company. A systematic value interance with the employment policy, collective agreements year, and high job satisfaction was expressed by the fornalization matrix was designed for each organization and and the Labor Standards Act, we strictly forbid child and mer interns. Channel Booster, matching the interns with job position, and a corporate value education program HR Management Strategies forced labor. In 2014, we made the necessary preparasuitable jobs based on their individual preferences and was included in the job training system. In addition, a AMOREPACIFIC is committed to creating a corporate cultions to establish a standardized production site for the skills, has had a positive impact on both the new recruits workshop called ‘Discover Meaning in Your Work’ was ture where individual potential can be fully realized amid employment of people with disabilities. As of the end of and the company. In 2014, it was implemented not only conducted to establish and uphold a code of conduct for mutual trust and respect for the potential capabilities of 2014, 21 people of disabilities and 82 war veterans were for the sales and marketing job positions, but also during each business unit. Through this workshop, the particievery employee as well as diverse backgrounds and culemployed by our company. the new recruit selection and job assignment at the propating employees had a chance to re-discover meaning tural differences. By establishing and implementing HR duction sites and R&D unit. in their work and the work of their organizations, and management strategies tailored to the global business Invigorated Career Market became motivated to be more proactive and autonomous environment, AMOREPACIFIC is striving toward its vision Career Market is a job rotation system that promotes the Fair and Consistent Global Performance Management when performing their work. of becoming a Great Global Brand Company. circulation of internal personnel through an autonomous System Innovation: Nurturing Distinguished Experts competition system and prevents mannerism, which can Under the performance-based HR system, AMOREPACIFIC AMOREPACIFIC is operating a system to nurture experts Domestic and Global Employees occur when employees work in the same department for is further consolidating its performance management in their respective fields and beauty experts working on The number of employees of AMOREPACIFIC in Korea a prolonged period of time. Through the Career Market, system to motivate the employees to realize their full the frontlines. In 2014, the expert training system of was 4,881 as of the end of December 2013.The male-fewhich was introduced in 2014, lateral job rotation was potential and exert their maximum capabilities by giving AMOREPACIFIC was further reinforced, and the scope of male employee ratio was recorded at 34.7: 65.3, with attempted for employees in more than 50 positions. The fair evaluations and rewards. In order to ensure fairness, its application was expanded to include the SCM partners women accounting for a greater percentage of our peropening of the positions was announced through job a performance management maturity index was introthrough the National HR Development Consortium. sonnel. The number of female executives and managers postings, and the internal employees, applying for the duced for performance monitoring from the aspects of Global: Practicing Global Strategies has been increasing every year, and they accounted for positions concerned, and the HR Team engaged in negoobjectivity, fairness, acceptability and transparency, while AMOREPACIFIC has built a system to spread its corporate 20.1% of our management staff as of the end of 2014. tiations so that the applicants could be assigned to their regular training and communication were ensured at values to the overseas offices and nurtured disseminators Meanwhile, the number of employees of AMOREPACIFIC desired positions. The Career Market had a successful first the same time. Moreover, the performance evaluators of the corporate values at each of the overseas offices overseas was 7,594 in total as of December 2014. Majorrun in 2014, with explosive support and response from gathered together to discuss the job performance of with the aim to enhance its companywide management ity of our overseas personnel including the management employees. For the year 2015, there are plans to improve the evaluatees in order to prevent evaluation errors and capacity. Starting at AMOREPACIFIC China, a global and general employees were natives to ensure a more and invigorate this program by introducing a job rotation heighten fairness and acceptability of the results. Also, in Smart Campus was opened in collaboration with the oflocalized personnel management system. quota system, securing a broad human resources pool, pace with the rapid global business expansion, a global ficers in charge of education and training in Hong Kong, In the case of AMOREPACIFIC China office, 95% of the applying the system to the affiliates of the Group, miniperformance management system is being established Taiwan, ASEAN countries, Japan, France and the US. employees were Chinese. The scope of recruitment and mizing the lead time, and reinforcing the security of the to ensure that all of the employees of AMOREPACIFIC in Leadership: Establishment of a Leadership Program for All promotion for the Chinese personnel has been expanded personal information of the applicants. Korea and abroad are evaluated and rewarded based on AMOREPACIFIC is providing step-by-step job training for major positions. their efforts and achievements under the same criteria. programs and endeavoring to nurture leaders, who Expanded Operation of the Channel Booster achieve personal growth based on the core corporate Maintaining Personnel Diversity Channel Booster is a rotational internship program, HR Development values. For this purpose, the new employee recruitment and Preventing Discrimination which was initiated in 2013. The program involves selectAMOREPACIFIC is implementing HR development stratprocess was improved, and an educational program to AMOREPACIFIC provides equal opportunities to all of its ing applicants for sales and marketing positions through egies based on Vision, Innovation, Global and Leadership impart the key values of the company was newly added. employees according to their competencies and qualificaa preliminary interview and assigning them to multiple in order to nurture Asian Beauty Creators who are conMoreover, the necessary preparations are being made in tions in accordance with Chapter 4 of the Code of Ethics. jobs in various brand companies and channels for about scientious and proactive. order to review and transform the post-promotion leadFair evaluations and rewards are given based on their job 2 months. Afterwards, they are recruited following a Vision: Continuous Internalization of the AP WAY ership training program into a pre-promotion program. 84 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Performance by AMOREPACIFIC 85 Harmonious growth perform better in the field by researching and presenting should equally be appreciated. Harmonious growth Great Work Place the excellent cases reported by the customers, stores and partners. Global Happy-Plus Safety and Health of Smart Work Work-Life Balance AMOREPACIFIC China is actively participating in the Happy Plus program in order to create a pleasant enviEmployees AMOREPACIFIC is implementing the Smart Work system AMOREPACIFIC wishes to create a pleasant and efficient ronment and corporate culture that allows individuals to create an environment that allows the employees to be work environment, where the employees can engage in to engage in their work with joy. Happy Plus was first Emergency Drills and Exercise for Better Preparedness creative, while engaing in their work. their work and realize their full potential. For this purpose, introduced to AMOREPACIFIC China as a program to AMOREPACIFIC has established scenarios for emergency various efforts have been put forth including the creation create a pleasant workplace in 2011, and the scope of its situations including massive fires and a countermeasBig Think Time of a positive corporate culture where individuals are mutuactivities has been expanded over the years. For instance, ure system for regular emergency drills. Emergency Big Think Time was designed to create an environment ally respected and a work environment that ensure workin 2013, office environment improvement and emotional evacuation drills are performed by those working at the that allows the management to think about and conlife balance, and the operation of differentiated programs engagement diagnosis were conducted, while in 2014, headquarters on a regular basis, and regular fire drills template on the vision of the company and the essence of that promote the safety and health of the employees and tailored programs were conducted. Close communication are carried out at the Beauty Campus Shanghai as well. business, without any external interruptions. Big Think ensure efficient communication. AMOREPACIFIC was honbetween the headquarters and the office in China as well In order to prevent accidents and disasters like the fire Time lasts 30 minutes a day and operates on a voluntary ored with the Presidential Citation for Equal Employment as inter-position and inter-departmental communication that occurred at the Daejeon Logistics Warehouse in April basis. In order to boost participation, text notifications Opportunities for Men and Women from the Ministry was promoted through the regular assemblies, Family 2014, preventive measures for similar disasters were were sent 5 minutes before the start, and notebooks and of Labor and Employment in 2012. and the Ministerial Day (family picnic), external activities with the President established, and emergency drills were performed acpop-up doorknob notification boards were provided. Award from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy at of AMOREPACIFIC China, and badminton and soccer cordingly. Then, in September 2014, a joint fire drill was In 2015, various other assistances and activities will be the Award Ceremony for the Promotion of R&D Women clubs. conducted, together with the Osan Fire Department and carried out to firmly establish Big Think Time as part of Personnel in September 2014, thereby gaining recognithe business partners, based on a hypothetical scenario AMOREPACIFIC’s corporate culture. tion as an excellent workplace for women. that a fire broke out in the raw material storage at the Beauty Campus Osan as a result of a short circuit. This Essential Field Practices and Work Cleansing Appreciation Campaign for Positive Corporate Culture drills helped train the employees on fire suppression and For the early discovery and swift resolution of important AMOREPACIFIC is working to instill a positive sentiment emergency evacuation and better prepare them for poissues at customer contact points, AMOREPACIFIC enthroughout the company through the Appreciation Camtential accidents and disasters. sures that its sales employees spend 50% of their work paign. The major programs including the Excellent Emhours out in the field. The executive team has re-defined ployee Selection, Appreciation and Compliment Relay and Job-Specific Safety and Health Management customers, stores, business partners, local communities Appreciation and Display of Affection Day encourage the Safety and Health Management at the R&D Unit and stakeholders as the ‘field,’ and they spend 30% of members of organization to express their appreciation The AMOREPACIFIC R&D Unit performs risk assessment their time in the field to meet various stakeholders and for others. The Excellent Employees are nominated by the on the general processes and chemical handling methods discover their insight. In 2014, the field work levels of the employees, and it is the CEO, who personally expresses and conducts the improvement measures according to executives and sales personnel were monitored, and the his appreciation for the chosen few. In 2014, a total of 19 the results. In order to ensure a safe working environresults were notified to the organizations concerned to employees were nominated through 6 selection rounds. ment, lab environment and air quality measurements ensure that they continue to work at the customer conIn the case of the Appreciation and Compliment Relay, the are taken regularly, while special health examinations tact points. In addition, ‘work cleansing’, which involved management directly chooses the organization members are provided for the researchers handling hazardous reducing the unnecessary work load in the office, was to compliment on a monthly basis, and this provides a substances. There are plans to develop specialized educaperformed so that the sales employees could concenchance for the selected members to discover and reinforce tional contents for the researchers to further reinforce the trate more on the field work such as sales planning and their own strengths. Moreover, through the Appreciation safety training for the R&D Unit in the future. problem-solving. On the other hand, AMOREPACIFIC and Display of Affection Day, it was emphasized that the provided assistance to the executives so that they could beauty partners are the members of AMOREPACIFIC who 86 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Performance by AMOREPACIFIC 87 Safety Management for High-Risk Operations healthful foods to its employees. In order to reduce the ances to the provisions are monitored by the relevant Harmonious growth At the Beauty Campus Osan of AMOREPACIFIC, safety management of the highly dangerous operations, which incidence of hypertension, obesity and other adult diseases within the organization, low-sodium and low-calorie departments in good faith. Also, on-going education programs are provided to prevent sexual harassment in Mutual Growth with present high risk of disasters, is being reinforced, while a safety work process is in operation for the off days when meals in addition to fresh salads are provided at the cafeteria to promote their health and satisfy various food the workplace. In 2014, the education program for sexual harassment prevention was designated as a required Partners safety may be relatively low. High-risk operations can only preferences. In addition, there are plans to reinforce the course for every individual, and it was provided on the be performed after a work permit is issued and a post-repromotional activities for the Smoking Cessation Clinic e-Learning platform. For those who faced difficulties in Win-Win Relationships with Business Partners view approval is obtained from the team in charge of safeand provide more incentives to those who successfully using the e-Learning program such as employees at deEstablishment of Fair Trade Culture ty management on the site. Moreover, such operations quit smoking. partment store and production lines, related videos were In 2014, with the aim to build fair trade relations with its can only be carried out in the presence of a manager. screed and printed materials were distributed during suppliers, AMOREPACIFIC upgraded the standard subthe monthly sales training and safety training sessions, contractor contract of the company based on the standAMOREPACIFIC China’s Efforts to Promote Safety Harmonious growth respectively. Moreover, the members of the supervising ards presented by the Fair Trade Commission. Also, the AMOREPACIFIC China assesses the safety management index annually in order to ensure a safe and sound proHuman Rights department acquired the in-house instructor certification for sexual harassment prevention education from an four major fair trade guidelines with respect to contract conclusion, supplier selection and operation, establishduction site. In 2014, improvements were made on the external institution to enhance the effectiveness of these ment of an internal review organization, and written issu350 harmful environmental factors at the Beauty CamOperation of Labor-Management Council preventive measures. ance and retention were reflected in the ISO regulations. pus Shanghai, and efforts were made to promote safety AMOREPACIFIC takes pride in the fact that there have This was part of the effort to internalize the fair trade awareness through the education provided by external been no conflicts or disputes between the labor union with its business partners. In addition, the subcontracting safety experts. Based on these efforts, the Beauty Camand management for the past 23 years. As of the end of payment adjustment standards prescribed in the Fair pus Shanghai was certified as Level 2 Standardized Safe 2014, the numbers of employees in the labor union was Transactions in Subcontracting Act (‘Subcontracting Act’) Production by the China’s State Administration of Work 2,290, with 47% of the employees holding memberships, were reflected in the standard subcontractor contract and Safety. It is striving to acquire a wide range of internaand employees are free to join or leave the labor union at the ISO regulations. Moreover, when suppliers requested tional certifications to ensure the safety and health of its any time. A collective agreement is concluded once every for adjustments of payment according to the prescribed employees. two years, and it is applicable to all of the employees. standards, AMOREPACIFIC engaged in negotiations in There is a labor-management council operating at each good faith and did its utmost to ensure reasonable transExpansion of the Health Promotion Programs production site, and every quarter, they consult on the actions, reflecting those requests. AMOREPACIFIC plans AMOREPACIFIC is operating a wide variety of health care matters necessary to promote employee health and welto comply with these standards in the future in order to programs for its employees in order to prevent diseases fare, resolve their difficulties, and ensure a harmonious create a sound corporate system and solidify the platform and promote the general health. At the in-house medical balance between career and family life. The management for mutual development with its business partners. office, blood tests are given to diagnose stress levels and in each business sector and the executives of the labor measure cholesterol levels for a simple health check-up. union meet regularly for bilateral communication. Also, Pro-Communication and Pro-Participation Culture Comprehensive health examinations are provided not the leaders from the field are invited to the meetings to For the purpose of communicating with its partners, only to the employees, but also to their spouses, who are present their opinions. AMOREPACIFIC hosts the Win-Win General Assembly at over the age of 35. In 2014, three rounds of examinathe start of every year and the Win-Win Seminar at the tions were conducted for the diagnosis of metabolic synMonitoring of Labor Regulations and Human Rights end of every year, and invites the managers of its busidromes, and education and consultation were provided Education ness partners. At the Win-Win General Assembly held in on obesity, hypertension and hyperlipidemia. AMOREPACIFIC strictly adheres to the domestic and inFebruary 2014, AMOREPACIFIC shared its management ternational laws and regulations on labor practices such strategies and direction of its operation for the year 2014 Low-Sodium Meals and Smoking Cessation Clinic as protection of motherhood and senior laborers and in addition to presenting the cooperative measures to AMOREPACIFIC is committed to providing safe and prohibition of child labor and forced labor. The compliachieve the 2014 objectives in the five fields of packaging, 88 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Performance by AMOREPACIFIC 89 raw materials, ODM, production and logistics and discussing the difficulties faced by the suppliers. At the Wincore values of sales persons, and the system was reorganized to facilitate such implementation. To this end, Together AMOREPACIFIC, as a responsible corporate citizen, is strongly committed to fulfill its mission to ‘realize healthy beauty for women and their family’ through social contribution activities. Win Seminar in December 2014, the 2014 performance the breadth of the support provided to counselors and with Under the slogan ‘Makeup Your Life’, we are managing social contribution programs in 3 fields: Women, Natural ecology, and Culture in order to realize a beautiful change in the world records were reviewed, and the direction of operation for the year 2015 was discussed. Moreover, AMOREPACIFIC special agents was expanded further. Moreover, through the operation of the 365 Call Center, suggestions and society we live in. Other than these, we are also promoting various campaigns to encourage our employees to take part in sharing activities and managing non-profit foundation to serve the soorganized departmental consultative groups after dividcomments from the field workers and counselors are obciety as a responsible corporate citizen. ing its suppliers into major categories, and have been tained in real time, and efforts are being made to resolve engaging in communication with the departments conthe issues immediately as they arise. cerned ever since. Furthermore, mutual trust was further GREENCYCLE Campaign Status enhanced through the departmental general assemblies, ARITAUM Coexistence Agreement working group talks, and workshops. In order to comBased on the Coexistence Agreement signed in January municate with not just the primary suppliers but also the 2014, ARITAUM created a sales structure centering 2012 2013 2014 secondary suppliers, the CEO of AMOREPACIFIC personally on improving the profitability for franchise stores and visited the sites of the secondary suppliers to discuss the possible cooperative measures, and provided the estabenhancing the retailer power. In order to improve profitability, ARITAUM provided tangible support such as reAmount of collected empty bottles 157 tons 176 tons 238 tons lished guidelines to help them improve their production ducing the supply prices and easing the burden of sharing capacity. the promotion costs in addition to conducting the Kium Major performance 2012 2013 2014 Project (Rearing Project), through which tailored growth Social contribution expenses1) Amount of expenditures 9,515 10,356 20,921 mil. KRW Invigorated Support for Cooperation measures are provided to each store, and providing edAMOREPACIFIC is continually endeavoring to attain ucation to enhance the sales service and job training for Ratio compared to sales 0.3 0.3 0.5 % mutual growth with its suppliers by providing assistance sales employees. Furthermore, assistance was provided Ratio compared to pre-tax profits 2.6 2.8 3.9 % in sales increase, financial assistance, technologies and to enhance the attractiveness of the interior spaces of the Makeup Your Life Number of participated patients 1,937 1,380 1,424 persons protection, education and support for the secondary franchise stores. Campaign2) Number of participated volunteers 532 595 575 persons suppliers. To support the growth of its partners, the Mutual Growth Partner Loan program was introduced Pink Ribbon Campaign3) Number of marathon participants 24,470 23,852 13,900 persons as a means to ensure fair trade and improve the trade Number of health lecture participants 31,150 25,193 21,435 persons relations. This is expected to serve as the impetus for the Financial assistance for surgery and treatment 258 319 284 mil. KRW growth of AMOREPACIFIC’s primary and secondary supHeemang store program Number of stores (cumulative) 146 202 231 shops pliers. Sharing activities for employees Number of participants 3,932 3,516 3,060 persons Mutual Growth with Authorized and Franchise Stores Average volunteer hours 6.4 7.0 10.7 hours Mutual Growth Committee for Door-to-Door Sales Public welfare foundation AMOREPACIFIC Foundation 590 526 537 mil. KRW expenditures After establishing the Mutual Growth Committee for AMOREPACIFIC Welfare foundation 420 530 490 mil. KRW Door-to-Door Sales in September 2013, opinions from Korea Breast Cancer Foundation 980 1,110 1,919 mil. KRW the field were collected through 4 meeting sessions and the future vision of the door-to-door sales business was contemplated in 2014. By operating the Agreement Review Board, AMOREPACIFIC is ensuring a fairer and 1), 2) Social contribution expenses records and Makeup Your Life Campaign status includes China office performance. 3) In 2014, event size was reduced to express condolences for Sewolho. more transparent sales culture. In addition, a resolution was made again to implement 5 practices based on the 90 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Performance by AMOREPACIFIC 91 Together with Society Heemang Store GREENCYCLE (Recycling empty bottles) Campaign Through the GREENCYCLE campaign, we plan to innoCorporate Social Heemang Store which refers to ‘Hope’ Store in English is a business start-up assistance program, which aims to In 2013, AMOREPACIFIC renamed the previous Empty Bottle Recycle Campaign as GREENCYCLE Campaign and vate all of our product development processes from production to collection, and develop the campaign to earn Responsibility Programs support the low income single-mother households. We carried out various activities to gain more public support more public recognition and active participation from provide the single moms with a microcredit of 40 million and boost more active participation. citizens. Makeup Your Life Campaign KRW without request of any insurance and help them to Firstly, we sought ways to recycle the collected containMakeup Your Life Campaign is AMOREPACIFIC’s corpostart their own business. Reimbursements are accumulaters in a creative method. IOPE made new cosmetic conEmployees’ Sharing Activities rate social responsibility (CSR) program, which aims to ed as the Heemang Seed Asset to be used for other single tainers by using the collected empty containers. Among AMOREPACIFIC encourages its employees to engage increase the quality of life by enhancing women’s self-esmoms of low income families to start up a business. This the containers collected through the GREENCYCLE in various sharing activities and spread the value of teem and internal health and beauty. We provide makeway, the Heemang Store will promote and circulate the Campaign, we selected the IOPE bio essence containers sharing to exert positive influences on the entire society. up and skin care know-hows to female cancer patients value of sharing and goodness in our society. and used them as raw materials to make new cosmetic Sharing activities of AMOREPACIFIC include beautiful who suffer experience sudden changes in their physical In June 2003, following the will of former chairman, containers after crushing and cleansing processes. Since Sharing activity, beautiful Saturday (donation of goods), appearance during the cancer treatment and help them Sung-whan Suh, his bereaved family created the Beauwe began this activity in 2013, a total of about 5 tons of small change donation, matching gift, and OSULLOC regain confidence in their appearance. tiful World Fund of JANGWON Sung-whan Suh by doempty containers have been recycled. Moreover, the coltea culture protector (cultural asset protection) and so nating their inheritance to the Beautiful Foundation, a lected containers were recreated as beautiful sculptures on. These sharing activities are performed based on the Number of patients non-profit public foundation. Funding is provided for and were displayed during the ‘Seoul Light Lantern Fesprinciple of voluntary participation of employees. Furparticipated in the campaign (cumulative) business start-ups, employment and living expenses to tival’. Through these efforts, we have been sharing our thermore, employees perform talent sharing activities low-income single-parent households with the aim to corporate value and concerns about environment with in places where their talents are needed besides simple 9,958 help women to escape from poverty and improve their Seoul citizens. volunteering activities. quality of life. In July 2004, the 1st Beautiful World Fund Besides the recycling of the empty bottles, other various The sharing activity management department supports Check detail information about Makeup Your Life Campaign ⇒ 65page Heemang StoreMijeyeon was opened and until 2014, activities were performed to spread eco-friendly value the employees’ volunteer participation. We also have the total 231 stores were opened. of GREENCYCLE Campaign. In 2014, about 3000 water sharing mileage system which rewards the employees’ Pink Ribbon Campaign The repayment rate of Heemang Store loans is 87% and bottles used by Pink Ribbon Love Marathon particisharing activity performance and the matching gift sysPink Ribbon Campaign is a global campaign aimed to 80% of the stores are still in operation, which is 1.5 time pants were recreated into 300 lap blankets, and during tem in which the equal amount of the money donated prevent breast cancer which is one of the most common higher than that of general small businesses. In addition, Cheonggyecheon guerilla gardening, we created a beauby employees is also donated by AMOREPACIFIC. Meantype cancers among women. Pink Ribbon Campaign, the result of the Heemang Store performance analysis tiful space with empty cosmetic containers and take-out while, the sharing activity program is operated based on with much corporate participation worldwide, is run by showed that average income of store owners increased OSULLOC cups. We also held the GREENCYCLE exhibia different theme every month so that participants do various programs accordance to each corporate value. about 2.5 times from 980,000 KRW to 2.5 million KRW. tion in the new office building of Seoul City Hall during not feel bored with the same activity. AMOREPACIFIC is putting efforts into raising the public Moreover, the rate of general recipients who were assistthe ‘Seoul, Blooms as a Flower’ festival held by Seoul In 2014, 3,060 employees participated and their averawareness of the importance of self-checkups focusing on ed with government subsidy before the foundation was Metropolitan Government. age volunteer hours were about 10.7 hours. In addition holding seminars and lectures(Pink Tour) on breast health decreased by half from 22.6% to 11.8% and even the rate to this, household goods, cosmetics and green tea of as the main program. of conditional recipients was decreased from 13.1% to AMOREPACIFIC brand were donated to more than 1,300 9.4%. It was also reported that there were improvements facilities. not only in economic stability, but also in relationship Number of patients with their children and individual ability. participated in the campaign 10.7hours (cumulative) Number희망가게 of Heemang Stores 460,000 매장(cumulative) 수(누적) 231 231 호점Stores Check detail information about Pink Ribbon Campaign ⇒ 66page The Collected Container Is Recreated to Become a New Cosmetic Container Average Sharing Activity Participation Hours 92 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 04. Sustainability Performance by AMOREPACIFIC 93 Together with Society signifies harmony, balance and delightful reversal that Together with Society has been performed since 2008 is still activily ongoing Brand Social we seek by instinct in complex daily life. The exhibited art works showed that the tradition was reinterpreted in Public Foundation and a total of 12 subjects were selected. The accumulated amount of research support costs about 175 million Contribution Activity modern way by artists in various fields including archiActivity KRW. In addition, this year is the 9th year of sponsoring tect, ceramic artist and SNS artist, and the artworks drew the ecosystem research institute in Ehwa Women’s UniMise-en-scene’s Short Film Festival favorable responses from young people as well. The AMOREPACIFIC established and performs various activiversity to support the researches on primates. Mise-en-scene has been supporting Mise-en-scene’s most significant part of Sulwha cultural exhibition is that ties in 3 public foundations (AMOREPACIFIC Foundation, Short Film Festival since 2002. It aims to contribute to the exhibition is a program to support traditional master AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation and Korea Breast AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation the development of Korean film industry by discovering artisans. The program sponsors the artists designated Cancer Foundation) other than social contribution activiAMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation focuses on supportnew talented directors through consistent support for as intangible cultural properties, in cooperation with ties directly performed by the corporation. Each foundation ing the self-reliance of women who needs social care. In short film which is an unpopular art field. In 2014, MiseCultural Heritage Administration, and the entire sales supports in-depth social contribution activities in fields of 2014, the foundation began to support the improvement en-scene ad-movie titled ‘I’m Not a Hairdresser’ competamount of art products and work books displayed in the academic culture research, women’s health and welfare. of the female facilities through projects such as ‘Happy ed in the 33rd Vancouver Film Festival and received faexhibition was donated to support traditional master Bath Happy Smile’ and ‘ARITAUM in you’. The foundation vorable comments. It is unusual that an ad-movie created artisans. We plan to continue sponsoring the master arAMOREPACIFIC Foundation made contributions in promoting women’s convenience for brand advertisement was invited for international film tisans and perform activities to discover young talented Established in 1973, AMOREPACIFIC Foundation’s and improving the quality of their life by renovating a festival. Even in the future, Mise-en-scene’s Short Film artists through Sulwha cultural exhibition. main goal is to foster talents and support academic retotal of 9 poor-conditioned female facilities of non-profit Festival will strengthen the support for vitalization of search, following the sharing spirit of former chairman women’s organization. In addition, the foundation carshort films and discovery of new talented movie directors. Sung-whan Suh, the founder of the corporation. We ried out Hope Wing project to support cultural contents are supporting various domestic and overseas research creation activities for immigrated women. In 2014, the activities about Asian beauty, women and culture as our foundation provided the support to a total of 18 comcore business. In addition to this, the foundation supmunities to vitalize communication between immigrated ports researches about Gaesung merchants to globally women and local community and also expanded cultural spread their excellent business skills across the world. diversity respect message to public. Meanwhile, we support researches about primates for 2014 Sulwha Cultural Exhibition ‘SKIN=NIKS’ the first time in the industry as well as researches about Korea Breast Cancer Foundation OSULLOC Tea Culture Protector Korean tea culture. In 2014, the foundation was able to Korea Breast Cancer Foundation is carrying out various It is one of representative social contribution activities of draw the first outcome of the ‘Discovery of Asian Beauty’ social projects related to breast health including the OSULLOC to preserve our traditional green tea cultureproject which can also be called as the most representPink Ribbon Campaign, breast health education, mediour precious cultural heritage. Since the conclusion of ative business project of AMOREPACIFIC foundation. cal support for breast cancer patients from low-income Beyond the Barrier of Genres Poster in the 13th Mise-en-scene's Short Film Festival OSULLOC tea cultural preservation agreement with The foundation published series of books for <Discovery households, and financial support for academic research. Cultural Heritage Administration in 2006, various acof Asia Beauty> (India, Beauty is like God/ Lee Ok-sun, In 2014, 95 Pink Tours for Breast health education were Sulwha Cultural Exhibition tivities to preserve our tea culture-related historic sites Interior Decoration and Beauty in East Asia/ Park Suncarried out across the country, and the Pink Academy with Sulwhasoo has been hosting Sulwha cultural exhibition, have been carried out such as preservation of House of hee) to communicate with public. Also, we made efforts the topic of breast cancer was performed in collaboration the cultural exhibition that emphasizes on harmony Dasan (the 107th historic site), place of exile (the 487th to communicate with public about the relatively abstract the Seoul and Daegu department store cultural center. In and communication of tradition and modern art, for 8 historic site) and Iljiam. We are supporting not only envalue of Asian Beauty through ‘Beauty’ program, the libaddition, the foundation provided funding to 80 breast years in accordance with its brand philosophy to present vironment cleaning activities, restoration and protection eral art education. Moreover, projects like general public cancer patients from low-income families and a total of harmonious beauty along with Asian philosophy and of old architecture but also supporting the development column contest <Beauty of Asia I Discovered> and College 1.9 billion KRW of business expenses was executed every knowledge. In 2014, Sulwha cultural exhibition was of direction sign boards, training and cultural events. In student beauty editor program were newly attempted as year by carrying out activities like Pink Ribbon chorus designed under the theme of ‘SKIN=NIKS’. The com2014, our employees and the public participated in the a result of seeking various methods of public participacompetition, the chorus competition performed by pabination of SKIN and the reversed ‘SKIN’, ‘SKIN=NIKS’ event to broaden the understanding of tea culture. tion. <Women and Culture>, the academic research that tients, to improve breast cancer patients’ self-esteem. 05. Sustainability Performance of Subsidiary Companies 95 05 Sustainability Performance of Subsidiary Companies The sustainability management system of AMOREPACIFIC Group is carried out by all of its affiliates under the same direction and objectives. 96 100 103 106 109 AMOREPACIFIC Group is ceaselessly making big strides on all fronts to change the world with beauty and health. 96 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 05. Sustainability Performance of Subsidiary Companies 97 innisfree Green Promise, ers with usage guides, to be used in a fun way innisfree’s Promise to Its Customers during their daily lives. Every year, innisfree announces the Green Promise performance records as a way to communicate Play Green Campaign with its customers. For instance, innisfree reveals The three-phase Play Green Campaign promotes the CO2 emission reduction effects of the recycling a more fun and exciting way to practice a green campaign as the ‘Share Green’ performance, the lifestyle so as to make it less daunting for the percentage of natural ingredient content as the general public. In the first phase, customers use ‘Honest Green’ performance, and the CSR budget the Play Green platform on the innisfree app to executed as the ‘Experience Green’ performance. upload photos of themselves practicing the green CEO Message innisfree will continually make efforts to keep its lifestyle, and inspiring others to follow. When innisfree is a brand of naturalism that embodies the clean and pristine environment promises to deliver energy from nature to custhey post pictures or receive ‘likes’ from other of Jeju Island. tomers and grow together with the environment users, they gain green points, which they can At innisfree, we are committed to keep five promises to our customers: use of natuand society. use to participate in the Play Green Class or the ral ingredients, promoting healthy consumption, eco-friendly campaigns, offering innisfree Play Green Festival. The second phase is green designs and experiencing a clean natural environment. We continuously seek CO2 emission reduction Percentage Social the Play Green Class, with small-scale eco classes effect of the empty of natural contribution the best ways to deliver our promises and carry out our business activities based on container collection ingredient expenses3) held at the Jeju House store in Samcheong-dong strong integrity. Moreover, we are continuously exploring and developing measures campaign represented content2) monthly. The third phase is the innisfree Play in the number of trees1) to communicate with our customers, and these efforts will serve as the key to ensurGreen Festival, where the Play Green members ing our growth as a sustainable brand. Equivalent to the planting of 80.2% 1.67billion KRW can have a great time and receive further inspi5,639 trees ration to engage in green practices. The festival, 1) Cumulative records from Aug. 2009 to Dec. 2014 Sae-hong Ahn, CEO of innisfree 2) Excl. makeup products, based on the 2014 Q4 records held in September 2014, provided a chance for 3) Expenses executed in 2014 the members to appreciate nature and enjoy fun activities at the same time. Healthy Consumption through the Eco-friendly Green Life Key Performance Records in 2014 About the Company Eco-Handkerchief Campaign The Eco-Handkerchief Campaign is a major eninnisfree, founded as the first natuvironmental campaign that has been conducted Ratio of female Percentage of women Employee engagement employees (%) in management (%) (points) ralistic brand in Korea, is dedicated by innisfree since 2010 with the aim to inform to spreading healthy beauty with the people that the use of handkerchiefs, which may natural energy from the pristine is58.6 25.0 83 seem trivial, can actually help protect the green land of Jeju. Since its launch in 2000, it forests and lower the temperature of Earth. The has been offering products made with campaign, celebrating its 5th anniversary in quality ingredients as well as operating 2014, was carried out under the slogan, ‘Use a stores with green contents and pursuSocial contribution Volunteer hours Number of accidents (cases) Hankie, Save the Earth!’ In 2014, a nationwide expenses (million KRW) per employee (hours) ing eco-friendly campaigns with the participation of its customers. design contest titled the National Eco-Handker1,668 7.6 0 HQ address: 100, Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Main business: Cosmetics sales chief Contest was held and, out of some 20,000 entries, three designs were chosen based on a poll. Eco-handkerchiefs were offered to custominnisfree’s Play Green Campaign Poster 98 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 05. Sustainability Performance of Subsidiary Companies 99 innisfree innisfree innisfree, stroyed, innisfree signed an agreement with the ownership opportunities, but also creates a plattionships through these events. Protecting the Natural Environment Gotjawal Trust of Jeju in May 2012, and has been form to realize the dream of Green-earth. In addiEco Green Flower Pot Project donating a part of the proceeds from the sales of tion, the Dream Store Program allows innisfree to innisfree developed flower pots using the empty Forest for Men every year. The donation is used seek measures to achieve mutual growth with the containers collected through the 2014 Eco Green to purchase the privatized lands in Gotjawal to be Green-earth. The first Dream Store was opened in Flower Pot Project. The recycled flower pots were turned into public properties as a means to prevent 2014, and three stores in total have been opened developed using 100% recycled containers of indiscriminate development by individual owners. to date. The goal is to operate 21 stores by 2020. innisfree. The pots were first applied in the cafe and indoor garden of innisfree headquarters and Green Christmas Campaign innisfree’s Hope Day Myeongdong 2nd store, then expanded to all of innisfree’s Green Christmas Campaign, which innisfree, the local innisfree stores. Through the Eco Green kicked off in 2010, celebrated its 5th year in Expanding into Various Parts of the World Flower Pot Project, innisfree could show intui2014. This campaign is aimed to establish innisfree expanded into Taiwan in April 2014. tively the intent of the empty container collection ‘sharing’ Christmas culture rather than just enThe first innisfree store was opened in front campaign to the customers as well as the unique joying extravagant festive moods. Not only can of the Taipei Main Station, where there is an story as a naturalistic brand. people enjoy themselves by participating in the immense flow of traffic, particularly of people campaign, but also their participating makes Third Dream Store of innisfree in Angang, Gyeongju in their 20s and 30s. In May 2014, the second the world warmer for those who are in need. Of store was opened on Zhongxiao East Rd in Taipei, particular note, this campaign was carried out in Green Earth Well-being Kit which is comparable to the Gangnam District of Korea, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore innisfree believes that the satisfaction of the Seoul. A façade was installed on the exterior of simultaneously. Under the slogan, ‘Make, Enjoy Green-earths will lead to customer satisfaction. the three-story building, and appealing contents and Share,’ innisfree presented a DIY ornament Accordingly, in order to ensure the health of the related to Jeju Island and green practices, which kit for the first time in 2014. The ornament kit Green-earths, who must work on their feet all day are the core values of the brand, were on display provided a chance for the customers to experion the frontlines, innisfree has been providing the inside the 165m2 store. In December 2014, a ence the joy of making Christmas ornaments, and Green-earths Well-being Kit to the members since 132.2m2 store was opened on the first floor of Eco Green Flower Pots of innisfree part of the proceeds were donated to Save the 2013. The kit comprises diverse products accordthe Sunway Pyramid Mall in Kuala Lumpur, MaTree Plantation in Inner Mongolia Children and other charity organizations. ing to the season such as a cooling leg massage laysia, and this was the second innisfree store to for Desertification Prevention gel and foot and leg relaxing patches, which help be opened in Southeast Asia following the launch Roots and Shoots, a non-governmental organizaease physical and mental fatigue. in Singapore. It garnered much attention from tion, is conducting the Million Tree Project, for the Malaysian consumers even before its opening via purpose of preventing desertification in China’s Creating a Pleasant Workplace through social media sites, and it recorded a high sales Inner Mongolia. Since the launch of this project in the Hope Day volume after its opening. 2012, a total of 30,000 trees have been planted innisfree’s DIY Ornament Kit In an effort to promote exchanges and coopin the innisfree forest thus far with a donation of eration among the different teams, innisfree 10,000 trees in 2014 alone. Mutual Green Growth designates a Hope Day for the teams to engage Dream Store, a dream come true in chosen activities. Solidarity and amicable relainnisfree, Promoting Sharing The Dream Store Program provides a chance for tions among the teams are strengthened through for Nature and Neighbors the sales associates at innisfree stores, who are various indoor and outdoor activities such as Sponsorship for the Gotjawal Trust of Jeju members of ‘Green-earths’ to own and operate bowling, camping and badminton competitions. For the purpose of protecting Gotjawal in Jeju, their own innisfree stores. This is an employee The employees can build stronger personal and where the natural ecosystem has slowly been dewelfare program that not only provides store work relationships through these events. relaSecond innisfree Store in Taiwan 100 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 05. Sustainability Performance of Subsidiary Companies 101 ETUDE ETUDE, Spreading the Princess Fantasy Korea and assigned to the Beauty Trend Leader, In 2014, ETUDE delivered the Princess Fantasy, Design, Video and Global teams. During the unique to the brand to customers at home and 6-month program period, they get to participate abroad. In order to provide magical shopping in the brand promotion planning and execution experiences, it re-established its core brand processes by trying out the newly developed values and was committed to diverse brand products and creating beauty contents. images. Starting with the opening of a flagship store on Dongseong-ro in Daegu in July 2014, Sweet Idea it successfully opened the first global flagship Sweet Idea is an open innovation program store on East Nanjing Road, the busiest street in conducted by ETUDE to receive diverse ideas from CEO Message Shanghai, in August, followed by the opening customers and turn the dreams and imaginations ETUDE aims to become a brand that helps women turn their sweet dreams into of flagship stores inside the EC Mall in Beijing in of customers into reality. Customers can post reality. By communicating with our customers through diverse platforms, we are September and Wisma in Singapore in October. their ideas of new cosmetics and matters for striving to develop the kinds of products that our customers want and dream of. In addition, its website, which is frequently improvement in the existing products on the Also, we have been carrying out our globalization activities in full swing as a brand visited by its domestic customers, was renewed to Sweet Idea website, and the Idea of the Month that spreads K-beauty throughout the Asian continent and promotes a fun makeup communicate the unique brand value of ETUDE is chosen based on the members’ response and culture. To this end, we are committed to enhancing the global competency of our at all customer contact points. As a result, ETUDE scores given by the judges of ETUDE. Some of the employees, and we will fulfill our corporate social responsibility by helping young achieved 233.8 billion KRW in domestic sales ideas are actually developed into products. women realize their dreams and have a brighter future. and 75.8 billion KRW in global sales, and it is expected to attain further growth. Pink Wish Tree Campaign for Young Girls Guem-joo Kwon, CEO of ETUDE in Africa ETUDE is conducting social contribution programs in order to fulfill its brand value of supporting the dreams of young girls throughout the world. In 2014, it participated in the School Me Campaign1) initiated by 'Save the Children', Key Performance Records in 2014 About the Company and conducted the Pink Wish Tree Campaign. For the campaign, a limited edition of the Pink ETUDE is a young makeup brand that Wish Tree Collection was launched, and 100 Ratio of female Percentage of women Employee engagement employees (%) in management (%) (points) helps women realize their dream of KRW from each product sold was donated. In becoming more beautiful. ETUDE, the ETUDE’s Flagship Store on East Nanjing Road in Shanghai, China addition, it facilitated the donation activities of first makeup brand of Korea, makes 59.0 31.0 67 Diverse Customer Satisfaction Activities customers playing games on the ETUDE website. makeup fun and easy for young womand Open Innovation Furthermore, gigantic pink wish trees were set en, and delivers trendy products to its Beautizen up at the N Seoul Tower in Namsan Mountain customers. It is enjoying tremendous Since 2008, ETUDE has been running a semiand Gangnam Station to inform Korean citizens popularity as the top K-Beauty makeSocial contribution Volunteer hours Number of accidents up brand not just in Korea, but all over annual Beautizen Program, fostering marketers expenses (million KRW) per employee (hours) (cases) Asia including China, Japan and Sinamong university students and identifying the 1) School Me Campaign : Save the Children’s campaign to send young girls in Africa to schools. Young girls, who are deprived 107 10.3 0 gapore. HQ address: 100, Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul latest trends and customer needs at the same time. Some 40 participants are chosen among Korean and foreign university students living in of opportunities for education due to poverty, social customs and prejudice, are given the support they need to go to schools, and educational facilities as well as teacher training and Main business: Cosmetics sales educational programs are established to help more girls. 102 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 05. Sustainability Performance of Subsidiary Companies 103 103 ETUDE and tourists of this social contribution program for employees wishing to learn Chinese as a of ETUDE. This campaign was also conducted way to help them achieve personal growth and overseas at the same time to allow overseas development and to foster talented professionals customers make donations as well. who can contribute to ETUDE’s expansion in the The money raised through these activities was Chinese market. donated to 'Save the Children' for the School Me Campaign. Using the donation, school kits A Pleasant Working Environment comprised of backpacks, notebooks and pencils ETUDE ensures a pleasant working environment were given to 3,633 students in Ivory Coast, and for its employees, and helps them maintain a good CEO Message school uniforms and gym clothes were given balance between their careers and personal lives. to 1,798 female students. ETUDE plans on AMOS Professional is the one and only hair salon brand in Korea that specializes in continuing its social contribution activities as a Happy Clean Day manufacturing hairstyling products mainly for professional hair salons. We prioritize way to root for every young girl in the world to Wednesdays in the second and third weeks of every month product quality improvement and development of innovative and trendy products in realize her dreams. are designated as the Happy Clean Day when employees can order to compete against the global hair care brands. For this purpose, we develop spend time with their family without any overtime work or our products together with a number of hair designers, and established an education team dinners. center specifically for the purpose of training professional hair designers. We will continue to dedicate our efforts to supporting hair salons and fostering talented hair One Day Pink Comma Day Event designers in order to fulfill our social responsibility as a leading hair cosmetics brand. A vacation photo contest is held, and the prize winners are given One Day Pink Comma Day (1-day paid leave) and vacation allowances. Dong-hee Hwang, CEO of AMOS Professional ETUDE’s cafeteria: Pink Café The Pink Café at ETUDE’s HQ office offers a diverse breakfast menu for employees who come to work without School Kits Given to Students in Ivory Coast eating breakfast. About the Company Key Performance Records in 2014 Reinforced HR Development and Employee Welfare Programs Reinforced Communication with and Support AMOS Professional is a specialized Ratio of female Percentage of women Employee engagement Strengthening the Global Competencies for Franchise Owners employees (%) in management (%) (points) hairstyling product manufacturer that of Employees supplies goods and services to hair saSince its expansion into Thailand in 2007, ETUDE conducts a wide range of win-win lons. At present, it is in charge of operETUDE has been operating stores in 12 Asian countries such as Japan, China (incl. Hong Kong) relationship management activities in order to promote communication with and provide ating two brands: AMOS Professional and the premium brand, AYUNCHE. 60.0 40.9 81 and Southeast Asian countries. In order to attract reinforced support for the franchise owners. In As a leading company in the beauty talented individuals with global competency 2014, an exclusive call center for the franchise market, it maintained its No. 1 status Social contribution Volunteer hours Number of accidents from diverse backgrounds, foreigners living in stores called the Pink Hotline was established in in sales among the domestic brands expenses (million KRW) per employee (hours) (cases) supplying to hair salons in 2014. Korea have been given internship opportunities order to answer inquiries regarding products and since 2013. In addition, the in-house educational program has been reinforced in 2014. For claims as soon as they were received from the franchise stores. HQ address: 100, Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Main business: Distribution of hairstyling products 92 7.2 0 instance, a systematic course was made available and hair designer training services 104 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 05. Sustainability Performance of Subsidiary Companies 105 AMOS Professional AMOS Professional Product Development with Hair Designers are excluded. While the major hair salon chains to be operated as a company. Efforts are being education and training have been provided AMOS Professional implements the AMOS have in-house training institutions of their own, made to develop the educational programs and twice a year to the Department of Beauty Care at Collaborating Expert (ACE) Project, collaborating there are few places that offer training for hair the contents to become more systematic as well Osan University. Also, the Beautiful Expedition, with hair designer in product development. designers working at the smaller hair salons. as to enhance bilateral communication and providing hairstyling training to high school The ACE Project is AMOS’ product development AMOS Professional has established an education achieve sustainable win-win relationships. In the students specializing in beauty care, has been system through which its research institute and center in Nonhyeon-dong, Seoul, to provide first MBA program, 16 participants completed operated since 2014. Marketing BU collaborate with competent hair specialized training for hair designers. In 2014, the intermediate course, and there are plans to designers to swiftly reflect customer needs in the it doubled the number of its training programs ensure that all 85 owners of the branches can Donation to The Beautiful Foundation products with the hair designers’ insight. The compared to the previous year, with the addition complete the two-phase MBA program. Since 2010, AMOS Professional has been donating participating hair designers do not simply provide of a regular course on men’s haircut and scalp products and providing educational programs ideas, but rather, take part in every step of the care. The educational facilities were extended to Beauty Master Curriculum to a non-profit organization called The Beautiful product development precess. In 2014, through ensure that the best training can be provided. Since 2010, AMOS Professional has been Foundation on a yearly basis. In 2014, an MOU the ACE Project, 48 types of hair dye products The instructors at the education center are hair operating the Beauty Master Curriculum, which was signed with the foundation in regard to were developed. designers who have completed the Team AMOS is a specialized education program for Beauty the provision of hairstyling training programs program, and they pass on the expertise and Masters who are on the frontlines of sales and goods donations. Through this, AMOS Hosting of Hair in Trend know-how they gained out in the field. and marketing. The curriculum consists of 6 Professional plans to donate hairstyling products, AMOS Professional holds Hair in Trend, the programs from the ABC 1 program, which must worth about 22 million KRW, and provide training largest hair show in Korea, every November. The Team AMOS Program for Hair Designer Training be completed by all of the new Beauty Masters, to the beauty care shop owners who are single hair salon brand invites its customers such as hair Team AMOS is a program conducted under the and the Master Coaching Program, which is mothers running Heemang stores with support salon owners, hair designers and professionals supervision of AMOS Professional with the aim to the final part of the curriculum. Beauty Masters from The Beautiful Foundation. In 2014, a total of in the beauty industry to provide hairstyling train and enhance the competency of hair designers, can gain sales know-how and strengthen their 5 shop owners were provided with such support. solutions derived from analyzing the mega trends and its operation was in its 10th year in 2014. Hair individual competencies through the curriculum. and fashion information. In 2014, Hair in Trend designers, selected as program participants, work was held in the presence of some 3,000 people on trend proposals for the Hair in Trend, the largest Social Contribution Programs under the theme of Evolution. hair show in Korea, and are given an opportunity Support for Partner Hair Salons to present their ideas and work. After completing AMOS Professional designates the hair salons the 1-year training program, participants chosen using its products as Salon A and provides the as 'active participants' can either take part in support necessary for the salon operation. As a product development or opt to work as professional supervisor, it provides comprehensive and longinstructors at AMOS Professional’s education center. term assistance, distributing salon interior and service manuals and business management Signing of MOU with the Beautiful Foundation MBA Program for Shop Owners consulting services. There are 15 Salon A In 2014, AMOS Professional began offering locations operating nationwide, and there are Expansion into the Global Market an MBA program for authorized dealers. The plans to increase this number to 30 by 2015. AMOS Professional created a strong platform 2014 AMOS Professional Hair in Trend MBA program is divided into an intermediate for global expansion by debuting in the Chinese Mutual Cooperation with Partners course, helping participants gain the skills Fostering Star Hair Designers of the Future market in 2012 and branching out into Taiwan Education Center for Hair Designer Training they need to solve problems in the field, and As a leading company in the beauty market, and Australia in 2013. In 2014, it held a In Korea, there are about 88,000 hair salons, the advanced course, which teaches the values AMOS Professional is implementing social Technical Seminar for hair designers in China, of which more than 95% are privately owned of AMOREPACIFIC Group and management contribution programs for aspiring hair and received an explosive response from the shops when famous hair salon franchise chains methodology to help the AMOS salon branches designers. Since 2013, supplies necessary for participating designers. 106 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 05. Sustainability Performance of Subsidiary Companies 107 AESTURA Expansion in the Global Market Activities to Enhance Customer Satisfaction AESTURA is expanding to the Asian market to AESTURA Research and advisory seminar allow people around the world to gain healthy AESTURA has organized a research and advisory beauty. CLEVIEL, a high concentration hyaluronic seminar through a collaboration with the dermaacid filler brand, received NET 1) in December tologists at major university hospitals throughout 2013 in recognition of its excellent products, and the country. The research and advisory seminar launched its products for the first time overseas has been working together for more than 3 years in Hong Kong in November 2014. In addition, to conduct studies on diverse skin diseases for the AESTURA, exclusively offering its products to development of products that satisfy customer clinics and hospitals, made a pilot launch in Chineeds in addition to its advisory activities. MoreCEO Message na to prepare for expansion into other countries over, it is identifying matters for improvement in AESTURA is a medical beauty-specific company, where the employees bring forth in Asia. existing products and developing new solutions in new changes based on passion, customer trust and engage in thinking and action order to enhance customer satisfaction. from a customers’ perspective. We declared our ethical management and business principles to customers through the Corporate Ethical Pledge Ceremony in March Consulting Services 2013 and the Fair Trading Voluntary Compliance Program Ceremony in 2014. In Considering that AESTURA supplies medical 2015, we changed our company name from PACIFIC PHARMA to AESTURA and deproducts and devices, which have important clared our new vision as the Medical Beauty Asia Champion. Based on management impacts, customer inquiries are answered on the philosophies such as ‘serving mankind’, ‘respect for persons’ and ‘future creation’, we day that they are received, in principle. Simple will devote our efforts to becoming a world-class medical beauty specific company primary inquiries are answered immediately, CLEVIEL’s Hong Kong Launch Event that contributes to the creation of healthy beauty and a sound corporate ecosystem. while the secondary inquiries regarding the Reinforced Ethical Management products are forwarded to the marketers Woon-sup Lim, CEO of AESTURA For the purpose of gaining trust and support from concerned and answered on the same day. Claims all stakeholders, AESTURA has been upgrading filed by customers are compiled based on their its quality and ethical management systems. In levels of significance and are reported to the 2014, it introduced the Compliance Program Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. Key Performance Records in 2014 About the Company (CP), and established an operation organization and related regulations. To ensure an efficient Ratio of female Percentage of women Energy intensity AESTURA is spurring efforts to attain operation of the CP, the CEO was designated as employees (%) in management (%) (TOE/tons of product) its vision of becoming a Medical Beauty the CP Manager in order to ensure companywide Asia Champion. It is seeing the growth compliance with fair trade practices, and the 34.6 5.9 1.489 year-over-year growth 19.3% of the clinical cosmetics business centering on the derma care brand, AESTURA, and the aesthetics business results of regular monitoring and non-conformity cases are shared at the monthly sales team manager meetings, along with the provision of centering on CLEVIEL. Also, it has been 2014 the 2nd ‘Pro Consultant Manager Program’ countermeasures. The educational program for pioneering new fields in beauty care by Employee engagement Number of accidents Water intensity ethical awareness and the monitoring system will Pro Consultant Manager Program (points) (cases) (tons/tons of product) developing innovative new products and entering into new markets in Asia. be further reinforced in the future as part of the AESTURA, derma care brand supplying to der75 0 22.343 year-over-year growth 20.9% HQ address: 100, Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Main business: Manufacturing and sales of medical products and provision of professional consulting managers effort to firmly establish the ethical management and legal compliance systems. matologists and plastic surgeons, operates the Pro Consultant manager program for the consulting managers working at its client hospitals and 1) NET: New Excellent Technology (a new technology certification system supervised by the Ministry of Health and Welfare) 108 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 05. Sustainability Performance of Subsidiary Companies 109 AESTURA clinics. The program consists of a curriculum that production site. Then, a person-in-charge was promotes consulting competency and provides appointed in each unit to perform monthly safety first-hand experiences of AESTURA’s products. The inspections and improvement activities. program kicked off in September 2013 and it was Based on the Industrial Safety Act, railing was conducted for the second time in 2014. It will be installed on scaffolds that are over 1m tall, offered nationwide starting in 2015. and containers for chemical substances were labeled with their respective risk levels. As such, Environmental Management Activities improvement measures for about 360 safety AESTURA, which received the Environmental cases were derived and implemented. Management System (ISO 14001) certification in December 2005, has been inspecting its enviCivic-Government-Military Fire Drill CEO Message ronmental management system through annual Fires can cause environmental damages and JANGWON has been making ceaseless efforts to protect the environment and grow internal and external assessments, and incorpolead to injuries and loss of human lives. Posttogether with the local communities. Armed with a competitive agricultural food rating issues for improvement in its environmental fire restoration efforts also take a considerable business management system, we provide job opportunities to local people and management strategies. amount of time and effort to complete. For this build organic cooperative relationships with our smalland medium-size business At the Anseong production site manufacturing, reason, prompt and swift countermeasures need partners. In order to deliver the best value to our customers, we have acquired efforts were made to identify the energy consumpto be in place to prevent and response to fires. eco-friendly certification and organic processed food certification in addition to tion levels and establish an improvement activity In September 2014, AESTURA set forth the ininternational organic certifications such as Organic-EU and USDA-NOPA. We plan. Also, the facility and cooling system operahouse firefighting procedure and responsibilities, will continue to promote the excellent tea culture of Korea worldwide, and stay tion hours were analyzed and optimized, thereby and created a hypothetical fire scenario, based on committed to realizing the vision of becoming a Global Top Organic Tea Company successfully reducing power and LNG consumpwhich a fire drill was performed in the presence based on our systematic sanitation management and quality improvement efforts. tion. of volunteer firefighters, the Fire Department In order to conserve water, the volumes of water and military officers. Jin-ho Lee, CEO of JANGWON consumption and wastewater production in the manufacturing process were assessed, and the Employees Participating in social contribution results showed that water consumption was the Programs highest during the food container washing process With the aim to fulfill one of its management phiAbout the Company Key Performance Records in 2014 and the purified water production process. Aclosophies to serve mankind, AESTURA has been cordingly, a system was introduced to reuse water planning and implementing social contribution JANGWON is a green tea cultivation, proin the primary container washing process, and programs, where its employees can participate. cessing and sales company, founded in the wastewater generated in the purified water From 2003 to 2013, it conducted volunteer 1974 with a mission to succeed the tradiproduction process was reused as service water activities to help seniors living alone through an tional tea culture and create beauty with Employee engagement (points) Number of accidents (cases)/ plants grown in healthy soil. It is operating Accident rate for the freezer and boiler. These efforts resulted in agreement signed with The Beautiful Foundation. organic green tea plantations in three loconservation of service water on the site. 93 1/2.30 cations on Jeju Island, and in Wolchulsan Mountain of Gangjin-gun. JANGWON is Safety and Health Management endeavoring to popularize the tea culture Declaration of the Gold Rules for Safety as a leading tea company in Korea. In December 2014, a safety and health pledge was prepared, with consent from the employees, HQ address: 36. Sinhwayeoksa-ro, Andeok-myeon, Seogwipo-si, Jeju-do in order to raise safety awareness at the Anseong Main business: Tea cultivation and sales 110 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 06. Appendix 111 JANGWON GHG Emission Reduction Activities of life of all employees. For this purpose, JANGJANGWON aims to minimize the environmental WON regularly performs risk assessments, which impact of its production activities and to respond involve identifying the hazards and risk factors to climate change. In 2014, it identified its enerfound in the production site in advance. Then, gy consumption levels and prepared the foundathe hazards and risk factors are eliminated in ortion necessary to conduct improvement activities der based on the level of priority. in relation to energy use. It also dispatched representatives to seminars and exhibitions held by Developing Together external organizations to research alternative enwith the Local Communities ergy sources that could be applied by the compaJANGWON builds win-win relationships with green ny. In 2015, JANGWON plans to inspect the old tea farms across the nation through various tea processing facilities using thermal imaging activities.JANGWON visits the green tea farms 3 cameras and noise measuring instruments, etc., to reduce its energy use. to 4 times a year to provide green tea cultivation technologies and information on the tea market to build win-win relationships. JANGWON was chosen 06 Sustainable Water Management JANGWON is engaging in water conservation as the representative cultivation site and processing facility of Korea in the organic certification equivaAppendix activities to reduce the consumption of groundlence agreement of the National Agricultural Prodwater by 2% by 2015. The groundwater conucts Quality Management Service to facilitate the sumption level is assessed on a monthly basis export of organic processed foods from Korea to the to determine the months when there is high U.S. and Europe. This served as the impetus for the consumption of water resources and to conserve company to promote the excellence of organic green water in those time periods. In addition, in order tea produced in Korea. In addition, JANGWON is to prevent the loss of water resources resulting contributing to the stimulation of the local business 112 Independent Assurance Report from groundwater leaks, JANGWON performs sector by purchasing from the local companies of 114 GRI G4 Index quarterly groundwater facility inspections and Jeju Island the organic fertilizers and eco-friendly 118 List of Participants maintenance in collaboration with a specialized farming materials necessary for organic cultivation. management service firm. Furthermore, in order to ease the sales difficulties 119 About This Report faced by green tea farms, it has been providing Reinforced Safety and Health Management guides on quality management of teas together with JANGWON has continually been upgrading its the Korean Tea Producer Association, and introsafety and health management systems as part duced Korean teas to overseas buyers. of its effort to improve the health and quality 112 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 06. Appendix 113 Independent Assurance Report To the management of AMOREPACIFIC Group Respective responsibilities of the management of the · On the AA1000APS principles; We have been engaged by AMOREPACIFIC Group (the ‘Company’) to perform an independent assurance engagement in regard to the following aspects Company and Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers · Inclusivity of 2014 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report (the ‘Report’). -The Company has collected concerns and opinion through stakeThe management of the Company is responsible for establishing reportholder communication channels that include those of Customers, ing principles that meets the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and RePartners, Investors, Communities and Employees. sponsiveness in the AA1000APS, measuring performance based on the Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that material stakeScope and subject matter Assurance work performed holder groups were excluded in these channels. reporting principles, and reporting this performance in the Report. Our responsibility is to provide a conclusion based on our assurance pro· Materiality The information for the year ended December 31, 2014 (hereinafter, We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE 30001) and The Company has identified most relevant and significant sustainacedures in accordance with ISAE 3000 and AA1000AS. collectively referred to as the ‘Sustainability information’) on which we AA1000AS2). The term ‘moderate assurance’ used in AA1000AS(2008) is bility issues through process for identifying material issues. This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared for the manageprovide limited assurance consists of: designed to be consistent with ‘limited assurance’ as articulated in ISAE Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that material issues ment of the Company as a body, to assist the management in reporting 3000. Our assurance is a Type II assurance engagement as defined in the were omitted in this process. on the Company’ sustainability performance and activities. We do not · The Company’s conclusion on meeting the principles of Inclusivity, MaGuidance for AA1000AS(2008). · Responsiveness accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the management of teriality and Responsiveness in the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles The Company has included in the Report its response to the material the Company as a body and the Company for our work or this report save Standard 2008 (‘AA1000APS’); Our work involved the following activities: sustainability issues which are defined through process for identifywhere terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing. · Non-financial information (the ‘Sustainability Data’) which is present1. Interviews with the personnel responsible for internal reporting and ing material issues. ed in the following table in the GRI G4(Core) Index which is based on data collection to discuss their approach to stakeholder inclusivity, Inherent limitations Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that there were mathe Company’s internal reporting principles set out on GRI G4 guidemateriality and responsiveness terial deficiencies in the issue management system. line with core option and main agenda of ISO 26000. 2. Visits to the Company’s headquarter in Seoul, Beauty Campus Osan, Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limiBeauty Campus Shanghai and Shanghai Research Institute in China · Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Sustations than financial information, given the characteristics of the subject to understand the systems and processes in place for managing and tainability Data for the year ended December 31, 2014 is not fairly statmatter and the methods used for determining such information. QualitaGRI Category Non-financial information for assurance reporting the Sustainability Data ed, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s internal tive interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data are General G4 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, 3. Review of a sample of internal documents relevant to output from reporting principles set out on GRI G4 guideline with core option and subject to individual assumptions and judgments. Standard 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33 the risk assessment process, sustainability-related policies and A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable asmain agenda of ISO 26000. Disclosure standards, the sustainability materiality assessment matrix and other surance engagement under ISAE 3000. Consequently, the nature, timing Specific Economic (EC) 1, 6, 7, 8 documents from stakeholder engagement activities and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient, appropriate evidence Recommendations Standard Environmental 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 15, 16, 18, 19, 22, 4. Evaluating the design and implementation of the key processes and Disclosure (EN) 23, 27, 28, 30, 31, 33 are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. controls for managing and reporting the Sustainability Data · It is recommended to manage key performance indicators with wider Labor practices 3, 6, 9, 12, 16 In particular: 5. Limited testing, through inquiry and analytical review procedures, scope which are aligned with performance evaluation of each part of and Decent · We did not attend any stakeholder engagement activities. Therefore of the preparation and collation of the Sustainability Data the Company in order to effectively implement sustainability strategy work (LA) our conclusions are based on our discussions with management and Society (SO) 1, 11 6. Interviews with the management of the Company and subsidiaries and address sustainability issues corporate-wide. staff of the Company and our review of selected documents provided to Product 1, 3, 5 innisfree, ETUDE, AMOS Professional, and AESTURA in Seoul · To gain credibility of the Company’s systematic sustainability manageus by the Company. Responsibility ment from external stakeholders, it is recommended to actively dis· The scope of our work was restricted to 2014 performance only, as set (PR) close the Company goals and objectives, level of achievement, and the out in the scope and subject matter section above. Information relating to the year ended December 31, 2013 and earlier periods have not future plans of key performance indicators by each sustainability sector. been subject to assurance by us. · The Company has broadened the scope of the Sustainability Data. In order to ensure the consistency of disclosed data, it is necessary to We read the other information included in the Report and consider 1) International Standard on Assurance Engagement 3000 – Conclusion improve the data collection and management process of sustainability whether it is consistent with the Sustainability Information. We consider ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial reporting. the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misInformation’ issued by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board Based on the results of the assurance work performed, our conclusion is statements or material inconsistencies with the Sustainability Informa2) AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008), issued by AccountAbility as follows: April, 2015 tion. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information. Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers Seoul, Korea 114 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 06. Appendix 115 GRI G4 Core Index GRI G4 Core No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page GRI G4 Core No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page 1. General Standard Disclosure Governance G4-34 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance 6.2, 7.4.3 12-13, 35 body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 6-7 and social impacts. analysis (incl. strategy relates to sustainability, impacts of the activities in relation to the stakeholders) Ethics and integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of 7.7.5, 4.4, 6.6.3 36 Organizational G4-3 Name of the organization 6.3.10, 11 conduct and codes of ethics. profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6.4.1-6.4.5, 15-25 2. Specific Standard Disclosure G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 6.8.5, 10-11 Economic G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 7.8 10-11 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Economic DMA Disclosure on management approach 44 Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 27-31, 45-47 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 12-13 5.3 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers 10-11, G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities 60-63, 77-80, beneficiaries) 27-30 due to climate change 107-108, 110 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 10-11 Market Presence DMA Disclosure on management approach 82 G4-10 The total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract and region 10-11 G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant 6.3.7,6.3.10,6.4.31) locations of operation 6.4.4,6.8.1-6.8.2 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 86 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of 6.4.3, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 82 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 52-55, 87 operation 6.8.5, 6.8.7 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or ownership 10-13 Indirect Economic DMA Disclosure on management approach 64 or its supply chain Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 6.3.9, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 64-67, 89-93, 98, G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 37 6.8.7, 6.8.9 101-102, 105, 108, 110 organization G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.3.9, 6.6.6-6.6.7, 45-47, 64-67, 89-93, G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 35, 71 6.7.8, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 98, 101-102, 105, initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 108, 110 G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) UNGC, KBCSD Procurement G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 6.4.3, 6.6.6, 6.8.151, 110 Identified material G4-17 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 5.2, 119 Practices 6.8.2, 6.8.7 aspects and subsidiaries, and joint ventures (List all entities in the consolidated financial statements) 7.3.2-7.3.4 Environmental boundaries G4-18 Process for defining report content and the Aspect Boundaries and explain how the Reporting 42-43, 119 Materials DMA Disclosure on management approach 48 Principles has been implemented G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.4 72 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 43 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5.4 49, 51, 91 G4-20 The Aspect Boundary within the organization: Whether the Aspect is material within the 42-43, 119 organization; The list of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is or is not material; Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 34, 62, 77, 78, 107, Specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization 110 G4-21 The Aspect Boundary outside the organization: Whether the Aspect is material outside the 42-43, 119 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 6.5.4 34, 62, 77, 106 organization; The list of entities for which the Aspect is material, relate to geographical location; G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 6.5.4-5 34, 62, 77, 78, Specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 107, 110 G4-22 Explanation the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, 10, 77, 81, 89 Water DMA Disclosure on management approach 60 and the reasons for such restatements. G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 34, 77, 110 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 75, 81, 89 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5.4 63, 78,108 Stakeholder G4-24 The list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 5.3 38-39 Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 6.5.6 79 engagement G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 38-39 biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 38-39 G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected 6.5.6 79, 80, 98 and by stakeholder group areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 38-39 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6 79, 80, 98 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting; Emissions DMA Disclosure on management approach 60 Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 6.5.5 34, 77 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 7.5.3, 7.6.2 119 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 6.5.5 34, 77 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 119 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 6.5.5 34, 77 G4-30 Reporting cycle 119 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 62, 77, 78, 110 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 118 Effluents and G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3-4 63, 77 G4-32 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 112-117, 119 Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 77, 79 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 112-113, 119 1) AMOREPACIFIC Group’s entry-level wages are higher than the local minimum wage in every location according to the internal policies; however, the exact wages cannot be disclosed. 116 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 06. Appendix 117 GRI G4 Core No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page GRI G4 Core No. Indicators ISO 26000 Page Products and DMA Disclosure on management approach 44 Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 86-87 Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.5, 34, 49, 50, 71, 72, procedures that are relevant to operations 6.7.5 73, 91, 97, 98 Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5 86-87 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 34, 49, 91, 98 or impact assessments Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials 6.5.4, 6.6.6 78 Supplier Human G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 6.3.3-6.3.6 2) for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Rights Assessment Overall Society G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5.1-6.5.2 97,98 Supplier 60 Local Communities DMA Disclosure on management approach 64 DMA Disclosure on management approach environmental G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, 6.3.9, 6.5.1-6.5.3, 64-67, 90, 91, 92, G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 6.3.5, 6.6.6, 7.3.1 2) assessment and development programs 6.8 98, 101, 105, 108 and actions taken G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the 6.6.1-6.6.3 36 Social Anti-corruption significant risks identified Labor practices and decent work G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.3, 6.6.6 36 Employment G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 6.4.4,6.8.7 84-86, 99, 102 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.1-6.6.3 36 employees, by significant locations of operation 81 Supplier G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 6.3.5, 6.6.1-6.6.2, 2) G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 Assessment for 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, Occupational DMA Disclosure on management approach 60 Impacts on Society 7.3.1 Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and 6.4.6 85-86 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain 6.3.5, 6.6.1-6.6.2, safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs and actions taken 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total 6.4.6, 6.8.8 34, 81 7.3.1 number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender 36 Grievance G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 6.3.6, 6.6.1-6.6.2, Training and DMA Disclosure on management approach 56 Mechanisms for grievance mechanisms 6.8.1-6.8.2 Education Impacts on Society G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4.7 81 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability 6.4.7, 6.8.5 57-59, 83 Product Responsibility of employees and assist them in managing career endings Customer Health DMA Disclosure on management approach 48 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, 6.4.7 83 and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.434, 49, 67, 70, 71 by gender and by employee category assessed for improvement 6.7.5, 6.8.8 Diversity and DMA Disclosure on management approach 56 Product and G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product 6.7.1-6.7.5, 6.7.9 34, 49, 71 Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 6.2.3, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 58-59, 81, 82 Service Labeling and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 6.4.3 categories subject to such information requirements Labor Practices G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal 6.3.6 36 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 3.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.6 70 Grievance grievance mechanisms Human Rights 2) Regular evaluations are performed on the suppliers, and those who fail to meet the criteria are requested to implement improvement measures. Those disregarding Investment G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of 6.3.5 86-87 this request are excluded from the list of suppliers. human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained NonG4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 82 discrimination 6.4.3 Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 86 Association and and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to 6.3.8, 6.3.10, Collective support these rights 6.4.5, 6.6.6 Bargaining Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 82 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.6.6, 6.8.4 Forced or G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 82 Compulsory Labor compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or 6.3.10, 6.6.6 compulsory labor 118 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report 06. Appendix 119 List of Participants (in alphabetical order) Carol Chen Chang-gyu You Chang-hoon Kang Chang-hwan Son 2014 AMOREPACIFIC Group Dae-won Lee Dong-hoon Lee Erella Nan Eun-gyu Sung Haiqing Zou Hee-jeung Yu Heen-gil Yoon Hee-seon Kim Hye-jin Lee Hyo-eun Park Hyung-sub Shim Hyun-jin An Sustainability Report Hyun-na Kim In-ho Choi In-hye Lee Irene Kim Jae-ho Yeon Jae-hoon Lee Jae-uk Jang Jae-wan Huh Purpose This report was created to disclose AMOREPACIFIC Group’s sustainability Ji-hye Kim Jin-cheol Ou Jong-hee Park Jong-hyuk Choi management activities to stakeholders and to collect various opinions to reflect them in management. The scope of the AMOREPACIFIC SustainaJoo-won Lee Jung-hwa Han Karen Hu Keun-deok Kim bility Report, which has been issued annually since 2009, was expanded Keun-wan Park Kwang-bok Lee Kyung-min Lee Mi-hyang Park in 2015 to be issued as AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report with the aim to communicate with a broader audience. Sasa Liu Se-jin Yoo Se-jung Kim Seok-hyun Ryu Seon-joo Lee Seung-bin Im Seung-joo Baek Seung-seong Kang Scope This report provides information on the sustainability management activities and performances of AMOREPACIFIC Group’s affiliates, which Shunmei Bian So-woong Choi Sun-a Cho Sung-hae Kweon include AMOREPACIFIC, innisfree, ETUDE, AMOS Professional, AESTURA and JANGWON. In the case of AMOREPACIFIC, the domestic production Sung-jun An Sung-kyu Park Tae-won Yoon Tiffany Mi sites and offices (headquarters in Seoul, R&D Center, HR Development Woo-sung Jung Yong-won Kim Young-ki Kim Young-mook Lim Center, Regional BU, and production sites for beauty care, mass cosmetics and steamed green tea products) were mainly under review, while the Yoyo Zhou performances of the overseas subsidiaries were included in only some of the cases. Period Covered This report covers AMOREPACIFIC Group’s activities from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. Data from 2012 and 2013 were included for comparative purposes. Information obtained until March 2015 was reflected in some of the data. Date of publication 2015. 04. 20 Publisher Kyung-bae Suh Report In order to enhance the accuracy and reliability of the report, the content Publishing organization AMOREPACIFIC Group Verification was verified by an independent verification institution, Samil PricewaterProduction Sustainability Management Team, Growth Support Divison, AMOREPACIFIC houseCoopers. Design & Planning Digital Design Team, Design Lab, AMOREPACIFIC Design JA workshop Standards The 2014 AMOREPACIFIC Group Sustainability Report has been prepared Followed in accordance with the G4 Core Guidelines of the Global Reporting InitiaSignature Tower, 100 Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea 100-230 tive (GRI), the main agenda of ISO 26000 and the internal report prepaTel +82. 2. 709. 5818 Fax +82. 2. 709. 5419 ration standards. E-mail csr@amorepacific.com The cover and leaves of this report were made with eco-friendly paper certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSCTM). The FSCTM mark is awarded to paper products made from trees cultivated and managed in an environmentally-conscious manner. www.amorepacific.com
