OPEN JOINT-STOCK COMPANY «BYELORUSSIAN STEEL WORKS – MANAGEMENT COMPANY OF «BYELORUSSIAN METALLURGICAL COMPANY» HOLDING» REPORT on social responsibility and corporate sustainability of OJSC «BSW -management company of «BMC» holding» for 2013 Zhlobin 2014 CONTENT General Director’s Appeal  6 Preface to the sixth report  8 Participation of the scientific potential of the Republic in the development of the metallurgical complex  10 Metallurgy of Belarus  12 Development strategy  12 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  16 Strategy and mission  22 Principles of strategy implementation  23 Strategy and goals in the area of sustainable development  24 Plant objectives for medium-term outlook  25 History of mastering of new types of products  26 Stages of the production output growth  27 Investment project development approach  29 Plant’s impact on social-economic development of the region of its economic activity  31 Investment projects tasks and goals  32 Risk management  34 Description of the plant  36 Basic information  36 Description of the key production divisions  36 Organizational structure of management  37 Competitive advantages of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding»  38 Approaches to provision of sustainable development  38 Transport-logistics scheme of steel export of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding - 38 Promising directions of marketing  39 Global markets tendencies  42 Dates and events of 2013  44 General information about achievements and awards  45 Management, obligations, interaction with interested parties  48 Corporate management  48 Communication  51 Approach implementation  52 Internal communication structure  55 Participation in external initiatives  57 Interaction with stakeholders  57 External communication structure  59 Social safety and discipline  59 Corporate social responsibility  62 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility  62 Economic activity  63 Financial-economic activity  63 Economic efficiency  64 Enterprise’s risks  66 Financial support by the government –  68 Industrial safety labour protection & ecological risks  68 Presence on markets  69 Medium-term targets of the plant  70 Environmental activity  72 Environmental policy  72 Key principles and approaches  72 Implementation of ecological strategy  73 Efficient use of natural resources  78 Efficient use of energy resources - 78 Air basin protection  80 Water basin protection  84 Utilization of industrial wastes  87 Training  87 Improvement of ecological culture of the personnel - 88 Development and implementation of resource-saving, low-waste and environmentally safe technologies  88 Expenses for environment protection and monitoring –  89 Ecological payments –  89 Medium-term targets of the Company  89 Labour relations & adequate labour  92 Personnel management policy  92 Key principles and approaches –  93 Social activity  94 Description of the personnel –  93 Professional & career development  97 Training and education  99 Material stimulation  102 Non-financial incentives –  107 Labor protection and ensuring of industrial safety  108 Short-term targets in the area of social responsibility  108 Improvement of labor  110 Training and competence evaluation  111 Social control for observance of human rights in the area of labour protection  112 Social programs  113 Social package of benefits and guarantees for the employees  114 Health protection  115 Effectiveness of medical and health promotion programs  116 Health promotion and rest time of the employees and their families  118 Physical culture and sport development –  119 Cultural life of the plant employee  120 Solving of employees housing problems  123 Support for large families  123 Social support of unemployed pensioners, invalids and other categories of people not sufficiently provided for –  124 Concern for children  124 Monitoring of public opinion concerning social programs effectiveness  126 Employees’ rights  126 Social partnership  128 The trade union organization of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding  129 Primary organization of BRYU  131 Veterans’ union  133 Women’s union  133 Union of soldiers-internationalists  134 Union of young specialists  134 Union of foremen  135 Union of physical training  136 Responsibility for the goods produced  138 General provisions  138 Product life cycle  138 Customer’s health and safety  140 Product marking with appropriate information  141 Marketing communications  143 Mutually beneficial cooperation with consumers of the plant’s products  143 Mutually beneficial cooperation with suppliers  146 Interaction of the parties  148 Interaction with the civil society  148 Charity and sponsorship  149 Interaction with mass media  151 Interaction with authorities  153 Interaction with science  154 Annex –  156 List of abbreviations  156 Table of standard reporting components GRI (G3) manual (PD 3.12)  158 General Director’s Appeal the foundation of air separation unit No.3 of the jointventure BSW-OP. Practically in our sight a building of our main project – a new small section mill – grew and installation of equipment is being carried actively. Total amount of investment in the fixed capital in the reporting period equaled to Br 2 920,9 bln. Implementation of the modernization program will allow Byelorussian Steel Works occupy a new level in terms of quality both from the point of view of production output growth and improvement of the employees’ labor conditions and reduction of a negative influence on the ecological situation in the region of BSW presence. These very principles serve the basis for our enterprise’s policy. One may count on success and recognition only if he/she takes care of the land where he/she lives and the people whose work provides for trouble-free operation of the production. Thanks to professionalism of the employees, BSW Dear Friends! became a laureate of the first prize of the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus in the area A corporate social report of Byelorussian Steel of science and technology in 2013. Confirming the Works for 2013 is lying in front of you. This document course towards innovative development Byelorussian reflects information about all directions of the Steel Works was awarded a 1st degree diploma enterprise’s activity as a mirror. It was prepared and for the project «Development and introduction of published for our business partners and other parties energotechnological modes of operation of EAFconcerned to form a complete and comprehensive 3 aimed at increase of its output and reduction of opinion about BSW work, its plans and prospects. energy consumption for steel melting» at Belarusian industrial forum 2013. 2013 became a significant year for our plant. It will get in the history of the plant as a year of the most largeOf no less importance are achievements of the scale reconstructions and modernizations. Practically plant in promotion of the products manufactured, during all 12 months BSW territory resembled one In particular, due to their high quality our pipes big construction site. Large-scale works were carried were accorded wide recognition of representatives out in electric melt shops resulted in modernization of the oil and gas industry of the RF and the USA. of electric-arc furnace No. 1, continuous casting Homologation of hot-rolled rounds produced in the machine No. 2, dust and gas collecting unit No. 1, and section rolling mill took place at such companies as erection of a new lime kiln No.3. In July 2013 a capsule HAY, Hammerwerk, Mahindra (Germany) which supply with a message to our descendants was laid down in spare parts to well-known German car makers. 6 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS As mentioned above, the plant’s success is ensured by 2013 was the 29th year in the history of Byelorussian its employees that is why BSW pays special attention Steel Works. This age is a period when a human being to its work with the staff. Being a town-forming grows up and achieves a considerable success. During enterprise with more than 11 thousand employees, this period BSW also passed a way of formation from the plant leads an active work to improve labour a mini-mill to a profound and competent player on the conditions along with provision of the employees with global steel market. I hope that the information given general social guarantees. In 2013 alone, over Br 21 in this report will be a weighty evidence of this fact. billion 295 million were invested in implementation of labour protection measures. Every year investment in this area grows in proportion to decrease of the level Best regards, of industrial injury at BSW. A.N. Savianok, General Director. SOCIAL REPORT 2013 7 Preface to the sixth report (PD 3.1-3.13) Maintaining the tradition of sustainability reporting, and sustainability of BSW development: increase Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian Steel Works of production, product sale, small-section mill – Management Company of «Belorussian Metallurgical construction, and the second stage of steelmaking Company» Holding, confirms its readiness for an open production reconstruction including expansion of dialogue with the stakeholders. The plant does not secondary metallurgy and modernization of dust and refuse from the obligations undertaken and follows gas collecting unit No3. the chosen course of improvement and reorganization in all directions: management of sustainable Assessment of 2013 activity results is presented as development, economic activity, work with the staff compared to the performance of the 2012 reporting period or the degree of achievement of the target in the area of social activity of the enterprise in the performance. (PD 4.9) region and cooperation with suppliers and customers, and policy of environmental and industrial safety. This report was prepared with the use of the Tasks set for BSW personnel in 2013 were fulfilled. stakeholders’ feedback regarding our report for For completion of the practical part of the first stage 2012. of reconstruction of steelmaking production, we had The report is based on the documents developed by to apply maximum force, energy, resources, but we the plant in accordance with the requirements of managed to do everything. On December 20, after a the law of the Republic of Belarus and international large-scale reconstruction EAF-1 was commissioned, standards. and adjustment of CCM-2 and lime kiln No.3 started. Construction of a new mill is carried out according Report on social responsibility and corporate to the schedule. Its commissioning will allow us to sustainability informs the stakeholders about the balance the production. strategic priorities and potential of OJSC «BSWManagement Company of «BMC» Holding, about One more important event took place: the enterprise specific features and level of the management received guarantees for crediting of this mill and the competence, efficiency of risk management and government took a decision to compensate part of engagement with the stakeholders. The report interest rates because BSW is among the Belarusian discloses effectiveness of the plant’s work aimed enterprises implementing highly efficient investment at gaining profit, introduction of new methods and projects. During 12 months the plant sold steel techniques and reflects its activity aimed at formation for USD 1 billion 140 million to 60 countries of the of human capital, provision of environmental safety world. and creation of favorable conditions for dynamic The framework of the annual report includes all social and economic development of the region of aspects of the enterprise’s activity in the area of BSW production activity. social responsibility. Materials given in report are directed towards Open Joint-Stock Company «BSW – Management informing the community and all stakeholders of the Company of «BMC» Holding presents its sixth owner, investors, employees, representatives of the Corporate social report executed in G3 format district, region, and republican authorities, population of the GRI Reporting manual in the area of social and customers. responsibility and in compliance with the basic principles of the UN Global Compact. The report The information in this report has not changed much as compared to the previous reports of the plant. includes data on the plant’s activity in 2013 and plans, tasks and commitments for future. Economic indicators are given in USD according to the annual average rate of the National Bank of the Strategic tasks set forth for the plant in 2013 Republic of Belarus existing in 2013, equaled to Br remain important for 2014 maintaining continuity 8875,83. 8 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS The report does not contain the information on jointYour opinion and proposals regarding the form and content ventures and enterprises located outside the Republic of the report as well as questions may be sent to: of Belarus. Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian Steel An electronic version of the report for 2013 can be Works – Management Company of «Belorussian seen on the BSW corporate web-site: (www.belsteel. Metallurgical Company» Holding (OJSC «BSWcom). Management Company of «BMC» Holding), 37 So as to maintain a constructive dialogue with all Promyshlennaya str., Zhlobin, Gomel region, 247210, interested parties, the plant values every opinion about Republic of Belarus. its activity in the area of sustainable development. (PD 2.4) That is why contact information and a feedback form is given in the report. Fax:. (2334) 55426 (secr.dpir@bmz.gomel.by) SOCIAL REPORT 2013 9 Participation of the republican scientific potential in the development of the metallurgical complex (SO 5)(PD 4.10) – (PD 4.17) OJSC «Byelorussian Steel Works – management acceleration of development of the material and company of «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» technical base for scientific research work, testing holding (OJSC «BSW – management company of of new materials, units and parts of equipment, joint «BMC» holding) – is one of the largest supplier use of unique equipment , instruments, testing devices, of science-intensive competitive high quality steel and industrial equipment; products in the Republic of Belarus (hot-rolled arrangement of subject technical conferences and rounds of quality carbon and low-alloy steel grades, seminars, exhibitions and other actions; expertise of hot-rolled and cold-deformed reinforcing bars, hotequipment purchasing and new technical solutions; rolled seamless pipes, bronze-plated bead wire, tire consideration of publications and theses. cord, etc.) produced on the basis of resource-saving, advanced and innovative technological processes Thus, the Board of the Scientific and Production Center meeting world criteria of novelty. «OJSC «Byelorussian Steel Works – management company of «BMC» holding National Academy Production activity of OJSC «BSW – management of Science of Belarus» discussed the program of company of «BMC» holding is directed towards development of OJSC «BSW – management company of improvement of product competitiveness and «BMC» holding for 2016-2020 which was developed by achievement of effective results of innovative activity specialists of our enterprise during 2013 in cooperation due to new types of products, promising technologies with leading scientists of the NAS of Belarus, BNTU and developments, and production processes. and GSTU named after P.O. Sukhoi. A priority direction For coordination of scientific research activity, OJSC of development of OJSC «BSWmanagement company «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding and of «BMC» holding and national metallurgy in general NAS of Belarus established a scientific & production will be construction of a facility for special steels center (SPC) in 2013. Representatives of the ministry production with the capacity of up to 300 000 tons per of industry of the RB, Gomel regional executive year. Members of the Board scored this project very committee, OJSC «BSW – management company high and supported the necessity of its implementation. of «BMC», OJSC «RMZ», OJSC «MMZ», OJSC Scientific activity of the plant is concentrated mainly «Legmash» Plant», OJSC «MPZ», OJSC «Polesie around the research center. There are 3 candidates Electromash», National Academy of Science of the of technical sciences and 10 masters of technical Republic of Belarus are members of the board of the sciences among the RC members, a number of specialists SPC; co-chairmen of the board are: academician P.A. continue their education at post-graduate courses of Vityaz – head of the office of the NAS of the RB and different HEE and work on their candidate theses. A.N. Savianok, General Director of OJSC «BSWThe Center includes a steelmaking lab, a rolling lab, management company of «BMC» holding. a steel cord and steel wire lab, a mechanical lab and Main goals of the SPC are: a research lab. The research center activity may be divided in 4 main directions: allowance for production coordination of joint investigations and developments and approval of new materials and items used in the of scientific establishments, universities of the country production and may influence the quality of finished and enterprises of «BMC» holding; products; mastering and introduction into production training of engineers and highlyqualified specialists of new types of products; work with scientific and (candidates and doctors of science) in the area of educational establishments; improvement of the foundry engineering and steelmaking and engineering; existing production methods. 10 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Thus, during last two years RC specialists developed by the head of the department «Material technology in the technology of production of high-carbon wire rod engineering» V.M. Konstantinov. Results of the work of 96К+Cr steel grade with 0,92-0,96 % carbon content allowed development of a production technology of pipes alloyed with chromium used to produce ultra-high-tensile applicable for operation in the extreme north (oil and gas steel cord structures. Previously, wire rod made of 96К+Cr production). BNTU rendered methodical assistance within steel grade was imported from West Europe. At present, the framework of contractual work. total amount of ultra-high-tensile tire cord used by leading New super-high-tensile and ultra-high-tensile steel cord tire producers of the world is produced of own wire rod. constructions for leading tire producers GOODYEAR, For that our specialists worked out a mode and optimized the NOKIAN, CONTINENTAL, MICHELIN, etc. are mastered technology of secondary metallurgy for steel processing, in steel cord and steel wire production as well as bronzecasting, cooling of rolled stock in mill 150, etc. plated bead wire for manufacturing of large and super Presently, they are actively mastering and supply hotlarge tires for OJSC «Belshina». Much work has been rolled rounds diameter 90-160 mm of various steel grades carried out to master production of bead wire with a for automotive component production and delivery to West high tin-based bronze coating. This type of bead wire is European markets. These products are used by European used by such companies as YOKAHAMA and HANKOOK; smithies further supplying their finished products to requirements of these tire producers differ considerably assembly shops of leading car producers. Companies from the requirements of other BSW customers. purchasing rounds for cars have stricter and specific The task of improvement of the EAF lining lifetime is requirements in terms of chemical composition, geometrical successfully solved. In 2012 lining life did not exceed dimensions, contamination with non-metallic inclusions, 450 heats and equaled to average 400 heats. Due to hardenability band, permitted internal and external introduction of melting with high-magnesian fluxes, trials defects, etc. New production methods and techniques are of new periclase-carbon products for lining and other to be introduced to meet the requirements of customers. measures, durability of more than 550 heats was achieved Thus, RC specialists work on introduction of steel grades at the end of 2013. Presently, further developments are with a restricted nitrogen content which are in demand with carried out to solve the task of achieving the duration of European car makers. Work in this direction is required lining equal to 1000 heats set forth by the management of for homologation of our enterprise as a supplier of such the enterprise. products so as to operatively arrange supplies of rolled stock for a new small-section mill under construction In 2013 GSTU named after P.O. Sukhoi organized training which product range, among others, is oriented towards of 10 specialists of the pipe mill and melt shop at MA automobile production. course, within the framework of which deep specialization of BSW specialists in practical and theoretical foundation The pipe mill mastered production and arranged supplies of of seamless pipe production was organized. MIS&A take hot-rolled seamless pipes for SAF – a leading European part in training of our specialists. Practical training is producer of axles and semi-axles for trailers – a principally organized at the department of metal deformation process new direction of our pipes application. of MIS&A in Moscow. In the result, 10 specialists shall In 2013 BSW and BNTU completed a joint work supervised improve their qualification and defend their theses in 2014. SOCIAL REPORT 2013 11 Metallurgy of Belarus (PD 4.10) – (PD 4.17) The steelmaking facility includes 8 enterprises high-tech goods with a large degree of processing, which main production is certified in many countries improvement of the structure of production and worldwide and corresponds to international sales of quality steel grades, rolled material, tire standards. Enterprises of this sector produce steel cord and steel wire, development of energy-saving electrically welded rounds and shaped pipes, steel methods, modernization of production and building cast billet, rolled sections, different types of wire, tire and commissioning of new production facilities. cord, bolts, screws, nuts, nails, molding materials Metallurgy is one of the basic industries in the and heating equipment. (PD 2.2) Republic of Belarus and the level of its development OJSC «BSW-Management Company of «BMC» shall conform to the strategic tasks of providing Belarusian economy with quality products and «Byelorussian Steel sustainable position on external markets. Works is a stable, actively Main tasks to be solved by any steel making plant developing enterprise and are: in spite of difficulties it looks into the future with – market-appropriate growth of production; confidence». – strengthening of its positions on the existing outlets First deputy minister of and conquering of new markets; industry of the Republic of – increase of sales of products with a high added Belarus I.I. Demidovich value. Therefore, the strategy worked out for the Holding is the largest enterprise not only in the development of the industry shall strengthen the Republic of Belarus, but also in Europe, and is a existing competitive privileges and create new ones. basic enterprise of the national steelmaking. It has It is necessary to consider the following main been among competent steel makers for almost three decades already. Its design, erection and directions of further development of the national provision with advanced equipment and up-to-date steelmaking sector: technology and subsequent commissioning and – further development of the existing rolling warranty operation was carried out on the principles production of OJSC «BSW-Management Company of contracting European companies on a turn-key of «BMC» Holding and in a middle-term outlook a basis. Attraction of advance experience and statecomplete refusal from production and sale of such of-the-art technologies for the plant erection and its type of product as marketable semis (cast billets and further development allowed us to establish a unique blooms) which make up about 25% of the existing industrial enterprise in the Republic of Belarus. At shipment structure of the enterprise; present, 20% of the total amount of production of the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus – expansion of the pipe production by arranging belongs to BSW. OCTG finishing at OJSC «BSW-Management Tasks and goals of the sector formation Company of «BMC» Holding; Ferrous metallurgy has re-oriented its efforts – resolution of problems related with raw material from increase of ferrous raw materials processing provision of the metallurgical sector of Belarus. towards down-stream processing and improvement Development strategy of manufacturing effectiveness (improvement of product quality and mastering of new types of Till recent time, strategy of metallurgical enterprises products). In the following two years a priority direction development was aimed at steel output increase. of the development will be growth of production of But a high rate of development of the Chinese steel 12 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS sector, strengthening of competition on all traditional raw material sources is a powerful lever of product export markets resulted in high risks in this extensive self-cost control; way of development. – unified steel products highly liquid on external Main goal of development of OJSC «BSWmarkets and being the basis for the production Management Company of «BMC» Holding in 2011program; 2015 are technical and technological measures taken – growing competition and costs increase dictate the to eliminate the imbalance of the production capacities necessity of a quick introduction of resource-saving and create conditions for increase of steel melting and casting up to the level of 3 million tons per year (now we produced 2 241 579t due to stoppage of In order to be afloat, the equipment for modernization). The main task of we should always build mastering of new capacities is a complete processing something, create and master of cast billets into finished marketable products with a new products and sell them. high added value, establishment of new productions Then people will feel that finally allowing reduction of the finished product prime the company is very promising, cost. So as to fulfill the tasks set forth, it is necessary which means they will be sure to modernize the existing facilities of the main and about their future. auxiliary production, erect and commission a number of new facilities. (PD 4.8) – (PD 4.10) The first deputy of Prime Minister Based on the above goal, the plant determined the in the Republic of Belarus following directions of development: V.I.Semashko – increase of the technical and economic level of production due to reconstruction, modernization and and energy-saving technology and equipment, new construction; optimization of the self-cost structure (decrease of – expansion of production of steel with a high added the share of expenses for raw material and energy, value; increase of depreciation cost). An alternative: gradual loss of competitiveness on the external and – improvement of the structure of export deliveries then on the internal market; towards increase of downstream products, development of import substituting productions; – effective management; – further decrease of the specific consumption of raw – stable economic status of enterprises permitting to materials, fuel and energy and labour resources for develop the level of borrowings for implementation of steel production; large-scale projects. – improvement of environmental characteristics of the Analysis of the present situation and outlook for existing productions (introduction of environmentdevelopment of the national steelmaking sector friendly technologies, decrease of wastes and allows us to focus on three problems: specific emissions of hazardous materials into air and water basins, growth of volumes and efficiency 1. In a short-term outlook: keep export markets and of production wastes processing); predominate on the domestic market, maintain a rather high level of profitability of the steelmaking – improvement of the employees’ life level. sector. The aim: maintain and gradually develop production output on the existing basis, gradual The required preconditions for implementation of the growth of the share of deliveries to the internal strategy are as follows: market in accordance with the growth of – provision of raw material resources. Availability of consumption, successful competition with CIS  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 13 Metallurgy of Belarus  producers and further modernization of equipment. manufactured as the main aim of its development. Advance development of science intensive export2. In a medium-term outlook: increase of steel oriented productions with the state support of melting output, erection of new production facilities enterprises playing a very important role in the and mastering of new productions. national economy and increase of responsibility for 3. In a long-term outlook: resolving of raw material its efficient use is foreseen. . (SO 5) problems, development of iron ore raw material, production In ferrous metallurgy, efforts will be re-oriented of sponge iron with the use of green technologies of direct from the growth of volumes of metallurgical raw reduction of iron. (PD 4.8) – (PD 4.10) material processing to the increase of the depth of Implementation of this strategy will help to fulfill the its processing and improvement of the production tasks determined by the Program of the development processability (improvement of product quality and of the industrial complex of the Republic of Belarus for mastering of new types of products). In the nearest 1998–2015 and the National strategy of sustainable two-three years the priority directions of development social and economic development of the Republic will be growth of production of high-tech downstream of Belarus for the period till 2020 which determine products, improvement of the production structure provisions of a sustainable high growth rate on and sales of quality steel grades, rolled materials, the basis of modernization, improvement of the steel cord and steel wire, development of energyindustrial and technological structure of productions saving methods and erection and commissioning of and increase of the competitive level of the product new production facilities. 14 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2013 15 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities History of sustainable development (PD 4.13) December 30, 2006 – commissioning of an ion-exchange (PD 4.15) (PD 4.16) plant in steel wire shop No.1. March 19, 1982 – signature of the plant erection July 13, 2007 – commissioning of the pipe mill in the contract. presence of the President of the Republic of Belarus October 15, 1984 – beginning of operation of the melt A.G. Lukashenko. shop production facilities, first steel melted and cast. January 17, 2008 –ceremonial opening of a water-andNovember 4, 1984 – beginning of operation of the health-improving block of the hockey and swimming rolling mill – first rolled section produced in mill Centre of the Olympic reserve. It consists of modern water attractions, a sauna, a solarium, a café, and other 320/150. facilities. Honor to cut the red ribbon was favored to November 21, 1987 – beginning of operation of: the chairman of the regional executive committee A.S. – the secondary metallurgy unit and Yakobson, the chairman of Zhlobin district executive committee L.N. Apanasyuk, General Director of RUE continuous casting machine No.3 (CCM No.3) in electric melt shop No.2 (EMS-2); «BMZ» N.V. Andrianov, and director of building and construction trust No.27 A.M. Ryabkov. – large-section mill 850; March 6, 2008 – 62nd meeting of the Council of – production facilities of steel wire shop ferrous metals producers and exporters of CIS No.1 (SWS-1) and production of the first lot of countries was held on the basis of BMZ. Members of Belarusian tire cord. the Council discussed the conditions of the ferrous March 1, 1991 – beginning of operation of the metals market, assessed the perspectives of its development and developed the middle-term outlook production facilities of steel wire shop No.2, lime for export prices for the key types of ferrous kiln No.2, EAF-3 and ladle vacuum degasser in the metals. electric melt shop. June 18, 2008 – Belarusian metallurgical forum August 1, 1996 –opening of Zhlobin metallurgical «Integration of science, production and education technical school. in the development of steelmaking in the Republic September 15, 2000 – commissioning of the new of Belarus till 2020» was held on the basis of rolling mill 150 in the presence of the President of BMZ. The event helped to determine the concept of the Republic of Belarus A.G. Lukashenko. development of the national steel sector for the nearest period. November 30, 2000 – beginning of the operation of the production facilities of steel wire shop No.3 June 30, 2008 – reconstruction of the sulfuric acid (SWS No.3). regeneration plant of the chemical block of steel wire shop No.2. May 19, 2002 – beginning of operation of the production facilities of the 2nd stage of the oxygen August 8, 2008 – modernization of dust and gas plant. trapping units of electric-arc furnace No.2 (EAF-2) in electric melt shop No.1. May 24, 2005 – beginning of erection of the pipe facility. December 2008 – the pipe mill reached its designed capacity. October 2006 – new six-block and ten-block drawing machines were installed in steel wire shop No.3 within March 2009 – modernization of the finishing line of the framework of the Dnepr project implementation. rolling mill 320. December 28, 2006 – commissioning of bead bronzing July 9, 2009 – presentation of BMZ new product – line No. 2 in steel wire shop No.1. steel fiber. 16 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS October 9, 2009 – our plant was the first in the Group for reconstruction of the system of trapping country to submit its corporate social report to the and cleaning of the exhaust gases of EAFs No.1 and community and participants of the UN Global Compact. No.3. The project was developed specifically for December 6, 2009 – a large investment project – BSW steel furnaces. modernization of continuous casting machine No.3 October 2010 – members of team No. 4 of rolling mill (CCM-3) completed. 150 set a record: they produced 1200 tons of wire December 14, 2009 – appointment of Anatoly Savianok rod during a shift. Prior optimal figure of production the General Director of RUE «BMZ» was approved reached 1070 tons. by the President of the International Union of Steelmakers. Introduction of innovative production 2009 –product deliveries grew by more than 17 of rolled products is very perspective countries in the year of crisis. and it will make it possible to quit selling concast billets, go to February 2010 – mandrel bars and disc saw absolutely new level and by means of preparation department started to work in the pipe that make up for the shortage of metal mill. The department is provided with the equipment in machine-building and construction. unique for our country. I am sure that we will strengthen our March 2010 – SWS-2 masters the technology of industrial giants and make the economy production of shaped (square) wire for high-pressure stable by the end of the five-year term. hoses. Prime-minister of the Republic of Belarus April 2010 – the pipe mill started to master rolling of M.V. Myasnikovich pipes from round billet diameter 200 mm, a trial lot of which was cast in CCM-3. March 29, 2010 – a contract for the erection of lime November 2010 – 20 years ago, first tons of steel kiln No.3 was signed with TECHCOM (Germany). were produced in electric-arc furnace No.3. Now EAF-3 produces not 4 as previously, but 12 heats per June 2010 – one of the 11 projects for expansion of shift. the rough-intermediate drawing department of SWS-1 was developed. Two new rough drawing machines were November 2010 – SWS-2 produced a jubilee ton of installed. tire cord – 500 thou. t. July 2010 – the result of negotiation between BMZ December 2010 – steel wire shop No.2 crossed and Тесhcom was a contract for delivery of equipment the boundary of one million tons. This is the amount for the lime kiln by Maerz, Austria. produced in the shop in the period from 1991 to 2010 inclusive. July 2010 – jubilee 10th International scientific and technical conference «Metal-2010» was held at BMZ. December 2010 – the team of rolling mill 320 The conference united 80 representatives of the plant produced one millionth ton of reinforcing bars in and 45 representatives of enterprises and educational 2010. establishments of Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, Lithuania From February 1 till March 7, 2011 80 specialists and Kazakhstan. from the Republic of Slovakia were trained in rolling August 2010 new technology of production of flat and steel productions within the framework of the wire for high-pressure hoses was mastered. international cooperation of steelmakers. September 2010 – a contract was signed with Water February 2011 – two universal winding units produced  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 17 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  by GCR Eurodraw (Italy) were commissioned at the participants, representatives of Russia, Ukraine, Latvia, thermal etching-galvanizing department of steel wire Great Britain and Austria participated in the conference. shop No.1. July 2011 – new equipment for air drying produced by March 17, 2011 – the 1st International conference Belgian company Atlas Copco was commissioned at the of suppliers took place. It gathered about 90 compressor station of the repair shop block. representatives of different companies cooperating with BMZ in the area of material, raw material and August 18, 2011 – Ministry of Industry issued an order for PA BMZ to take over GA «Belvtormet’ equipment delivery. including six regional enterprises engaged in March 23, 2011 – the staff of rolling mill 320 collecting and procession of ferrous scrap, and started to roll reinforcing bars No.14 with the help UE «Beltsvetmet» together with its daughter of 4-strand slitting. It took them a little more than unitary enterprise «Tsvetmet» (Zhodino). During one month to reach the level of industrial production last three years «Belvtormet» took over three of this section. more enterprises: OJSC «Tekhnopribor» (Mogilyov), OJSC «Polesie’electromash» (Luninets), OJSC March 24, 2011 –IX meeting of members of the Leaders’ «Kobrin Toolmaking Plant «Sitomo». Club of the Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) took place at the plant. Representatives of more than 10 August 26, 2011 – steel wire shop No.3 crossed the countries took part in the meeting. borderline of 1 million ton of production. April 6, 2011 – 1st considerable mark in the history August 31, 2011 – a contract on erection of a new of the pipe mill: 250-thousandth ton of products was section rolling mill capacity 700 thou. tpy with an manufactured. option to reach the production of 1 million tpy was signed with Danieli (Italy). April 2011 – a flame cutting machine is installed in the repair-mechanical shop. This new equipment produced September 22, 2011 – electric melt shop No.2 produced by the Turkish company AKYAPAK gives new options 10 000 000 tons of steel since its commissioning. for the repair mechanics in recovery and production of large-size parts. October 20, 2011 – the 1st scientific-practical seminar «Main directions of innovative-technological April 21, 2011 –10-millionth ton of steel since development of the Production Association commissioning of CCM-3 of EMS No.2 was cast. «Byelorussian Steel Works» participated by rectors of the leading higher educational establishments of June 2011 – the plant bought the territory of Gomel region took place at the plant. Agrotechservice with the total area of 11 hectares at the auction so as to increase its scrap yard. The October 2011 – the staff of electric melt shops No. additional land will allow us to increase the winter 1 and No.2 set up a record in production of concast scrap stock storage area. billet: 229 673 tons. June 20, 2011 – the plant produced 35—millionth ton November 2011 – a decision to reorganize our of steel. Republican Unitary Enterprise into an open jointstock company was taken by the conference of the July 2, 2011 – The first in the plant’s history Open plant’s employees. Door Day was held. December 2011 – rolling mill 850 produced 9-millionth July 7, 2011 – the opening ceremony of the 11th ton of cast billet. International scientific and technical conference of young workers «Metal-2011» took place at Zhlobin December 8, 2011 – rolling mill 320 crossed the metallurgical technical school. Except Belarusian borderline of 1 million tons. 18 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS December 2011 – first square billet 140 x 140mm cast May 16, 2012 – visit of the Head of the Administration in CCM-2 EMS-1. of the President of the Republic of Belarus V.V. Makei to BMZ. December 20, 2011 – constituent assembly of Byelorussian Steel Works, DUFERCO S.A.» May 17, 2012 – business conference «Belarus – (Switzerland), Pisec Group GmbH (Austria) took Russia: cooperation of the steel market players». place to establish a joint venture «BMZ-TUBULARS Over 50 leaders of steelmaking enterprises met at Ltd.» For processing of OCTG pipes. BMZ. January 1, 2012 – tare and die shop (T&DS) was May 24-25, 2012 – plant scientific conference of established to unite the tare shop and the powder young specialists of OJSC «BMZ» «Metall-2012» metallurgy and die shop. was held. January 2, 2012 – state registry of Open JointMay 25, 2012 – 20 years since commissioning of the Stock Company «Byelorussian Steel Works» (OJSC network, substations and technical maintenance shop «BMZ») in the Unified Registry of Legal Entities (NS&TMS). and Individual Entrepreneurs under the number 400074854. June 11, 2012 – OJSC «BMZ» took the first place in the nomination «Export sales leader» among March 7, 2012 – foundation for lime-kiln No,3 was laid clients of Priorbank. This high appraisal of our down and a capsule with an appeal to our descendants work was made by the council of experts of one was embedded by the General Director A.N. Savianok. of the leading banks of the country. On June 11, a special badge was presented the General Director March 11, 2012 – a museum of metallurgy for children A.N. Savianok. was opened in kindergarten No. 34 of Byelorussian Steel Works for the first time in the Republic of June 20, 2012 – BMZ became a laureate of the contest Belarus. for a prize of the Commonwealth of Independent States in 2011 in the category «Manufacture of goods March 2012 – according to the results of March, for production purposes» (in organizations with more electric melt shops demonstrated the best in the than 250 employees). plant’s history performance and produced 233 thou. 880 tons exceeding the record-breaking production July 4-6, 2012 – 12th International scientific-technical of October 2011 by more than 4 thousand tons. conference of young workers «Metal-2012» was held. Representatives of Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan April 1, 2012 – hockey team «Metallurg» became and Belarus took part in it. the champion winning the match with Grodno team «Nyoman» in the final series of play-offs of the extraJuly 7, 2012 – the second Day of Open Doors league of the Open Championship of Belarus. traditionally held on the eve of the Metallurgists’ Day took place at the plant. April 4-5, 2012 – the Second international conference of suppliers was held at the plant. July 13, 2012 – 5 years since commissioning of the pipe mill. April 22, 2012 – ceremonial awarding of the champions of Belarus, winners of the 20th Open Championship of July 18, 2012 –20th birthday of the Palace of Culture the Republic of Belarus 2011/2012 – players of the of Metallurgists. «Metallurg» team. July 20, 2012 – OJSC «BMZ» joined the World Steel May 15, 2012 – a capsule with an appeal to our Association (WSA), a prestigious professional industrial descendants was embedded in the foundation of the association numbering over 170 world steelmakers and small-section mill. research institutes working in this field.  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 19 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  August 17, 2012 – 5 million tons produced in mill 150 November 21, 2012 –25th anniversary of electric since mill 320/150 was divided in two independent mills melt shop No. (EMS-2) and rolling mill 850 of the (September 15, 2000). rolling production shop (RPS). August 24, 2012 – Open Joint-Stock Company December 2, 2012 –30 years since BMZ personnel «Byelorussian Steel Worksmanagement company service was arranged. of «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» holding (BSWmanagement company of «BMC» holding) was Sports and athletics meeting December 2012 – at night December 6 – 7, one millionth ton of rolled stock was registered in the Unified Registry of Legal Entities produced in mill 320. Benchmark: January 2012. and Individual Entrepreneurs under the number 400074854. January 1, 2013 – two auxiliary shops merged: the power shop and the oxygen plant. A new structural August 31, 2012 – ceremonial commissioning of the subdivision was formed – energy department (EnD). first stage of pipe finishing line No.3 (PFL-3) of the pipe mill. January 13, 2013 – «Metallurg» hockey team successfully played in the super-final of the September 3, 2012 – the plant became the winner Continental Cup and took the second place in the of the republican professional contest «B est prestige European tournament. construction product of 2012». S teel fiber for concrete reinforcement ( anchor , wavy , January 24, 2013 – according to the results of an microfiber ). expert assessment of EcoVadis (Michelin), BSW achievements in the social area in 2012 and in the September 10, 2012 –20th birthday of the area of environment protection exceeded the level metallurgical equipment repair shop (MERS). determined by Michelin for suppliers in the purchasing chain. September 14, 2012 –30 years since the foundation of BMZ was laid down. Director Derozhant Akopov The achieved results show the level of a significant and chief engineer of Voest-Alpine Alfred Probst laid maturity of BSW in the area of social responsibility an appeal to our descendants in two languages in a and environment and are an integral part of Michelin capsule embedded in the foundation of electric melt criteria for choosing suppliers. shop No.1. February 2013 – Byelorussian Steel Works became October 11, 2012 – plant hostel No.3 was opened a laureate of the award of the Ministry of Industry after capital repairs and modernization. of the Republic of Belarus in the area of science and engineering in 2012. This prize is awarded every October 31, 2012 – public hearing of the Corporate year for development and introduction of new types Social Report for 2011. of materials and technologies enabling the national November 6, 2012 unofficial hockey match was science to reach the international level and increase held between the champions of 2011/2012 of two efficiency of the industrial facility. countries: Belarus and Austria. The match between February 11, 2013 – a new eighth ambulance room Metallurg (Zhlobin) and «Black wings» (Linz, Austria) was opened on the basis of the administrative was timed to 30-year anniversary of the beginning of building of electric melt shop No.1 (EMS-1) of the plant erection. Byelorussian Steel Works. Here plant’s employees November 20, 2012 – the first column installed on may receive the required medical assistance, the site of the small-section mil. including first aid. November 21, 2012 – 25 years since commissioning of March 1, 2013 – based on the work results of 2012 steel wire shop No.1. Byelorussian Steel Works became the winner in the 20 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS nomination «Best investor and exporter» among the project «Development and introduction of enterprises of Zhlobin and Zhlobin district. energotechnological modes of electric-arc furnace operation aimed at increase of productivity of EAFMarch 28, 2013 – 10 years since establishment of the 3 and reduction of power consumption for steel unitary enterprise «Metallurgtorg». melting». April 1, 2013 – 20 years since commissioning of the May 18, 2013 – Byelorussian Steel Works was fourth stage of BSW: pump station. awarded a diploma for active participation in the XIV April 1, 2013 – «Metallurg» hockey team became the International Exhibition «Spring in Gomel-2013» silver prize winner of the 21st Open Championship of within the framework of the X Gomel economic forum. the Republic of Belarus. May 25, 2013 – based on the results of competitions April 5, 2013 – Gomel regional executive committee held by Gomel regional trade union organization, expressed gratitude to the work collective of BSW primary trade union organization of BSW was for a considerable investment in social and economic declared the best among 31 industrial enterprises of development of the region. Gomel region in 2012. April 16, 2013 – so as to implement investment June 5, 2013 – coach of Zhlobin «Metallurg» was project «Organization of a section bar production pronounced the best coach of the season 2012-2013 with construction of a small-section mill» General of the open hockey championship of Belarus. Director A.N. Savianok issued order No.340 to establish rolling shop No.2 (BRM-2). June 15, 2013 – based on the results of 2012 Private joint-stock company «ROSAVA» – the largest tire April 18, 2013 – 10 years since Byelorussian Steel producer in the Ukraine – awarded the «excellent Works receive the first ecological certificate in supplier» rating Byelorussian Steel Works. Gomel region. This event required a two-year work of the employees. BSW got two environment management June 21, 2013 – based on the results of 2012 the certificates at a time to evidence correspondence of union of veterans of Byelorussian Steel Works the plant to the requirements of the international became the winner in the completion for the best standard ISO 14001-1996 and national standard STB primary organization of Zhlobin district. ISO 14001-2000. July 06, 2013 – the third traditional Open Day was April 17-18, 2013 – the fourth scientific conference held at BSW. of young employees was held at BSW. This forum July 10, 2013 –50th birthday of the General Director gathered over 170 representatives of various of OJSC «Byelorussian Steel Works-management structural subdivisions and students of leading higher company of «BMC» holding A.N. Savianok. institutions of the country. July 18, 2013 – BRM (mill 850, team No.1) produced April 20, 2013 – a national subbotnik was held at the 10-millionth ton of rolled steel since its commissioning plant. in 1987. April 25-28, 2013 – the second international children July 18, 2013 – an agreement was reached and hockey tournament «Steel cup» for the awards corresponding documents signed with Eurasian Bank of General Director of OJSC «BSW-management of Development regarding joint financing of the company of «BMC» holding A. N. Savianok was held construction of the small section mill at BSW by in Zhlobin. EBD and OJSC OAO Belarusbank. May 18, 2013 – at Belarusian industrial forum-2013 July 19, 2013 – a capsule with a message to our BSW was awarded a 1st degree diploma for descendants was laid down in the foundation of air SOCIAL REPORT 2013 21 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  heating unit No. 3 of the limited liability joint-venture of all levels is considered by the plant as part of its «BSW-OP». Cost of the project – over USD33,8 social responsibility and basis for development of somillion, cost of equipment – USD19,4 million, cost of cial projects (see section «Economy»). According to civil and erection work – USD7,9 million. 2013 data, share of the pant in the gross domestic August 2013 – based on the results of the annual product (GDP) of the Republic of Belarus is about republican professional contest «Best construction 3,5%, the export portion of the total country volume is about 3%. (PD 4.11) (PD 4.17) product (article) of the year» welding reinforcing bar class В500С for concrete reinforcement produced by The plant strictly adheres to the chosen course of BSW was announced the best construction product improvement and reforms in all directions: management of 2013. of sustainable development, economic activity, work with employees, plant’s activity in the region and coAugust 29, 2013 – first audit of correspondence with operation with suppliers and customers, environmental the Code of Ethics of Pirelli’s supplier was held at policy and industrial safety. the plant. Requirements of the international standard of social responsibility SA8000 were met. In 2013 we continued formation of a new team of top management and improvement of the management September 6, 2013 – BSW primary organization with the rights of a district committee of the Public structure of Byelorussian Steel Works. Association «Belarusian Republican Youth Union» Orienting towards efficiency, the top management atbecame the winner of the Republican contest for the taches much importance to introduction of principles best primary organization of the PA «BRYU». and practices of sustainable development in the whole plant. BSW strategic aim is to occupy a leading posiSeptember 20, 2013 – 30 years since establishment of tion among steel enterprises of the world in the area the repair-mechanical shop (RMS). of sustainable development. Aspects of support of the December 12, 2013 – a parking for our 410 employee’s employees, environment, interaction with the region private cars was put into operation at BSW. are closely interrelated with production and economic Strategy and mission (PD 1.2) (PD 4.8) priorities. Since commissioning of the plant in 1984, it has suc(PD 4.9) The top management of OJSC «BSW-mancessfully fulfilled its infrastructural function being agement company of «BMC» holding undertook oblian integral part of a complicated system of social and gations, determined a unified corporate policy and eseconomic relations in the region of its activity. OJSC tablished unified targets of the plant. The top manage«BSW-management company of «BMC» holding is ment analyzes fulfillment of the goals every half-year among the largest national companies in terms of the and annually and adjusts them, if required. amount of product sold and scale of purchasing and is one of the largest employers and tax payers. (ЕС 2) Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian Steel Works-management company of «Byelorussian (ЕС 9) (ЕС 8) BSW makes a considerable contribution Metallurgical Company» holding is a persistently deinto the development of the economy of the Republic veloping and continuously replenishing organization of Belarus. In 2013, similar to previous periods, the which takes into consideration tendencies and risks pant traditionally invested its profit to support and existing in the external environment. develop sustainable production activity, efficient use of resources, creation of new workplaces and payMission of the plant: production of high tech prodment of salary and wages to the employees. The creucts (including those for automotive industry) to imated cost was also distributed to payment of national prove profitability of the enterprise taking care of the and regional taxes, financing of social and economic environment and people’s health, and providing a high partnership programs and charitable projects in the level of the employees’ life and satisfaction of all parregion of its presence. Timely deductions to budgets ties concerned. 22 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS BSW vision: be the best supplier of products (includin production processes, prevent harmful impact of ing those for automotive industry) meeting the needs the production factors on the employees, reduction of national and foreign customers on all developed of emissions of contaminating substances in the air, steel market segments due to usage of progressive water basin, wastes generation, and natural resource and environment-friendly methods, efficient use of reconsumption; sources and optimal organization of production pro• Continuous improvement of the effectiveness cesses and management. and efficiency of the functioning of the management BSW values: employees, environment and efficient use systems corresponding to the requirements of interof natural and other resources, partners, quality, national standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS knowledge, and community. 18001, 26000, SA-8000 and industrial requirements The strategy of the plant is directed towards satisfacof automotive and oil and gas industry ISO/TS 16949, tion of interests of all stakeholders in: ISO/TS 29001 (API spec Q1), development and inclusion in the management system the subsections «Man– manufacturing of products of the required quality, agement of energy saving» in accordance with ISO amount and range; 50001, «Financial management» according to ISO – provision of sustainable development; 10014, «Systems of information protection» in conformity with ISO 27001; – maintenance and strengthening of positions on the developed markets; • Prediction of risks connected with the plant operation; – improvement of the employees’ welfare; • Continuous control of risks related to the – maintenance of health and life of every member of the production processes, preventive and corrective aclabour collective; tions directed towards prevention of generation of – continuous decrease of the environmental impact in occupational diseases and production accidents; the course of production activity; • Prevention of environment contamination, – support and further development of standards of damages and worsening of the employees’ health durcorporate management. ing production activity; Principles of strategy implementation • Activity in the area of quality, social re(PD 4.9) (PD 4.10) sponsibility, information protection, finances, energy saving in accordance with the requirements of the The plant sets forth measurable, feasible and consisinternational standards, existing law, and other retent economic, social and environmental goals, underquirements; standing its role and undertaking responsibility for the consequences of its decisions and actions. • Activity in the area of labour protection and industrial safety, and environment in accordance Implementation of the mission and strategy includes: with the requirements of the international standards, • Achievement of the plant performance goals existing law and other requirements related to enviset forth; ronmental aspects, products or services, dangers in the area of occupational health and labour safety; • Timely response to continuously changing external conditions with the use of P-D-C-A cycle • Regular monitoring of the production pro(Planning – Disposal– Control – Action); cesses and management; • Introduction of advanced technologies dur• Improvement of product quality, ensuring ing designing, development of еру production prolabour safety and health protection, protection of cesses of new competitive types of products so as to environment, energy saving including BSW suppliers, improve product quality, decrease dangers and risks contractors and customers;  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 23 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  • Purposeful professional training of employmanagement company of «BMC» holding for ees, creation of optimal conditions for high quality 2013 is given in Annex 1. labour, showing own abilities and initiative of each emStrategy and goals ployee and their interest in guaranteeing high quality in the area of sustainable development of products, efficient use of raw materials, materials and energy resources; In accordance with the Corporate Policy, management of the plant ensures development and implemen• Improvement of production culture and entation of technical, production and investment prosuring of personal moral and material responsibility grams aimed at improvement of product quality and for quality of labour. directly contributing to sustainable development of the plant. The plant management is interested in fulfillment of the Corporate Policy and continuously creates condiA set of measures directed towards ensuring high tions required for that so as to guarantee a worthy customer properties of the goods manufactured are level of employees’ life and confidence in tomorrow. included in an annual business-plan the development procedure of which is regulated by STP 840-SMKThe plant management and employees carry out their 4.1.2. activity in accordance with the Code of Ethics with which the plant personnel and external partners are So as to improve product quality and provide for its acquainted. BSW Code of Ethics is developed with competitiveness and improve technical level of the consideration of key values, such as truthfulness, production process, the plant developed a long-term straightforwardness and respect for mutual interProgram of BSW development for 2011-2015, and ests, and their obligatory fulfillment leads to muapproved plans of scientific-research and developtual trust, openness and transparency of relations. ment (technological) work fulfilled on a contractual Trust of the stakeholders is one of the key values basis and with own force. of our plant. Key activities for product quality and production efficiency improvement are included in annual specialEvery year the top management of OJSC «BSWpurpose orders of the General Director specifying management company of «BMC» holding determines time and responsible executors: targets of the C ompany based on forecast devel opment indicators determined by the M inistry of – No.1 «About improvement of business activity and I ndustry of Belarus, policy, special -purpose orinvestment programs»; ders and results of the management review . B ased – No,2 «About measures to improve quality and comon the plant targets , policy , special purpose or petitiveness of marketable products»; ders , leaders of the plant departments determine targets of their departments . T he plant targets – No.3 «About measures to provide for safe labour conditions»; and targets of its departments are brought to the information of all employees of the department . – No.4 «About measures of provision of of fire safety Top management , heads of structural subdivisions of the plant facilities»; analyze the targets every half year , every year – No.5 «About personnel development’; and adjust them if required . Efficiency of fulfill ment of the targets is checked during internal – No.6 «About progressive technologies, mastering audits and management review . This procedure of new types of products, innovatory and innovative is regulated by STP 840-KSM-5.6 and STP 840activity»; KSM-8.2.2. – No.7 «About measures for environment protection»; The dynamic analysis of fulfillment of the – No.8 «About measures to decrease productions targets of the activity of OJSC «BSWcosts». 24 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Plant objectives for medium-term outlook 1. Production, finances and economy: efficiency of sales, not less than, % 9,7 steel export compared to the level of 2013, not less than, % 116 Product, work and services sale earnings calculated per one average payroll employee, 177,2 not less than, USD thou. relation of steel export and production output 77,3 2. Quality: set by level of rejects due to production shops, max., % order No.2 set by level of non-conforming products, max., % order No.2 level of expenses due to defects per Br1000. of marketable products, max., % 3,49 rating of customer’s satisfaction, min., % steelmaking production 93,6 rolling production 94,0 pipe production 91,1 tire cord and steel wire production 93,8 Total plant amount of claimed products, max, РРМ 160 3. Environment: Specific emission of contaminants in the air by EAF -1 EMS-1 as compared to the level of reduce by 5% 2013, % 4. Labour protection and industrial safety: not to allow on-the –job injury growth as compared to 2013. improvement of conditions and ensuring of labour safety for the shop workers, persons 115 improvement of production environment of hop employees, pers. 520 decrease of physical load of shop employees, pers. 43 Improvement of drinking condition for shop employees, pers. 490 5. Social responsibility: training of managers and specialists, pers. 1363 professional training of workers, pers. 2917 general satisfaction of the personnel, min. % 72,0 wages and salaries growth rate, min., % 118,1 employee turnover, max., % 5,0  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 25 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  History of mastering of main types • alloy steel pipe; of products (PD 4.10) • nail wire. OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding 2012: is one of a few enterprises of the Republic of Belarus which increases its volume of production from year • die-rolled reinforcing steel bars, nominal Ø to year investing considerable funds into reconstruc10, 12, 14, 16, 20, 22, 25, 32 in coils, grade К500С-Т tion and modernization and technical revamping. Startaccording to the requirements of Swedish standard ing from the plant commissioning in 1984, volume of a SS 212540:2011 (E); steel heat grew from the designed 700 thou. tons per • carbon and alloy steel pipes; year by more than 3 times. (PD 2.8) • quality carbon steel bare pipe; Besides, increase of the output in natural terms goes parallel to the growth of the specific weight of new • alloy bare pipe; types of products in the total production output. • nickel-molybdenum steel pipe; Close cooperation with national science, first of all with establishments of the NAS of Belarus and educa• round coils Ø 22,0 mm of low-carbon and tional establishments, allow mastering of a number of low-alloy steel grades; new types of high quality steel products every year. • round coils Ø 22,0 mm of low-carbon and The most significant types of products mastered by the low-alloy steel grades, 25Г2Р; plant during last three years include the following: • microfiber of steel wire size 0,35/13 mm ac2011: cording to specification 1018-0/СС-2010; • carbon quality sectional round billet Ø • anchor fiber of steel wire size 0,60/30 mm ac200mm; cording to TU 14-1-5564-2008; • improved quality rolled carbon coils SAE • copper-coated welding wire steel grade 1010 Ø 18,5mm; 08Г2С with one-layer winding on steel cartridge К300; • simple carbon steel reinforcing bars No.1028, class У500-2; • bronzed bead wire 1,26 mm for Bridgstone; • high-tensile tire cord 3+8 х 0,35HT; • tire cord construction 3+8х0,35 НТ; • 3-sided reinforcing wire B500A Ø 6,0; 8,0; • tire cord construction 3х0,22+9х0,20 НТ; 10,0; 12,0mm according to DIN 488; • round Ø 90 mm of 16 MnCrS5 Hay5 accord• simple carbon steel reinforcing bars Ø10ing to contract requirements (standard specification 40mm, grade В500В; 1139-0/СС-2011); • tire cord (3+9) х0,22RT AS50491; • tire cord construction 3х7х0,175 НЕ; • microfiber of steel wire size 0,30/6mm; • round Ø 90-140 mm, steel grade 42CrMo4X1. 0,35/13mm; 2013: • anchor fiber of steel wire size 0,5/30mm; • boron-alloy steel (В=0,0009÷0,0020 %), • 3-sided section steel wire class В500K; grade В500-В acc. to DIN 488:2009 concrete strucВSt500KR (A); В500NA; ВSt500M Ø 6,0; 8,0; 10,0; ture reinforcement, die-rolled bars Nos. 10÷32; 12,0mm; • hot-rolled reinforcement bars, ring type, • quality carbon steel pipe; class А400, nominal Ø 10÷40 mm, in coils acc. to the 26 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS requirements of GOST 5781-82 silicon-manganese and it could not stand aside from the crisis processes steel 25Г2С for concrete structure reinforcement; for a long time. And though volumes of the plant’s export remained almost unchanged in physical terms, • tire cord construction 3+2х0,35 UT as per the amount of a currency earnings reduced. At the spec. № 1106-0/00-2012 and ТК 840-СП2-24-2012; same time, in spite of the crisis in the global economy, • tire cord construction 1+5х0,40 НТ acc. to export share of OJSC «BSW-management company of VТК 840-SP1-119-2013; «BMC» holding in total shipments made up USD 1 161,2 • saw wire Ø 0,14 mm acc. To the requirements million or 79,4 % during 12 months of 2013. Amount of of specification No. 1074/СС-2010, VTK 840-SP1of BSW product export equaled to 1 759,6 tons in 121-2013; natural terms or 82,2 % (in money terms as compared to the similar period of the previous year). During the • reinforcing die-rolled bars class В550А year the plant supplied its products to the following Ø 5,0; 6,0; 8,0; 10,0; 12,0 mm acc. to ONORM regions: Europe (39,7% of the export share), Middle B4707:2010; East (9,5%), Africa (5,0%), SEA (0,2%), America • quality carbon steel pipe – 125 dimension(5,8%), the Russian Federation (38,9%), the Ukraine types; (0,9%). Besides, main export regions are Europe, Middle East and the Russian Federation, these regions • alloy steel pipe – 10 dimension-types; account for 88,1% of the total steel export. In terms • quality carbon bare steel pipe – 29 dimensionof currency earning from abroad the share of the types; plant is approximately 15%. • alloy bare steel pipe – 2 dimension-types; Existing problems of the industry are not related to • nickel-molybdenum steel pipe – 12 dimensionabsence of demand. Global steel consumption rate in types; general is not bad and prospects of the market are rather good. Demand for steel grows approximately • ball bearing steel pipe – 1 dimension-type. at the same rate as global GDP. The problem is in an Stages of the production output growth excessive supply which is too big even for the existDuring several last years, global steel market has ing consumption. So as to earn profit in the situation suffered a crisis. Most analysts think that the reaof a tough competition and not the highest prices, it son for that is reassessment of the market potentials. is necessary to reduce expenses due to improvement Prior to a pre-crisis 2008, steel consumption grew of labor effectiveness, decrease prime cost of own very dynamically and it induced steelmakers to hastily products by all possible ways maintaining high level of grow production potential. Thus, during last 10 years their quality. global capacity grew by 1 billion tons, 76% of which That is why the basis of BSW plan of the current fivebelong to China. As a result, based on experts’ assessyear period is a package of measures of technical and ment, it lead to overcapacity in the global steelmaking technological character aimed at increase of the prowhich at present equals to 500 million tons or almost duction output, bringing of steelmaking and casting to 20% of the rated global capacity. Most steelmaking the level up to 3 million tons per year, reduction of companies are underloaded, many announce themselves the import share of the products manufactured. So bankrupt. Competition for every customer grows beas to achieve the goal set forth, BSW developed and tween steel suppliers of different countries and natuactively implements a complex program of modernizarally results in reduction of prices of the products tion of the existing main and auxiliary productions and sold. (ЕС 2) establishment of new highly efficient working places Many years ago Byelorussian Steel Works became for 2012-2015. The following projects of recona part of a multi-level global business system estabstruction and modernization of the main and auxiliary lished within the framework of the global economy productions were implemented within the framework  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 27 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  of the above program in 2013: • purchasing of a scrap carrier «BelAZ»; • erection of a hydraulic station for lifting the • purchasing of a slag carrier «BelAZ»; turret of continuous casting machine No.1 (CCM-1); • installation of fixed covers to keep tempera• modernization of 33 kW substation of electure on steel carriers for the ladle-furnace; tric-arc furnace No1 (EAF-1); • installation of an intermediate collecting silo • automation of EAF-1; on EAF-1; • reconstruction of the RH and VD degassing • introduction of frequency-regulated drives system; on the fine drawing machines. • arrangement of steel blowing on a teeming The above measures helped us to maintain the production process at a high level and ensure fulfillment of «We proceed from a wellthe production performance indicators. known scientific postulate that the most advantageous For all attractiveness of the ideas of production modernization during the crisis of overproduction, this strategy during a crisis is the process has a certain portion of a risk. In specialists’ strategy of development». opinion it is not reasonable to restrict to cosmetic changes in the technology or to a simple replacement of the equipment in spite of a natural limited nature of the plant’s assets. Effect is possible only subject to concentration of financial means and plant’s efforts to General Director of OJSC «BSW-management implement measures with the biggest economic effect. company of «BMC» holding A. N. Savianok Thus, in 2013 Byelorussian Steel Works continued implementation of a number of strategic investment projects directed towards growth of steel output ladle car of EAF -3 with two plugs; so as to increase or keep the market share due to • reconstruction of Ri/10 twisting machines commissioning of new capacities, expansion of product for production of tire cord 3+9; mix, and improvement of the product range. The most significant projects are: • modernization of 4 twisting machine Ri/10 type in Ri/10ВМ type with a 3-spool gondola; • сconstruction of lime kiln No.3; • reconstruction of the water cooling system • introduction of steel melting intensification of cooling circuit No.2 «Cooling of EAF-1,2»; with modernization of the hydraulic system of electric-arc furnace No.1 and replacement of its columns • modernization of the cooling circuit of the and cantilevers; reheating furnace of mill 320 (replacement of the pipe bunch of the coolant); • complex reconstruction of dust and gas collecting units No. 1 and No.3; • purchasing of 2 sections of AWC with shutters for cooling circuit 7 (cooling of the electric mo• arrangement of production of rolled sectors and stands of mill 320); tions and erection of a small-section mill; • purchasing of steel teeming ladles; • reconstruction of casting machine No.2 to cast billet cross-section 140 mm х140 mm (CCM-2); • purchasing of a withdrawal-straightening machine for CCM-3; • increase of the output of secondary metallurgy. 28 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Investments into the fixed capital were EUR285 milproduct range and development of new outlets. lion including the modernization program – EUR211 As far as delivery geography is concerned, BSW million. Financing sources, equipment and technology expanded it by approximately 25 countries during suppliers were developed in detail for each facility 2012-2013. Now the enterprise is experiencing a included in the investment program of the enterprise. large-scale modernization of the main production and auxiliary departments the main aim of which is It is forecasted to improve steelmaking industry progrowth of production output, improvement of the duction structure in the result of innovations. First processing level and provision of infrastructure for of all, due to increase of the share of competitive cathe expanding production. pacities (at all production stages) as well as due to growth of the share of capacities for production of According to our specialists’ calculations, in four downstream products, share of import replacing and years it will touch practically all production stages new productions. of the plant that is why by the beginning of 2016 the enterprise will have an advanced balanced production. Continuous renovation is a precondition of a success of any modern enterprise pretending to occupy the Total planned expenses for investment project leading position on foreign markets. Of course, reimplementation and new construction during 2010 construction, modernization, commissioning of new ca2015 exceed USD860 million. (Br 4 trillion). By 2015 pacities is a rather expensive business, but it is the only the plant which is considered to be the best in Eastern true way of development. Europe now, shall become one of the most advanced In general, steelmaking facility is a successful segin the world. ment of economy in terms of investment. But in spite So as to achieve these goals, the plant specialists of ability of national enterprises to implement large developed the business-plan «Innovative development projects, main task of the state (SO 5) is to assist these investment processes implemented in the industry, create new additional possibilities for participants and assume solution of tasks which cannot be resolved by enterprises and which have a considerable multiplicative effect. Investment project development approaches (PD 1.2) (PD 4.11) (ЕС 8) (ЕС 9) During the last decade, steelmaking industry went through several rises and falls accompanied by considerable price fluctuations on global markets. Demand for certain types of products was also distinguished by variability. Naturally, Byelorussian Steel Works, which exports over 70% of its products, also felt the existing cyclical recessions of the global of the Republican Unitary Enterprise «Byelorussian economy. Conclusions made by the plant based on the Steel Works» for 2010 – 2015» which determines analysis of the market event development of the ХХI further development of the main business with century come to the fact that only the one who will consideration of all aspects of responsibility. suggest quality products at a more affordable price can win in the conditions of a tough competition. The business-plan includes: (EN 6, 7, 18, 26) Main provisions for this task solving are active – complex balanced development of the production technical revamping of production, expansion of capacity;  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 29 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  – ensuring of industrial, fire and environmental safety In particular, the Program of development of OJSC and labor protection; «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding plans to increase the amount of steel output up to – introduction of advanced energyand resource3 000 thousand tons per year, marketable rolled saving technologies; products – up to 2 047,5 thousand tons and tire – reconstruction of the existing production facilities; cord and steel wire – up to 503,0 thousand tons. For that it is necessary to carry out reconstruction and – improvement of competitiveness on steel markets. modernization of a number of the existing mechanisms: In accordance with the regulation of the government electric-arc furnace No.1, system of dust and of the Republic of Belarus «A complex program of gas removal of furnace No.1 and furnace No.3, modernization of the existing and creation of new wellcontinuous casting machine No.2; build and put into paid workplaces at OJSC «BSW-management company operation new facilities: a lime kiln, an oxygen station, of «BMC» holding for 2012-2015 was developed so a ladle-furnace, a vacuum degasser, a small-section as to modernize and revamp the enterprise, diversify rolling mill, OCTG pipe finishing and anti-corrosion its production, introduce new technologies and new coating application facilities of the pipe mill. types of products to be delivered to external markets BSW will fulfill its plans mainly with the help of own and consequent increase of the market cost of the funds and by attraction of foreign banks loans and organization. (PD 4.8) establishment of joint-ventures with foreign investors. The Program was worked out with consideration of Construction of the air separation plant and OCTG reconstruction of the key steelmaking equipment to pipe finishing line can be an example. be carried out within the framework of the businessIt is supposed to attract Austrian, German, and Italian plan «Innovative development of the Republican capital as well as financial resources of some other Unitary Enterprise «Byelorussian Steel Works» for countries. 2010-2015» and within the framework of the updated business-plan of the investment project «Erection Realization of the plans will allow us to receive sales proceeds of USD 195,1 thousand per one employee of a small-section mill at the Republican Unitary and added value of USD 71,3 thousand in 2015. Enterprise «Byelorussian Steel Works». This Program determines goals and tasks, priorities Along with implementation of the investment projects, it is planned to solve the question of personnel and the most important parameters of social-economic selection, training and retraining, improvement of development of the enterprise and a system of the product quality management system, certification measures of production, organizational, economic and attestation of the production at all stages of and environmental character. Proposals regarding development. improvement of the mechanisms of their implementation, required resources and measures ensuring achievement During Program implementation it is planned to of the parameters of the development in the middlespend USD338,5 million (Br 2,8 trillion) for capital term outlook were developed. investments. Financing will be carried out at the expense of long-term bank loans and on account of Fist of all, it is supposed to implement projects own funds of the plant and the innovation fund. Total providing for growth of production of the steelmaking investment expenses of the Program equal to USD and rolling production as well as projects related 435,2 million (Br 3,6 trillion). with elimination of the bottlenecks of the production process and resolution of environmental tasks during Main aim of investment at Byelorussian Steel Works the coming two years. is development of high tech production facilities 30 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS with a high degree of processing of raw materials, social and economic development of the region in the replacement of outdated equipment and introduction area of environmental and social activity of the plant of new advanced technologies in correspondence with is described in detail in corresponding sections of the the global level of steelmaking sector development. report. A peculiar feature of the investment projects One of the priority directions of impact within the implemented is their direction towards implementation framework of social responsibility is improvement of of a stepwise complex full-scale reconstruction a man’s potential which includes not only provision of and modernization of all stages of production. It favorable conditions for realization of every man’s includes introduction of technologies and equipment abilities, improvement of living conditions of the considering the latest technical and technological population and quality of the social environment, but achievements of steelmaking implemented with improvement of competitiveness of human capital. participation of leading companies of Austria, Germany, Italy and the USA. Besides, transition to production Granting guarantees, implementing programs of of products of a principally new quality and consumer environment safety improvement of production properties corresponding to European and American facilities, labor protection and preventing production standards and world best similar products is ensured. injury, OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding makes its investment in stabilization of The implementation of the business-plan will allow population size and creation of conditions for its OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding growth. The plant ensures job placement for about to occupy leading positions, introduce the most 30% of the size of able-bodied population participating progressive steelmaking technologies and thus, will in the economy of Zhlobin district. Every second create preconditions for high-rate development of citizen is somehow connected with the plant’s activity. economy and social sphere of the region. Actual number of the plant’s employees equals to 11 Plant’s impact on social-economic development 896 people. (ЕС 9) (PD 2.8) of the region of its economic activity Being the largest employer in the region, the plant (PD 4.11) (PD 4.16) (PD 4.17) exerts direct impact on the development of the labor To ensure balanced development of the region and market. Implementing the investment program the plant steady improvement of the level of life, an important creates additional workplaces for the inhabitants of role is played not only by authorities, but by business the region. Byelorussian Steel Works provides for initiative capable of significant influence on socialadequate salary and wages and social guarantees, economic situation of the territory of its production thus it promotes formation of a higher living standard activity. OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» and social stability in the community. holding is one of the enterprises of the Republic of The plant system of development of labor force Belarus which demonstrates a systematic approach to potential in the region proposes not only continuous this question. professional training of its workers during their Implementing measures of the investment program labor activity, but also: (ЕС 7) and making investments, Byelorussian Steel Works – implementation of the program of professional does not only increase the capacity of its production training of young citizens desiring to work at the plant facilities and improve efficiency of their work, but or other enterprises of the region with the help of fulfils one of the main tasks in the area of social evening studies arranged by the evening department of responsibility – creates favorable conditions for the corporate training center; the development of economy and social sector of the territory of its production activity. Influence on – training of secondary school graduates of the  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 31 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  Republic of Belarus at Zhlobin State Metallurgical tion . We set forth an ambitious task to increase College carrying its educational activity due to our production capacity to 3 million tons per year complete financing by Byelorussian Steel Works; by 2016 and completely refuse from selling semis and keep only high added value products in the – cooperation with educational establishments of the plant range . country which helps to improve the level of training of future specialists with consideration of own Strategy of the plant further development is based requirements and due to organization of practical on the following principal approach: the necessity to training of students at workplaces equipped with make steel processing deeper so as to minimize the risk advanced technologies and equipment; of raw material procurement and provide for the production growth due to increase of the added value of – training of the rising generation carried out by a the products manufactured. Approximate total amount team of teachers of a ramified system of preschool of investment for the main strategic projects made up establishments; USD 635,7 million. – formation of a healthy way of living and development of a creative potential of the inhabitants of the region Realization of the tasks set forth suggests a scaled which is a priority direction of the activity of the modernization of equipment and introduction of new «Metallurg» Palace of Culture and the sport and production facilities including reconstruction (modhealth facility of the plant. ernization) of steelmaking, rolling and auxiliary productions. Active participation of the plant in international exhibitions and forums, effective promotion of its 1. Creation of the required infrastructure products on global markets, creation of the image of a and growth of production output of steelreliable business partner have a positive impact on the making to reach the production capacity of development of the region of its activity. This direction 3 million tons per year of finished products: suggests expansion of possibilities for realization of • Construction of lime kiln No.3, capacity 400 competitive advantages on markets and strengthening tons per day. Anticipated effect of the project impleof foreign economic positions of the plant and the mentation: elimination of shortage of freshly annealed country in general, development of steady diversified lime caused by considerable increase of molten steel relations with international partners to ensure output; decrease of the amount of purchases of exsustainable development of economy in the long-term pensive imported materials; outlook. • Extension of the overhead passing for slag Developing non-financial reporting in accordance discharge. Increase of the slag pouring point and its with international standards, cooperating with cooling system capacity is planned. Implementation of organizations in the area of social responsibility, this project will help to process slag and its further participating in and winning national and international processing with the help of the existing highly-efficompetitions, OJSC «BSW-management company of cient crushing plants; «BMC» holding actively promotes formation of a favorable image of the Republic of Belarus. • Reconstruction of the ferroalloy and raw material and auxiliary material store and transportaInvestment projects tasks and goals tion systems so as to provide steelmaking production The plant is at the stage of its technical renova with the required raw materials; 32 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS • Increase of secondary metallurgy capacergonomic performance of the steel melting process. ity. The project supposes to unite frames of the After the modernization, USD 5,25 per ton of steel buildings of electric melt shop No.1 and No.2 and of electric power was saved or almost USD 5 million organization of a secondary metallurgy and a ladle per year. department in this bay. 2 ladle-furnaces and an RH At the beginning of 2014, reconstruction of CCMdegasser will be installed there. Aim of the project 2 will be accomplished; it will allow its production is bringing into line of steel balance ( provision of increase by 310 thousand tons per year. Economproductivity of the electric-arc furnaces and the ic effect will be reached both due to the output continuous casting machine) and improvement of fingrowth and mastering of tire cord steel grades ished product quality; production which was impossible before the recon• Modernization of mill 320 including reconstruction. struction of the production process control system 2. Erection of new facilities and mastering and the system of main drive speed regulation. Conof the production of goods with a high addversion to the use of cast billet 140×140 mm in mill ed-value: 150; • Complex reconstruction of the «Stal» sub• Construction of a small-section mill capable to produce 700 thou. tpy with an option to increase station. Implementation of this project will provide for stable power supply of the new facilities brought annual amount production up to 1 million tons. The into service; project tasks: • Establishment of a joint-venture for steel • Full processing of the residues of blooms and slag processing; cast billets, stop selling semis. Growth of proceeds of OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» • Construction of an air-separation plant with holding by USD 140 million per year after implementathe capacity of approximately 10 000 m³/h of oxygen. tion of the project due to production of goods with a So as to implement this project joint-venture «BMZhigher added value; GKS Ltd. was established together with a strategic partner of the plant. The project is being actively • Provision of steel cord and wire producimplemented. Provision of the plant with products of tion of OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» air separation will be carried out on the basis of a holding and OJSC «Rechitsa Hardware Plant» with long-term contract. wire rod and creation of conditions for their further development; December 20, 2013 hot commissioning of electric-arc furnace No. 1 (EAF-1) took place after a complex • Production of rounds with a small diameter reconstruction, adjustment of continuous casting mafor the engineering sector of the Republic of Belarchine No.2 (CCM-2) started. us and West Europe. As a result, in addition to production rise up to 158 • Increase of oil and gas line pipe production: thousand tons per year, reconstruction of EAF-1 will • Growth of the production volume of cast bilhelp to increase its output to 1 million tons. The projlet Ø200 mm in continuous casting machine No.3; ect also anticipated reduction of specific power consumption, decrease of the melting time, improvement of • Realization of measures of modification of the  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 33 Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities pipe mill equipment so as to optimize the flow diagram erted by potential threats. Their detection, analysis,  and meet the requirements of international standards systematization and control are a part of the plant in pipe production; activity in achieving progress in the area of sustainable development. The top management forms strategy • Construction of finishing line No.3. Impleof the plant and carries out its activity on the basis of mentation of the project will help to optimize the analysis of external environment risks and risks conwork and increase the productivity of the pipe prenected with the plant activity. Management of financial finishing and finishing line of the existing producand non-financial risks helps to reduce potential damtion. age and ensure additional guarantees of reaching the • Organization of production of rough axels strategic goals. Sustainable development of the plant for wheel pairs of the rolling stock at OJSC «Mois exposed to the following risks: gilyov Metallurgical Plant». Production of axels in drop of demand and steel prices; the amount of appr. 20 000 pc/y will be carried out by forging, thermal and mechanical processing of blooms – growth of prices on raw material markets; 300×400 mm produced in electric melt shop No.2 of – dependence on the raw material base; OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding. – change of political and economic conditions in RB; • Organization of production of high-pressure – changes in Belarusian law; hoses at OJSC «Legmash Plant» in the town of Orsha. Joint-venture Manuli Hydraulics Manufacturing – growth of tariffs of natural monopolies of electric Bel. Ltd. was established for implementation of this power, gas, railway transport; project. The project is being actively implemented. – currency rate and interest rate fluctuations; Production of reinforced high-pressure hoses with internal diameter of 4,8 to 12 mm will be arranged at – production breakdown; the JV. Annual output of the production will equal to – accidents; 8 million rm/y. – personnel. 3. Growth of product sales proceeds and development of the commodity distribution Risk management measures are integrated in the sysnetwork (CDN): tem of corporate management of the plant. OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding takes • Growth of sales volume via computer bid sysa number of measure to decrease risks: tem so as to receive maximum profit; – realization of a system of costs accounting at the • Arrangement of steel service centres in the place of their generation; Republic of Belarus, the Russian Federation and Baltic states so as to provide customers with orders with – improvement of the material logistics; minimal shipments; – development of the system of internal audits and control; • Expansion of product markets, search for new partners; – decrease of production expenses; • Signing of finished product supply contracts. – improvement of the environment management system; Risk management (PD 4.9) (PD 4.10) (PD 4.11) – expansion of the product range; High level of impact on sustainable development is ex– improvement of the product quality; 34 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – development of the sales network; «Я очень горжусь нашим со– reorientation of production to types of products трудничеством, которое длитwhich are much in demand; ся уже 30 лет. Надеюсь, что в дальнейшем оно будет разви– development and introduction of new technologies ваться и продолжаться, и мы and products; осуществим еще множество неординарных и серьезных – monitoring of the raw material market; проектов» – development of long-term contractual relations with suppliers and customers; вице-президент компании Siemens VAI – monitoring of tariff and quota limitations for key and Карл Баумгартнер perspective product markets; – cooperation with state authorities in drawing up a an important solution in risk management . balanced policy of development and support of Byelorussian Steel Works. Providing transparency and availability of risk information, BSW operatively determines a response I ntroduction of the system of corporate stan strategy, develops measures for risk management dards , provisions , regulations , procedures and and performs monitoring of their implementation efunified approaches to their implementation was ficiency. SOCIAL REPORT 2013 35 Description of the plant Basic information (PD 2.1) (PD 2.4) (PD was carried out on the principles of contracting 2.6) (PD 2.5) European companies on a turn-key basis. Attraction of advance experience and state-of-the-art technologies On January 2, 2012, based on the decision of the for the plant erection and its further development State Property Committee of the Republic of Belarus, allowed us to establish a unique industrial enterprise Republican Unitary Enterprise «Byelorussian Steel in the Republic of Belarus. Works» was reorganized in Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian Steel Works and on August 24, 2012 Description of the key production divisions (PD 2.2) after one more reorganization a registration entry about Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian From the point of view of its structure the plan Steel Works – management company of «Byelorussian consists of two main productions -metallurgical (steelmaking and rolling) and hardware production, infrastructural shops and divisions controlling vital activity of the enterprise. Steelmaking includes a scrap yard, two electric melt shops, and a technological transport shop. The rolling production consists of three rolling mills producing different sections and a pipe mill. Hardware production includes three steel wire shops and a tare and die shop. Configuration of the plant infrastructure is represented by shops repairing steelmaking, power and mechanical equipment, shops providing the production process with media and electric power and other divisions. Plant production ведущий аудитор фирмы Bureau Veritas В.А.Мельниченко catalogue includes: concast and hot-rolled billet, shaped rolled products, rolled sections, reinforcing material for concrete structures, pipe billet, wire rod, tire cord, hot-deformed seamless pipe, steel Metallurgical company» holding was made in the anchor and wavy fiber, microfiber and steel wire for Unified State Registry of Legal Entities and Individual various applications. Entrepreneurs. The top management body of the Company is general shareholders’ meeting. When the Republic of Belarus owns 100% of the Company shares, the decision of OJSC «BSW – management company the general shareholders’ meeting is a decision of of «BMC» holding the body carrying out owner’s supervision. Owner’s is located in the centre of Europe, in supervision of OJSC «BSW – management company the town of Zhlobin, Gomel region, 220 of «BMC» holding is carried out by the Ministry of kilometers away from Minsk –capital of Industry of the Republic of Belarus. Belarus. Total area of the plant production OJSC «BSW-Management Company of «BMC» site is 249,06 hectares. (EN 1) Holding is the largest enterprise not only in the Legal (postal) address of the Republic of Belarus, but also in Europe, and is a headquarters: basic enterprise for the national steelmaking. It has been among competent steel makers for almost three 37 Promyshlennaya str., Zhlobin, decades already. Its design, erection and provision Gomel region 247210, the Republic of with advanced equipment and up-to-date technology Belarus. and subsequent commissioning and warranty operation 36 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» Organizational structure of management holding is a highly technological steelmaking (PD 2.3) (PD 4.1) facility with a complete production cycle . A ll The organizational structure is based on a hierarchical production is carried out on a single production principle. The plant is headed by the general direcsite in the R epublic of B elarus which allows tor who acts in accordance with the national law and saving due to the scale of production and Articles of Association of Open Joint-Stock Company manufacture products with low expenses . A large «Byelorussian Steel Works – management company of set of production facilities makes it possible «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» holding, deto form flexible production flows taking into termines policy and objectives, distributes responsibilconsideration market condition and maintain ities and authority among heads of the plant divisions. stable amount of sales during a long period of As on December 31, 2013 total number of employees time . equals to 11896 people. (PD 2.8) General shareholders' Auditing committee meeting Supervisory Board Office work Assistant director General director Directorate Press secretary Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director Deputy general director for technical development – for FER and sales for economy and finances for personnel and ideological for hardware production of OJSC for commercial issues for technology and quality chief engineer of OJSC of OJSC «BSW-management of OJSC «BSW-management work of OJSC «BSW«BSW-management of OJSC «BSW-management management company of OJSC «BSW-management «BSW-management company company of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding of «BMC» holding company of «BMC» holding of «BMC» holding Marketing Associate general Associate general Director for capital Production director – director – director director for production Associate general construction – and technical issues – director for FER Head of the production head of (for economic safety Head of production Head of CCB department and contractual activity monitoring and corporate issues marketing dpt. and legal work) department Chief Chief Chief Chief Chief Deputy chief Deputy chief engineer for Deputy chief engineer for Chief specialist mechanical electrical power specialist specialist Chief specialist Chief specialist reconstruction engineer for labour protection, for transport Chief engineer engineer engineer for steelmaking for rolling and technical industrial safety for hardware for economic development logistics accountant revamping – and environment production issues of section rolling protection Head of D&RDpt. Capital Deputy chief SP&AD Repair CMEDpt. CEEDpt. CPEDpt. Production Labour Construction organization Steelmaking specialist Environment Accounting, Technical for rolling – protection board Marketing payment Personnel Board and technical department D&RB Product Legal board reporting board (TB) diagnostics Head of rolling and industrial Transport board organization board and control board logistics sales board board department sanitary board board department Planning and economic RMS MSEERS PS Rolling analysis Personnel Quality Repair and SY production Labour Consumables L&B Automation Rolling department development Auditing technical PTD TAS management construction board development protection RMPD and by-products and assessment Economic PAMD board department department department shop department department sales department safety board of PA “BSW” (RPTDD) and OJSC Staff “BSW” Material MERS MD&A PERS EMS-1 SRS Industrial Dispatch Finance board RWS training Housing TCD and resource safety SWS-1 and declaration and refresher department rating MTPD department department department training centre М TL NS&TMS EMS-2 Protocol Price Information Preschool Tender department Security CPL PM SWS-2 and visa and ideological establishment OKDSKS department department department work department sector EPD Radiation TA&EDL Mode RSPS Representative Chief Medical control adjustment SWS-3 office in Minsk МC metrological department service and Moscowv department lab Stores Written TDS “Metallurg” Nondestructive off TTP Tare Palace newspaper testing dismantling and of Culture dies shop editorial laboratory department office И сследоваEnergy тельский saving SHIF центр bureau Private trade and producti Private trade and Private agricultural Private construction Private transport on unitary enterprise “BSW Service Centre” production unitary enterprise “Metallurgtorg” unitary enterprise “Paporotnoe” unitary enterprise “Metallurgstroi” unitary enterprise “Metallurgtrans” Organizational structure is arranged according to hierarchical principle SOCIAL REPORT 2013 37 Description of the plant  Competitive advantages of OJSC «BSW – USD24,4 thousand. Indicator of relation of labor management company of «BMC» holding productivity growth rate in terms of gross added value and nominal salary charged was 0,593%. Volume Main competitive advantages: of produced goods as compared to the corresponding – strong position on global steel markets; period of 2012 was 81,1%, foreign trade balance – USD456 million. – favorable geographic position of the plant; The task of achieving the power saving target «minus – employees’ professionalism; 7%» was successfully fulfilled. The effect reached in 2013 is 50396 r.f.t., which in money terms made up – high competitiveness of products; approximately USD13,5 million. «It’s not a secret that 2013 Growth of sale volume of tire cord – one of the was not easy for steelmaking key types of products of the Company was 112,9% industry and the whole steel as compared to 2012. The existing global market market. In spite of the situation situation made the plant to apply maximum efforts BSW managed to show unique to the problem of selling profitably. Continuous qualities directed towards outlet monitoring allowed us to sell products of maintaining of its market posithe Company at competitive prices with consideration tions in terms of competitiveof regions and receiving countries, at the same time ness, flexibility, introduction maintaining our presence on the most significant of new types of products». outlets. (PD 4.11) During 12 months the plant sold products for USD1 billion 140 million to 60 Executive director of Bel-Kap-Steel (USA) countries of the world. The most attractive markets Vyacheslav Kushnaryov for BSW are as before European Union, the Russian Federation, the USA. – actual investment program; Transport-logistics scheme of steel export – wide range of production; of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding – high reputation among customers due to product quality level; Joint-ventures established with the help of the capital of Byelorussian Steel Works carry out – own commodity distribution network consisting of logistics including: insurance of exported-imported seven joint-ventures and nine distributors in Europe, goods, organization and fulfillment of exported America, CIS and South-East Asia. goods transportation from the plant to customers Approaches to provision of sustainable and fulfillment of imported products and returned development tare transportation from customers to OJSC In spite of difficulties related to the global financial «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding, crisis and aa large-scale modernization of production, customs clearance of exported-imported goods and tasks set forth were fulfilled and in general, returned tare, organization and servicing of buffer Byelorussian Steel Works worked quite well in and consignment warehouses and temporary stores, coordination of deliveries between the customer and 2013. Finished product stock reduced considerably: the seller, and settlement control. in May about 21800 tons of goods were stored, but in December – 6900 tons. According to the IFD, Goods transportation is carried out based on productivity was about USD88,9 thousand per person annual forwarding service contracts signed during and in terms of gross added value per employee – negotiations between joint-ventures and the Company 38 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS and a forwarding agent or based on the agreement and – «Best construction product of 2013»; confirmation of transportation rate by Byelorussian – «Best goods of the Republic of Belarus of 2013»; Steel Works. – «Best goods of the Republic of Belarus on markets Main condition for OJSC «BSW – management of the Russian Federation in 2013». (PD 2.10) company of «BMC» holding presence on the external market is provision of end customers with All Company activity naturally fits into the plant’s delivery and payment terms equivalent to those of corporate policy: production of high tech products key competitors who grant a delay of payment after with a high added value meeting the requirements delivery. of national and international customers, increase of profitability of the plant due to efficient use of Byelorussian Steel Works uses various means of resources, preservation of environment and provision transport so as to deliver goods to its customers: of a high level of living of the employees of the plant. automotive and combined (container) transportation, Results of 2013 clearly demonstrate that it is not railway and sea transportation. just a declaration. Automotive and combined (container) transportation Promising directions of marketing is used to deliver products to customers in the USA and European countries. Goods are transported by In 2013 export of marketable products of OJSC trucks to seaports of the Lithuanian Republic and «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding further transported by sea in containers by cargo equaled to 82,2%. Geography of export deliveries vessels. Own trucks are used for goods delivery and numbers 60 countries worldwide. Byelorussian external carriers are hired as well. Transportation of Steel Works supplied its products to the following goods is carried out on the basis of annual contracts regions: Europe (export share – 39,7%), Middle for transportation services. East (9,5%), Africa (5,0%), SEA (0,2%), America (5,8%), the Russian Federation (38,9%), the (PD 2.7) (PD 2.9) M any years of work on external markets , availability of own commodity Ukraine (0,9%). Key product markets are Europe, distribution network in different regions of the Middle East, and the Russian Federation. These world helped the plant to win the reputation of regions account for 88,1% of the total steel a reliable partner delivering high tech products export. and a distinguished international authority Marketing strategy of the Company is directed and cooperation with international financial towards maintenance and active increase of its establishments opened vast prospects for the presence on the existing sales markets and search enterprise to receive beneficial credit lines from for new economically profitable regions accompanied first class European banks. by growth of sales volumes via own commodity (PR 6-7) Belonging and high quality of products distribution network. In 2014 growth of steel delivered to countries of five continents of the consumption is forecasted as compared to 2013. world is confirmed by the trade mark of OJSC «BSW The biggest growth rate is expected in engineering – management company of «BMC» holding which is and construction. In 2013 a little recovery of registered in 63 countries worldwide. Efforts of steel consumption was seen. Consumption of steel the management and the whole team of employees in engineering and construction segments is mainly to increase product competitiveness and create supported by state injections and investments. In 2014 a positive image of the enterprise are marked with they forecast a gradual stabilization and growth on awards of national competitions in the nominations: the global steel market, for example, steel demand in (PD 2.10) Europe in 2014 will show improvement for the first  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 39 Description of the plant time during 3 years. Besides, global steel market still In particular, in 2013 634 635 tons of goods in the  faces the problem of overproduction which has not amount of USD 462 937 thousand were delivered been solved after demand improvement. At present to Europe (export share equaled to 39,7%), Middle excessive steel production in Europe equals to 30East – 206 278 tons in the amount of USD110 605 thousand (export share – 9,5%), Africa – 113 919 tons 50 million tons and in the world 300-500 million in the amount of USD 58 714 thousand (export share tons. – 5,0%), SEA – 2 765 tons in the amount of USD 2 Forecast of export of products of OJSC «BSW181 thousand (export share – 0,2%), America – 65 272 tons in the amount of USD 68 196 thousand (export management company of «BMC» holding in 2014 is share – 5,8%), the Russian Federation – 725 471 tons shown in the table below: 2014 Average annual Product type Export, USD Volume of sales, t sales price, thou. USD/t Cast billet and bloom 450 530 525,1 236 588 Rolled metal, mills 150, 320, 850 1 078 545 584,0 629 879 Seamless pipes 148 295 1059,4 157 108 Tire cord 750 005 190,7 142 998 Bead wire 33 333 1067,3 35 575 Hose wire 37 906 1289,0 48 862 Other steel wire 147 005 633,9 93 191 Total 2 645 619 508,1 1 344 201 OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding as in the amount of USD 454 178 thousand (export share ferrous metals producer occupies a niche of global steel – 38,9%), the Ukraine – 10 530 tons in the amount of consumption equal to sixteen hundredth per cent. Global USD 10 610 thousand (export share 0,9%). annual steel consumption per one citizen of the Republic Total sales via the CDN were 935 853 thousand tons of Belarus equals to 280 kg while one citizen of the of steel in the amount of USD 983 560 thousand. To a Earth consumes 210 kg a year. Changed macroeconomic great extent, BSW image as an enterprise selling only situation in the world forced the plant to get engaged high quality products helped to successfully promote in diversification of product delivery. As a result new our products on new outlets. steel markets were developed in 2013: Macedonia, Sudan, Chad, Gambia, and deliveries to Austria, Belgium, Great In particular, the following situation with selling Britain, Hungary, Denmark, Slovakia, Slovenia, Finland, products of OJSC «BSW – management company of France, Czechia, Switzerland, Iraq, Turkey, Tunisia, «BMC» holding on global markets existed: Morocco, Brazil and China were diversified. We managed to do this mainly due to availability of our own commodity In addition to joint-ventures and trade firms, steel distribution network CDN). Steel deliveries via own supplies were carried out under agreements with end CDN players were carried out through CIS, Europe, users via companies having own multibranch network America, Asia, Middle East and Africa. To a large extent, of steel depots in different countries of the world: successful promotion of our goods on the new markets Duferco, Arkas Trading Limited, Dismas Trading was supported by BSW image as an enterprise selling s.r.L, RMZ Vertriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., PISEC only high quality products Group GmbH. 40 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Table: Directions and structure of sales of OJSC «BSW-management com[any of «BMC» holding products in 2013 (PD 2.8) Product description Region of delivery Cast billet Europe, Middle East and Africa, SEA,CIS Bloom Middle East & SEA, Africa, CIS, Europe Rolled metal Middle East & SEA, CIS, Europe, Africa Seamless pipe USA, Europe, Middle East & Africa, SEA, CIS Tire cord Middle East & Africa, CIS, Europe, SEA Hose wire Europe, Middle East, SEA, CIS, USA Bead wire Europe, CIS Steel wire Europe, CIS, USA Main direction of promotion of products of OJSC 4. BELMET (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd., Shanghai, «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding to PRC, established in 2004, delivers hose wire and hotexternal markets is maintenance and active growth of deformed seamless pipes to South-East region. its presence on the existing sales markets and search 5. Togovyi Dom BMZ-Baltija, Shaulyai, Lithuania, for new economically efficient regions accompanied established in 2008, sells reinforcing bars, by increase of sales volume via own commodity steel wire, hot-deformed seamless pipe to Baltic distribution network. countries. Outside the Republic of Belarus, as on 01.01.2013 6. Togovyi Dom BMZ, St. Petersburg, Russian interests of Byelorussian Steel Works were Federation, was established in 2003. This firm was represented by 7 joint-ventures and trading firms with BSW capital in Germany, Austria, the USA, «Я долго работаю с БелорусChina, Lithuania and the Russian Federation which sell ским металлургическим завоmore than half of BSW products. дом, видел все шаги, которые он делал в своем развитии. 1. BELASTAHL Aussenhandel GmbH, Berlin, Germany, Тот высокий уровень, который завод сейчас имеет – это established in 1994, sells steel cord, bronzed wire результат слаженной работы и and hot-deformed seamless pipes to the north and ,конечно, большой успех всех north-west European region. его сотрудников» 2. BELMET Handelgesellschaft m.b.H., Linz, Austria, established in 1996, sells steel cord, bead wire, hose Директор компании RMZ Vertriebsgesellshaft wire and hot-deformed seamless pipes to south-west Эдуард Пинхасов European region. 3. BEL–KAP–STEEL, LLC., Miami, USA, established organized so as to ensure raw material safety of in 1998, sells steel cord to the USA as well as Byelorussian Steel Works, deliveries of scrap and reinforcing bars, wire rod, cast billet and hotmaterials. deformed seamless pipe to North and South America, Scandinavian countries, the Netherlands, Italy, 7. Togovyi Dom BMZ, Moscow, Russian Federation, Poland, Great Britain, Slovakia and Turkey. was established in 2007 so as to arrange sales of  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 41 Description of the plant finished products (reinforcing bars, steel wire and take place in the European Union which market has  hot-deformed seamless pipes) of OJSC «BSW – been in a very complicated situation for almost a year. management company of «BMC» holding in the Russian In general, European and Asian prices will gradually Federation. reduce the gap with a higher level of the North-American market in spite of a kickback of late as compared So as to increase the share of the plant export via to the performance in September. the commodity distribution network, first of all we focus on expansion of the number of joint-ventures, At Shanghai futures exchange, rebar futures to be distributors and improvement of the efficiency of their supplied in May 2014 will make up USD611 per ton. activity. So as to diversify steel sales and ensure the Longs quotations grow following iron ore price rise required level of sales, we plan to improve operation which remains at the level of USD135-139 per ton of the commodity distribution network cardinally by against the background of a high level of purchases 2015 and gradually stop working with independent by Chinese steel companies. traders (PD 2.5) Key factors which may influence increase of steel Tasks set for the joint-ventures regarding promotion of prices are improvement of economic performance and high-tech products of Byelorussian Steel Works and a steady growth of demand in a number of important expansion of product markets have been successfully consuming regions as well as decrease of Chinese fulfilled. Among priority tasks for 2014, is provision production. of export shipments of marketable products in the amount of 114-116%. Optimization of money flows Experts of Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank and Morby joint-ventures helps to improve reliability of gan Stanley think that global economy growth rate proceeds from customers and considerable reduction in 2014 will reach its 4-year maximum – 3,4% as comof settlement term. pared to less than 3% in 2013. Global GDP growth in 2013-2014 is given in the table below: So, having analyzed the key steel markets of the Company, we may say that the plant has strong Leader in economic performance improvement will be positions and large prospects. the USA where recovery of the national production and growth of consumer expenses take place, and Global markets tendencies economy of the Eurozone where for the first time Steel price growth forecast for the beginning of during three years GDP growth is awaited though not 2014 is possible and feasible and is supported not only as considerable as in the USA and PRC. Outside the by traditional seasonal factors but also by anticipated Eurozone, they expect acceleration of the economy industrial rise of the developed economies. Fixing of of Great Britain and stabilization (cessation of recesprices in the growth cycle (up to summer 2014) may be sion) of the largest economies of CIS. prevented by market oversaturation the main source In Asia some deceleration of Chinese economy is exof which remains China continuing to expand cheap pected due to its refusal from GDP rush, and growth export. MEPS is sure of steel price increase by apweakening in Japan after introduction of the consumpproximately 6% during five nearest months. Growth tion tax planned for April. A positive forecast of inwill obviously be uneven in the world – from a slight vestment banks is based on rather optimistic mood than increase in PRC being dominated by an excessive supply on actual economic preconditions. Organization of to a considerable rise in Europe. economic cooperation and development (OECD) lessIn North America price increase started in the secened its forecast of the global economy growth based ond half 2013, is expected to continue till the first on deceleration of the Chinese economy and a nummonths of 2014. Most significant rise will probably ber of other factors. In any case, anticipated growth 42 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Country 2013 (assessment) 2014 (forecast) Whole world 2,9% 3,4% USA 1,9% 2,5-3% Canada 1,7% 2,5% Eurozone -0,4% 1-1,5% Great Britain 1,4% 2,3% China 7,6% 7,2% Japan 1,8% 1,5% Korea 2% 2,8% of the global economy is yet very unstable and weak. North America remains the strongest market at least To a large extent it depends on the financial policy in terms of price levels. Recovery of industrial proand incentives chosen by the governments of large duction, exhausting of resources and reduction of countries. Thus, the USA plan to reduce amount of supplies from AK Steel and US Steel actively supeconomy stimulation, and Bank of England terminates ported prices in the 2nd half-year 2013. Macroecovalidity of subsidies in the area of mortgage crediting nomic factors are favorable to the coming year, but while Bank of Japan and European Central Bank may risks exist; possible increase of domestic supplies and increase their incentives. prospective growth of import may deliver a blow on prices. Nevertheless, many large steel companies make a rather positive assessment of future prospects of In Asia quotations are to a large extent determined the steel market. A more or less clear tendency to by Chinese prices that is why rise in Chinese prices steel consumption growth has after all formed in will play a positive role in the region in general. At the European Union. In November 2013, ILVA represent, Asian markets demonstrate a mixed situation: started its blast furnace No. 2 (1,5 million tons) in gradual market price rise supported not only by rise Taranto (Italy). Before that, German group Salzgitof scrap price but also by anticipated growth of doter resumed operation of the blast furnace «А» (2,2 mestic demand, continues in Japan and South Korea. million tons) in October, and ThyssenKrupp – blast As for China itself, by the end of the year demand furnace No. 9 in Duisburg (1,7 million tons). Restart growth was noted (apparent steel consumption grew of blast furnaces is a clear indication of confidence by 10% in Q1, by 8% in Q2 and by 14% in Q3 2013). of European steelmakers in recovery of domestic But today consumption growth in PRC may easily proconsumption. voke excessive supplies and another price drop. In December EC prices became stable: rebar – USD672 In the Middle East a positive impulse to stable conper ton, imported products – USD10-15 per ton less. sumption and price rise is given by reduction of tenOn the other hand, demand is still weak, buyers are sion in Syria, start of a peaceful dialog between Iran ready to purchase only small shipments. The conand the West and refusal of Egypt from introduction struction segment which is traditionally the key driver of rebar import duties. Besides, steel prices in Iran of the price growth, has not shown convincing signs reduced a little (billet – USD 641 per ton, rebar – of recovery yet. Moody’s forecasts growth of EuroUSD685 per ton) due to warming up of relations with zone GDP by up to 1,5% in 2014, growth of apparent the EU and the USA, but in Egypt rebar price jumped steel consumption by 1-2%. up to USD610-615 per ton CFR. (PD 2.7) (PD 2.9)  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 43 Description of the plant  Dates and events of 2013 April 1, 2013 – «Metallurg» hockey team became the silver prize winner of the 21st Open Championship of January 1, 2013 – two auxiliary shops merged: the the Republic of Belarus. power shop and the oxygen plant. A new structural subdivision was formed – energy department (EnD). April 5, 2013 – Gomel regional executive committee expressed gratitude to the work collective of BSW January 13, 2013 – «Metallurg» hockey team sucfor a considerable investment in social and economic cessfully played in the super-final of the Continental development of the region. Cup and took the second place in the prestige European tournament. April 16, 2013 – so as to implement investment project «Organization of a section bar production with January 24, 2013 – according to the results of an construction of a small-section mill» General Direcexpert assessment of EcoVadis (Michelin), BSW tor A.N. Savianok issued order No.340 to establish achievements in the social area in 2012 and in the area rolling shop No.2 (BRM-2). of environment protection exceeded the level determined by Michelin for suppliers in the purchasing chain. April 18, 2013 – 10 years since Byelorussian Steel Works receive the first ecological certificate in The achieved results show the level of a significant Gomel region. This event required a two-year work maturity of BSW in the area of social responsibility of the employees. BSW got two environment manageand environment and are an integral part of Michelin ment certificates at a time to evidence correspondence criteria for choosing suppliers. of the plant to the requirements of the international February 2013 – Byelorussian Steel Works became a standard ISO 14001-1996 and national standard STB laureate of the award of the Ministry of Industry of ISO 14001-2000. the Republic of Belarus in the area of science and enApril 17-18, 2013 – the fourth scientific conference gineering in 2012. This prize is awarded every year for of young employees was held at BSW. This forum development and introduction of new types of materigathered over 170 representatives of various strucals and technologies enabling the national science to tural subdivisions and students of leading higher instireach the international level and increase efficiency tutions of the country. of the industrial facility. April 20, 2013 – a national subbotnik was held at the February 11, 2013 – a new eighth ambulance room plant. was opened on the basis of the administrative building of electric melt shop No.1 (EMS-1) of Byelorussian April 25-28, 2013 – the second international children Steel Works. Here plant’s employees may receive the hockey tournament «Steel cup» for the awards of required medical assistance, including first aid. General Director of OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding A. N. Savianok was held in March 1, 2013 – based on the work results of 2012 Zhlobin. «Metallurg» was awarded bronze medals. Byelorussian Steel Works became the winner in the nomination «Best investor and exporter» among enMay 18, 2013 – at Belarusian industrial foterprises of Zhlobin and Zhlobin district. rum-2013 BSW was awarded a 1st degree diploma for the project «Development and introduction of March 28, 2013 – 10 years since establishment of the energotechnological modes of electric-arc furunitary enterprise «Metallurgtorg». nace operation aimed at increase of productivity April 1, 2013 – 20 years since commissioning of the of EAF-3 and reduction of power consumption for fourth stage of BSW: pump station. steel melting». 44 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS May 18, 2013 – Byelorussian Steel Works was awardcivil and erection work – USD7,9 million ed a diploma for active participation in the XIV InterAugust 2013 – based on the results of the annual national Exhibition «Spring in Gomel-2013» within the republican professional contest «Best construction framework of the X Gomel economic forum. product (article) of the year» welding reinforcing May 25, 2013 – based on the results of competitions bar class В500С for concrete reinforcement proheld by Gomel regional trade union organization, priduced by BSW was announced the best construction mary trade union organization of BSW was declared product of 2013. the best among 31 industrial enterprises of Gomel reAugust 29, 2013 – first audit of correspondence with gion in 2012. the Code of Ethics of Pirelli’s supplier was held at June 5, 2013 – coach of Zhlobin «Metallurg» was the plant. Requirements of the international standard pronounced the best coach of the season 2012-2013 of social responsibility SA8000 were met. of the open hockey championship of Belarus. September 6, 2013 – BSW primary organization with June 15, 2013 – based on the results of 2012 Prithe rights of a district committee of the Public Assovate joint-stock company «ROSAVA» – the largest ciation «Belarusian Republican Youth Union» became tire producer in the Ukraine – awarded the «excellent the winner of the Republican contest for the best prisupplier» rating Byelorussian Steel Works. mary organization of the PA «BRYU». June 21, 2013 – based on the results of 2012 the September 20, 2013 – 30 years since establishment of union of veterans of Byelorussian Steel Works bethe repair-mechanical shop (RMS). came the winner in the completion for the best primary December 12, 2013 – a parking for our 410 employorganization of Zhlobin district. ee’s private cars was put into operation at BSW. July 06, 2013 – the third traditional Open Day was General information about achievements held at BSW. and awards (PD 2.10) July 10, 2013 –50th birthday of the General Direc– Winner of the Competition for the RB Government tor of OJSC «Byelorussian Steel Works-management Award for Quality Achievements (2001, 2004, 2007); company of «BMC» holding A.N. Savianok. – Winner of the Competition for the RB Ministry of InJuly 18, 2013 – BRM (mill 850, team No.1) produced dustry Award for Quality Achievements (2001, 2004, 10-millionth ton of rolled steel since its commission2007, 2011); ing in 1987. – Winner of the competition «Best Products of the July 18, 2013 – an agreement was reached and corRepublic of Belarus» in the nomination «Technical Inresponding documents signed with Eurasian Bank of dustrial Products» (2002-201); Development regarding joint financing of the construction of the small section mill at BSW by EBD – Winner of the competition «Best Products of the and OJSC OAO Belarusbank. Republic of Belarus on the Market of the Russian Federation» in the nomination «Technical Industrial July 19, 2013 – a capsule with a message to our Products» (2001, 2003-2013); descendants was laid down in the foundation of airheating unit No. 3 of the limited liability joint-venture – Winner of The Badge of Honor Award «Common«BSW-OP». Cost of the project – over USD33,8 wealth Star» in the nomination «Best CIS Company» million, cost of equipment – USD19,4 million, cost of (2006;  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 45 Description of the plant  – Laureate of the CIS award for 2011 in the category – «Brand of the year-2010» and honorary diploma in «Manufacturing of industrial products (organization the category «Active social position»; numbering over 250 employees). – Since 2008 BMZ is a member of the Quality Leaders’ – Winner of the 3rd International Quality Tournament Club of Central and East European countries (CEE among CEE countries, holder of EFQM certificate «5 QLC); Star Excellence Acknowledgment in Europe» (2007); – Since 2011 BMZ is a member of European Fund of – Winner of the Competition for CIS Award for Quality Management (EFQM); Production and Services Quality Achievements – BMZ trade union organization became the win (2006/2007); ner of the republican contest «B est primary – Winner of the national competition «Best Exporttrade union organization of B elarusian trade er-2007» in the nomination «Machine Building, Metalunion of industrial workers for the period of lurgy and Metal Finishing»; 2010-2011; – Winner of the competition «Best Quality Manager» – laureate of the award of the Ministry of Industry (2007-2009); of the Republic of Belarus in the area of science and technique. It is awarded for development and intro– Winner of the 4th International Quality Tournament duction of new types of materials and methods helpamong CEE countries (2008); ing the national science to reach the global level – «5 Star Excellence Acknowledgment in Europe» by and improvement of the efficiency of the industrial the European Fund for Quality Management (EFQM) sector; -2009; – Winner of the 2nd place in the nomination «En– Winner of the national competition «Brand of the ergy-efficient and resource-saving technologies, year – 2009» in the nominations: equipment and materials in industry and power engineering» of the 9th international competition of • «Socially Responsible Brand» in the categoenergy-efficient and resource-saving technologies ries «Best employer» and «Active Social Position»; and equipment; • «Professional nomination, goods and services – 1st place winner in the nomination «Leader of export В2В»» in the category «Brand-export»; sales» among OJSC «Priorbank» customers; – Winner of the competition «Best Construction – According to the results of EcoVadis (Michelin) exProduct of the Year» (2010-2013); pert assessment, BSW achievements in social area and – Certificate of the 8th republican ecological forum in environment protection in 2012 exceeded the level set by Michelin for its suppliers. The results achieved «For a considerable contribution to the development demonstrate the level of a considerable maturity of and introduction of advanced technologies in the area of wastes handling»; BSW in the area of social responsibility and environment protection and are a component part of Michelin – Winner of the contest «Best exporter2011» of the criteria in selecting suppliers; RB in the nomination «Metallurgy»; – Excellence award of the European Fund of Quality – Winner of the contest «Best exporter2011» in Management (EFQM) of the level «5 -Star RecogniGomel region in the nomination «Metallurgy»; tion of Excellence»; 46 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – Winner of the competition «Best goods of Belarus vital activity among children the team of kindergaron markets of Russia – 2013» ten No.41 of OJSC «BSW-management company pf «BMC» holding won the 1st place; – Prize-winner (1st place) in the program of all-yearround sports and athletics meeting 2013 among enter– Based on the results of 2012, BSW was awarded prises and organizations of Zhlobin the title of the winner of the regional contest among pace-makers of the national economy in the nomination – Prize-winner (2nd place) in the VI republicans and «Best investor and exporter»; athletics meeting of Belarusian trade union of industrial workers; – Gomel regional executive committee expressed gratitude to the work collective of BSW for a consider– OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holdable investment in social and economic development of ing received a letter of appreciation of the Red Cross the region; for cooperation within the framework of the project «Regional initiative in the area of health protection in – August 29, 2013 – first audit of correspondence the Eurasian region» (support and expansion of poswith the Code of Ethics of Pirelli’s supplier was held sibilities of people having IDV»); at the plant. Requirements of the international standard of social responsibility SA8000 were met; – The largest bank of the country OJSC «ASB Belarusbank» gave the rank of the leader of bank servicing – September 6, 2013 – on the birthday of Belaruto OJSC «BSW-management company of BMC» holdsian Republican Youth Union, BSW primary orgaing based in the results of 2012; nization became the winner of the 1st Republican contest for the best primary organization of the – Folk chorus «Krynitsa» and dancing group «Kristall» PA «BRYU»; of the Palace of Culture of Metallurgists became laureates of the amateur group festival of the primary – August 2013 – based on the results of the annual trade union organizations of Belarusian trade union of republican professional contest «Best construction industrial workers (BTUIW); product (article) of the year» welding reinforcing bar class В500С for concrete reinforcement pro– June 21, 2013 – based on the results of 2012 the duced by BSW was announced the best construction union of veterans of Byelorussian Steel Works beproduct of 2013. (PD 2.10) came the winner in the completion for the best primary organization of Zhlobin district. –based on the results of competitions held by Gomel regional trade union organization, primary trade union organization of BSW was declared the best among 31 industrial enterprises of Gomel region in 2012; – based on the results of 2012 Private joint-stock company «ROSAVA» – the largest tire producer in the Ukraine – awarded the «excellent supplier» rating Byelorussian Steel Works; – On the regional stage of the contest «Safe Childhood» directed towards formation of elements of safe SOCIAL REPORT 2013 47 Management, obligations, interaction with interested parties Corporate management (PD 4.6) (PD 4.1) of Industry of the Republic of Belarus (Minprom). (PD 4.9) Minprom is a state authority of the public administration and is subordinated to the Council of Ministers of Corporate management of OJSC «BSW – management the Republic of Belarus. company of «BMC» holding is a package of processes ensuring management and control of the Company acMinprom pursues scientific, technical, and economic tivity. The Company authorities are: policies directed towards creation of conditions for efficient work of its subordinate national organiza– general shareholders’ meeting; tions. Minprom works out forecasts of production – supervisory board; and technical, financial and economic development of the corresponding branches of industry; develops and – executive bodies (directorate and general director). ensures implementation of investment programs aimed Control organ of the Company is the auditing commitat acceleration of scientific and technical progress, tee. General shareholders’ meeting is the top authorgrowth of product competitiveness, decrease of its ity of the Company. General management of OJSC materials and power consumption; provides pursue of «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in the scientific and technical policy directed towards between general shareholders’ meetings is carried out extension of the range of products manufactured, by the supervisory board. The supervisory board and improvement of their quality; organizes and controls the auditing committee are subordinated to the genwork to provide rational use of raw materials, auxeral shareholders’ meeting. Executive bodies are aciliary materials, fuel and power resources, accescountable to the general shareholders’ meeting and sories, involvement of secondary material resources the supervisory board and arrange fulfillment of deciand local types of raw materials in the economic sions of theses authorities. turnover; carries out general management of state organizations according to the established procedure Corporate management processes of OJSC «BSW providing their effective operation together with the – management company of «BMC» holding include remanagers of these organizations; coordinates foreign lations between the Ministry of Industry of the Reeconomic activity of state organizations and economic public of Belarus authority carrying out owner’s associations within its competence, helps them to essupervision the supervisory board, executive bodies tablish foreign economic relations, develop progres(management) and employees so as to achieve strategic sive forms of integration, organizes cooperation with purposes of the Company. Main aim of the Company acthe corresponding authorities of state administration tivity is to realize profit. The Company considers corof CIS countries; within its competence it organizes porate management to be a means to improve efficiency and coordinates work of state organizations and ecoof the enterprise activity and strengthen its reputanomic associations in the area of technical regulation tion. Corporate policy of OJSC «BSW – management and standardization, certification and product quality, company of «BMC» holding is based on continuous etc. improvement of the plant management system, which Improved effectiveness in the field of sustainable deefficiency is an important factor for improvement of velopment is ensured by an efficient corporate manthe investment activity of the Company. agement system. The executive bodies (the general As the Republic of Belarus owns 100% of shares of director, members of the directorate) carry out their OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdactivity adhering to the following approaches in coring, owner’s supervision is performed by the Ministry porate management: 48 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – compliance with legislation and statutory norms of of «BMC» holding aspires to ensure compliance with the Republic of Belarus as well as with the internainternational standards of business activities. The tional legal acts validated in the RB; Company has adopted and introduced into active use internal documents providing for fulfillment of ob– improvement of management quality; ligations concerning compliance with the corporate – involvement of all units and participants of business management principles. These documents are available processes; to general public on the plant’s web-site: www.belsteel.com . – improvement of the system of effectiveness evaluation; Our mission, as we see it, is to ensure sustainable development that would account for long-term econom– provision of effective distribution of profit; ic interests, contribute to social peace, and provide – updating the technological level of the production for safety and well-being of the plant’s employees and processes; citizens in the region of BSW production activities, environment and human rights protection. – expansion of production facilities with minimization of energy and raw material consumption levels; (PD 4.8) To achieve high indicators of long-term social and economic efficiency BSW strives for main– disclosure of complete and reliable information retaining of a reasonable balance of interests of all garding the Company performance; parties concerned by distribution of responsibilities – making the plant attractive for investment; and involvement of employees in accordance with the enterprise’s organizational structure, the Articles of – enhancing of responsibilities; Association of OJSC «BSW – management company – keeping up an open dialogue with the stakeholders; of «BMC» holding (as approved by the decision of the extraordinary general shareholders’ meeting of the – providing of the best possible output/expenditures Company in accordance with the order of the Ministry ratio; of Industry of the Republic of Belarus), Provisions on Structural Divisions of the plant and other norma– ensuring a reasonable balance between the plant’s tive acts. and public interests. To provide for trust and mutual understanding among Strategic and operational management of the plant’s activity is carried out by the Company general direcall interested parties, the plant follows the below tor Anatoly Savianok. principles of the Code of Ethics: – transparency – prompt provision of reliable informaLeadership of the Director General and down to the heads of divisions is based on the following: tion;; – accountability; – taking decisions within one’s competence; – justice – equal attitude; – establishing policies and specifying objectives to be recorded in the respective documentation, such as – responsibility – recognition of the rights and obligabusiness plan of OJSC «BSW – management company tions. of «BMC» holding, objectives of divisions; In its activities OJSC «BSW – management company – identifying resources (labour, infrastructure and  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 49 Management, obligations, interaction with interested parties  production environment) as required for planning and To provide for continuous evaluation of applicability, carrying out activities to achieve the goals set forth; adequacy, and efficiency of the system and updating of documentation, the top management carries out – determining processes of the CMS and providing for an analysis of the plant’s CMS performance. The their efficient functioning. performance analysis is carried out once a year and Qualifications, competence and activities of the once a half-year based on the requirements identified plant’s top management are evaluated by the authorin the Enterprise Standard STP 840-KSM-5.6 «Manity performing owner’s supervision, i.e. the Ministry agement analysis. Self-assessment of the corporate of Industry of the Republic of Belarus. Fringe benmanagement system». The results of the analysis are efits are paid out to the members of the supervisory presented as a Report on CMS Performance and a committee and executive authorities (the general diReport on CMS Self-assessment. Based on the analyrector, members of the directorate) depending on the sis results, corrective measures and preventive acefficiency of plant’s performance and compliance with tions to avoid unwanted events are identified so as to the indicators of social and economic development of improve efficiency of the CMS. The procedure for the Company. (PD 4.7) (PD 4.5) identifying the above actions is governed by STP 840KSM-8.5 «Continuous improvement. Data analysis. (PD 4.9) (PD 4.10) Internal control system for suPreventive and corrective actions». pervision of financial and economic activities of the Company comprises the audit committee and the interThe corporate management system existing at the nal auditing service. plant comprises documentation regulating processes, distribution of rights and obligations within the To ensure awareness of the top management of ecostaff, interaction of executors with all interested nomic efficiency, performance in the fields of environparties, responsibilities and powers of employees. mental protection, occupational safety, production CMS processes were determined with the use of quality control and to provide for interaction with IDEFO method, which ensures their proper sequence employees and operational decision-making, the plant and interaction: arranges monthly meetings of the management executives and heads of structural divisions. – А11 Marketing; Based on the global experience in the field of corpoА12 Management analysis; rate management, the plant introduced and is now imА21 Human resources management; plementing the Corporate Management System, which is in compliance with the requirements of ISO 9001, – А22 Maintenance and repairs; ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 26000. А23 Infrastructure and production environment Compliance of the plant’s activities with ISO 9001, management; ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO/TS 29001 interА31 Interaction with customers (contract analysis); national standards is validated by international audit companies, such as TUV Rheinland (Германия), BUА32 Design and development: REAU VERITAS CERTIFICATION (Great Britain), • А32/1 Design and development of new types American Petroleum Institute and others. BSW activiof products, new methods; ties confirming its adherence to the principles of UN Global Compact are represented in this report. • А32/2 Equipment design and development; 50 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – А33 «Procurement; Based on the self-assessment results, corrective actions were determined to improve the situation. А34 Production planning and preproduction activities; Based on the comprehensive social and psychological climate study carried out by the plant’s social service, the А35 Manufacture and supplies of concast billet; participating employees rated top management efficiency А36 Manufacture and supplies of rolled products; quite high (the satisfaction index was in the area of a high level) and equaled to 0,72 against 0,71 in 2012. А37 Manufacture and supplies of pipes; Communication (PD 4.4) А38 Manufacture and supplies of steel cord, wire and fiber; Approaches in the field of communication formation (PD 3.5) (PD 4.8) (PD 4.9) (PD 4.10) – А41 Internal audits; Corporate management is maintained by ensuring high А42 Process flow and production monitoring. levels of employees’ awareness. Organization of communication rests on the following principles: Self-assessment in terms of corporate management system efficiency for the year 2012 was carried out – good timing and regularity; based on EFQM Excellence Model with the use of the following evaluation criteria: reliability and comprehensiveness; 1. Criteria characteristic of the organization capabilifree accessibility; ties: feedback; management’s leadership; operational flexibility and availability. organization’s policy and strategy; High level of information work provides for: human resources; setting goals and assigning tasks, ensuring employees’ awareness of the performance results achieved; partnership and resources available; feedback; processes; – identifying actions for further improvement; 2. Criteria characteristic of the organization’s performance: discussions of focal issues; external customers; making proposals. internal customers; Information exchange is ensured by: benefits for the society; – meetings according to the schedules established in conformity with local regulations; basic performance indicators. – materials of the corporate newspaper «Metallurg»; According to the self-assessment, the total enterprise rate for the year 2013 amounted to 74,64% – weekly receptions on personal issues arranged by against 74,66% for the same period of the previous members of the executive authorities of the Company year, which corresponds to the «acceptable» rating. and heads of structural divisions;  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 51 Management, obligations, interaction with interested parties  – meetings and gatherings of the general director, Approach implementation members of the directorate, heads of boards with emThe executive authorities of the Company develop ployees in accordance with the approved schedule of internal communications using them as one of its mainformation activities; jor tools to encourage social partnership, maintain favorable social climate among the employees and – negotiations and consultations; to ensure efficient information exchange between discussions and «round tables»; the enterprise’s management and its employees. PD 4.1 – 4.16 Acting in accordance with the principles sociological polls; of the UN Global Compact, OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding provides free correspondence; access to any data, which is limited only by legisla– providing information placed on the stands located tion requirements. (PD 3.7). For the purposes of efficient performance, special attention is given in various structural divisions, representing perforto feedback. Being an essential element of the mance of the division and the plant in whole as well as enterprise’s policy, the feedback provides for an dynamics of their activities; enhanced mutual trust, consolidates and unites interested parties based on common public objectives, data transfer within the local computer network; values and interests. – use of «Info-BMZ» informational system covering Feedback channels comprise both traditional forms of over 3000 computerized work stations; communication with employees (conferences, informative meetings with participation of the plant’s top man– use of electronic displays with creeping lines. agement and public authorities, meetings of employees, Exchange of information and consultations on issues press conferences, «free microphone» events, etc.) related to quality control, occupational safety and and polls, interviews, «Direct Lines», when every environment protection, industrial safety and sanitasingle employee can ask the management questions tion, data security, energy and material resources and would be given irrefragable answers to them. To ensure timely response of the management in connecsaving, involving representatives of various managetion with any issue, comment and proposal raised or ment levels, employees and other interested parties, made by the plant’s employees, an automated «Signal» are aimed at the following: system was introduced which is active 24 hours a day. – understanding of one’s role and responsibility; Every person who has anything to say could make a phone call and state his/her request, make a comment, improving of awareness; a proposal, and those are considered within 15 days and the response is communicated either directly to engaging in efficiency improvement activities; the requesting person or through the plant’s local – illustrating of management’s obligations; newspaper «Metallurg. saving of energy and material resources; One more tool of feedback (or it’s better to say bidirectional communication) between the plant in the – ensuring of proper interaction of all management person of its management of different levels and the levels; staff is the plant’s web-site «Info-BMZ» with elements of a corporate social network. This tool creates mularranging of reporting activities; tiple and frequently new relations between the staff operational decision-making on current issues. and different working groups of the plant. These 52 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 600 514 500 Number of references (people) 400 380 298 300 250 200 192 100 83 72 72 58 52 16 0 10 6 6 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Direct Line Signal Handling staff Activity staff. feedback relations help to spread corporate knowledge and users not only to increase use of the information, but experience according to the method of «cross pollihave a possibility to comment, get feedback, create an nation» and create quite real commercial advantages. educational social network where specialists discuss Use of new platforms of social software within the important issues, council, and train recruits, create plant allow the corporate information activity factor documents, and suggest ideas. Satisfaction with work environment. 1,00 0,88 0,89 0,89 0,90 0,86 0,86 0,80 0,85 0,724 0,71 0,723 0,721 0,721 0,70 0,69 0,69 0,70 0,67 0,68 0,68 0,715 0,65 0,69 0,67 0,71 0,65 0,65 0,67 0,68 0,68 0,61 0,67 0,60 0,65 0,50 0,40 0,30 0,20 0,10 0,00 sanitaryconditions technical equipment level of labor mechanization schedule and mode of operation complex index of satisfaction with work environment 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (taget) SOCIAL REPORT 2013 53 Management, obligations, interaction with interested parties  Owing to the activity of the staff, the so called inforinformation acquisition and its results output . mation resource (content) is formed on the corporate The enterprise’s development level includes not only web-site which is the basic element of the corporate analysis of its financial, economic and production indisocial network and of the knowledge management syscators, but also the outcome of social studies, which tem. make it possible to obtain a realistic picture of the The site represents over 24 000 materials of techsocial and psychological climate and working envinical , normative , and housekeeping information . O n ronments and are part and parcel of self-consistent the average , 3 500 people visit the system every internal communications. Knowledge of the psychoday . «I nfo -BMZ» is a platform for carrying out logical background existing within the enterprise is of on line social polls among the plant ’ s employees essential significance when it comes to the need for which considerably enhance the efficiency of the no-conflict upgrading activities. PD 4.16, 4.17 Internal communication structure CMS Executive analysis authorities In-plant orders (instructions) I&IWD orders Days for Conferences, meetings (instructions) reception on personal Intercom telephony QMD Informative meetings DEP&OC Unified information day OSD, ISD “Metallurg” newspaper Heads of divisions “Direct line” Info-BMZ web-site E-mail Internet Information stands “Signal” and “Attention: people!” systems Divisions’ employees 54 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Internal communication structure tives set for the plant. Events and activities on both the in-plant and regional scales are represented in Regular enquiries conducted in plant’s divisions make such columns as: In the Country, Export Potential, it possible to obtain data on social well-being of its employees, levels of satisfaction with the working envi2013 – a Year of Economy, At Important Projects, ronment and utilities within the frames of the producProduction Renovation, Plant’s Board of Honor, International Exhibitions, Firsthand, Towards Customtion process as well as information on the social and ers, For Successful Business, Tomorrow Starts Topsychological climate. Results of the above enquiries day, Idea Generators, Labor Protection, Direct Line, are taken into consideration when developing social programs, projects and identifying actions to improve Live Honestly, Following the Letter of the Law, Visual Angle, Up the Career Ladder, In Public Organizaemployees’ working environment and living conditions tions, etc. Every quarter they prepare a subject page and when taking managerial decisions concerning both employees’ interests and interests of the enterprise «We chose life» which informs about harm of drugs and popularizing healthy way of living. Readers are in whole. very interested in the author’s projects: Countrymen, During the year, research fields in terms of plant emMan in a Mask, Reporter Changes Profession. The ployees’ opinions were identified as follows: general first issue of «Metallurg» was published in 1985 with social and psychological climate within the enterprise; circulation of 2000 copies. At present, its printing ofwork of the plant’s canteens, satisfaction of the staff fice increased the circulation to over 8 500 copies, with attitudes of employees towards the conditions, which means that almost every single family of specialnature and scope of works, their satisfaction with ists employed at OJSC «BSW – management company the working environment, as well as evaluation of the of «BMC» holding is able to get its own copy of the level of readiness to maintain order and cleanness of newspaper. The distribution area for the newspaper workplaces, provision of the production with a trained covers not only the plant’s production region, but management reserve, attitude of young specialists toalso Rogachyov and Svetlogorsk districts. Among its wards their working activity at the enterprise, towards readers one can mention the plant’s old-timers. For implementation of the plant’s youth program, towards their benefit, the plant’s trade union committee takes their personal development and professional growth out, at its own cost, an annual subscription for the perspectives; promotion opportunities, employees’ canewspaper. (PD 4.8) reer aspirations, satisfaction with the wage system and reward schemes existing at the plant. The research Since 2011 «Metallurg» has been issued with the topic activities also covered issues, such as dynamics of satpages «Corporate environment» describing the life of isfaction of BSW employees with healthcare services the enterprises – members of the holding «Byelorusprovided by the plant and improvement of BSW medical sian Metallurgical Company». They are issued every department work. So as to improve the system of relamonth. tions with the stockholders monitoring of the image of The editorial staff includes a TV-news team. Every OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdweek, local town TV channel «Nyuans» broadcasts ing among citizens of the region, effectiveness of its «BMZ News» program. Some stories about Byelorusactivity in the area of social responsibility, influence sian Steel Works are also shown in «Region» TV proon the community gram broadcast across the whole Gomel region. (LA 8) An important role in the internal and external In 2013 an information bulletin «March in step with communication system is attributed to the corporate us!» dedicated to implementation of the state youth newspaper «Metallurg.» Its main tasks include ensurpolicy at BSW was developed and issued. ing a comprehensive representation of events and activities within the enterprise and consolidation of the Events at OJSC «BSW – management company of staff working at OJSC «BSW – management company «BMC» holding and its market standing were highof «BMC» holding for the purpose of achieving objeclighted real-time on the plant’s web-site, in district,  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 55 Management, obligations, interaction with interested parties regional and republican periodicals, such as «Novyi formation of public significance (legal, scientific,  Den», «Gomelskaya Pravda», «Znamia Yunosti», «Retechnical, and cultural); spublika», etc. – rendering information services to the plant’s emCommunication functions are also maintained by the ployees, communities, and individual informing on difplant’s museum, active since 1999, which is intended ferent requests and interests; for preservation of the enterprise’s historical and cultural heritage and is actively engaged in vocational – support of the enterprise’s research activities, support of the plant’s innovative activity, providing with guidance activities, bringing up of the younger generainformation resources. tion to stay loyal to the plant and passing on labor traditions of the plant. The scientific and technical library of the Company has a reading and Internet halls. In 2013 the total The museum has exhibits highlighting the plant’s history and narrating about people who used to work library stock was 39138 copies. Book stock – 22858 volumes, technical documentation fund for operation here and contributed to its development at various times as well as about those who are still working for of equipment after reconstruction – 888 issues, electhe labor glory of the plant. The stories are illustronic documents – 108 issues. trated by numerous documents and photos scattered Main form of the library work is dissemination of adat stands. Much of the museum space is dedicated to vanced political, philosophic, scientific, intellectual awards, which the plant was honored with throughout and cultural views so as to introduce them into public the years of its production and social activities. mind and improve social activity of the citizens. Work In the museum, one can learn about all stages of BSW of the library is closely connected with the needs of and region’s development. There are numerous biothe plant and in general is determined by the tasks for graphical resources telling about famous people of future and prospects of the country and plant develthe plant, specimen products, prizes and gifts. opment up to 2015. Today the museum is a historical and cultural center So as to acquaint the employees with new arrivals, of the plant and the town where scientific-enlightening the plant’s library organizes exhibitions, viewings, work is carried out: excursions, exhibitions and shows «engineer hours’. For quick information retrieval of films about the plant. In 2013 the museum was visited an electronic library «ELBI» is used which helps to by 2628 people including representatives of the Eurany employee having access to the internal site «inasian Bank of Development and banks of Europe, trade fo-BMZ» to address to the data base covering over union federation of steelmakers of Estonia, representa80 thousand articles from various national and fortives of Belarusian, Russian and Ukrainian mass media, eign editions. ELBI provides over 650 actual techniGomel regional executive committee, Zhlobin district cal books, materials of international and specialized executive committee, pupils from secondary schools of technical conferences, bulletins of new arrivals to Zhlobin, students of HEE and Zhlobin state metallurgithe scientific-technical library, national and foreign cal college, etc. Totally, 57 delegations representing technical novelties for the plant employees. In 2012 our country and Germany, Italy, Russia, and the Ukraine a new version of ELBI started to operate: now it is visited the museum in 2012. realized as an independent information system. A uniA key role both in human resources and internal comversal subject heading list is developed which helps munications development belongs to the plant’s inforto find the required material quickly. The main page mation and training centre – the scientific and techniannounces new arrivals of the technical information, cal library. there are sections including various subheadings. Based on the materials of specialized journals, BullePriority directions in the work of the library are: tin of scientific-technical information is issued (BSTI) – access of the plant’s employees to all kinds of inwhere employees of the plant can find information 56 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS about new publications on steelmaking, economy, labor To provide for interaction with the international proprotection, environmental safety, etc. and read comfessional community and proper representation of its plete articles they get interested in which are located interest, the plant became a member of the following on the base of ELBI. In 2013 the plant subscribed to associations: 195 technical editions for its divisions (156 in 2012), about 60 of which are computerized and are located in – Belarusian Chamber of Commerce; ELBI. During 2013 the number of electronic library – Council of Business Cooperation Belarus EC; users exceeded 600 people, and the number of visits to ELBI pages amounted to 75160 (53900 visits in 2012). – Belarusian Association of Founders and Steelmakers; A list of new technical literature is published in Metallurg newspaper and info-BMZ, and is electronically – International Union of Steelmakers; mailed to the heads of structural divisions, leading – International Union of Rollermen; specialists of the Company with the help of network technologies. – Belarusian – German non-governmental Council of Business Cooperation The library of Byelorussia Steel Works closely cooperates with the regional and national technical li– World Steel Association (WSA; braries. – European Fund of Quality Management (EFQM); (PD 4.10) From the very beginning of its activity the plant – Quality Leaders Club of Central and Eastern Eupays much attention to the issues of communication develropean countries. opment and growth of the level of the staff awareness. Membership in the above organizations makes it posArrangements aimed at improvement of the informasible for the plant to ensure a more efficient reptional support of the employees are worked out on resentation of its interests on the global scale and the basis of assessment of its indicators and analysis to develop its business activities based on the global of the state of this activity. Every year plant’s sotrends and strategic tasks. ciological service carries out a complex study of the psychological atmosphere in the working teams of the Interaction with stakeholders (PD 3.5) (PD divisions. More than 1200 participants of this study 4.6) (PD 4.10) organized in 2013 highly estimated the level of awareStakeholders are establishments and individuals subness of the personnel (satisfaction index equaled to stantially influenced by the plant’s activities, whose 0,75, similar to 2012). actions could produce a certain effect on the plant’s Participation in external initiatives (PD 4.11) ability to ensure efficient implementation of its strate(PD 4.14) (PD 4.13) gies and to achieve objectives set. (PD 4.11) (PD 4.15) (PD 4.16) (PD 4.17) OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding has its representatives in various national-scale BSW corporate social responsibility is a systematic organizations, including all levels of legislative bodfunction within the complex scheme of social and ecoies, which makes it possible for the plant to take part nomic relations, which is effectively incorporated in in lawmaking, influence the decisions related to the the plant’s everyday activities and is performed by enregional economic development, establish open relasuring interaction with an extensive number of staketionships with authorities, thus providing for a steady holders. reduction of the risks associated with its activities. By providing for an efficient model of interaction with Economic, environmental and social charters joined by interested parties, it is possible to ensure a successthe plant are listed in section 8 of this report. ful implementation of plans, strategies and to achieve  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 57 Management, obligations, interaction with interested parties any objectives set. Byelorussian Steel Works forms extensive number of stakeholders. Among those, the  processes of interaction with interested parties acparties listed below are considered to be of major sigcording to the stages listed below: nificance: – setting of a strategic interaction task; – public authorities; – identification of interaction parties; – the Company employees; – setting of objectives and limits of interaction; – the trade union; – design of processes and involvement in interaction; – people living in the region of BSW production activities; – analysis and planning; – customers and suppliers; – evolvement of competence to encourage interaction; – educational establishments. – evaluation of results, corrective actions and reporting; BSW deems it especially important to keep up an open positive dialogue with interested parties and, in its re– ensuring of awareness of the interaction parties. lations with those, it is guided by the principles of the Code of Ethics. When identifying major interested parties, the plant accounted for their ability to influence the activities Awareness of interested parties’ opinions and due acof OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» count for those contribute greatly to the Company holding. The plant is engaged in interaction with an stability. External communication structure Governmental and Ministry of Trade National public local authorities industry Unions associations Federation Customers and suppliers; BSW carriers and contractors Managers Employees Organizations Trade Union Public organizations E-mail Mass media 58 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Striving for a more informed decision-making, OJSC interaction with interested parties was preparation and «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding republic discussion of the Corporate social report for ceives feedback from its employees, the government, the year 2012 participated by representatives of pubpublic authorities, public organizations, communities lic authorities, local community, Ministry of Industry and citizens. In 2013 the plant’s information services of the Republic of Belarus, suppliers and customers, conducted a number of social studies involving the public organizations and mass media. The preparatory plant’s employees and people living in the region of work in connection with the above report was an opthe plant’s production activities. (SO 1) portunity for the plant to check its system of interacWithin the frames of public hearings arranged for tion with stakeholders, made it possible to reveal its the purposes of social reporting, there was a poll weaknesses and strengths and to identify perspectives conducted with participation of a large number of infor its further development The report was presented terested parties (public authorities, suppliers and custo all interested parties of actual or prospective intomers, supervision agencies, public organizations and fluence on activities or development of OJSC «BSW representatives of communities). (PD 3.13) – management company of «BMC» holding, which was External communication structure an important step towards enhanced information openness and transparency. The Russian version of the To provide for awareness of public opinions shared report was also made available on the corporate site by people living in the region of the plant’s direct in(www.belsteel.com) and its English variant – on the fluence in connection with the plant’s production and UN Global Compact site. Public discussions on the resocial activities, its Corporate policy, ways it affects ported data arranged as public consultations provided the surrounding communities and for a more efficient for a proper feedback and awareness of interested interaction with interested parties, annual social study parties’ opinions related to the plant’s activities, its is conducted under the title «External influence exstrategic intents and its social responsibility system. erted by the enterprise on general public; town-scale (PD 3.4) (PD 3.13) image of the enterprise.» In 2013 representatives of public communities rated actions taken by the plant in Outcome of interaction with interested parties, key social responsibility field quite high. The study retopics and concerns together with respective results show that the enterprise enjoys favorable and sponse by various organizations can be found in secrespectful attitudes in terms of its activities; it has tions 9.3, 9.4 and 9.5. succeeded in forming a high prestige value of being emSocial safety and discipline (PD 4.9) (PD ployed by the enterprise and a scaled-up social status 4.17) of BSW employees as viewed by other people living in the region. One of the indicators of a significance of To ensure economic safety and prevent corrupt practhe enterprise is growth of the number of those who tices, the plant carries out its production and ecomanaged to visit the plant Moreover, the responses nomic activities based on principles of responsibility of the participants of the poll show that the most atand transparency. (SO 2) (SO 3) (SO 4) (SO 7) tractive factor of working at BSW is a high salary, professional growth perspective and a social package. In accordance with the recognized international principles of unhindered economic activities established by the It is a good tradition to arrange an open day on the eve UN Global Compact, OJSC «BSW – management comof the Metallurgists’ Day: anyone who wished to visit pany of «BMC» holding considers fair competition as a the plant get an opportunity to be acquainted with the prerequisite to provide for exercising of the right to history and the production of the flagship of Belaruentrepreneurial freedom. No legal sanctions have ever sian metallurgy. been imposed on the enterprise in connection with acOne more major event of 2013 in terms of establishing tions violating the fair competition principle. (PD 4.11)  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 59 Management, obligations, interaction with interested parties  In 2013 the plant continued to implement Directive special higher education. During 2013 over 70% of No. 1 dd. 11.03.2004 On Enhance Public Safety and the employees of the economic safety department were Discipline. It was not once that issues of labour and trained in policies and procedures related to human administrative discipline and occupational safety were rights. (SO 8) (PD 4.8 4.9) raised at administrative meetings, regular conferencCorruption counteraction program was elaborated es and head of divisions made reports in connection and is functioning at BSW, according to which continutherewith. In 2013 the total number of such issues ous monitoring of the results of financial and business considered amounted to 12. In pursuance of Directive activity of the enterprise is fulfilled, local normative acts regulating the procedure of preparation of bid «Provision of economic documents and selection of suppliers are updated. So safety of the enterprise, as to minimize business risks and fulfill control funcprevention of crimes and tions related to economic safety, a pre-contractual violations of the law in inspection of legitimacy of potential contractors and this area and participation study of agreements by the structural subdivisions in and struggle against of the plant is organized. A complex of measures are corruption are key goals of taken to prevent corruption and delinquency in all our board». divisions: a closer control of consumption of invenHead of the board of tory holdings is kept, unplanned random stock-taking legal support and economic safety of OJSC of assets is carried out, rotation of the employees of «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding commercial services of the Company takes place, inE.L. Apanasyuk formation of the organs of domestic affairs regarding financial investigations as well as facts of corruption crimes committed by the employees of the organizaNo. 1, indicators of labour and administrative discitions subordinated to the Ministry of Industry submitpline and occupational safety were included into the ted by the public prosecutor’s office is studied. list of criteria used for evaluation of the management efficiency. Violation of the above criteria is strictly Implementation of the Program is monitored by the punished, up to early termination of labour contracts. committee for prevention of corrupt practices, which held 5 meetings in 2013. Guided by the Directive on Measures to Enhance Public Safety and Discipline, the law of the Republic of Due to openness, transparency, partnership and muBelarus on Corrupt Practices Counteractions and in tual taking into account of interests of all stakeholdsupport of the principles of the UN Global Compact, ers, according to the information of the law machinthe plant formed a department intended for prevenery of the Republic of Belarus in 2013 no commercial tion of corrupt practices and abuse, risk optimization crimes committed by employees of OJSC «BSW – manin connection with the selection of suppliers and cusagement company of «BMC» holding in the Company tomers of goods under severe competition observed were recorded. at the trading markets, and preservation of the stateIn this connection the Company takes unprecedented owned property managed by the enterprise. measures to prevent further corruption crimes and The existing economic safety department excludes unlawful actions. All employees of the plant are acany possibility of malpractice including corruption as quainted with the content of Articles 20, 21, 23, 24 of regards new recruits and people working at OJSC the law of the Republic of Belarus «About struggle «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding. against corruption» and corresponding articles of More than 90% the safety department employees have the Criminal Code of the Republic of Belarus and man60 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS agers bear personal responsibility for that. A memo is located on the internal site of «infoBMZ» and over «Corruption is a social 3500 employees have a constant access to it; in 2013 disease similar to theft, 56 managers and specialists were trained in legal and hard drinking and illegality. organizational issues of prevention of corruption It is necessary to take all possible measures directed crimes on the basis of educational establishment. In towards extermination of the course of training of foremen and their reserve, corruption as a social at the course «Linear manager», study of legal and phenomenon». organizational aspects of the struggle against corruption is foreseen, In 2013 50 people were trained at such courses. Deputy head of the board of legal support and economic safety of OJSC «BSW-management When personnel decisions are taken as regards percompany of «BMC» holding O.P. Prokopov sons occupying leading positions, an obligatory evaluation of the efficiency of measures taken by them so Ensuring fulfillment of the assumed obligations to the as to ensure observation of the anticorruption law is investors, its employees, business partners, and the carried out. society in general, the plant strictly adheres to applicable legislation, civil regulations, business Code of No fines or sanctions were imposed on the plant in Ethics and pursues the principles of efficient manageconnection with violation of laws or statutory rement, information transparency, financial discipline, quirements in 2013. legitimacy and ethicality. SOCIAL REPORT 2013 61 Indicators of effectiveness in the area of social responsibility Corporate social responsibility (PD 4.10) ensuring ecological as well as occupational and health safety in regions of active production; OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding regards corporate social responsibility as the to– minimizing financial and non-financial risks, enhancing tal of obligations and decisions taken with participation competitiveness of the plant’s production; of interested parties, which are aimed at implementaimplementation of social and charity initiatives; tion of internal and external programmes to contribute to the plant’s development and scale its status up. – providing for positive cooperation with all interested parties (stakeholders); Social responsibility covers a wide range of actions taken by the Company in the economic, social and ecoavailability of information, openness and transparlogical fields and provides for a responsible business ency. conduct, which ensures its sustainable development Actions which Byelorussian Steel Works undertakes with due account for expectations of all interested in the economic, ecological and social fields as well parties. Byelorussian Steel Works considers introas interaction with internal and external interested duction of corporate responsibility principles into parties and measures taken to ensure their awareness its business practice to be an essential prerequisite of the Company performance are the key fields of corfor efficient management. Decisions concerned with porate social responsibility implementation. social responsibility can be made at each of the management levels. Production and economic decisions Corporate social responsibility concepts for ecoare taken in the context of social and ecological nomic, ecological and social activities are governed consequences both for the plant and the other inby the legislation of the Republic of Belarus, branch terested parties. and corporate regulations, international standards Corporate social responsibility is one of the most imISO 9000, ISO 14000, OHSAS 18000, SA 8000, ISO portant principles OJSC «BSW – management com26000 series and stipulate the need for evaluation and analysis of the plant’s effectiveness. pany of «BMC» holding relies on in its activities. Measures taken by the Company in this field are of regular character and are intended for establishing a safe and efficient working environment, ensuring professional development of its employees, providing support for sports and culture facilities, environmental protection and regional development. In the field of social responsibility, BSW activities are based on the following approaches: (PD 4.16) – compliance with legislation and statutory norms of the Republic of Belarus; enhancement of business processes efficiency and investment attractiveness of the plant; – enhancement of the plant’s reputation and confidence in it; 62 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Economic activity The plant’s strategic objective in its economic activision-making set up enhanced requirements regarding ties is to provide for as much stability and efficiency the employees irrespective of their departments. The of development as possible and to achieve high finanplant’s economic team is composed of skilled, highly cial results, at the same time to ensure a reasonable qualified specialists having a higher education. They balance of interests of all parties concerned and satare regularly trained in policies and procedures conisfy social and economic needs of civil and business nected with the issues of production efficiency and communities in the regions of its active production. business processes effectiveness. OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdFinancial-economic activity ing believes social responsibility to be an integral part Main tasks of the plant in 2013 were: maintenance of its business strategy and corporate ethics, with the of production, search of new customers, strict savlatter based on the principles of decency, justice and ing of means at each work place, strong saving of all honesty implemented in relations with its partners and material and power resources, strict observation of competitors. financial discipline by tough control of fulfillment In its economic activity, the Company relies on the RB legislation, stability and production development fac«Today BSW is one of the tors, economic feasibility as well as its responsibilities leaders in terms of amount assumed before the owner, investors, employees and of industrial output among business partners, local communities and other interBelarusian enterprises. Proving ested parties. its high level, the plant continues to grow its potential: just during Economic development of the plant is understood as a fue years it has implemented a ensuring of increased profitability by ramping up mannumber of important investment ufacture of high-technology products as required by projects allowing increase of the strategy and enhanced production efficiency. the product output, improve product quality and strengthen In its economic activity, Byelorussian Steel Works imits position on sales markets». plements approaches as follows: compliance with the legislation and statutory norms Minister of Industry of the Republic of Belarus D.S. Katerinich of the Republic of Belarus; – involvement of all production segments and business process participants; of the budget of cash flow. 2013 is characterized by difficult conditions on the international market, drop complete and reliable disclosure of the plant’s perof business activity, decrease of demand of the engiformance information; neering sector and as a result drop of steel prices. – enhanced responsibility; This lead to some reduction of economic indicators as compared to 2012. So as to oppose all negative proensuring of the best possible expenditure/economic cesses on international markets, the plant worked out performance ratio; an integrated program of measures aimed at stabilizamaintaining of the plant’s interests in reasonable baltion and development of production and reduction of ance with those of the community. product prime cost. An overall increase in production rates, operational Strict control of fulfillment of the program at all intensity and production quality, technical sophisticalevels gave a positive result. Economic effect of the tion of the production processes, and speed up decimeasures directed towards decrease of prime cost in SOCIAL REPORT 2013 63 Economic activity  2013 was USD62,3 million. The saving was achieved ing had a direct effect on the outcome of the Company due to production output growth and improvement of activity. The plant experienced considerable difficulthe production processes as well as due to fulfillties in servicing accounts payable. In the conditions ment of energy-saving measures and decrease of genof reconstruction carried out to develop production eral production and business expenses. technology, support product quality and competitiveTo obtain a substantiated expert opinion concerning ness, decrease of production output and prices inevthe representation of the results of financial acitably lead to the progressing growth of accounts countability, an international independent auditing payable, impairment of liquidity indicators, deficit of company carries out audits at OJSC «BSW – managecirculating assets and instability of payments. ment company of «BMC» holding in accordance with the requirements of the International finance reportIn the result of a large-scale reconstruction of the ing standards (IFRS). key production units and the long stoppages required in this relation, the plant had to decrease amount of Top management is informed about production and fioutput and sales as compared to 2012. In the reportnancial-economic activity by means of monthly summary ing period product sales reduced by 395 903 tons or reviews, economic councils, and analytical reporting. 84,8 %. For the purposes of communication development and expanding opportunities of interaction with Key indicators the interested parties, employees’ professional In spite of all difficulties, based on the results of 2013 advancement and exchange of experience, OJSC BSW arranges annual international scientific conthe plant fulfilled most of the indicators set. Producference «Metal.» Apart from participants from the tion rate growth in comparable prices based on the CIS countries, the «Economics and Finance» secannual results was 83,5%. Marketable product sales tion of the conference includes specialists from proceeds made up USD 1 548,172 million. Production the plant’s financial, economic and marketing deof steel amounted to 2 242 thousand tons, Investpartments. During the conference, its participants ments in the fixed assets made up more than USD344,6 make reports on current issues and exchange their thousand which exceeds the target set. Foreign trade experience in implementation of strategic objectives balance was USD452,5 million, and general of the and introduction of recent engineering solutions holding USD565,9 million. Power saving indicator in the field of sustainable production development was minus 7,0 % (the target minus 8,0). and corporate social responsibility. Economic efficiency 2013 1548,2 In 2013 steelmaking industry found itself in another 2012 1892,7 turn of production decline. Enterprises faced two serious problems – European debt crisis and reduction 2011 2040 of growth rate of the global economy on the one hand, 2010 1567 and the crisis in of overproduction in the steelmaking sector itself. This situation practically brought down 2009 1126 ferrous metals market in all product segments. 2008 2027 Byelorussian Steel Works is closely integrated in the 0 500 1000 1500 2000 global steel market (over 80% of products is exportDynamics of proceeds of products, ed), that is why events of crisis in the global steelmakworks and services sale, USD mln 64 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Sponsorhip and charity Taxes from profit and other 34% compulsory payments 24% Financing of fixed assets 4% Social area and needs of the collective 38% Use of profit for 2012 Self-cost of the products, works and services sold Net profit due to sales profitability dropped from decreased by 14,0%, subject to reduction of product 0,25% in 2012 to minus 0,66% in 2013. sales by 15,2 % (in natural terms). Taking into account actual losses for 2013, undisProfit tributed profit of previous years at the disposal of the Company was used (see the diagram). Sales proceeds in 2013 made up USD 31,6 million. Cost-efficiency of the sold products equaled to In spite of a worse financial situation in 2013, OJSC 2,2%. Low profitability level was caused by a price «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding consituation on outlets. In 2013 currency proceeds tinued to sponsor enterprises of the holding, medical loss and subsequent profit from price reduction was establishments and continued to build FTC in Zhlobin. USD101,6 million which is practically commeasurable Total amount of sponsor and charitable assistance with earnings from monthly product sales. equaled to USD1,2 million. Net loss of OJSC «BSW – management company of I n 2013 the enterprise disbursed payments to its «BMC» holding in 2013 equaled to USD9,8 million. employees in the amount of USD9,1 million includThis result is conditioned on the macroeconomic siting remuneration based on the annual results, uation. To minimize after-effects of the negative macstimulating and compensating payments , additional roeconomic factors on the financial results, the enpayments to non working pensioners , as well as terprise pursues the policy of strict assets saving, maintenance of social facilities in the amount of measures for reduction of self-cost are developed USD7,9 million . and strictly controlled. Economic effect of the Payment to the owner measures introduced in 2013 amounts to USD62,3 million or 4,3% of the product self-cost. But this In compliance with the existing law the enterprise is not enough for a complete compensation of the transferred a part of its profit (dividends) in the consequences of external market price reduction. amount of USD 1,6 million.  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 65 Economic activity  Taxes and compulsory payments Results of the cost efficiency evaluation given in the project were calculated for the basic pricing condiOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» tions, effective at the time of business plan validation. holding is a responsible taxpayer and provides for However, as projects proceed to subsequent stagconsolidation of the state’s financial foundation by es of implementation, these pricing conditions could regular tax payments made into budgets of various change due to global economic changes. Based on the levels. Timely and correct tax payment by the plant above, it was important and essential to carry out a in favor of the state determines economic stability reliability (sensitivity) analysis, providing for evaluain the region of its active production activity and in tion of possible effects on project efficiency due to particular opportunities of infrastructure develvariations of external factors and identification of acopment by regional and local authorities. In 2013 ceptable and critical scopes of changes. the Company transferred oncome tax amounting to USD12,1 million (Br107,1 billion), USD33,4 million When carrying out the sensitivity analysis, possible (Br296,6 billion) to the population social protection changes in the following factors of major influence fund, tax on earnings in the amount of USD6,2 milon economic indicators were considered: lion (Br55,5 billion.). – selling price as a factor which is most susceptible to Enterprise’s risks changes due to metal market variations; Investment risks – production costs, which depend on prices for meltAny project implementation is associated with cering stock, energy resources and other materials and tain organizational, technological and financial risks services essential for the production processes; However, investment projects launched by OJSC – investment amounts which largely depend on con«BSW – management company of «BMC» holding are tractual prices for equipment; implemented at an operating enterprise which has sufficient experience in use of the process equipment and – debt-to-equity ratio. construction of new production facilities. That’s why The sensitivity analysis included evaluations concerned organizational, technical and technological risks are with the ways in which the above factors influence the of little significance in this case. High qualifications two major efficiency indices – simple pay-back period of the enterprise’s employees, application of modern and internal rate of return. technological, organizational and administrative solutions in the production activities ensure enhanced efIndustry risks ficiency and sustainability of the implemented projects Metallurgic industry is distinguished by its susceptibilagainst probable contingencies, while availability of ity to cyclic variations of prices for raw materials and invested funds makes it possible to minimize any finansteel. Demand for steel is determined by country-special risks. cific levels of economic development and consumption To mitigate and account for probable risk effects in by major steel-consuming industries. Variations in raw business-plans, the Company carries out multi-variant materials prices are of significant influence on the ficalculations to identify projects’ financial perfornancial-economic state of Belarusian steelmaking as mance and efficiency indicators against various varimost of raw materials consumed by steel works are able factors (capital input amounts, product selling imported. Recently, steel pricing trends have been price, manufacturing costs, debt-to-equity ratios). rather unfavorable. That’s why potential metallur66 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS gy-inherent risks due to cyclic price reductions are scrap suppliers and (or) bound by certain geographistill present. At the same time, world’s market priccal limits of scrap-supplying regions. es for primary raw materials and consumables used By consolidating, manufacturers of metal products by the plant, namely for scrap metal, cast iron and provide for a reduction of risks associated with marferroalloys, are exhibiting a growth trend. Reducket environments, however, for Belarusian entertion of prices for metal products with simultaneous prises the said risks still present a certain hazard. increase of raw materials prices significantly affects Concentration of mining companies and take-over of the enterprise’s operational activities and its financial scrap-producing enterprises by steelmaking companies performance. can result in an additional increase in prices for raw Along with the price variations, steelmaking, on a materials with rather limited alternative opportunities global scale, faces risks of excessive production cafor steel raw material supplies. Lately, metallurgic pacities. Currently, a bunch of new large enterprises enterprises are more and more actively engaging in appeared all around the world, while a great number modernization of the equipment installed at the enterof leading producers have plans for a substantial prises of their scrap metal suppliers and in activities in expansion of their production capacities, particularconnection with take-over of the most efficient scrap ly, those associated with manufacture of reinforcing producing companies. bars. With a view to advances in steel production So, it is possible to minimize the above risks by developtechnologies and transition from blast-furnace and ing a scrap-producing network of one’s own. Industry open-hearth furnace melting of cast irons and steels risk management should be based on establishing longto electric furnace melting, giving steels of improved term and mutually beneficial relations with major supquality, scrap metal acquires still more significance. pliers and optimization of procurement and resource Alongside with that, resource-saving technologies management processes. introduced at industrial enterprises result in relatively reduced scrap production rates in developed The fact that metal production is partly intended for countries with simultaneous growth of demand for in-country supplies, where prices are regulated by the unused metal. Consequently, Europe is experiencing state, accounts for respective risks, which, just like an unsatisfied demand for metallurgic raw materials, on foreign markets, are associated with possible negsuch as scrap metal. The planned steelmaking industry ative effects due to price variations. And this could expansion (increases in melting capacities at the alproduce a certain effect on the enterprise’s activities. ready existing plants, construction of new enterprisHowever, with a view to gradual transition to the mares equipped with electric furnaces), first of all, in the ket-controlled price setting observed in the republic, European part of the Russian Federation, aggravate it is possible to consider this risk as negligible. the situation even more and could result in total terCountry and regional risks mination of scrap metal supplies from the Russian Federation. Besides, supplies of this kind of raw materials Production and business activities of OJSC «BSW – in most countries are either substantially monopolized management company of «BMC» holding are largely (in Belarus, for instance, these activities are repredependent on cooperation with Russia. Such close sented by a single enterprise – Belvtormet) or under interaction with a single independent region presents a stringent state control (licensing of activities, setcertain risks associated with differences in legislation ting export quotas, export duties levied). As a result, and regulatory framework, which could affect susconsumers are rather dependent on a limited group of tainable development of the enterprise. The perspec SOCIAL REPORT 2013 67 Economic activity  tives of a common customs space and further economic activities involve high-temperature processes, invasive integration will make it possible in time to consider chemicals, volatile by-product emissions and require such risks as negligible. special arrangements in connection with disposal of Besides, geographical position of the Republic of Besolid and liquid industrial waste. Due to the above, steelmaking enterprises have to provide for strict larus will contribute to minimization of regional economic risks and possible effects on the enterprise’s compliance with rather stringent regulations with reactivities resulting from them. Priorities will include gard to labour protection, industrial and fire safety flexible supply geography, ensuring prompt response and environmental protection. to the environment’s challenges and protection Ecological requirements include compulsory payments against possible regional crises. for air and land pollution and installation and modernWinter supplies of major raw materials can be affectization of special pollution-control equipment. Should ed by weather conditions. To minimize risks associated any critical concentrations set for industrial wastes with interrupted raw materials supplies, it is essential be exceeded, the enterprise will have to pay fines. Posto provide for availability of «winter buffer» reserves sible reinforcement of environmental regulations and of such raw materials. lowering of critical pollutant concentrations could Legal risks result in increased amounts of obligatory payments and fines stipulated for violations of law. Notwithstanding the state-implemented policy aimed at reduction of tax burden assumed by economic entities Financial support provided of the Republic of Belarus, legal provisions on taxes by the Government and duties are constantly changing. Every year, an enWithin the framework of the state program of innovatirely new package of tax regulations comes into force tive development of the Republic of Belarus approved and the previous regulations are amended. At that, the by resolution No. 669 «About the state program of amendments are partly for the benefit of taxpayers innovative development of the Republic of Belarus and partly – to their disadvantage. Similar situation is observed in the field of tax administration. Howevfor 2011-2015» dd. May 26, 2011 of the Council of er, taken the state’s aspiration to ensure a sustainable Ministers of the Republic of Belarus, BSW started growth of production rates and the stable political to implement the investment project «Building of a situation, a significant increase in the enterprise’s tosmall-section wire mill at Open Joint-Stock Company tal tax burden in the near future is highly improbable. «Byelorussian Steel Works» since May 2012. Also, one could consider as negligible those risks In the result of the expertise a positive conclusion of which are associated with changes in the regulatory the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Belarus framework as related to customs control. But there No. 23-02-12/4902 dd. 30.06.2012 was made and imare certain risks associated with customs regulations plementation of the above project was supported by and duties in the countries of the enterprise’s exports. the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus, Industrial safety, labour protection and State Council of Experts in engineering and metal ecological risks working and the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Belarus. We are aware that metallurgy is a potential hazard to the environment and people, as such production Planning of the realization procedure of this project 68 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS was carried out with consideration of tax and customs of the government of the Republic of Belarus» and privileges in connection with entering into an agreeresolution No. 584 «About granting a guarantee of ment with Gomel regional executive committee in acthe government of the Republic of Belarus», in 2013 cordance with Decree of the President of the Repubthe government of the Republic of Belarus issued lic of Belarus No. 10 «About creation of additional guarantees of repayment of 10-year loans granted conditions for investment activity in the Republic of by the above banks for financing of the investment Belarus» dd. 06.08.2009. project «Arrangement of rolled section production with construction of a small-section mill» to Eurasian In accordance with the resolution No.1001 dd. NoBank of Development and OJSC «Savings Bank «Bevember 21, 2013 of the Council of Ministers of the larusbank». Republic of Belarus, Open Joint-Stock Company «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding is Presence on markets included in the List of legal entities implementing Marketing strategy of BSW is directed towards reinvestment projects which starting with January 1, tention and active growth of its presence on the exist2011 receive compensation of bank credits pursuant ing market outlets as well as search for new, economto resolutions of the Council of Ministers of the ically profitable regions. Traditionally, key markets Republic of Belarus; the list was approved by resof OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» olution No. 1262 dd. September 20, 2011 «About holding are European countries and CIS. some measures for realization of Decree of the President No.231 dd. June 6, 2011. December 30 Similar to previous years, range of products sold 2013 the Company received compensation of the inin 2014 was represented by the following: cast bilterest for use of bank credits for implementation of let and bloom, reinforcing bar, wire rod, structural the project of construction of a small-section mill rolled section, seamless pipe, tire cord, bead wire, in the amount of Br55,8 billion. hose wire, other steel wire and its produce. Key segThe above amount of state support received by Open ments consuming BSW products will be steelmaking, Joint-Stock company «BSW-management company of construction, engineering, oil and gas industry, tire «BMC» holding reduced the net loss generated due making, and industrial rubber industry. to the plant’s activity in January-December 2013 and In 2014 steel consumption is expected to grow due allowed the Company to use this source of assets characterized by an insignificant recovery. The bigfor financing of the complex program of modernizagest growth rate is supposed in engineering and tion of the existing working place and arrangement construction. Steel consumption in engineering and of new highly-efficient working place started in 2012 construction is maintained mainly due to state injecwithout attraction of additional credit amounts in tions and investments. If price situation in 2013 is 2014 and not to distract circulating assets from considered, price growth phase ended in autumn. the current activity and to decrease own financial Forecast for 2014 speak about gradual stabilizaexpenditures. tion and growth on the steel global market. For the Pursuant to Resolution No.583 dd. July 4, 2013 first time during last three years steel demand in «About attraction of a loan of Eurasian Bank of DeEurope will demonstrate improvement. Since summer velopment and granting a guarantee of its repayment 2013, customers started to fill warehouses and in  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 69 Economic activity  this relation steel price recovery is forecasted for Based on BSW long-term work with customers, a the beginning of 2014. Besides, global steel market clients’ base for the coming contractual campaign still faces the problem of overproduction which has has been formed considering reliability of a consumnot been resolved even after some improvement of er company, its ability to pay and fulfill obligations demand and application of measures aimed at demand undertaken, possibility to work in case of a declining and supply balancing. According to European Steel market and positive dynamics of development. Taking Federation, excessive steel production capacities in into account experience acquired in steel sales, a list Europe equal to 20-40 million tons, in the world – of permanent customers is formed and approved; the 300-500 million tons. customers are assigned the name of a joint-venture, trading firm, distributor, trader, end user depending For diversification and more effective sales level, the on the task set and results achieved. plant management planed reorganization and a number of measures to improve effectiveness of own commodRecovery of price levels is anticipated in the second ity distribution network activity in 2014. half of 2014. It is expected that steel makers will reduce production a little in winter and during the first Contract campaign for 2014 at BSW directed tohalf of 2014. This will balance demand and supply in wards maintaining and active growth of its pres the coming year. Price growth will continue during ence on the existing outlets and search for new , QII and QIII supported by anticipated growth of raw economically effective markets . F rom the point material consumption traditional for this period. of view of geographical position and taking into consideration logistics and product supply , next Optimism is inspired by mediumand long-term foreyear the most interesting markets will be E uro casts. According to forecasts, average annual Globpean countries , M iddle E ast and CIS. C onsider al All Products Composite steel price, will grow by ing prospects of development of one or another approximately 4% in 2014 as compared to the similar region , the plant carries out constant monitor performance indicator of 2013. This growth shall ing of prices , participates in exhibitions so as to terminate reduction continuing during two sequential strengthen its positions and increase volumes of years. steel supplies to these regions . According to MEPS International Steel Review foreTo achieve the planned performance and taking into cast, since 2014 average steel quotations will grow consideration dynamics of development and change every year due to improvement of the economic climate of the situation in the key consuming industries, a and a more active replenishment of stocks. By 2016, number of mechanisms of product sale will be used price per one ton of averaged steel shall be $790 in 2014. In accordance with the developed sale against $700 in 2013. strategy, the existing electronic site will be used Medium-term targets of the plant to sell a spot group of goods, long-term contracts In accordance with the investment program for 2014 will be signed and distributed by regions among the and the business-plan for the development of the subjects of the commodity distribution network of plant for 2014, total amount of capital investment BSW in terms of rolled products, pipes, tire cord (investments in the capital assets) in 2014 will make up and steel wire. USD301 million, including: 70 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS own sources USD 45,4 mln. Innovation fund means USD 6,6 mln. bank loans USD 249,0 mln. Taking into consideration the investments planned for at the level of 109,7 per cent. Rates of other main 2014, growth of industrial products output based indicators of social and economic development are on the representative products set (IFO) is planned planned to be as follows: sales profitability, minimum 2,3 % power saving performance minus 5,9 % export of products as compared to the level of 108,2 % 2012, minimum foreign trade balance, minimum USD396,1 million product export/production ratio, minimum 81,5 % SOCIAL REPORT 2013 71 Environmental activity Environmental policy «BMC» is ensured with the assistance and under guidance of the top management. Official manageriThe plant realizes that its production activities are asal views on ecological and environmental issues are sociated with certain environmental hazards and takes presented in the enterprise’s Corporate Policy and its best efforts so as to mitigate negative influences other regulatory documentation of the corporate on vital activity of citizens. OJSC «BSW – managemanagement system. ment company of «BMC» holding takes certain steps to reduce environmental impacts and mitigate global BSW intends to increase the share of products comclimate change risks. These steps are a part of stratplying with the quality management system standards, egy intended to provide for a sustainable dynamics of provide its production with ecological quality and the plant’s development. The enterprise is engaged in safety data and appropriate marking. a large-scale equipment and process modernization, Key principles and approaches paying particular attention to the enhanced ecological requirements, which enables the plant to reduce polLong-term strategic objectives determined by the lutant air emissions and waste quantities generated. plant for ecological and environmental activities in(PD 4.11) (PD 1.2) clude: (PD 4.8) (SO 1) Byelorussian Steel Works is a state-owned enter• minimizing the plant’s impact on the region’s vital acprise, which relies on one of the priority state policy tivities; strands in its activities – that of ecological safety. • minimizing the plant’s impact on flora and fauna; Implementation of the state policy is ensured by an efficient Environmental Management System (the • efficient use of natural resources; EMS). EMS is a part of the unified enterprise management system, which is responsible for working • efficient use of energy resources; out a systematic approach to environmental protec• air basin protection; tion within entire production activities of the plant and is integrated into quality management, labour • water basin protection; safety and social responsibility processes. The EMS • industrial waste utilization; is a tool, enabling the enterprise to ensure regular monitoring and minimize ecological impacts associated • training; with production activities in the region of its loca• improvement of the personnel’s ecological culture tion. (PD 4.8) and development of ecological consciousness; Within the frames of the current Environmental • development and implementation of resource-saving, Management System, the enterprise identified a numlow-waste and environmentally safe technologies; ber of ecological factors of environmental influence and evaluated them by their significance. To minimize • monitoring of emissions, hazardous wastes and qualenvironmental impacts connected with the production ification testing of work places; activities of OJSC «BSW – management company of • compliance with ecological standards and require«BMC» holding, the enterprise annually introduces ments in design and production, construction, reconnew environmental protection measures aimed at restruction and process facilities expansion; ducing development pressures on the environment. (PD 4.9) (PD 4.10) • incident alertness. Efficiency of the ecological management system In its ecological activities, the plant relies on the foladopted by OJSC «BSW – management company of lowing: 72 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS compliance with the legislation and statutory norms tion at the enterprise are managed by administrative of the Republic of Belarus; control actions and economic methods. – involvement of all business process segments and Implementation of ecological strategy participants; Minimizing the plant’s impact on the region’s – EMS upgrading; vital activities – minimizing impacts in connection with expanding proIn its production activities, OJSC «BSW – manageduction activities; ment company of «BMC» holding accounts for its environmental impact and strives for minimization of – complete and reliable disclosures of the plant’s perits consequences as stipulated by international legal formance information; provisions on ecology and the environmental legisla– responsibility enhancement; tion of the Republic of Belarus. For the purposes of minimizing its impact on the region’s population, the – providing for optimal expenditure/performance ratios; BSW expenditures on mainmaintaining reasonable balance between the plant’s tenance fo environmental interests and those of the community. norms and labor protection are very impressive. Your The EMS system adopted by the enterprise was cerplant serves an example for tified for compliance with the requirements of ISО other organizations from 14001:2004, STB ISO 14001-2005 standards and this point of view». covers activities, such as production of concast billets and structural shapes, wire rod, seamless pipes, steel cord, wire and steel fiber, which is the evidence of the systematic approach implemented to reduce ecoChairman of Zhlobin district soviet of deputies logical risk probability, minimize ecological payments, M.V. Kosyukov represent OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding as an ecologically responsible enterprise and improve interaction with the interested parplant was located in the south-eastern part of the city with due account for wind rose diagram. The estabties on issues of ensuring compliance with ecological lished sanitary zone has the radius of 1000 m and its norms and requirements. (SO 8) area together with the adjacent industrial site makes Except the currently effective approved medium-term up 674.1 ha. At that, 55% of the area between the ecological programmes, BSW provides for annual enterprise’s territorial borders and those of the sandevelopment and approval by respective supervision itary zone are taken up by cultivated coniferous and authorities of ecological control programmes and hardwood forests and scrub vegetation. The nearest environmental protection plans, which, among other settlement (the village of Solonoye) is 1.075 km away things, envisage regular ecological monitoring and from the enterprise’s territorial borders. industrial control activities in accordance with the Instruction site is located on plain surface lands, neutral in terms of smoke contents and spread of smoke jets towards on Environmental Control of Production. (PD 4.9) residential areas. Every year, the plant carries out (PD 1.2) (PD 4.10) (PD 4.4) (PD 4.6) (PD 4.8) certain actions to ensure air and water basin protec(PD 4.11) tion and reduction of land-buried industrial wastes. Use of natural resources and environmental protec(PD 1.2)  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 73 Environmental activity  Minimizing the plant’s impact on flora and breeds as a Scotch pine (Pinus sylvestris), a common fauna birch (Betula verrucosa) grow. The Scotch pines (Pinus sylvestris) and the black alders (Alnus glutinosa) In the structure of the lignose of the lands of the forgrow in the north-west area and the Scotch pines (Piest resources of the region conifers occupy around nus sylvestris) – in the south-west.); 70%, softwood – 27%, hardwood – 3%. Dominating position belongs to the plantations of natural origin – Segetal vegetation is developed on the agricultural – 56,3 %. Main forest-forming breed in the region lands, sowed hayfields to the south-east and to the is a pine-tree (68,5% forest-covered lands). As for east of the plant, in Solonoe area, and to the souththe age structure, medium-aged timber-stand prevail west of the plant between the woodland and the (49,2%). Young growth makes up 34,4%. Dobysna river. Resources of grassland plantations are rather big – Residential vegetation is developed in human settleThe region belongs to Polesko-Berezinsky region rich ments, and in the areas with the apartment blocks and of meadows, and a part of which is represented by a utility constructions; low wavy plain formed by a system of flat terraces lo– Meadow vegetation of the terraces above the flood cated above the flood plain of the Berezina river and plain; the Dnieper river. Cenosis is formed by sharp sedge which is often combined with manna grass (9,8%), more – Ruderal vegetation near the area of ash and slag seldom with mire blobs (4,8 %). Sometimes it forms storage, concrete scrap storage, open pit, and othclear tangle of a monodominant type. EN11, EN12, er affected habitats formed in the result of the huEN13, EN14, EN15 man activity. It is necessary to point out sagebrush (Artemisiavulgaris), white clover (Trifoliumrepens), Mire vegetation can be met in low parts of the relief, and couch-grass (Elytrigiarepens) among the ruderal on the lands with a constant excessive humidification. types. Miscellaneous herbs mainly of the mesohydrophytic row (types: Calliergongiganteum, DrepanocladusinFauna termedius, Drepanocladusvernicosus, DrepanocladuDescription of the fauna of the territory concerned is saduncus, Aulacomniumpalustre predominate in the given based on literary data. grass stand)). According to the literary data insects are representThe following types of vegetation dominate in the radied by a typical faunistic composition. us of approximately 2km from the plant’s site : Amphibia on the territory under study are met every– Silva of the territory concerned: lignose of both where in plentiful and are represented by three types: natural and cultural origin including forests of the a brown frog (Ranatemporaria), a green toad (Bufolands belonging to the state forest resources, proviridis) and a common toad (Bufobufo). tection wood plantations along the railroad bed and motor roads. Agile lizard (Lacertaagilis) predominates among vermigrades. Woodlands belong to the subzone of conifer lichen low bush forests. On the forest-covered territory Sand lizards (Lacertaagilis) predominate among the located to the north-east of the plant, such tree reptiles. 74 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Species composition of the theriofauna is representVariety of mammals on this territory is not large and ed by a four-toed hedgehog a (Erinaceusconcolor), is not characterized by habitation of rear and protecta pigmy shrew (Sorexminutus), common shrew (Sorexed species. A brown hare (Lepuseuropaeus), a common araneus), a root vole (Microtusoeconomus), a common fox (Vulpesvulpes), and a wild hog (Susscrofa) are vole (Microtusarvalis), and a campagnol (Apodemusamet here. grarius). Special protected natural territories of Zhlobin disAvifauna of the surroundings of the territory untrict are represented by a hydrological and landscape der study is characterized by a small variety of preserves of local significance (Table 4), and by natural monuments of local and republican significance. species diversity. Main biotypes used by birds are open agricultural lands. Background types on agriThere are no special protected natural territories cultural lands are: a field lark (Alauda arvensis), a within the sanitary zone of the plant. The existing ones whinchat (Saxicola rubetra), a whitethroat (Sylvia are located approximately at the distance of 12 km and communis), a yellowhammer (Emberiza citrinella). more from the RUE «BMZ» site (see the figure). On swampy territories one can run across a a comThere are no hunting grounds in Zhlobin Forestry. mon heron (Ardea cinerea). During spring migration few migrating types of birds cross the territory in The plant’s premises proper are a sort of a green park. transit. Autumn migration is less pronounced; birds At present, the area free from buildings is almost do not form large clusters. completely green. For the most part, green spaces Natural areas of preferential protection in Zhlobin district  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 75 Environmental activity  Distance Organization carrying Name Total area, location from BSW, operative administration km Landscape reserve of 2635 ha: Zhlobin and Rechitsa District republican significance 2060 – Zhlobin district Executive Committees within 32 «Smychok» 575Rechitsa district their authority Landscape reserve of 17560 ha: Zhlobin and Svetlogorsk republican significance 7793 Zhlobin district District Executive Committees 20 «Vydritsa» 9767Svetlogorsk district within their authority 55 ha, northern part of Hydrological reserve Radusha, Zhlobin district and Krasnoberezhsky agricultural of local significance 22 borders with Volshedubsky enterprise «Dubovka» canal 33 ha, located in the north-east part of Luvirnyansky forestry Hydrological reserve of Zhlobin forestry enterprise local significance «AlekMFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 12 along the motor road Gomelsandrovsky Mokh» Zhlobin, 0,5 kilometers from Aleksandrovka settlement 31 ha, north-west part of Hydrological reserve of Kosakovsky agricultural Kosakovsky agricultural 17 local significance «Mokh» cooperative cooperative 100 ha, north-west part of Hydrological reserve of Dvorishchanskoe forestry of MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 29 local significance «Roveki» the MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 223 ha, consists of two sectors Hydrological reserve and located in the north-west MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» and of local significance part of priberezinskoe forestry 22 DUE «Yaznach» «Kanavnoye» of the MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» and AEB «Vperyod» 97 ha, southern part os Hydrological reserve of Streshin forestry of the MFE MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 34 local significance «Orli» «Zhlobin Forestry» Hydrological reserve 54 ha, north-west part of of local significance Dvorishchanskoye forestry of MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 35 «Rugorova Polyana» the MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» Reserves in Zhlobin district 76 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS within the industrial site are represented by conifers Total amount spent for upgrading the territory in and hardwood trees. Besides, the plant’s premises in2013 is over USD 30 thou. Program fulfillment progclude some flower beds. Total green space area within ress was regularly reported in the corporate newspathe industrial site amounts to 50,04 ha. per «Metallurg» and regional mass media. Within the framework of the program aimed at preservaTo encourage and expand land improvement and amenity tion of natural resources of the country and upgrading planting activities, to motivate the plant’s employees, the territory of the plant’s activity for 2013 specialboth morally and materially, to implement the Land ists of the plant grew and planted a lot of plants and Improvement Program, to involve the personnel in acfulfilled a large-scale amount of works to improve tivities connected with aesthetic improvement of the land: (PD 4.9) (PD 4.10) (PD 4.8) (SO 1) (SO 8) (PD plant’s appearance and that of the pre-school estab4.11) (PD 4.12) (PD 4.15) (PD 4.16) (PD 4.17) lishments run by the plant, the enterprise arranged a Item Work description Unit Quantity Seeding, growing of seedlings, compiling of flower compositions and flower planting to improve the territory: 1 annual pc. 101 790 biennial and perennial pc. 9 400 bulbous, rhizomatous and tuberous pc. 3 500 Growing of planting stock at nursery gardens for improvement of the plant territory: 2 trees pc. 150 bushes pc. 650 Tree seedlings planted out on the plant’s territory and at the headquarters: 3 conifer seedlings pc. 15 hardwood seedlings pc. 198 Repair of lawns on the plant’s territory with all types of auxiliary work: 4 current ha 0,15 overhaul ha – 5 Arrangement of landscape flower compositions pc. 5 6 Flower seeds harvesting kg 2,86 Preparation of soil component mixtures for flower 7 м3 6 seedlings growing Land improvement (scope of work) for 2013  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 77 Environmental activity  land improvement competition among the plant’s shops In accordance with the section of the corporate manwith bi-annually cast-ups. The competition involves agement system «Power consumption control system» more than 75% of the employees. (PCCS), developed in conformity with the requirements of the national (STB 1777-2010) and European Efficient use of natural resources (EN:160001) standards, the base for the development of the system approach to energy saving is arranged Production of OJSC «BSW – management company of on a clear documenting and control of interrelated «BMC» holding is a complete metallurgic cycle with processes significantly influencing the effectiveness annual outputs amounting to over 2,6 tons of molten of power consumption, in particular: steel. EN1, EN2 – motivation of the personnel; Major raw materials used for steel production in 2011-2013 were as follows:EN11, EN12, EN13, – precise determination of key roles of the staff in the EN14, EN15 management system; Quantity Material Unit 2011 2012 2013 Metal charge т 3 000 465 3 067 136 2 542 902 Ferroalloys т 38 072 40 269 35 822 Electrodes т 5 133 5 647 4 741 Slag-forming, deoxidizing and purifying mixт 171 276 171 372 146 733 tures Carbonizers т 34 335 35 778 33 986 Heat insulating materials т 2 067 1 902 1 611 Refractory materials т 32 466 30 949 25 592 BSW used raw materials which were obtained from re– distribution of responsibility and authority starting cycled or reclaimed wastes. Share of recycled materiwith the top level; als in the total amount of raw materials in 2011-2013 – maintaining of a corresponding level and competence was as follows: EN1, EN2 of the staff; Quantity Material Unit 2011 2012 2013 Ferrous scrap, scale % 95,7 96,9 96,4 Refractory scrap % 17,4 14,2 17,1 Electrodes % 0,2 0 0,5 Lime stone and lime wastes % 0,7 0,6 0,4 Efficient use of energy resources – provision of the staff awareness of the bene fits including financial ones , which one can get OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdif he / she improves effectiveness of power con ing adopts managerial and investment decisions on the sumption ; basis of multi-variant scenarios of development taking – effective information exchange; into consideration environmental priorities providing for power saving, efficient use of natural and power – maximum complete inventory of factors influencing resources. EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 power consumption; 78 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – determination of areas of priority significant for intellectual system is created. It uses ACS of PP, power consumption management; SAP R/3 and the plant’s computer network. A number of measures were taken to transform information – planning of activity aimed at improvement of power technologies from a tool to an actual scientific and consumption efficiency. technical resource to decrease expenses and as a reIn accordance with the national strategy of energy sult to collect extra gains. In 2013 the plant managed saving and energy security, the plant developed an Ento preserve positive dynamics of reducing of FER speergy Saving Action Plan, setting energy policy priorcific consumption by the main power-consuming proities and approaches. The Plan comprises: (SO 1) (PD ductions. 4.8) (PD 4.9) (PD 4.10) Total amount of power resources saved in 2013 was – actions providing for a comprehensive energy saving 756 110,2 GJ (447 748,1 GJ – in 2012). system; So as to increase involvement of the staff in the proarrangements for employees’ training, retraining and cesses of power and resource saving, OJSC «BSW advanced training on issues of energy saving and effi– management company of «BMC» holding developed cient use of resources; and uses the following: (PD 4.8) – upgrading the system of equipment and production – Regulations «About staff competition for the best processes evaluation and analysis; ideas aimed at increase of power effectiveness of the production «; implementing energy-saving procedures; – Regulations «About competition for the best struc– introduction of modern advanced technologies; tural division of the plant from the viewpoint of power saving»; efficient use of existing power facilities; – Regulations «About Awarding of the employees for – introduction of new scientific achievements to propower saving»; vide for efficient energy use. – active on-line «Power saving proposals» window in Traditional energy-saving measures include: the Info-BMZ information system». – initiatives related with introduction of power-saving 28 projects were implemented in 2013. The following products and methods, use of renewable power sourcprojects can be attributed to the most important ones: es, decrease of requirements in the result of the iniEС8 EС9 tiatives fulfilled; 1. Reconstruction of electric-arc furnace No.1 (EAFsaving of power due to conservation and increase of 1) with introduction of a new oxygen technology; consumption effectiveness; 2. Optimization of operation modes of combined – use of thermal secondary power resources; multi-lances of electric-arc furnace No. 3 (EAF– initiatives aimed at decrease of indirect use, saving, etc. 3); Due to the introduction of an automatic system of 3. Development and introduction of power-efficient technical recording (ASTR), real-time monitoring of modes of metal forming; fuel and power resources (FPR) is carried out with 4. Development and introduction of power-efficient daily summing-up and corrective actions fulfillment. modes metal heating in mills 850,320,150; This form of control allows the plant to control power intensity effectively and carry out system spec5. Introduction of frequency-regulated drives (FRD) ification of technical actions. Actually, an innovative on the pumps of the power department (PDpt.);  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 79 Environmental activity  6. Installation of stationary covers to maintain tem8797,454 tpy. To minimize negative impacts, major emisperature at steel-carriers of the ladle-furnace; sion sources with largest contributions are equipped with gas treatment plants, with their total number 7. Separation of casting machines 1 and 2 (CCM-1,2) amounting to 155 units. cooling circuits into separate independent circulating systems. Vehicles owned by the enterprise include 286 units Use of secondary thermal resources in 2013 amountusing various types of fuel out of which 234 vehicles run on diesel fuel, 51 – on gasoline and 1– on liqueed to 21,1% in the balance of the boiler-furnace fuel. fied gas. Saving of FPR not only reduces financial load of the enterprise, but decreases negative impact of the enRailroad transport includes 7 locomotives running on terprise’s activity on the natural environment. EС2 diesel fuel. EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 Railway transportation is only within the enterprise’s Quantity premises; automotive vehicles are used for transporSource Unit tation within the borders of the enterprise’s sanitary 2011 2012 2013 zone. Natural gas s.c.t. 157 915 161 060 160 901 Direct use of power from the primary sources in 20112013 1% Quantity Source Unit 5% 2011 2012 2013 12% Electric MWt*h 1 976 566 2 000 442 1 736 633 power (GJ) 7 115 637, 6 7 201 591,2 6 251 879 9% Thermal Gcal 231 443 244 555 240 507 energy 73% Intermediate energy quantities obtained and consumed from non-renewable power sources in 2011-2013 Power Quantity Unit resource 2011 2012 2013 Carbon monoxide Solids Electric MWt*h 136 165 107 361 156 493 Nitrogen dioxide Sulfur dioxide power (GJ) 490 194 386 501,1 563 374,8 Other thou. m3 6 189 1 833,7 5 720 Natural gas (GJ) 206 710,7 61 247 192 735,4 Percentage of pollutants in gross emissions in 2013 г Energy saved due to measures on consumption rates reTransport vehicles run on AI 92, AI 95, liquefied duction and efficiency improvement taken in 2011-2013 gas and diesel fuel with 0,005 per cent sulfur content. Air basin protection EN16, EN17, EN18 EN20, EN29 When analyzing air emissions of pollutants, it should be noted that gross air emission rates of pollutants in Sources of major negative environmental impacts at 2013 decreased by 1128 tons as compared with previOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdous 2012. This indicator is determined by decrease of ing are air emissions of pollutants. The enterprise opoperation of the production equipment of EAF-1 by erates 678 sources with permitted gross emissions of 3915 hours. 80 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Specific pollutant generation rates, Actual emissions, [t/year] Substance [kg/t of melted steel] 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Carbon monoxide 3755,731 5875,384 5049,332 1,4 2,14 2,2 Nitrogen dioxide 701,962 1025,993 814,929 0,26 0,37 0,37 Sulfur dioxide 349,134 444,721 384,11 0,13 0,16 0,16 Solids 681,822 730,485 619,042 0,25 0,26 0,26 Total pollutants 5518,331 8094,502 6966,462 2,07 2,95 3,0 Steel melting process in electric-arc furnaces was The ozone-depleting substances at the enterprise are intensified, an advanced oxygen technology with the handled as established in the license for the activities use of wall-mounted Module system multi-nozzle deassociated with the use of natural resources and envice was introduced. Considering growing production vironmental impacts, and, precisely, in the part where Substance Unit 2011 2012 2013 Carbon monoxide т 542,833 769,829 594,797 Nitrogen dioxide т 131,195 184,968 142,262 Sulfur dioxide т 72,413 101,868 78,255 Hydrocarbons т 214,589 303,344 233,621 Soot т 54,130 76,121 58,468 Benz(a)pyrene т 0,001 0,0016 0,001262 Total т 1015,161 1436,132 1107,404 output, intensification and capacity growth of the prorules for handling of ozone-depleting substances are duction equipment, we defined maximum and gross air set out. emission of pollutants more exactly. The Republic of Belarus, being a participating party Emissions of pollutants from mobile sources reduced under the United Nations Framework Convention by 33%, which is explained by increase of freight trafon Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol, profic within the plant’s industrial area. vides for fulfillment of its obligations stipulated by the above international agreements. Actions Being a major greenhouse gases emitter, Byelorusimplemented by the Byelorussian Steel Works to sian Steel Works is constantly monitoring their air introduce energy-saving technologies and materials emission rates. In pursuance of the Montreal Protoand enhance efficiency of the production processcol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, the es result in reduced air emissions of greenhouse plant continues its work aimed at stepwise decrease of gases. EN16, EN17, EN18 EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, the use of substances listed in Annex C of the ProEN7 EС2 tocol by 2020. OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding provides for compliance with the Decrease of harmful emissions into the air is ensured state requirements on reduction of consumption rates due to implementation of investment projects directed of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). ODS quantities towards modernization and technical revamping, introused within the enterprise are constantly decreased. duction of highly effective state-of-the-art equipment EN26 (PD 4.12) and methods.  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 81 Environmental activity 20000000 18959000  18000000 16000000 14000000 12247000 12000000 10000000 8000000 6000000 4000000 2663321,9 2778271,3 2293977,9 2000000 0 2011 год (BSW) 2012 год (BSW) 2013 год (BSW) 2012 год (ММК) 2012 год* («Severstal») Steel production in 2012-2013, t 350000 332730 300000 250000 220200 200000 150000 100000 50000 5518,3 8094,5 6966,5 0 2011 год (BSW) 2012 год (BSW) 2013 год (BSW) 2012 год (ММК) 2012 год* («Severstal») Gross emission of contaminants, t 20 17,98 18 17,55 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2,95 3 2,07 2 0 2011 год (BSW) 2012 год (BSW) 2012 год (BSW) 2012 год* (ММК) 2012 год** («Severstal») Specific gross emission of contaminants, kg/t of steel produced 82 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Residuals in the beginamount left as of the Purchased, kg Volume of usage, kg ning of the year, kg end of the year, kg ODS 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 R-22 42,5 68,3 27,2 108,8 108,8 163,2 83,0 149,9 13,6 68,3 27,2 176,8 R-12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 R-114В2 686,1 74,1 0 0 0 0 612 74,1 0 74,1 0 0 Data on ODS handling activities in 2011-2013 Year Description of ODS reduction methods Fulfillment; results, reason for non-fulfillment Reduction of ODS in the operating equipOzone-safe cold carriers are used instead of R22 in equipment with the ment due to usage of ozone-safe coolants, filling capacity of 232 kg, R12 -4,5 kg, R22-82 kg Instead of R12 – filling capacity 55 kg 2011 R124 residues as on 01.01.12 equal to 0,0 kg (included in the composition Decrease of ODS stock, R124 -12 kg of multi-component cold carrier R401A), R124 stock reduced by 18,7 kg Decrease of ODS consumption due to Ozone-safe cold carriers are used instead of R22 in equipment with the 2012 transfer of refrigeration equipment to filling capacity of 231,6 kg, Instead of R12 – filling capacity of 6 kg ozone-safe cold carriers Decrease of environmental impact. Refusal to use ODS (R 22) by 123 ITE Blue-R-95 regeneration and filling station purchased Purchasing of ITE coolants regeneration and filling station 2013 Transfer of refrigeration equipment workTransfer of refrigeration equipment working on R 22, total capacity: ing on R 22, filling capacity 123 kg, to 129,5 kg ozone-safe coolants Data on introduction of measures aimed at reduction of ODS use in 2011-2013  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 83 Environmental activity  OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holddrinking water; 0,20% rain water; 0,40% ing follows the existing law and norms of the interriver water; 0,40% national environmental law including international agreements and contracts ratified by the Republic of Belarus and carries out continuous monitoring of the environmental condition in the territory of its production activity the main aim of which is protection of the health of the people living in this area and the Company employees. Water basin protection EN8, EN9, EN10, EN21, EN25 Acting in the area of environment, the plant provides for efficient use of energy and water for its own needs and does its best to decrease their consumption. reclaimed water; 99,00% Plant water consumption system Water diversion flow for production needs is carried • decrease of circulating water use as compared to out from the Dnieper river which is one of the main 2012 is 20142,35 thou. m3/year or 7%; rivers in the Republic of Belarus. Its head-to-mouth length is 1182 kilometers. Annual flow of the Dnieper • increase of rainwater use as compared to 2012 is equals to 1 261 440 000 m3. Annual water diversion 213,7 thou. m3/year or 17%; of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» • decrease of production water use as compared to 2012 holding amounts to 0,12% of the river flow. года составило 333,81 thou. m3/year or appr. 27%. The plant introduced a circulating water system to Process effluents generated by the plant are dissupply key users – production equipment. Water from charged into the treatment facilities located at the surface sources (the Dnieper) is used to compensate plant’s treatment divisions and returned into the prothe irrevocable losses in the equipment cooling sysduction for further recycling. tems. For household and drinking needs water from The plant’s utility fluids are drained off into the artesian wells is used. treatment facilities maintained by the town of Zhlobin. To reduce consumption of water drawn off from the Pollutant contents (hard metals, oil products, salt Dnieper, the enterprise uses rainwater collected and content) in the discharged fluids were within the estreated at special areas. tablished limit concentrations. Results of the measures taken to reduce water reThere are no water os significantly affected by the source consumption in 2013: production activities of the plant. (EN 9) Description 2011 2012 2013 Process water, [thou. m3/year] 1 730, 405 1 564,210 1230,4 Drinking water consumption, [thou. m3/year] 692,0 732,724 648,2 Circulating water, [thou. m3/year] 286 041, 191 297 215,651 277 043,3 Rainwater use, [thou. m3/year] 711,786 1 046 1259,7 84 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 350000 295930 300000 250000 200000 150000 88621,32 100000 50000 1730,4 1564,2 1230,4 0 2011 год (BSW) 2012 год (BSW) 2013 год (BSW) 2012 год (ММК) 2012 год* («Severstal») Process water consumption, thou. m3 12,00 10,75 10,00 8,00 7 6,00 4,00 2,00 0,66 0,58 0,54 0,00 2011 г. (BSW) 2012 г. (BSW) 2013 г. (BSW) 2012 г. (ММК) 2012 г.* («Severstal») 100% Specific annual consumption of process water per ton of steel produced, m3/t 99% 99% 98,50% 99% 98% 97,50% 98% 97% 97% BSW ММК Severstal Share of circulating water supply in the water balance of the companies, %  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 85 Environmental activity  1400 1259,7 1200 1046 1000 800 711,786 600 400 200 0 0 0 2011 год (BSW) 2012 год (BSW) 2013 год (BSW) 2012 год (ММК) 2012 год («Severstal») Use of storm water, thou. m3 120 113,9 100 80 60 40 20 17,13 0 0 0 0 2011 год (BSW) 2012 год (BSW) 2013год (BSW) 2012 год (ММК) 2012 год («Severstal») Discharge of pollutants into water facilities, thou t./ year * – divisions ‘Severstal Russian Steel’+’ Severstal North America’ ** – specific emission, kg/ t. of metal products *** – specific emission divisions ‘Severstal Russian Steel’+’ Severstal North America’ 86 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Utilization of industrial wastes Current technologies of metal production are inevitably associated with generation of various wastes 3% which belong to different hazard classes. This is a major aspect contributing to environmental pollution. 4% The plant provides for strict compliance with all re87% quirements associated with wastes utilization and dis6% posal and seeks to limit pollutant discharges, ensure re-use of natural resources and wastes reclamation. Depending on the hazard class of wastes and their physical properties, the enterprise defined stringent requirements at each of the industrial wastes utilizaSold, t Used, t tion stages (generation, collection, transportation, Stored, t Buried, t storage, handling and neutralization), minimizing posUtilization of industrial wastes in 2013 sible environmental impacts. Sold, t Used, t Buried, t Stored, t 1 118 351,394 52 595,492 36 765,039 70 536,515 During 2013, there were registered no spillages of Y34 Acid solutions and solid acids; chemicals, oils and fuels which could have an adverse Y36 Asbestos (powder and fibre). effect on the environment and present a potential hazard to the soil, water, air, biodiversity and human The listed wastes are utilized by the plant as stipuhealth. EN23 lated by the environmental legislation of the Republic of Belarus. Wastes of these groups were neither exProduction activities of OJSC «BSW – management ported nor imported. (SO 8) company of «BMC» holding are associated with generation of the following wastes, corresponding to Within the framework of its production activities, wastes groups as set out in Basel Convention: PD OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» 4.12 EN24, EN26, EN27 (SO 8) holding offers and implements initiatives intended for mitigation of its environmental impacts and damage efY1 Medical wastes resulting from patients’ care profects. Also, as the major raw material used for the vided by hospitals, health centers and clinics; plant’s production is metal scrap, the enterprise is caY8 Waste mineral oils unsuitable for designated use; pable to dispose of its production after it is no longer in active use. Y9 Waste oil (water) and hydrocarbon (water) based mixtures emulsions; Training (SO 8) Y16 Wastes associated with the production, recovery To provide for an enhanced efficiency of its ecoand application of photo chemicals and consumables logical activities the enterprise arranges training used for film development; courses on issues of environmental protection at all administrative levels. Employees’ vocational training is Y17 Wastes generated from metal and plastic surface continuous and is effectively integrated into the daily machining; labour activities throughout their career. It is aimed Y31 Lead and lead compounds; at gradual broadening and enhancing of professional  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 87 Environmental activity  knowledge and competence in environmental and indusin the steadily expanding production areas and in the trial sanitation issues. To ensure efficient environfield of corporate social responsibility. (PD 4.4) mental management in connection with the production Information about ecological activities of RUE activities, the plant identified, documented and famil«BMZ» and those concerned with improvement of the iarized its employees with their duties, responsibilities environmental management system is regularly puband powers. (HR 8) (LA 11) lished in the corporate and regional mass media and Training, retraining and advanced training activities the republican «Casting and Metallurgy» and «Steel» arranged for managers, technicians and operational trade journals. (SO 1) personnel on issues of ecological safety and environTo evaluate environmental impacts, the enterprise mental protection are as established in the annual voholds public hearings, inviting representatives of sucational training plans and programs. pervision authorities, general public and the plant’s For guaranteed observation of legal and other reemployees to participate in them. (PD 4.4) quirements in the area of environment, the plant enThe plant takes part in environmental actions and has sures access to the existing reference legal system initiated such actions itself several times. «Consultant Plus Belarus Network» and information search systems «Stroidukument» and «Standard» for To provide for a systemic approach to improvement of each employee. employees’ ecological culture the plant worked out and implemented: (PD 4.8) For general data on the training activities see the «Social responsibility» section. – Provisions on tear tags and prevention of violations with regard to environmental protection and occupationImprovement of ecological culture of the al sanitary, which are introduced to enhance preventive personnel (SO 8) .(PD 1.2) work on precautionary, recommendatory and control functions for the purposes of environmental protection. BSW uses its employees’ knowledge and experience Activities to prevent environmental law infringements are in ecological safety and healthcare issues to provide carried out with the use of notice tear tags; for security and welfare of people living in the vicinity of the plant and in the whole region. The Company – Provisions on encouraging environmental activities. employees arrange lectures for youth and training This regulatory document was introduced to motivate activities on ecological requirements and aspects for the plant’s employees to abide by the environmental subcontracted personnel, carrying out works on the requirements set out in the legislation of the Repubenterprise’s premises. (SO 1) lic of Belarus, the plant’s ecological standards and other regulations and was intended for enhancement To improve the communications system, expand opporof violators’ responsibility and encouragement of the tunities of interaction among interested parties, enplant’s employees, engineers and technicians to prosure employees’ individual development and exchange vide for compliance with the above documents. of experience, OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding annually holds international scientifDevelopment and implementation of reic and technical conference «Metal». Besides, particsource-saving, low-waste and environmenipants from CIS countries the «Energy and ecology» tally safe technologies EN30 EN6 EN7 section comprises specialists of the Company. During EN18 EN13 EN14 EN26 the conference, its participants present their reports on topics of current interest and exchange their exThe plant takes actual steps so as to provide for enperience with regard to implementation of strategic vironmental protection and implement environmentally objectives and introduction of recent developments safe technologies as well. To mitigate environmen88 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS tal impacts, OJSC «BSW – management company of repairs, reconstruction and modernization of the end«BMC» holding annually introduces new environmenof-pipe facilities. tal actions. Under the ecological program for 2013 In its activities, OJSC «BSW – management company the plant provided for the following: (SO 1) of «BMC» holding places special emphasis on the in– installation of an automatic control system of air teraction with the interested parties – both with suemissions of pollutants from EAF No.2 of EMS -1); pervising authorities and communities, consumers, suppliers and contractors. Information exchange is as per – implementation of a complex reconstruction of dust diagram included in the section «Management, responand gas removal devices of electric-arc furnace No.1 sibilities and interaction with the interested parties». in EMS -1) and installation of a hood to reduce unorganized emissions in the air though aeration lanterns; Medium-term targets of the Company (PD 1,2) – construction of a dust and gas collecting unit In addition to production facilities expansion, the plant установки at lime kiln No.3; also plans to modernize its equipment to improve environment safety and mitigate negative environmental – reconstruction of the storm water station V = 16 impacts. Investment projects to be implemented by 000 m3; OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» hold– modernization of the system or preliminary cleaning ing include not only new production facilities but also of the ion-exchange plant in SWS-1; introduction of the world’s best practices in the field of environment safety. – building of a plant to separate scrap and garbage left from railway wagons cleaning in the scrap yard. Within the framework of the investment program, the plant also identified a number of actions aimed at imExpenses for environment protection and provement of ecological situation and mitigation of monitoring negative environmental impacts associated with BSW Ecological payments EN30 production activities. Annually, the plant assigns considerable funds to Major actions aimed at mitigation of the negative envinature protection activities. The funds are used for ronmental impacts include: Total, Br mln (at own costs) Current environmental expenses 2011 2012 2013 Total 111 995,5 196 458,6 225 402,9 including: protection and efficient use of water resources 37 630,1 76 051,1 34 672,8 air basin protection, ozone layer and climate preser57 824,7 94 172,8 88 626 vation protection of the environment from pollution with 14 765,1 24 557,8 10 933,7 industrial wastes ecological certification, ecological rating, ecological audits, ecological insurance, ecological standard398,8 231,9 94,092 ization Current expenses  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 89 Environmental activity  Total, ruble mln Indicator description 2012 2013 Amount of discount set for the organization for ecological payments subject to decrease of environment pollution due to environment protection measures 2 657,1 9 144,1 undertaken Amounts paid to compensate the damage caused by violation of environment law 173,7 48,701 (penalties, claims, damage, etc.) Current expenses 2011 payment, 2012 payment, 2013 payment, Description Br million Br million Br million Drinking and service water consumption 196,962 482,449 520,981 Sewage discharges 0 0 7,585 Air emissions from stationary and mobile 2 659,542 5 693,198 2 467,494 sources Waste disposal 7 932,914 19 173,718 10 235,84 Waste storage 2 861,2 2 667,638 1 633,497 Packing materials production and import 0 0 0 Ecological payments in 2011-2013. – installation of an automatic system of control of – modernization of the system of preliminary cleaning harmful emission in the air from electric-arc furnace of the ion-exchange plant in SWS-1; No.1 in melt shop No.1; – building of a plant to separate scrap and gar – complex reconstruction of dust and gas collecting bage left from railway wagons cleaning in the unit of electric-arc furnace No. 1 and installation scrap yard . of a hood to reduce unorganized emissions in the air F or 2014 there are plans to achieve the next levthrough aeration lanterns; el of the plant ’ s targets ( in the area of environ – construction of a dust and gas collecting unit at ment ): lime kiln No. 3 in the scrap yard; – reduce the specific emission of contaminants in the –reconstruction of the storm water station V = 16 sir from EAF-1 in melt shop No.1 by 5% as compared 000 m3; to the level of 2013. 90 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2013 91 Social activity  (PD 4.8) As far as the social sphere is concerned, the Employees’ loyalty and satisfaction is a crucial factor strategic target of OJSC «BSW – management compathat influences the business stability. The personnel ny of «BMC» holding in the social area of its activity relations priorities are improving employees’ social is the improvement of the corporate social responsiwell-being, building up clear communication channels, bility system with the basic principles of: observing soimproving the degree of personnel awareness and the cial equality and responsibility, nondiscrimination, enmost important thing – creating a strong corporate suring safe working conditions, maintaining employees’ culture. health, creating positive social-psychological climate It is essential for the plant’s employees to feel themin the working team alongside with keeping reasonable selves as members of one family, realize their belongbalance of the plant’s economical interests and social ing to one of the largest enterprises of the republic. interests of the civil society including that of the emSince 2009 elements of a single integrated corporate ployees of Byelorussian Steel Works. culture have been introduced at the plant. Two of BSW deems social responsibility an integral part of them are the Corporate Policy and Code of Ethics the business conduct strategy and its corporate ethTheir major values respect and collaboration, effiics based on the principles of decency and justice, honciency and result, leadership and dynamic development, esty in dealing with all partners and competitors. initiative and responsibility – are formulated on the basis of the concerned parties’, primarily employees’, In its social activity OJSC «BSW – management comopinions. (PD 4.9) pany of «BMC» holding is guided by the legislation of the Republic of Belarus, parameters of stability and Labor relations production development, economic expediency as well and adequate labor as its responsibility to the owner, investors, employees and business partners, local communities and othPersonnel management policy er parties concerned. Adhering to the principles laid in the foundation of the Carrying out its social activity the plant adheres to UN Global Compact, OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding considers its employees to be the following approaches: (PD 4.6) of the prime value and builds up the relationships with – conformity with the legislation and legal norms of them on the basis of social partnership, solidarity in the Republic of Belarus; purpose and respect for the mutual interests. (PD 4.9) involving all the units and business processes parLong-term strategic targets of the Company corpoticipants; rate policy for personnel management stipulate the following: disclosure of full and precise information regarding the results of the social activity; – formation of the labor relations regulation system and development of social partnership based on the – enhancing responsibility related to the assumed oblibalance of interests of the works and its employees; gations and their fulfillment; – improvement of employees motivation systems, enensuring the optimum ratio of the social activity exsuring the competitive level of the employees’ compenses and the labour results achieved; pensation package connected with the labor efficiency maintaining reasonable balance of the plant’s interincrease, collective and individual results of working ests and the community including the employees. activity; Preservation of life, health and human rights is con– personnel development (selection, recruitment, sidered by the Company of a higher priority than ecoevaluation, training, promotion) to supply the Companomic results of productive activity. ny subdivisions with the employees having the required 92 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS professional and qualification characteristics; (ЕС7) we put particular emphasis on solving staff issues. The plant uses the most advanced methods of working with – improvement of the labor safety level, improvement employees and develops new projects. «BSW strateof social and living conditions on the production site gic reserve» program of training a staff reserve to and offering supplementary health improvement opporsubstitute top management has been implemented. Of tunities for the employees and their family members; no small importance is that the project allows se– development of corporate culture, ensuring of solection of talented young people and arrangement of cial stability and favorable moral and psychological their rotation in key production directions climate in the working teams; High efficiency of the process «Personnel manage– development of corporate social programs. ment» is evidenced by the results of 2013 audits aimed at confirmation of the management system conformiKey principles and approaches (PD 4.8) ty with the requirements of IISO 9001:2008, СТБ ISO 9001-2009, ISO/TS 16949:2009, API Q1, BRL Policy of OJSC «BSW – management company of 0501-2010 and NEN 6008-2008, DIN 488, standards «BMC» in the personnel management sphere is formed carried out by auditors of Gosstandart of the RB, and realized on the system basis according to the laBUREAU VERITAS Certification (Great Britain), bor legislation of the Republic of Belarus. CARES (Great Britain), TUV International s.r.o. Alongside with development and continuous improveTUV Rheinland Group, API (American Petroleum Inment, the plant links its success to the well-consolstitute), «KIWA» (Holland), «MPA NRW Dortmund» idated and active team of professionals. One of the (Germany). (PD 4.9) main targets of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding is creation of a «prime choice «Наша команда увидела на company» based on honesty, dedication, creative apпрактике, как работает ваше proach, optimism and self-improvement of each employпредприятие. На самом деле я ee. Building up of OJSC «BSW – management company приятно удивлен. Руководство и остальной персонал рабоof «BMC» holding management system presupposes тают на взаимном доверии. involvement of the staff into decision-making process, Такой опыт работы команbusiness processes optimization, improvement of proдой не характерен для западduction and social activity of the company. Hence, ных стран. Еще один момент, который является исключиeach person feels own contribution into the common тельным, это забота вашего target achievement. (PD 4.10) предприятия о людях, которая распространяется и на семьи» Working with a numerous number of employees in ever-changing production conditions, development of a ведущий эксперт Европейского Фонда competent and efficient personnel management system Управления Качеством is very important. Людвиг Уолтер The implemented Personnel Management Policy of the Company based on the principle of partnership relaDescription of the personnel (PD 2.8) tions of an individual and organization aimed at forming integrated corporate surroundings, preserving work OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdplaces, sustaining decent salary level, optimum redising is the largest employer in its productive activity tribution of labor recourses contributes to enhancing region and is aware of its economic and social obligathe investment attractiveness and dynamic development tion to the society influencing it by creating high level of the enterprise. The plant’s employees are the main of social security and favorable working conditions element of success in reaching our goals, that’s why for its employees, realization of efficient social and  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 93 Social activity  ecological programs, projects and activities in the working people, plant’s administration applied to the area of personnel management. 95% of the workers Ministry of Industry and Ministry of Labor and Social and 99,5% of managers working at OJSC «BSW – Protection of the Republic of Belarus to revise the management company of «BMC» holding are from lochanges introduced in the law. In the result, presical population. (ЕС7) (PD 4.15) (LA 11) dent of the Republic of Belarus signed decree No.441 «About some issues of professional pension insurance The segment of the works employees in the region economiand provision of pensions» dd. September 25, 2013. cally active population makes about 30%. (LA 1) (ЕС9) After that, number of dismissal reduced. «Communicating with the team On the whole, the employee structure suffered small of the employees I know that changes in the number of employees by categories: BSW is an excellent solidary OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdteam which is not only aimed ing has a well-balanced age composition of the employat the final result, but creees.The main contingent is composed of workers aged atively acts towards the ways of and considerably reduces 40,1 to 42,18 years, having the required knowledge and professional skills. (LA 2) time of its achievement and surmounts all obstacles». Gender composition of the workers hasn’t considerably changed as compared to 2012. As of 31.12.2013 Chairman of the republican committee BSW employed: (LA 2) of Belarusian trade union of industrial workers V.V. Fyodorov OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» is re2013 11 896 sponsible in its approach to solving employment issues, collaborates with state institutions, employees unions and other organizations in the sphere of regulating labor and related relations. Contributing to disclo2012 12 447 sure of professional and personal capabilities of its employees, the enterprise creates the conditions for their professional and career progress. 2011 12 376 Total amount of personnel as of 31.12.2013 equals to 11896 people and reduced by 551 people as compared 2010 12 463 to the corresponding period of the previous year. Reduction of the number of employees by 551 people 2009 12 132 was due to restructuring of the staff in relation to a large-scale reconstruction carried out at the plant in the 2nd half of 2013. 2008 12 445 Besides, subject to coming into effect of changes in pension law since 01.01.2014 during first three quarters of 2013 a significant growth of discharges of 2007 12 409 highly-qualified production employees who reached their pension age according to pension lists No.1 and No,2. Due to the existing situation and so as to 2006 12 891 protect the rights and defend lawful interests of the 94 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Dev. Total number of people 12 409 12 445 12 132 12 463 12 373 12 447 11896 -551 1 153 1127 1126 1159 1190 1 216 1 226 Managers, pers. +9 (9,3%) (9,1%) (9,3%) (9,3%) (9,6%) (9,8%) (10,3%) 1 784 1773 1717 1793 1790 1 871 1 883 Specialists, pers. -37 (14,4%) (14,2%) (14,2%) (14,4%) (14,5%) (15,0%) (15,4%) 167 167 164 167 158 159 164 Office workers, pers. +5 (1,3%) (1,3%) (1,4%) (1,3%) (1,3%) (1,3%) (1,4%) 9305 9378 9125 9 344 9 235 9 201 8 673 Workers, pers. -528 (75,0%) (75,4%) (75,2%) (75,0%) (74,6%) (73,9%) (72,9%) Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Average age of the employees, years 39,30 39,34 39,8 39,7 39,9 40,0 40,4 Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Manpower 1,49 1,87 1,92 1,63 2,4 2,7 2,59 turnover, % Category Unit. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Dev. Total number pers. 12 409 12 445 12 132 12 463 12 376 12 447 11 896 +71 Higher education Specialized % 23,5 24,2 25,1 25,1 25,5 27,0 28,5 1,5 secondary education pers. 2905 3016 3 045 3 132 3 150 3 360 3392 +32 Secondary technical educa% 26,4 26,1 26,0 26,0 26,3 26,0 25,5 0,5 tion Higher education pers. 3284 3243 3 156 3 243 3 255 3 239 3036 -203 Specialized secondary edu% 17,6 17,5 17,5 0 cation pers. 2 174 2 179 2085 -94 % 50,1 49,7 48,9 48,9 30,6 29,5 28,5 1 Secondary pers. 6220 6186 5 931 6 088 3 797 3 669 3383 -286 Candidates of science pers. 9 9 9 8 9 8 8 0 Postgraduates pers. 4 5 6 6 7 5 11 +6 15 18 16 16 (incl. (incl. (incl. (incl. Undergraduates pers. 8 14 19 +3 5 being 8 being 4 being 3 being trained) trained) trained) trained  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 95 Social activity  68,4 % men; The enterprise puts great emphasis on recruitment and adaptation of young specialists. Taking account of 31,6 % women. (LA 13) the production output growth rate, the plant placed Prevalence of male employees is due to the serious 143 young specialists in job in 2013. It is planned to increase the number of graduates from higher educahazard level at the production sites, specific labor tional establishments applying for work and their reconditions in metallurgical industry. cruiting by BSW considerably in 2014. (LA 11) Manpower turnover in 2013 equaled to 4,78%. Organization of a methodical work with young specialists is one of the priority directions of the enterprise personnel policy. Availability of constantly develop«One may install any up-toing potential of the personnel represented by young date equipment, equip prospecialists is the most important condition of the duction shops with advanced management succession, enhancement of management machines, but nothing will efficiency, ensuring stable social-economic developwork without specialists, ment of the plant. (PD 4.8-4.9) One of the most sigwithout people. Moreover, nificant events within the System of work with young everyone’s work is importspecialists is a scientific and technical conference. ant». Since 2010 the conference is held according to the double-stage scheme: General Director of OJSC «BSW-management – the first stage (corporative) – to determine wincompany of «BMC» holding A.N. Savianok ners among the Company employees in eleven subject sessions; More than half of the plant’s employees have higher – the second stage (international) – for winners of the and specialized secondary education. In the reporting first stage and employees of educational establishments, year, number of employees with a higher education representatives of the organizations and enterprises of grew by 32 as compared to 2012. The number of the the Republic of Belarus and other countries. In 2013, employees with specialized secondary education de110 206 young specialists became participants of the 13th creased by 203 people. There is a tendency towards International conference «Metal -2012» organized on decrease of the share of the employees with secondthe base of Zhlobin State Metallurgical College. ary education. The personnel policy of OJSC «BSW – management The image of a strong and continuously working encompany of «BMC» holding is aimed at discovering terprise makes OJSC «BSW – management company of the individual potential of each employee and its de«BMC» holding attractive for potential workers and velopment in coordination with the strategic goals. solves the issue of the prospective human resource The existing evaluation system allows the plant to provision. (PD 1.2) determine compliance of each employee with the position occupied and create conditions for carrying-out In 2013 the plant selected candidates and recruited employment duties more successfully and efficiently. 532 people from the residents of the region taking The founding principles in the area of the personnel into consideration the level of competence so as to efficiency management are objectivity and openness. satisfy its need in personnel. (EC 7) (PD 4.10) (LA 12) Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Number of young specialists 107 188 85 111 113 166 143 96 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS In order to improve the base required for the personnel the values by criteria related to material stimulation evaluation, local regulations have been developed and of labor but these indicators are also within the area are operating; they regulate the procedure of assessof average satisfaction. ment and certification of the Company management and specialists. The assessment procedure is based on the On the whole, as compared to the previous year, the plant managed to improve 12 indicators assessed. Such constructive dialogue between a worker and a manager. categories as schedule and work procedure, relations In 2013, 442 specialists were certified for compliance with colleagues and immediate superiors have the with the position occupied on the basis of the «360 highest satisfaction index (0,85 and higher). Physical degrees» method. (PD 4.7) (LA 12) loading, content of work fulfilled, assessment of professionalism and leader’s properties of linear superi(HR 5) (SO 4) In its practical activity BSW recognizes ors, general moral and psychological climate in the inviolability of human rights and takes all the required collective, personal initiative in work, self-dependence measures to assure and protect them. Guided by the and labor safety also have a high satisfaction index: approaches of the UN Global Compact in the human 0,75-0,85. rights sphere, OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding seeks to prevent possible conflicts of The results obtained during the research allow us to interests of the employees, managers and the Company. say that in 2013 general social and psychological cliPrinciples of non-admission of conflicts of interests mate of the plant’s collective in general is characterand their settlement are given in the plant’s Code of ized as satisfactory and stable; employees are satisfied Ethics. Preventing conflicts of interests the Compawith their job and the enterprise on the whole. ny seeks improvement of the efficiency of its activity, creation of the atmosphere of trust and openness in So as to maintain the high level of employees’ satisthe relationships with the persons concerned, enhancfaction, a corresponding program of measures was ing business image and reputation of the enterprise The worked out. working tools for preventing possible conflicts are: direct telephone line with the works top management and representatives of the state authorities, «Signal» hotline and others, the work of which is performed on confidential basis. In order to ensure the feedback, the enterprise appointed responsible persons, who review the employees’ appeals concerning various issues including the safety and labour protection issues, environment and professional ethics. Transparency and openness of BMZ becomes one of the leading management principles that allows the plant to create confidential relations with all the parties concerned including the Company employees. (PD 4.6) Within the framework of the personnel motivation program the sociological service of the plant carried out a study of the social and psychological climate Professional and career development (ЕС7) among the employees which was participated by more (LA 11) than 10% of the staff (1212 people). Complex index of satisfaction in 2013 dropped a little and equaled to Realization of the personnel policy based on the prin0,71 (in 2012 – 0,72). At the same time, as previously ciples of equality, justice and award depending on this indicator remains within the high range of satisfacpersonal skills and irrespective of origin, age, gention. Insignificant reduction was caused by decrease of der, race, nationality and religion of an employee is  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 97 Social activity  performed in conformity with the requirements of the corporate and manager competence were aimed at the existing legislation of the Republic of Belarus, unipersonnel reserve as a priority category of human reversally acknowledged norms and principles of the sources. Specialists of the leading educational estabinternational law including the UN Global Compact lishments of the Republic of Belarus are engaged in and the Convention of the International Labor Orgathe training process under bilateral contracts signed. nization. For the accounting period over 68,5% of management appointments from among the employees included into OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdthe works Personnel Register and certified after ing ensures equal possibilities for all employees to passing such training took place realize their potential in the process of their working activity, fair and unbiased assessment of the work reIn 2013 Moreover, the project of annual training of sults, selection of the personnel during recruitment one more specialist of OJSC «BSW – management and career promotion according to the professional company of «BMC» holding at Stemcor UK Limited, skills and knowledge. (PD 4.8) (PD 4.8) one of largest steel trading companies having offices in many countries worldwide and the central office The Company scale allows the employees to realize their located in London, was logically continued. Aim of the professional ambitions, gain new experience and enhance project is training in management and business as well their qualification degree. Realizing the approaches in as western model of business process management. social sphere, the Company places special emphasis on This type of training will help the trainee to see and the internal human recourses potential during selecto feel with his/her own hands all aspects of activity tion and appointment of managers and specialists. of the global company and to apply them in actual acIn order to implement the long-term strategy of the tivity of BSW. enterprise’s development, OJSC «BSW – manageFulfilling the personnel potential development proment company of «BMC» holding formed a multi-level grams and enhancing the efficiency of the structural personnel reserve of the management. The reserve is subdivisions activity, OJSC «BSW – management commeant for meeting the requirement of the Company in pany of «BMC» holding annually organizes rotation management employees having a range of basic adminof specialists. The staff rotation is used as a method istrative competence. In order to develop the comof decreasing labor monotony and routine, and enpetence necessary for a manager and create a real richment the work activity content due to a greater perspective for professional and career promotion variety of functions and as one of the labor motivation of the workers, staged training of human resources factors. Besides, the rotation contributes to acquirwas organized according to the existing System. The ing a more diverse practical experience required for training programs stipulate education of the reserve being promoted to one or another management posifrom the level of a foreman to the top-manager level tion. considering the specific character of the work fulfilled («Young Manager School» and «Management In 2013 temporary appointments took place in order School»). The programs and trainings for developing to increase specialists’ qualification, determine their Factor 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Number of the rotation program participants 34 27 56 103 152 84 Rotation results: promotion to a specialist position 17 10 20 29 71 23 appointment to a manager position 3 4 2 11 15 13 qualification improvement 14 13 34 63 66 48 98 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS potential abilities for putting into the personnel reproviding the personnel support of innovative proserve as well as for the purpose of promoting cacesses; reers of the young workers having higher education: – retaining and development of the professional po(PD 4.9) tential and staff competitive ability; During the annual integrated study of the social-psy– providing the subdivisions with the management staff chological climate in the teams of structural subdivireserve having a developed corporate and management sions held by the sociological service of the works, competence; the respondents give an average estimate regarding the promotion and career opportunities (the satisfac– organizing training of the specialists, management tion index made up 0,65 as in 2012. (PD 4.9) staff and their reserve; Training and education – creating the system of tutorship and sharing of knowledge; OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding sees its personnel as its major asset and takes – improvement of the forms and methods of training, corresponding measures regarding its retaining and introduction of advanced educational methods (develdevelopment creating conditions for professional opment of the remoter electronic system of module growth and education. Byelorussian Steel Works training «LearnBMZ» with the subsequent allocation gives all its employees the right for professional on the internal plant’s site); education on different stages of labor activity orientating at long-term relations with the personnel and – formation of a personnel reserve of the required considers education to be an investment into the human qualification with regard to nonprofessional occupacapital assets. (LA 11) (LA 10) tions from among the region residents; In the present conditions of severe competition OJSC – organization of experience and knowledge exchange «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding aims in the course of rendering of educational services to at searching for current sales markets, technologies organizations and enterprises of our republic, neighof the future, cost-saving reserves and other optimibouring and far foreign countries. zation possibilities. In order to solve the above tasks the Training Center Personnel quality became a determining factor of the is equipped with the newest training aids. Everything works competitive ability. Ensuring personnel quality is arranged in such a way that trainings are maximally is one of the priority targets of the corporate Social efficient. Availability of the training aids and multimeResponsibility Policy. It is impossible without the dedia applications developed by the teachers and masters veloped internal training system. Guided by the labor of the Training Center based on the technologies and and education legislation, the professional education equipment implemented at the enterprise facilitates system is controlled by the corporate Training Cenlearning the material. The education process applies ter. (SO 8) both traditional forms and modern education technologies. By carrying out an efficient operation of the continuous professional education system, the Training CenThe main form of the education process organization is ter solves the following objectives in the personnel dual that means a well-balanced combination of acquirmanagement system: ing theoretical knowledge and practical skills. providing the subdivisions of the plant with profesA particular attention is paid to the modular education sional staff of the required qualification level; technology that lays stress both on acquiring partic SOCIAL REPORT 2013 99 Social activity  ular knowledge and developing the personnel’s ability 5351 employees (45% of the total number of the for self-education and self-improvement. staff) took varied types of education and acquired new knowledge in 2013. Education and development of the personnel is carried-out in conformity with the current and perspecByelorussian Steel Works is always ready for the ditive demands of the Company. alog with the parties concerned regarding issues of improvement of professionalism, scholarship and em(SO 3)(HR 8, 3)(LA 8) A differential approach to the ployees’ competence development. education programs formation is applied depending on a worker’s qualification level. Programs of continuous In recent years each employee took one type of educaprofessional training stipulate studying the issues of tion. Average education time per one employee of the special technologies, civil, political, economic, social Company in 2013 made up 40,7 hours. and cultural human rights, requirements of environment protection systems, quality management, labor Growth of investments in professional training was and industrial safety, energy saving issues. over USD100,4 thousand as compared to 2012. Number of people trained, % of the total number of this % of the total number trained Category of persons category the trained employees changchangchang2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 es es es Managers 1299 1119 976 -143 22,9 19,2 18,2 -1 109,1 91,95 79,6 -12,3 Specialists 516 825 610 -215 9,1 14,2 11,4 -2,8 28,8 44,1 33,3 -10,8 Office 17 20 +3 0,3 0,4 +0,1 10,7 12,2 +1,5 workers Workers 3853 3861 3745 -116 68 66,3 70 +3,7 41,3 41,9 43,2 +1,3 Total 5668 5822 5351 -471 100 100 100 7,6 45,8 46,8 45 -1.8 Continuous education is ensured by rational combinaFulfillment of targets in 2013 was reached due to detion of professional education in educational estabcrease of the volume of expensive training on external lishments, systematic self-education as well as studysites and a more complete use the Company internal ing in the Training Center and on working places. potential for organization of the production training. Office workers Managers and specialists Workers But OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding continues active development of international cooperation in the area of preparation and enhancement of qualification of its employees. In connection 18,2% with its large investment program the enterprise expands training of the employees able to operate modern world-level equipment. Education 2013 11,8% and training in educational centers and enterprises of England, Italy, Germany, China, and other countries to adopt best 70% practices was organized. (PD 4.14-PD 4.17) In 2013 OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding continued its international coopera100 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS tion in exchanging accumulated experience and knowlenced workers and specialists. Detailed acquaintance edge of steelmaking processes with specialists of simwith the production takes place on a working place. ilar enterprises of far and nearby foreign countries: A student can feel being of the working team, try Danieli (Italy), «WATER GROUP Ltd. Oy» (Finland), his/her skills and adopt the mentors’ experience, «AUTUS Corporation» (USA), representative office thus OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» of Siemens in the Republic of Belarus, trade firm of holding openly demonstrates its potential employees BSW in Moscow (Russia). the possibility of acquiring interesting work and personal realization. In the area of professional training OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding forms up long(ЕС9) Solving medium-term strategic goals in the term relations with a number of leading educational sphere of preparation of highly-professional perestablishments having recommended themselves in rensonnel is connected with the State Educational Esdering of educational services: Institute of qualification tablishment «Zhlobin Metallurgical College», which upgrading and retraining according to new directions conducts its activity at the expense of OJSC «BSW of development of technology and economics of Belar– management company of «BMC» holding investments usian National technical University «, «State institute (PR 7). For organizing the college activity in 2013 of qualification upgrading and retraining of managers the Company spent USD1,12 million of its profit. The and industrial specialists «Industry Staff», Gomel state college conducts preparation of technologists for university named after I.Skorina & Byelorussian state basic production subdivisions from among the best transport university, federal educational establishment representatives of the region young generation, who of higher professional training «National research technological university «MISiS (SRTU «MISiS») «When we commissioned the pipe Moscow, Academy of post-graduate education, Moscow mill, our employees worked on chemical institute named after D.I. Mendeleev, Centre probation and were trained at of innovation management of Belarusian state universiRussian and Ukrainian enterpristy, »Republican higher school institution». es. Now we witness an inverse process: we receive people, our speSo as to provide pipe production with highly qualified cialists advise them, share their personnel, in 2012 the plant started to implement a new, experience. We three-stage project aimed at organization of getting the cooperate in spite second stage of higher education in mathematics taking of being competitors. Cooperation is necessary so as not to break into consideration the specific character of the pipe bonds between generations.» production at Byelorussian Steel Works with attraction of the scientific potential of GTU named after P.O. General Director of OJSC «BSW-management company of Sukhoi and MIS&A. (PD 4.14-PD 4.17) (EC 9). «BMC» holding A.N. Savianok (PD 1.2) Alongside with solving the issues regarding the personnel qualification improvement, the colpassed competitive selection according to the educalaboration with higher educational establishments is tional programs coordinated with the works. (ЕС1) aimed at reaching long-term strategic objectives of (ЕС8)(PD 4.14-17) the works. This cooperation is beneficial both for educational establishments and OJSC «BSW – manageAt all times corporate social development and soment company of «BMC» holding. The plant offers cial investments remain sources of enhancing the students the opportunity to undertake manufacturworks competitive abilities. Possessing modern eduing practice at the enterprise. During the manufaccational base and highly-qualified specialists, OJSC turing practice the students are guided by experi«BSW – management company of «BMC» holding  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 101 Social activity  makes its contribution in the development of commuthe social and psychological climate in the subdivinity helping with training of qualified workers for sions, satisfaction with the perspective of qualificathe industrial enterprises of the town, the region, tion enhancement, professional and educational level and the country. PD 1.2) obtained was highly assessed (satisfaction index as in 2012 remained at the level of 0,70). (PD 4.9-10) Formation of the reputation of the most appealing employer is an essential condition for involvement of Motivation system creative, active and technically competent personnel in the plant operation. By rendering assistance Material stimulation to the younger generation in receiving modern eduOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» cation and strengthening the material and technical holding acknowledges the right of the employees to foundation of the region educational establishments decent, economically sound award for their work reByelorussian Steel Works creates own promising sults, strives for providing its employees with work personnel reserve. For these purposes the correand salary that raise their living standards. According sponding means were directed to pre-school educato the requirements of the Belarusian labor legistional institutions, schools, creativity centers for lation and principles of the UN Global Compact the the kids. (ЕС7) plant stands for decent remuneration of labor, abolishment of forced and child labor. Special emphasis is placed on the work regarding pupils and students vocational guidance that is carThe main objective of one of the strategic lines of the ried out on a regular basis with direct participation Company policy is constant increase of productiveness and quality of the personnel labor, efficient applicaof OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» tion of the existing norms and wage systems aimed at holding specialists. Within this course a range of the manufacturing high-quality competitive products based following programs is implemented: (ЕС1) (ЕС8) on the rational use of each worker’s labor potential – pupils participation in «Open Day» feast at basic eduand enhancing personnel welfare gains. (PD 4.8) cational establishments; All payments and privileges provided for the Company – excursions to the plant’s museum; employees apply to those working full day and halftime pro rata their working time. – organizing youth competitions, cultural events engaging students of schools and specialized education(LA 3) One of the most precise indicators of the al establishments. plant’s social policy effectiveness is the salary level. OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdSalary is the major source of income of the workers ing ensures the right of the employees to education and the main factor for ensuring a certain standard of and deems intellectual potential and professionalism well-being. Company policy in the area of remuneraof its employees an essential factor required for own tion of the personnel including top management of the development. In 2013, 14 employees of the Company plant and its divisions foresees association of labor took extra-mural courses in higher educational esremuneration with joint and individual key efficiency tablishments on a contractual basis; 17 people were indices. In order to achieve unity of interests of all trained at MA courses, 1 person at post-graduate categories of workers in insuring high final results courses, 1 person was getting the second higher edof the Company production and commercial operations in general based on accounting and encouragement of ucation. Over four hundred workers were educated labor contribution of every division and a single workindependently. er, the enterprise developed the bonus scheme for laAccording to the results of an integrated study of bor stimulation. (EC 1) (PD 4.5) 102 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS In the existing economic situation it is most timely to worker in compliance with the general provisions of observe the lowest limit of labor payment for weakly the Uniform Wage-Rates and Skills Handbook based protected groups of workers. on the tariff-qualifying characteristics of the workers professions; Average annual salary at the enterprise made up USD770,5 in 2013. Average salary of workers and – as far as clerks are concerned, it is calculated by office employees made up USD 579,4 in the Republic multiplying the first tariff rate by the tariff multiplier of Belarus in 2013, which is 1,33 lower than at OJSC of the corresponding tariff rate of the unified wage BSW. (ЕС 5) tariff system established for a worker with reference to its position; (EC 5) Salary accounting is made according to the legislation existing in the Republic of Belarus. The en– as far as men and women are concerned, according terprise realizes the following principle: the accrued to the work done or position held in conformity with salary of a worker, who fully completed the labor the unified wage tariff system and collective agreehours and working norms, cannot be lower than the ment. established amount of the minimal salary in the Republic of Belarus that made up USD172,6 in December Average salary of the enterprise clerks is 6,4% high2013. er than workers’ salary. Average salary of the management is 44,6 % higher than workers’ salary. This OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdcorrelation is explained by the complexity of the pering improves the normative base in the area of labor formed obligations stipulated by the job descriptions relationship and informs every single employee of the as well as the organization (separate structural sublabour remuneration conditions. According to the divisions) activity efficiency, quality of the performed principles of the UN Global Compact the enterprise works (services), efficiency of the set targets and realizes the principle of equable award for equally objectives fulfillment. (EC 5) valuable labor. Stimulating payments to the top-management are efByelorussian Steel Works ensures job evaluation fected depending on the efficiency of the Company and gives qualification to the workers, specialists performance and fulfillment of the social-economic and clerks according to the existing uniform wage development indicators. (PD 4.5) (EC 5) rate book of workers’ jobs and professions as well as wage rate book for management, specialists and Women have the same salaries and tariff rates as men, if they occupy equal positions (professions). clerks. This approach allows the plant to avoid a biased and subjective attitude to workers in the proWomen are given and guaranteed the same rights as cess of their career promotion and contributes to men and have additional benefits and guarantees aimed inadmissibility of the workers discrimination of any at their health and maternity protection. kind. (HR 4) (HR 9) Thus it is prohibited to use women’ labor in: (PD 4.11) The tariff part of the salary is determined based on the monthly tariff rates established by the unified workers – heavy operations and operations with harmful and wage tariff system of the Republic of Belarus and the (or) hazardous labor conditions; collective agreement in conformity with job evaluation jobs related with lifting and manual handling of in the organization according to the categories as folweights; lows: (LA 13) (LA 14) some professions and positions (steelmaker, steel– as far as workers are concerned, it is determined by maker’s assistant, farrier, battery assembler, etc.). multiplying the first tariff rate by the tariff multiplier of the corresponding tariff rate established for a Pregnant women are given easier jobs excluding the  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 103 Social activity  900,0 827,6 800,0 777,9 770,5 724,2 700,0 681,2 600,0 579,4 500,0 448,7 408,1 420,2 400,0 363,5 300,0 200,0 100,0 0,0 2009 2010 2011г 2012 2013 BSW RB Average salary at OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding as compared to the average salary of workers and office workers of the Republic of belarusm USD thou. 1200,0 992,1 1000,0 911 869,4 855,1 821,2 800,0 660,1 579,0 598,3 574,1 men 600,0 546,9 women 400,0 200,0 0,0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Average salary of men and women at OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding , USD 104 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 200000 184833 180000 173838 160000 140091 138073 140000 120000 102392 100000 80000 60000 40000 20000 0 2009г 2010г 2011г 2012г 2013г. BSW Personnel labour productivity dynamics at OJSC «BSW management company of «BMC» holding» or 2009-2013 in USD 120,0 105,1 100,0 95,5 91,0 92,0 88,7 82,4 80,0 60,0 52,4 40,0 20,0 0,0 OJSC «BSW-management company OJSC Novolipetsk SW Cherepovetsk SW JSC ArcelorMittal Kazakhstan OJSC «Magnitogorsk SW» OJSC Chelaybinsk SW OJSC Moldavsky SW of «BMC» holding Labor productivity growth rate per steel making companies of close foreign countries in 2013 as compared to 2012, %  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 105 Social activity  an y CC zon t TZ MA Z ral EM eg mp a nt ori RU SC Int nt co Atl KH G OJ SC me ing U OJ ge a na hold m C» WBS «BM S C « of OJ Average monthly salary at OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding as compared to GDPforming enterprises of the Ministry of Industry of Belarus for 2013, USD impact of harmful and (or) hazardous labor factors Planning of labor remuneration expenses is based on but their salary remains equal to the average amount the salary level reached and the output per one emof their previous salary. ployee. Alongside with the labor productivity growth, the average salary increase is planned accordingly. A mother (farther) of two or more children aged under 16 (or having a disabled child aged under 18) are It is necessary to point out that with the labor progiven one extra day-off in a week at her/his request ductivity growth rate in USD equal to 91,0% in 2013, which is paid for in the amount of the average daily the salary growth rate was 99% (94,0% in 2012). payment. (ЕС 1) (LA 13) (LA 14) So the top management of the enterprise attempts to A mother bringing up two or more children under sixrestrain drop of the welfare of its employees. (EC 9) teen is given an additional day-off a month at her reIt is important that in these challenging times the enquest; this day is paid for in the amount of one basic terprise worked for decreasing the labor coefficient payment. of the manufactured products. In 2013 implementation of this approach lead to the decrease of the labor A mother bringing up children under eighteen is given coefficient of the operations fulfilled in basic and auxone extra day-off a month at her request; this day is not paid for. iliary shops by 36,8 thou. n/h. The economic efficiency made up over USD135,2 thousand. Average salary of men at the enterprise is 58 per cent As far as the salary level is concerned, the plant higher than that of women. The difference between the takes a decent place among the gross-output-making average salary of women and the average salary of enterprises of the Ministry of Industry of the Repubmen is explained by the increased payment for the heavy lic of Belarus, which is shown in the below diagram: service work, works with harmful and dangerous la(ЕС 5) bor conditions, where women’ labor is prohibited. (LA 13) (LA 14) (PD 4.11) All technical-economic development programs of the 106 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS enterprise are worked out for one year and are reby their working team members, are granted the honported to the personnel. Their results of their impleor to have their pictures posted in the Hall of Fame mentation are summarized monthly during a year and of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» are reported to the employees during forums, meetholding. All structural subdivisions of the works have ings and by the plant’s newspaper «Metallurg». (PD «Alleys of Glory», «Foremost Workers» stands with 4.8) (PD 4.10) (PD 4.9) the pictures of the best workers. Non-financial incentives 753 employees of our enterprise were awarded in 2013. (PD 2.10) A significant element of the enterprise corporate culture is the system of non-financial incentives of the It grew into a tradition to congratulate the employees employees which comprises social-psychological, staff with anniversaries, birth of a child, wedding, and to orand professional aspects. ganize parties dedicated to recruitment for the armed forces or retirement. (PD 4.8) Byelorussian Steel Works pays special attention to stimulation and personnel interest in Since 2008 the plant organizes celebration in honsaving of material and energy resources, growth or of labor dynasties of OJSC «BSW – manageof production efficiency, enhancement of responsibility for the quality of products manufactured, im«Traditions are very strong: provement of the production effectiveness as well in terms of scale they unite the as development of creative activity with the help of nation and promote cultural production competitions organized at the plant. 34 identification; from the local types of the production competitions and contests point of view they unite a are held in individual and collective forms («Best in collective, form the sense of pride profession», «Best shop», «Best Canteen», «Best thanks to belonging to one or in profession among affiliated companies», «Proanother profession or company. fessional Olympus», «Best innovator of the year», There many good traditions at «Best young specialist», «Contest of plant teams Byelorussian Steel Works. They and structural subdivisions of the works in conforare our life and our history». mity with the system «BE AWARE OF A HUMAN!», General Director of OJSC «BSW-management company of etc.). (ЕС 1) (ЕС 9) «BMC» holding A.N. Savianok One of the main constituents of the corporate culture and efficient way of enhancing the workers motivation is corporate awarding. For the purpose of moral ment company of «BMC» holding. Assignment of an honorable title of »A Labor Dynasty of OJSC stimulation, strengthening glorious labor traditions, «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding is increasing the role and strengthening of a Man of Labased on the principles of succession, continuity of bor, the plant conducts festive events dedicated to generations from older to younger one, and contiinitiation into young metallurgist, celebration in honnuity of labor activity (at least three generations or of work dynasties, entering the names of best emof the relatives of the first-degree kinship should ployees in the Company Book of Fame or placing their work at the plant at the same time). photos in the Hall of Fame, honoring the winners of the productive competitions at the annual Labor FesIn 2010 a new tradition was born at BSW: presentatival «Professional Olympus». All categories of the tion of a corporate calendar takes place at the Palace plant’s employees who attained better results in their of Culture of Metallurgists in the form of a brilliant production activity, actively participate in the enterand colorful celebration. Pages of the plant’s calenprise social life, gained authority and are respected dar for 2013 contain the best pictures drawn by the  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 107 Social activity  future metallurgists chosen according to the results Labor protection and ensuring of industrial of the regional contest and photos of the women safety working at the plant. OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding The possibility of professional education and insees a human life as its supreme value. The plant does creasing the workers qualification is of a particular not accept any compromises between the health of its importance for motivation of the staff. Professional training organized and carried out at the enterprise employees, safety and profit-making. Labor safety and by the Training Center ensures execution of the three health are the key priorities of the corporate labor motivating functions: protection management system. Realizing its mission, the Company ensures the employees’ labor protection, – production-economic (Company competitive ability takes measures for reduction of accidents risks and ocgrowth, enhancement of the quality of duty perforcupational diseases, strives for creation and sustaining mance and manufactured products); of such labor conditions that do not harm health and – administrative (providing with qualified personnel, human dignity of the employees. (PD 4.8) its formation, reproduction, adaptation and personnel development); Using dangerous industrial facilities in the production social-cultural (personality socialization, provision process, the enterprise management bears responsibilof occupation, social confidence, offering equal opity for conservation of the employees’ life and health. portunities for professional and career development). The existing labor protection and industrial safety management system is built according to the requireByelorussian Steel Works puts particular emphasis ments of Belarusian legislation and considering interon sustaining favorable social-psychological climate national practices. (SO 8) (PD 4.11) (PD 1.2) in the working team, organization of professional celebrations, sport and cultural events for the employLabor protection service of the plant bases its acees, their family members and the population of the tivity on the priorities of the international norms. region (see section «Social package of benefits and Labor protection management of the enterprise is guarantees for the staff»). The approaches in planbased on the key international standard of labor ning of the corporate events are determined based on safety OHSAS 18001 «Occupational health safethe analysis of the results of annual integrated study ty assurance systems» and national standard STB of social-psychological climate of the working teams of the Company. 18001 «Labor protection management systems. Requirements.» Short-term targets in the area of social responsibility (PD 1.2) As before, key strategic aims of OJSC ‘BSW-management company of «BMC» holding in the area of labor Achievement of the following level of the main target protection are: values related with the Company social-economic development is scheduled for 2014: – continuous improvement of efficiency of labor – training of the executive employees and specialists, protection in accordance with the requirements of pers. – 1363 OHSAS 18001:2007 and STB 18001-2009; – workers professional training, pers. – 2917 – constant control of risks related to production – general satisfaction of the personnel, % min – 72 processes, implementation of preventive and corrective actions directed towards prevention of occur– salary growth rate, %, min –118,1 rence of occupational diseases and injuries in pro– personnel turnover, %, max – 5,0 duction; 108 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – labor protection and industrial safety activity in to confirm the availability of the certified labor conformity with the requirements of international protection management system. It is evident considstandards, the existing law, and other requirements ering western partners’ mentality. Availability of relating to dangers in the area of occupational health the certificate confirming the conformity with the and labor safety; international standards characterizes the enterprise as a reliable partner, increases its prestige, – prevention of equipment failures, incidents, emerand the products competitive ability. gency, prevention of injuries and worsening of the Implementation of this system allowed our plant to: employees’ health during production activity; (PD 4.8-4.10) – provision of all processes with competent, highly-qualified personnel. – decrease the costs due to a more efficient use of labor recourses; diminish the expenses related with Every year certification bodies carry out external autraumatism and morbidity; dits to check correspondence of the enterprise system of labor protection and industrial safety to the – improve legal safety, guarantees of correspondence to the changing legislative labor safety requirements; requirements of the standards. In 2013 OJSC «BSW – management company of – minimize the risk of judicial punishment; «BMC» holding successfully passed a certification – respect the interests of the parties – the employer audit to evaluate the compliance with the requireand working team in the process of the enterprise proments of OHSAS 18001:2007 international standard ductive activity; «Occupational health safety assurance systems» and a re-certification audit of the labor protection and – improve the enterprise image on product and labor markets as well as in the eyes of government authoriindustrial safety management system for compliance ties as a socially responsible organization; with the requirements of STB 18001-2009 national standard «Labor protection management systems. Re– aim the management team at detecting and decreasing quirements». the basic risk types related with the negative impact of the production activity and the released products on Auditors of the certification agency Bureau Verthe health of its employees, population and consumers; itas B el L td , and N ational E ducational E stablish ment «R epublican I nstitute of H igher S chool » – simplify the system approach to problem-solving, confirmed correspondence of the existing plant ’ s achieve greater responsibility, more distinct responmanagement system to the international and na sibility distribution; tional standards . (PD 4.9) – increase labor productivity due to improvement of After the standards were implemented at the enconditions and reduction of unproductive time and laterprise, we accept contemporary, universally bor waste. acknowledged international safety technologies. This allows OJSC «BSW – management company of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» hold«BMC» holding to speak the same language with ing continuously improves the system of labor protecits international partners and organize cooperation and industrial safety management and adjust it in tion more effectively. At present, in many cases for accordance with the requirements of international signing collective contracts the enterprise needs standards. This allows considerable reduction of the  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 109 Social activity  production costs due to lowering the specialists incapacitation related with accidents, occupational illness2013 2 241 648 es, emergencies and fires. In 2013 investments into the labor protection made up 2012 2 195 400 USD2 241,6 million, which is USD46,2 thousand more than in 2012. 2011 1 272 415 The occupational traumatism level depends on several 2010 1 763 461 factors; one of them is the volume of investments into labor protection. During recent years considerable 0 500 000 1 000 000 1 500 000 2 000 000 2 500 000 means were invested into the labor protection meaInvestment in labor protection sures that allowed decrease of the traumatism level Every year the plant works out measures to provide from 11 in 2006 to 6 in 2013. (ЕС 8) for labor safety. In 2013, the plant implemented 83 measures of the plan amounting to USD572 355. Due The enterprise does not only increases production to the measures taken, working conditions of 746 (706 capacity and industrial product output from year to in 2012) employees were improved. year, but carries our continuous and purposeful activity to create and improve safe working conditions. The enterprise strives for continuous improvement of its performance in the area of labour safety due to Improvement of labor conditions (LA 6) improvement of safety of the production processes, A large amount of work to remove outdated equipment motivation of the personnel and interest of the staff from production and installation of advanced equipin observation of labor safety requirements. ment meeting the requirements of labor safety is carObligations of the employer in providing for safe and ried out within the Program of technical revamping. healthy labor conditions are stipulated in the section These measures helped us to improve labor conditions «Labor Protection» of the Collective Agreement of Item Indicator 2010 2011 2012 2013 No. 1 Number of recorded accidents 7 7 7 6 Number of the injured including: 7 7 7 6 mortal 1 2 1 0 2 severe 3 1 3 2 group 0 0 0 0 3 Frequency coefficient, Fc 0,61 0,61 0,69 0,44 4 Gravity coefficient, Gc 36,14 51,7 34,5 35,8 5 Wasted days of working ability 253 362 276 179 Production traumatism indicators of the employees to a considerable extent and dethe plant. In accordance with the provisions of the crease impact of dangerous and hazardous production Collective Agreement the employees are timely profactors. vided with free certified working clothes and shoes, 110 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 12 11 10 10 9 8 8 7 7 7 6 6 4 2 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Dynamics of production injury personal protective and hygienic equipment, undergo greatly depends on the thoroughness of his/her profesa periodical medical inspection. Some categories of sional training. Sustaining the high standard of knowlworkers are provided with milk. edge is insured by conducting an obligatory labor safety instruction, periodical knowledge check and personnel Training and competence evaluation (LA 11) certification regarding safe operation. (LA 8) (HR 3) Dynamic development of labor protection law, introAn integral part of the labor protection and industrial duction of new technologies and techniques, use of safety system of the enterprise is teaching of safe opadvanced materials in production stipulated the neceseration of hazardous production facilities, occupational sity to improve training and qualification of employees sanitation and labor hygiene. An employee’s labor safety in labor protection. 2012 2013 Activity % % Plan Actual Plan Actual fulfilled fulfilled 1. Enhancement of the administrative em594 731 123 1080 1133 104,9 ployees’ and specialists qualification, total: – PAN RB 444 544 122 532 546 102,6 Designated OHSAS courses 150 187 124 548 587 107,1 2. Professional training of the workers: 3091 3861 415 3303 3745 113,4 — training of new employees 0 27 0 11 — retraining 494 943 191 593 889 149,9 — qualification enhancement 608 694 114 751 849 113,0 — Designated courses 1989 2197 110 1959 1996 101,9  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 111 Social activity  In order to fulfill the educational training of the pergarding the control of compliance with the labor sonnel that service and operates high-risk facilities, protection legislation are regulated by Decree the corporate Training Center was audited to check No.179 of the Ministry of Labor and Social Seits conformity with the republican legislation and recurity of the Republic of Belarus «About the proceived the consent of the Department for Supervision cedure of public control of the compliance with of Safe Operation in Industrial and Atomic Power Enthe labor protection legislation carried-out by the gineering of the Emergency Situations Ministry of the persons authorized to control an organization emRepublic of Belarus for the right to train employees ployees’ labor protection» dd. 28.11.2008 and the required by the Company and other organizations. Articles of Association of the Belarusian Federation of Trade Unions. The executives proceed to individual work after taking a special training course at the private unitary enterprise «Educational-Methodic Center of Gomel Regional Trade Unions». In 2013, 97 public inspectors were trained in labor protection. (LA 6) (SO 8) An employee of Byelorussian Steel Works became the winner of the annual national contest for the best organization of public control of labor protection in the organizations of Belarusian trade union of industrial workers (BTUIW). At the second stage the control of compliance with the legislation and checking operating safety organiSocial control for observance of human zation in conformity with local regulations is carried rights in the area of labor protection out by 37 public commissions including representatives of the structural subdivisions management. Their acAll interested parties including the employees are activity is specified by the Decree of Presidium of the tively involved in the process of managing the labor Belarusian Trade Unions Federal Council No. 59 dd. protection and industrial safety system. OJSC «BSW 24.04.2003. (HR 8) – management company of «BMC» holding created a system of the two-stage public control. (HR 8) (LA During 2013 the public labor safety formations carried-out 53145 inspections of labor safety and 6) (SO 8) production culture. 53272 non-conformities were (PD 4.4) At the first stage daily control of obserdetected and 2185 notations were issued to the manvation of the legislation of the Republic of Belarus agement. in the sphere of labor protection, ensuring the emFor stimulation and improvement of personal responployees right to safe labor and health maintenance sibility of the employees for observation of safe labor is fulfilled by the public service of health and safety rules and norms, a corresponding local normative-leexecutives. The service of public executives consisting gal act stipulates material incentives of employee who of 470 persons includes reputable employees selected have no violations of the requirements of labor and by the working team members by open voting. fire safety, and industrial sanitary. In 2013 the amount The executives’ activities and their authorities reof such payments equaled to USD20,4 thousand. Be112 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS sides, Labor Safety column functions in the plant’s – prevent the occupational traumatism growth as cominformation-reference system InfoBMZ (internal site). pared to the level of 2013; It includes and updates national and local acts related – provide for additional safety of labor for workers to labor protection and industrial safety, the followof the shops, pers. 115 ing journals: Labor protection, Industrial Safety and Social Protection, Rescue Service, Civil Protection, – improve production environment of workers of the etc.. shops, pers. 520 An information action was dedicated to labor protec– reduce physical loading of workers of the shops, tion in production at pre-school children establishpers. 43 ments of the plant. Children reminded their parents – improve drinking condition of workers of the shops, about labor safety and handed over a booklet with pers. 490 an appeal: «Mum, dad, please, do not only learn the rules, but follow them strictly!» In October 2013 reSocial programs sults of children fine-arts contest «My future – safe Contributing to the social development of workers labor of my parents» organized by BSW were sumand local community Byelorussian Steel Works folmarized. Over fifty children from 2 to 14 years old lows the principles of the responsible business practice formulated in the UN Global Compact and other participated in it. international acts. (PD 4.8) Following the principles of social responsibility in adOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holddition to obligatory insurance, the employer signed an ing understands that in the existing business condiagreement with Promtransinvest Ltd. On obligatory tions an enterprise stability is determined not only by insurance of civil responsibility of the employer for economic effectiveness factors, but by the parameters its employees’ health and life injury. According to the of efficiency of the corporate social responsibility agreement, beside insurance cases anticipated by obligpolicy. atory insurance every employee of the Company was Long-term business stability depends on the social and additionally insured from non-production accidents economic stability in the region. Pursue of the policy occurring within one hour during the way to and from of the corporate social responsibility as regards own work. employees and local communities, is a strategic direction of the plant’s activity. During the annual integrated research of social-psychological climate in the structural subdivisions Employees are a major society resource for obtaining working teams the respondents give a high estimation competitive advantages. of the employees’ labor safety level (the satisfaction Considerable means are invested by the plant in the index was at the level of 2012 and made up 0,77) and formation of interested and responsible staff, iman average estimation of on-site sanitary-hygienic conprovement of working conditions, and provision of ditions (the satisfaction index made up 0,69 vs 0,68 in social protection of the employees. 2012). The social policy adopted by the plant contributes to Achievement of the following level of the basic target retention of competitive advantages of the plant, creation of a highly qualified team of employees able to values regarding the works social-economic developwork efficiently despite a strong competition. ment (in the sphere of labor protection and industrial safety) is scheduled for 2014: (PD 1,2) In 2013 social programs were fulfilled on the ba SOCIAL REPORT 2013 113 Social activity  sis of a union agreement and according to the social offering of a wide scope of quality services for the budget for the account of the plant’s own funds and inhabitants of the town and surrounding area by the means granted by the social insurance fund of the social services. Republic of Belarus. In 2013 OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding fulfilled all its Social package of benefits and guarantees obligations concerning main directions of the social for the employees (EC 8 – EC 9) programs and in spite of the fact that 2013 was a OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» difficult year from the economic point of view their holding makes considerable investments into educafinancing was increased and made up USD17,7 miltion and personnel qualification enhancement, labor lion. (ЕС 1) conditions improvement, ensuring employees social Priority directions of OJSC «BSW – management security. It participates in solving socially significant issues in the region considering this activity a concompany of «BMC» holding social policy are: stituent part of its business and social investments – creation of favorable conditions for the workers into the inherent element of corporate responsibiliand their families for solving all the welfare issues: ty. In order to stimulate labor productivity improvetreatment and medical service, saving of reproductive ment and personnel management cost optimization, in health, health improvement and vacations, promotion addition to salary, Byelorussian Steel Works uses of healthy lifestyle standards, improvement of living a social package that made up over USD1 560 per conditions and cultural service; employee in 2013. – rendering of social and voluntary support for penThe Company social sphere expenditures at the exsioners, the disabled, children, the Company employpense of profit equaled to USD 7,92 million including: ees having large families; – pre-school establishments 2,96 млн.$; – offering of a sponsorship and beneficent aid for – medical service 1,14 млн.$; sport organizations and organizations representing other spheres of public life; – metallurgical college 1,12 млн.$; Others 20,0% Shikhov recreation centre 1,0% FTC 2,0% Pre-school cildren establishments 38,0% Metallurg Palace of culture 5,0% Hostels 6,0% Medical -department 14,0% Metallurgical college 14,0% The Company expenses of social sphere 114 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – hostels 0,47 mln.$; Formation of strategy and tactics in the area of health protection is stated in the comprehensive pro– Palace of Culture of Metallurgists 0,40 mln.$; gram «HEALTH-2013» which coordinates the inter– Sport facility 0,17 mln.$; action of the administration, medical staff, industrial safety board, members of the community and con– Holiday camp «Dneprovskie Zori» in settlement Shisumer facilities, trade union in the area of disease khov 0,06 mln.$; and traumatism prevention, promotion of a healthy – others (museum, 8 canteens) 1,60 mln.$. lifestyle. Byelorussian Steel Works implements its social policy The major items of the works social policy and the in the following priority directions: «HEALTH -2013» are: (PD 4.8) (LA 9) – labor safety; – enhancement of the preventive medical aid level; – rest and health promotion of the employees and orientation of the medical aid system at increasing their family members; the ambulatory segment efficiency; – physical culture and sport development; – compliance of the on-site work places with the technological and sanitary-hygienic norms; – cultural life of the works employees; – improvement of ecological events and environmental – solving of the living conditions issues of the employprotection norms; ees; – development of the plant personnel’s strong orien– support of large families; tation at healthy lifestyle. – social support of unemployed pensioners, invalids The Company develops and improves its own medical and other categories of lower-income citizens; facilities aimed at bringing medical assistance close the employees and rendering medical assistance to the citi– child care. zens of the town and inhabitants of the region. Health protection OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdProtection of the plant’s employees is the most ing spent USD 1,12 million for its medical center fiimportant constituent part of the social policy of nancing in 2013. OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding. The clinic of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding is the largest among the town The Company medical prophylactic assistance renenterprises and includes a polyclinic for 250 visits dered to the employees is organized in accordance per shift where specialists qualified in 12 medical with the state program of ambulatory assistance to specialties (therapy, neurology, traumatology, ophthe population and fulfills the tasks related with thalmology, otolaryngology, addictology, urology, health protection, medical and sanitary support of the dermatology, gynecology, physiotherapy, cardioloproduction process, disease prevention and follow-up gy, endocrinolgy) receive patients. The structure of care, and ensures cooperation of the plant’s divisions the medical centre includes a clinical and biochemical in solving issues of labor safety and protection of the laboratory, an X-ray room, ultrasonic and functionemployees health. al diagnostics rooms, physiotherapeutic department,  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 115 Social activity  a day ward, six medical rooms one of which operates Continuous attention is paid to disease prevention, 24 hours a day, shop health centres. Availability their timely detection and medical treatment. Periof an up-to-date equipment and highly professional odic medical examinations remain the basic mechastaff allows laboratory, functional and instrumennism of the employees’ health control. Examinations tal diagnostics examination. Doctors of narrow spegive a possibility immediately to detect presence cialization render a wide range of services. (EC 3) of harmful and dangerous production factors and (EC 8 – EC 9) (LA 8) take measures for their elimination thus allowing prevention of professional disease development and The clinic is equipped with state-of-the-art equipment helping to prevent production traumatism. Workand its material – technical base is continuously imers who are influenced by dangerous and harmful proved. The equipment allows the following types of factors on their work places are additionally thorstudy to be carried out: electrocardiogram, rheooughly examined including instrumental laboratory vasagram, veloergometry, daily monitoring (Holter), studies and consultations given by narrow specialrheoencephalography, general blood analysis, genists considering industry peculiarities and profeseral urine analysis, biochemical blood analysis, ulsion of a worker. Within the framework of this trasonic investigation of the organs of the abdominal project more than 8284 employees including 1936 cavity, thyroid gland, heart, X-radiology. Medical women were thoroughly examined in 2013. A single service can be rendered with temporary interruption professional disease was detected. Due to dispenof production activity. In 2013 this form of medical sary group change 400 people were recommended a care was used by more than 1605 people, thus giving more adequate employment. the possibility to maintain the level of labor productivity and save resources of the social security fund. So as to make treatment of patients at the mediTreatment and physiotherapeutic procedures are cal department simpler, provide operation of the rendered close to the production on the basis of remedical rooms and services in the automatic mode, habilitation centres located in the production shops. an electronic ambulatory chart of a patient was formed. Medical department personnel consists of 138 people including: 33 doctors, 81 – medical personnel with Due to countrywide distribution of chronic diseassecondary specialized education and 12 paramedical es, demand for more effective and convenient methspecialists. ods of treatment grows. This problem can be solved only subject to the principal emphasis being placed on 57,5 % of doctors have the first and the second qualiprevention of diseases and popularization of healthy fication categories. 65,4 % of the paramedical personlifestyle. nel are attested for categories. Medical services are demanded by the citizens of our The clinic has 8 shop therapeutic stations serving apregion. In 2013 proceeds from medical services made proximately 1780 people each. up USD26,9 thousand. 198 263 people visited the clinic in 2013, which is 1 Effectiveness of medical and health promo094 people more than in 2012. 71,8 % of the total tion programs number of visits were related to diseases. A positive thing in seasonal disease prevention is the possibility The means invested in the Company employees’ health, for employees to have a voluntary anti flu vaccination medical service quality enhancement and implementafree of charge. tion of modern treatment methods together with suc116 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS cessful realization of the employees’ health promotion improve efficiency of their implementation, solving of program in sanatoriums and vacation houses allows us the employees’ problems related to preservation of to sustain the positive dynamics of lowering the emreproducing health, arrangement of events at the enployees disease. terprise aimed at diseases prevention, formation of a responsible behavior and adequate attitude to people In the result of prevention and early detection of dishaving HIV. eases, indicators of the employees’ health improved at OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdThe program «Health @ work» helps the employees ing as well as quality of their life. Diseases with temto understand seriousness of the problems related to porary disability made up 1012 days per 100 employees HIVinfection and protect their health in due time. in 2013, which is 63 days less than in 2012. A policy aimed at prevention of distribution of HIV-inIn 2013 the plant continued medical examination to fection was adopted and approved by the general diprevent and early detect diseases of the employrector of the enterprise. Every year we develop an ees.1253 people were registered and 613 were annual plan for HIV-infection preventive measures. A crossed off the register including 150 people due separate plan for HIV/AIDS prevention is developed to recovery during 2013. The group of employees at the plant hostel for single employees. regularly followed-up increased by 486 as compared During 2013 Byelorussian Steel Works arranged to 2012. a number of events under the program «Health @ OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdwork» including information and consultative meetings ing takes part in implementation of the national prowith the Company personnel, placing of information gram of demographic safety aimed at improvement of and educational materials dedicated to the problem of the condition of pregnant women and those who gave HIV-infection dissemination and preventive measures birth to children, preparation for childbirth and upon specialized stands located at hostels, the sport bringing. facility, Palace of Culture, structural divisions and Description Unit 2009 год 2010 год 2011 год 2012 год 2013 год Temporary disability cases 12 745 12 345 12 210 12 448 10 813 (diseases and injuries) days 128 945 125 649 124 721 133 866 122 403 Specialists of the medical centre directly participate medical center, national information and education in a purposeful sanitary educational work related to action «Your topic!» attracting young employees as prevention of tuberculosis and AIDS. Special attenconsultants-volunteers dedicated to the worldwide tion is paid to prevention of HIV/AIDS. day of AIDS prevention (interactive sites to attract attention of the Company employees were arranged in Since 2010 Belarusian Red Cross Society (BRCS) the administrative building of the pipe mill and SWS-1), started to implement an innovative project «Preveninforming of the plant’s employees with the help of tion of HIV in the area of labour» under the motto mass media. «We are for health @ work». When hiring new employees, they are informed Aim of this project is to improve measures of preabout the «Health @ work» program. At the corvention of HIV-infection in the area of labour and porate Training Centre volunteers-consultants  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 117 Social activity  being Company employees (24 people) carry out ployees to their health and methods of its preservaseminars-trainings in HIV prevention in the field tion as well as improvement of the employees’ informaof labor among the groups of the staff reserve tion about the work of the medical centre. «Linear manager». In 2013, 56 people were trained Health promotion and rest time of the em(60 people in 2010, 72 people in 2011, 47 people ployees and their families in 2012). The chairman of the voluntary movement participated in a training seminar for volunteers-inOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdstructors within the framework of Belarussian Red ing strives for improvement of the conditions for Cross project «Support and expansion of possibilihealth promotion and rest of its employees as well ties of people having HIV’. as all interested persons in the town of Zhlobin and region. At present the works offers high-quality serMedical center specialists take part in the work of the vices that can satisfy any client. «Dneprovskiye Zori» district inter-organization committee of HIV/AIDS and recreation center is located on a picturesque bank of venereal disease prevention. the Dnieper river, in a pine forest and is meant for Within the framework of implementation of the reorganizing sport and cultural events. In 2013, 1 184 gional action timed to the Worldwide day of AIDS people had rest there. The plant spent USD 60,0 prevention a representative of Byelorussian Steel thousand for its maintenance. Works organized a presentation-training in arrangeEvery year more than 1 800 Company employees and ment of public events dedicated to HIV/AIDS premembers of their families spend holidays in sanatorivention for employees of Zhlobin enterprises on the ums and vacation houses of the Republic of Belarus. basis of Zhlobin district organization of Belarusian Financing of health promotion programs and sanatoriRed Cross. um-resort therapy is fulfilled on the principles of a In 2013 OJSC «Byelorussian Steel Works» received joint participation at the expense of the works budget, an appreciation of Belarusian Red Cross for cooperstate social insurance and employees’ means. In 2013 ation within the framework of the project «Regional over USD0,55 million were used to compensate the initiative in the area of health in the Eurasian region» voucher costs for the employees and their family mem(Support and expansion of possibilities of people havbers. ing HIV). For organizing the vacations of the employees’ chilFor monitoring of the quality of medical-preventive dren, OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» aid and target programs we use the practice of interholding compensates the major part of the expenses. views with the specialists of the medical center and In 2013, 1 298 children spent their vacations in the the recipients of the services. The management of the children’s health centers of the republic, health immedical center takes their recommendations into acprovement of more than 1 250 children is scheduled for 2014. count. Rating of the medical center work is a little lower Besides, in 2013 the plant used the children’s health improvement possibilities under the program of chilthan in 2012 and is at the average level (satisfaction dren’s vouchers distribution by the social insurance index is 0,60 vs 0,63 in 2012). At the same time, studies fund. The health-improving services of the republican showed that the number of employees informed about sanatoriums were used by 101 children. the «HEALTH» program existing at the plant grew; this is the evidence of a growing interest of the emAccording to the regulations of health improvement, 118 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS plant’s employees were given some privileges if they hancing their working efficiency, stress resistance, had evidencing documents; 203 people were partially healthy lifestyle promotion; exempt from payment for vouches and transportation – satisfaction of the Company employees’ needs for to and from the place of rest. systematic sport and physical culture activities, the In health resorts of the Belarusian Trade Union employees’ health promotion, formation of physically Federation (BTUF) 143 people improved their health developed and healthy citizens; with a 25% discount of the cost of the vouchers in – engaging children and teenagers in regular sport 2013. activities. Information about availability of vouchers in the area The plant spent USD 0,17 million for maintenance of of social insurance is regularly brought to the attenthe sport and recreation center in 2013. The allocattion of chairmen of the trade union committees of the ed funds were directed to: shops, is allocated on information stands and issued in the newspaper «Metallurg». – conducting mass sport activities: under the annual all-the-year-round Olympics of OJSC «BSW – manPhysical culture and sport development agement company of «BMC» holding. Competitions Physical culture and sport is a constituent part of were held in 28 kinds of sport; 53 sport events were healthy lifestyle, hence forming the demand in regular organized with participation of 35 teams (1791 people). sport activities with workers is a priority direction of Total number of people participating in sport events in the social policy of OJSC «BSW – management com2013 equaled to 2921 people; pany of «BMC» holding. This type of activity is speci– physical training and health promotion work among fied by the corresponding provisions and clauses of the the plant employees and members of their families: 8 Collective agreement with direct participation of and amateur clubs and 9 sport sections in different kinds financial support by the trade union committee of OJSC of sport are successfully functioning and involve over «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding. 1000 people in physical training and sport activities; At present, the plant offers its sport and recreation More than 51 800 people including 18 857 children center for the employees and the town residents to visited the sport facility in 2013. go in for sports and conduct outdoor activities. The realization of the Company social mandate regarding A traditional New Year children’s tournament in the development of the mass physical culture and mini-football gathered 14 teams. The tournament united more than one hundred boys from 9 to 15 years old, sport and following healthy lifestyle are assigned to sports day «Defender of the Fatherland» in 6 kinds of this facility having three gyms: for exercising, playing games and tennis. sport among youth teams of the enterprises of Byelorussian Metallurgical Company Holding and plant’s Priority work directions of the sport and recreation subdivisions participated by 12 teams (156 people), XXIV center are: international light-athletics race dedicated to the Day – organization of sport and health promotion as well of Metallurgists participated by more than 200 sportsas mass sport work at OJSC «BSW – management men including athletes from Russia and the Ukraine, company of «BMC» holding; The Company employees support the honor of the en– strengthening the Company employees’ health, enterprise at the competitions of various levels; some  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 119 Social activity  of them are acting participants of the Championship of USD788,7 thousand for financing of construction of the Republic of Belarus in major league in mini-footthe palace of sport games in Zhlobin in 2013. (PR 6) ball team «MFK Zhlobin» and participants of Gomel (PR 7) regional teams. Investing in sport infrastructure, the plant supports Efficiency of healthy lifestyle policy implementation in the development of the sport of high achievements, the Company is confirmed by sport achievements of the sport popularization in particular among young people. assembly teams consisting of OJSC «BSW – manageCultural life of the plant employees ment company of «BMC» holding: An important part of the social policy of OJSC «BSW – first team place based on the results of the all– management company of «BMC» holding is creation year-round sports event in 16 kinds of sport; of conditions for promotion and spreading of modern – first place in the fifth regional sports day among culture of effective corporate social practice and deprimary trade union organizations of industrial entervelopment of the creative potential of the employees. prises of the Republic of Belarus; During 21 years a key role in organization of cultural life of the employees and the region has been played by – second place in the sixth Republican sports event of the Palace of Culture of Metallurgists. The Palace the Belarusian trade union of the industrial workers. of Culture of Metallurgists is rightly considered a The tam of the sports center of OJSC «BSW-managecenter of cultural and mass and educational work diment company of «BMC» holding became the winner of rected towards satisfaction of spiritual and cultural district contest for the best organization of physical needs of all categories of citizens. training, health improvement and sports in 2013. (PD Various cultural events of educational, aesthetic, en2.10) tertaining character for different audiences and age In order to organize the workers’ leisure time and groups take place at the Palace of Culture. A list of promote healthy lifestyle, the Company implementevents is varied: different parties, discotheques, pered a program of collective visits to the town sport formances and shows, concerts dedicated to holidays and recreation center, Ice Palace, swimming pool and and jubilees, contests, amateur arts festivals. aqua-park, sport facilities of the republic: Silichi, The Palace of Culture does not only cheers people Raubichi, and others. but develops talents, gives people the possibility to Engaging the Company employees into sport activities be occupied with their favorite hobby, make the leisure contributes to both their health-improvement and formtime of steel makers and the inhabitants of the town ing specific corporate spirit of the enterprise that helps spiritually rich, and interesting. Over 380 people are to solve the most challenging production problems. members of hobby groups and creative teams, 320 of them are children. Sport center services are also in demand among the population of the region. Proceeds from chargeable 17 creative teams and amateur associations work at physical and sport services made up USD 19,3 thouthe Palace of Culture: 6 for grown-ups and 11 for sand during 2013. children; 5 collectives were given the honorable title of «People’s» and «Classic» in the Republic of BelarOJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding us. (PD 2.10) continues to invest in solving socially important challenges in the region of its presence. The plant spent A great emphasis of its activity is placed by the Pal120 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS ace of Culture on the professional level improvement. ticipants and spectators. Over 170 children participatGuest performances, participation in prestigious festied in it. The event was visited by 600 people. vals and contests support professional skills growth. Competitive show programs for children, concerts The following awards received in 2013 are the result with participation of members of children’s groups of of a laborious work of the creative team of the Palace the Palace of Culture are always in demand with the of Culture: (PD 2.10) citizens: entertaining dance programs Father Frost’s – a model pop dance group «Feierverk» took part in Discotheque, Winter Birthday Boys and Girls, conthe 4th regional zone celebration of choreographic certs of children’s groups dedicated to the Women’s art named after people’s artist of BSSR A.A. RybalDay «Let there always be Mum», exhibition of drawchenko and confirmed the title of a model group; ings «My Mum is the best in the world», performance «Pancake week games» in pre-school establishments. – based on the results of a selection round of the On June 1 – the Day of Children Protection – an exrepublican tournament of young talents «A star rose hibition of children’s drawings «I want to be a steelabove Belarus» choreographic group «Dance-show maker». Children’s group of the Palace of Culture «Chance» became a participant of the regional round prepared a picturesque program for the participants of the tournament; of a drawing contest «My future – my parents’ safe – folk choir «Krynitsa», folk brass band, dance group work» which was held at Zhlobin state metallurgical «Kristall», pop quartet «Magic Brass», Angelina college. Karpushenko – a soloist of the pop group «Credo» For studying youth of the plant an entertainment of the Palace of Culture of metallurgists became program «Love on at a distance» was organized with laureates of the 3rd festival of amateur art groups of their participation; a concert «Between us, girls» and primary trade union organizations of Belarusian Trade a competition for senior pupils «A young girl from Union of Industrial Workers. Zhlobin». In September Zhlobin met participants of the national Various subject discotheques, dancing parties, perfestival-fair «Dozhinki-2013». Art groups of the Palformances, festival and competitive programs for ace of Culture took part in the festive arrangements people of different ages: «How wonderful the world of the festival: folk choir «Krynitsa» and the folk oris!», «Men’s season», «Choose me», «Miss Zhlobin» chestra became participants of the concert programs of and many others are held on a regular basis. «Dozhinki-2013» and Maria Gritsok – soloist of «Credo» pop group and dance-show «Chance» were honored A festive ceremony of marriage registration held in with playing in public on main stage of the festival. the park «Five Elements» located near the Palace of Culture became very popular. From the moment the Formation of the reputation of the most attractive emreconstruction started, art groups of the Palace ployer in the region is a precondition for attracting of Culture continued their activity and participated creative, active and educated people to the plant. The in plant’s regional, field, and district arrangements. enterprise invests funds to arrange events for aesTheir creative work was in demand on stages of Gomel thetic upbringing of children and younger generation region and Minsk (participation of Magic Brass quarat the Palace of Culture. tet in the concert dedicated to the Day of Mechanical In January 2013, XVI festival «Christmas Music StairEngineers held on the national level). In 2013 the case» was traditionally held with a big number of parteam of the Palace of Culture arranged 152 events  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 121 Social activity  which were visited by more than 20 thousand people. in regional and republican events. The brass band of 3257 people including 1570 children took part in the Palace of Culture is the adornment of key festilarge-scale cultural arrangements. vals in the cultural life of the town. Creative work of the brass band is valued and loved by the citizens: An (LA 8) One of the important activities of the Palace important direction of the activity of the Palace of of Culture is the work directed towards prevention Culture is organization of events strengthening the of the youth asocial behavior, struggle against drugs, relations with the production and cultivate pride for promotion of healthy lifestyle and AIDS prevention. the enterprise. Different forms of such work the main idea of which is: «Creativity as the alternative to drugs and alcohol» In the center of all activities is the man of labor, demonstration of the importance of every single team member, are used. establishment and support of the corporate spirit for Realizing social programs in the local community, the the efficient activity of the entire enterprise. Annual team of the Palace of Culture closely cooperates with ceremonial presentation of professional premium «ProZhlobin regional organization of «Belarusian Board of fessional Olympus», «Miss BSW», «Initiation into MetOfficers» public association, «Belarusian Republican allurgists», «Corporate Calendar», «Youth Ball», Youth Association», etc. Veterans’ Board of OJSC cultural-sport feasts, the events dedicated to the Met«BSW – management company of «BMC» holding, allurgist’s Day, the works birthday are the forms used Women’s Council and other public organizations of the by the Palace of Culture in its work. plant’s teams hold their activities under the roof of the Palace of Culture. These are joint events – concerts, The activity of the Palace of Culture is organized in such a way that allows the majority of the workers to meetings, gala nights and celebrations. disclose their abilities and talents, enjoy the beauty Such joint projects of the Belarusian Republican and is highly spiritual. It is proved by the annual amYouth Union and the Palace of Culture as «Miss ateur arts festival. This creative work unites people, Zhlobin», «BSW Superman», «Lady Perfection», and raises their spirits, creates mood for successful and «Business Lady» are very popular with the young productive work. workers of the plant. Supporting the state youth Along with the events based on modern genres, the policy, the Palace of Culture arranges such tradiPalace of Culture contributes to the development of tional projects as «Sport! Health! Beauty!», «Family national folk arts, spiritual revival and preservation gives start to everything!» youth festival «Dare while of the best traditions of Belarusian national culture. young!», etc. Active work in this direction is carried out by KrynitThe Palace of Culture promotes implementation of sosa choir, and creative collective «Skomoroshina». cially-oriented projects on the regional and local levEvents organized by these teams are very popular with el. Its activity is aimed at improving social climate and the people of different ages. habitat. Creative teams of the Palace of Culture conThe Metallurgist’s Day is the main feast of the team stantly participate in town and regional festive events, of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» annual republican festival-fair «Dazhynki», gala conholding and the entire town. As far as importance, atcerts dedicated to the Victory Day, Independence Day tendance, impressions brightness impression are conof the Republic of Belarus, Labour Day, Youth Day cerned, it is equal to festive events of the national and professional feasts. scale. Belarusian and Russian entertainment stars can The teams of the Palace of Culture also participate be seen performing during the feast. 122 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Work of the team of the Palace of Culture completely In 2013 the plant spent USD 0,47 million for these justifies its high mission. Being the center of the culpurposes. tural life of the plant, town and region, the Palace of Culture is an important constituent part of the corpoDuring 2013, 35 families improved their living conditions, 630 families are waiting for such improvement rate strategy of OJSC «BSW – management company and 90 families are waiting for a room in the hostel. of «BMC» holding. In 2013 the plant spentUSD0,40 million for the reconstruction of the Palace of CulSupport for large families ture and large-scale cultural events. Реализация целевой социальной поддержки Solving of employees’ housing problems работников ОАО «БМЗ–управляющая management An important part of the social policy of OJSC «BSW company of «BMC» holding is carried out by way of a – management company of «BMC» holding is engaging flexible system or benefits and compensations. Based and promoting young highly-professional production on the principles of the state policy declaring that staff. Provision with housing is one of the key factors children have the right to a special care and assisof the working team stability and social attractiveness tance, that a family should be provided with the reof the enterprise. quired protection and encouragement as the main social unit and natural environment for growth and There are six dormitories for the workers’ family memwellbeing of all its members, OJSC «BSW – managebers, where 1826 people live (627 families) and one ment company of «BMC» holding arranges events to hostel providing 340 beds for single employees (266 support complete and incomplete families and those people including students of Zhlobin state metallurhaving four and more children under 18 so as to gical college) on the balance of OJSC «BSW – mancontinue the development of the maternity and childagement company of «BMC» holding. Living conditions hood support. The aim of the activities is increasing in the dormitories are constantly improved due to the status of families and improving their life quality. scheduled capital repairs: modernization of engineerAccording to the provision regarding health-improveing network and heat points which helped to decrease ment and sanatorium-resort therapy at OJSC «BSW municipal expenses. – management company of «BMC» holding, the families Description 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Payments for birth of a child (lump sum 160 women 132 women 400 women 134 women 156 women allowance) $84,3 thou. $72,8 thou. $84,2 thou. $152,5 thou. $215,5 thou. 546 women 509 women 441 women 419 women 439 women Payment for nursing a child under 3 $411,1 thou. $490,6 thou. $419,2 thou. $413,2 thou. $962,1 thou. Payments for purchasing school uniform $10,9 thou. $11,9 thou. $23,2 thou. $14,9 thou. Providing one day-off $22,6 thou. $20,3 thou. $5,4 thou. $40,8 thou. $7,8 thou. The means for children’s health improve$326,7 thou. $341,2 thou. $474,8 thou. $503,9 ment Payments for the families raising the dis100 children 97 children 96 children 66 children 91 children abled children under 18 $3,6 thou. $5,1 thou. $8,6 thou. $49,8 thou. $74,9 thou.  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 123 Social activity  are provided privileged and partially paid vouchers to amount equaled to USD159, 4 thousand in 2013. sanatoriums and vacation houses. One of the events for the workers’ families social support are annual Those pensioners who do not work get material assistance on holidays, jubilees, because of hard economic payments for purchasing school uniforms and monthly condition, for medical treatment and purchasing of exprovision of a paid day-off for mothers of more than pensive medicine; other social payments are effected. three children. (EC 1) The amount of these expenses equaled to USD49, 5 Social support of unemployed pensioners, thousand. invalids and other categories of people not sufficiently provided for (ЕС 3) A material aid is rendered to those employees who have disabled children. In 2013 this aid amounted to USD Business initiatives have great impact on the processes 14,6 thousand. of social development in the country and their results change the public ideas of the living quality norms. A special place in the social program is occupied by providing the unemployed pensioners with treatment A pensioner, who receives a corporate pension in adin the plant’s clinic, the sport and recreation center dition to the state one, is better protected when he/ services, the services rendered by the Palace of Culshe gets old. Work with veterans, invalids and other ture at a reduced charge. Every year the veterans are categories of the needy is carried out at OJSC «BSW subscribed to the plant’s newspaper «Metallurg» free – management company of «BMC» holding based on of charge. «recipient-oriented» social support both in the form of financial payments and using a wide range of social Concern for children facilities: the clinic, the Palace of Culture of MetalBeing a socially-orientated enterprise, OJSC «BSW – lurgists, sport and recreation center of OJSC «BSW management company of «BMC» holding renders free – management company of «BMC» holding. In 2013 the preschool services satisfying a social order of the amount of this support made up over USD578,3 thousociety and the state. It puts great emphasis on retainsand. ing and improving health of the younger generation of There are more than five forms and directions of rensteelmakers, creating safe living environment and perdering social support which were used by over 1400 sonal development of a child. The realization of this objectives is assigned to 9 pre-school establishments people. under the auspices of the enterprise attended by 1 945 An important line in the social support policy is a children (80% – are children of the plant’s employmonthly material aid for unemployed pensioners. Since ees, others are children of the citizens of the area of 01.11.2012 changes and amendments were introduced the Company activity). In 2013 financial investment in in the Collective Agreement anticipating growth of the kindergartens amounted to USD 2,96 million. additional payments to some categories of former emModern material facilities of the pre-school establishployees. At present the amount of the monthly pension ments allows provision of sanitary and hygienic condisupplements varies from USD21 to USD 162 dependtions for the children providing a positive emotional ing on the record of service and awards. In 2012 these state of children, satisfying need of every child in psysupplements made up USD335,2 thousand. In 2013 the chological comfort through a flexible system of the amount of this aid equaled to USD335,2 thousand. educational process. The financial aid is provided in connection with retireThe following facilities function on the base of prement. In 2013 the amount of this aid was over USD school establishments: 19,46. • 9 music rooms; Besides, there is an annual financial aid dedicat ed to the I nternational D ay for the E lderly . I ts • 9 gyms; 124 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS • 6 water pools; Since 2008 all kindergartens arrange creative sites for the children in summer time: playgrounds, creative, • 3 visual arts studios; ecological, and ethnographic sites; 60 sections and • 2 ecological rooms; studios work which are visited by over 650 children; in some kindergartens adaptation sites are arranged for • 3 museums; the newcomers. «Mothers’ school» is opened in one of the pre-school establishments to work with the fami• 9 rooms for corrective pedagogical aid; lies bringing up children of less than three years old. • 9 psychological rooms; In 2013 a unique children’s museum of steelmaking ex• 9 medical blocks; isting in one of BSW pre-school establishment opened its doors in a new specially equipped hall. During a • playing, arts, ecological, adaptation, ethnographyear passes since implementation of this project some ic and other types of sites; models were renewed. In the renovated museum there • methodical center for physical training of chilis a photo gallery of all directors of the enterprise. dren. Educational project «World of professions» was worked out and is actively introduced in practice to Preschool establishments provide for equal starting arouse a cognitive interest of children for steelmakpossibilities for transition to another higher level of er’s work. education. The children’s museum as well as the museum of BSW For many years of the work of these establishments history maintain the traditions of the enterprise and loving and tender care of each child, enthusiasm and allows the children to get a clear idea of Byelorusconscientiousness, initiative and sincere interest of sian Steel Works. the employees in the well-being and health of every single child remain the unchanging values of their Legal education work is carried-out among children working teams. and their parents. (HR 3) For efficiency of the educational process in the kinThe pre-school establishments implemented a system dergartens, up-to-date educational and health-saving of therapeutic and educational events for children’s methods and integrated classes and scenario-playing health improvement which is directed towards creatcomplexes are used and counselors and physiologists ing optimal ecological, sanitary-hygienic conditions in are involved. A significant attention is paid to protecorder to ensure creation of positive emotional contion of a child’s rights. In addition to sport activities, dition of children, satisfaction of every child’s need thematic matinees and ecological education is orgain psychological comfort via the flexible educational nized for the children. In the kindergartens there are process system. (LA 8) colorful stands, creative playgrounds, pets’ corners, Professional achievements of the plant’s pre-school sculptural compositions, ecologic rooms; birdfeeders establishments are awarded in various contests. Thus, are suspended in the playground areas. In a word, evteachers of kindergarten No.35 won the first place erything is arranged for the children to grow in unity in the district and contest «Safe childhood» and the with nature and try to adorn the earth, preserve its 1st place in the nomination «Corner of safety» at the beauty. Ecological education presupposes both carregional stage of the contest. ing attitude to nature and being responsible for own health, conformity with certain moral standards and One of the bright events in the life of pre-school esrules of conduct in a forest, in a meadow, small wood tablishments is a gala-concert organized at the Palace and garden. This attitude to the world to be protected of Culture of metallurgists within the framework of is raised in the children from an early age. the festival of children’s creative work «How won SOCIAL REPORT 2013 125 Social activity  derful this world is». Children and adults have a nice as compared to 2012, number of days when children opportunity to demonstrate their creative abilities and stayed at home due to disease decreased by 23,6%. talents in the visual arts, dramatic art, and music. This Health index grew by 14,8% and equaled to 64,3% in event is highly appreciated by the Educational Board 2013 against 49,5% in 2012. of Gomel Regional Executive Committee and general public. BSW trade union and administration rendered Monitoring of public opinion concerning soits assistance in arranging this event. They support cial programs effectiveness pre-school establishments in every possible way. The results of the integrated study of social-psychoIts very urgent for the system of pre-school educalogical climate in the structural subdivisions work tion to improve professional competence of the preteams held in 2013 speak of the positive assessment of school teachers. The system of pre-school education BSW activity in the area of social responsibility. Over unites 503 employees including 223 teachers and 1 10% of the employees, who took park in the study, pediatrician. expressed their opinion of the quality and level of the works canteens, social security and protection, Improvement of pre-school education quality is promedical services at the enterprise, leisure-spending vided for by organizing conditions for self-realization conditions, conditions for doing sport and conducting. and improvement of professional level of the teaching Based on the assessment criteria, satisfaction index is staff, organization of work of methodical associations. 0,59 to 0,77 against 0,63 – 0,76 in 2012. Specialists summarize and share teaching experience at the republican and regional seminars. Total enterprise complex satisfaction index equaled to 0,71 in 2013. This figure is a little lower (by 0,01) In 2013 the following seminars were carried out on than in 2012, but during four years it has been within the basis of BSW kindergartens together with the the high level range of satisfaction which allows us to education department of Zhlobin district executive speak about a stable moral and psychological climate committee: in the employee team of OJSC «BSW-management – regional seminar «Cooperation of pre-school educacompany of «BMC» holding. tional-sport establishments» for the leaders of physEmployees’ rights (LA 4) (LA 9) (HR 4 9) ical training pre-school establishments; Carrying-out its practical activity, OJSC «BSW – – republican training seminar «Organization of work management company of «BMC» holding acknowledges and methods of teaching children of pre-school age the immunity of human rights and takes all the required to swim». measures for their provision and protection. BSW kindergartens are active participants of events Being a socially responsible enterprise, Byelorussian dedicated to different holidays and remarkable dates: Steel Works respects the interests and rights of the Day of Unity of Russia and Belarus–an exhibition of workers based on the social partnership principles. creative works of children and parents was arranged; These principles are laid in the social partnership Birthday of the plant and Metallurgists’ day: for the paramount agreement – the Collective Agreement. second time schoolchildren participate in the contest In April 2013 a trade union conference of the team of children’s drawings «I want to be a steelmaker». of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» Efficiency of the educational process at pre-school holding dedicated to discussion of fulfillment of the establishments is determined by the growth of the levcollective agreement took place. The participants of el of the all-round development of the personality of the conference voted for amendments in the existing a child together with the decrease of the level of the agreement for 2012 – 2015: about 30 items were rechildren’s morbidity rate. In 2013 the figure of tovised, three were excluded, validity of another five tal morbidity rate per 100 children reduced by 16,8% was suspended and two new items were added. 126 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Aims of the collective agreement are: al illnesses prevention standards as well as internal regulations. The issues of the employees’ health and – development of contract relations between the ensafety are set forth in the collective agreement. (PD terprise and its employees being the social partnership 4.9) parties; The plant recognizes that its production activity is – coordination of the plant and employees interests connected with negative environmental impact and during elaboration of common principles of regulating takes all possible measures for minimization of such social-labor relationships; impact on the population’s life activity. – providing the workers with working places and salOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdaries in conformity with the signed labor contracts, ing guarantees the right of trade unions to carry out social and economic rights established by the existing their activity without encumbrance and any restriclegislation of the Republic of Belarus; (PD 4.4) (SO tions as stipulated by the legislation. The right of the 8) employees and trade unions to participate in contract – following labor and technological discipline, labor regulation of labor relations is realized in the proceprotection requirements, industrial safety and produres of preparing and signing the Collective Agreeduction sanitary; (PD 4.4) ment, in the employees’ right to participate in creation and improvement of labor conditions and occupational – strengthening social-legal security of the Company environment. (SO 8) (HR 5) workers; Legal regulation of labor relationships at OJSC – stabilization of the social-economic situation in the «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding is working teams and subdivisions of the enterprise. (PD performed in conformity with the Labor Code of the 4.4) Republic of Belarus and the Collective Agreement of Being guided by the UN Global Compact principles the the enterprise: (SO 8) works sees ensuring and protection of human rights – conclusion of collective agreements, working conas a priority as compared to the economic results of tracts is fulfilled taking into account the substanthe production activity and guarantees their implementiations of production, organizational and economic tation. (LA5) reasons; OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» hold– an employee should be informed about changes in the ing opposes all the forms of discrimination and builds labor conditions not later than one month prior to its activity on the basis of generally recognized princicontract extension; (LA 5) ples and norms of the international law, standards and conventions of the International Labor Organization, – an employee should be informed about the contract legislation of the Republic of Belarus. In 2012 not a expiration, or the intent to prolong/terminate the consingle case of gender, national, religious and polititract for a new term not later than one month prior. cal discrimination as well as cases of using forced and The notification period was increased two times since child labor was registered at the enterprise. (SO 8) 2009. Having productions with enhanced danger level in its Byelorussian Steel Works strives for prevention of structure BSW is responsible for ensuring the prolabor disputes and contracts, and if there are any, duction facilities safety for the employees and the it participates in open negotiations with the employees population. The works creates healthy and safe work recognizing mutual responsibility of the social partconditions by replacing out-dated equipment and technership parties. In order to ensure equal rights of the nologies and complies with the labor protection legisworks employees, conformity with the legislation of lation, international industrial safety and professionthe Republic of Belarus, and solving disputes, a la SOCIAL REPORT 2013 127 Social activity  bor disputes commission was established. It includes sible business aimed both at profit-making and stable an equal number of representatives of the management development of the plant and the entire region. OJSC and work teams. The commission objective is competent «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding inconsideration of individual disputes that arise between tends to comply with the legislation requirements and any employee and the management regarding the issues international social responsibility principles in the fuconnected to labor relations. During the year the ture. commission performed continuous work acting as an arbitrator. 12 applications of the Company employees Social partnership (PD 3.5, ) PD 4.16, 4.17 In order to improve moral and physiological climate of the work team, solving the issues regarding the «Мы видим, что работникам вашего предприятия оказывается collaboration coordination of the management and orреальная помощь и поддержка ganizations representing the interests of various catво всех сферах деятельности. egories of the employees, the works implemented «Be Многое делает профсоюзный комитет Белорусского металAware of a Human!» system since April 2005. лургического завода для детей, пенсионеров и молодежи, OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdпринимает участие в благотвоing creates the social partnership system that is a рительных акциях и различных foundation for mutually beneficial cooperation in colмероприятиях. Многое из опыта вашей работы мы возьмем на laboration with the trade union organization and other заметку и попытаемся реализоsocial organizations. (PD 4.14 4.17) вать у себя» Sustaining close relationships with the management, глава Федерации профсоюзов металлистов Эстонии Л.К Серова the Public Organizations Council conducts its activity at the enterprise. It acts in the interests of the employees forming an active public position of each work team member. were considered in 2013. In the result of considering the applications by the commission the requirements of The Council includes the representatives of: (HR 5) four applications were satisfied, as for one more appli– Trade Union organization; cation, the parties could not come to an agreement; as for another five applications it was refused to satisfy primary organization of «Belarusian Republican them as having no grounds for the requirements set Youth Union» public association; forth, seven more applications were withdrawn because the administration solved the issue concerned. – Veteran’s Union; (PD 4.6) – primary public organization «Belarusian Women’ For the purpose of following and ensuring human Union»; rights at the enterprise in conformity with the exist– international soldiers’ organization; ing system of the employees’ continuous training and personal development a great emphasis is placed on Young Specialists’ Union; increasing the awareness level and legal literacy of – Foremen Union; all the employees. Over 90% of the employees, who undertook professional training in 2013 studied the Physical Culture Team’s Union. fundamental principles of the law referring to ecoIn order to ensure the efficient realization of the emnomic, ecological or social responsibility. (HR 3) ployees’ rights and establishing confidential relations Strict and rigorous observance of human rights and with all parties concerned, the Public Organizations freedoms is the foundation of modern socially responCouncil keeps an active collaboration with the rep128 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS resentatives of the regional social service centre; the assumed obligations, obligatory fulfillment of the region and district law enforcement agencies; central arrangements and responsibility for the obligations regional; hospital and clinic of OJSC «BSW – manassumed. agement company of «BMC» holding; legal services of the Company and the region.. The trade union organization of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding unites 11 582 people The trade union organization of OJSC which is 97,14% of the total number of the employees. «BSW – management company of «BMC» In order to observe the rights and legal interests of the workers the employees represent the Company in holding (PD 4.13) (LA4) (LA9) the regional association and in the Republican Trade Byelorussian Steel Works establishes mutually benUnion Committee being members of the Regional Trade eficial relationships and develops a collective agreeUnion Association Council, members of the Belarusian ment with the trade union organization based on the Trade Union Federation Council. (SO 5) norms and principles of the Tariff Agreement concluded between Belarusian Professional Union of In 2013 based on the results of the contest of Gomel Industrial workers, Belarusian Professional Union regional trade union, primary trade union organizaof Metalworkers, the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus, Republican Association of Industri«We always remember and al Enterprises. The Agreement sets the principles of honor merits of the veterregulating trade and social-economic relationships as ans: they laid down tradiwell as guarantees and privileges for the employees, tions, and today they serve mutual responsibilities and liabilities of the parties. The an example of how to make aim of the Agreement is joining together the efforts life more interesting and of the parties for attaining social-economic stability meaningful». and competitive ability of the industry organizations, increasing the employees’ living standard, observance of their legal rights and interests and creating the system of the employees’ comprehensive social protection. (PD 4.4) Chairman of the trade union committee of OJSC The plant recognizes that the objective of the trade «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding union is not limited to protecting the employees’ rights A.A. Koleda and influencing labor relationships. It is also a certain indicator of the public mood. The trade union expresstion of OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» es the working teams’ reaction to the social and ecoholding was pronounced the best in 2012. nomic policy implemented by the enterprise and conThe social partnership document which allows tributes to its timely adjustment. The dialogue of the strengthening of social-legal security of the entermanagement and representatives of the working teams prise employees is the Collective Agreement. The is especially important to be established in the situation Agreement regulates social benefits and lump-sum when the works, as a part of the world financial and benefit payments, additional payments and financial economic system, experiences difficult times and seeks awards, the size of which directly depends on the refor the opportunities to enhance their efficiency. sults of production-financial activity of the entire In their practical activity the parties are guided by the enterprise work team. This document establishes supprinciples of social partnership, such as legal equality plementary, as compared to the active legislation, proof the parties, compliance with the legislation norms, visions regarding labor conditions and payment, social considering real opportunities for performance of and residential provision of the workers, compensa SOCIAL REPORT 2013 129 Social activity  tions and other privileges. The Collective Agreement – regional festival for handicapped children «Do stipulates various forms of financial payments, bonusGood»; es, awards following the results of the work during the year, for the service record, sums of the bonuses – disabled people union; for high qualification, professional skill and others, – Khalchansky psychoneurological home for senior sets guarantees and privileges for the families with or disabled citizens; children. Besides, a person is not left alone in a challenging life situation; this aid is also stipulated by the – other organizations. main document of the employees’ team. (PD 4.4) For organization of cultural-mass events for the In order to comply with the Collective Agreement, in Company employees, visits to the sport and health pro2013 the Trade Union Committee financed the followmotion centre, fans’ visits of hockey matches held in ing: (EC 3) (EC 1) (LA 3) different towns of the country, the trade union spent USD34,73 thousand. (EC 8) (EC 1) (SO 1) allowances to parents for the birth of a child — $20,55 thou.; One of the priority directions of the Trade Union activity is creating conditions for full-fledged physical New Year’s presents for children and employees — and moral development of the works employees and $203,4 thou.; younger generation. The Trade Union Committee of cultural events — $151,98 thou.; OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding is the founder of a sport school for children and sports events — $86,75 thou.; young people and the children’s club «Fakel» which sections are attended by over 400 children. The chilpresents for the employees’ jubilees — $22,76 thou.; dren are professionally trained by 11 coaches in 26 presents for the retiring employees — $29,18 thou.; groups. supporting of veterans — $3,2 thou.; Pupils of the sport school for children and young people became winners and awardees of championships material support — $193,33 thou. and competitions of the Republic of Belarus and interA continuously operating body of social partnership is national competitions. This year 4 pupils became candithe Collective Agreement Commission that controls dates to masters of sports of the Republic of Belarfulfillment of the obligations assumed. It consists us; 8 children fulfilled the norms of the 1st grade; 1 of representatives of the management and the Trade pupil of the sport school joined the Olympic reserve Union Committee. The constant dialogue results in school, the top link of sport training. (PD 2.10). reaching the agreements regarding salary issues, The trade union committee spent USD 14,6 thousand optimization of the management structure, ensuring in 2013. (SO 1). healthy and safe labor conditions, implementing privileges for the employees that have a determined soIn compliance with the program of working with youngcial targeting. Mainly all sections of the Collective er generation, for sustaining and improvement of relaAgreement were fulfilled in 2013. (PD 4.6) (PD 4.4) tionships between the family, school and local community, strengthening the family, protection of maternity Charity and sponsorship is one of the activities of the and childhood under the auspices of the Trade Union works. Being an active member of the charitable camCommittee a commission for family and school assispaign «Trade unions – to children» in 2013 it granted tance has been working since 2005. (SO 1) USD 6,805 thousand to: (EC 8) (EC 1) Under the auspices of the trade union committee – sponsored schools; of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» – Zhlobin Regional Social Service Centre; holding the trade union library operates containing 130 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 36066 books (35636 books in 2012). The library is to serve a man», «Strength of unity: April 2 – Day of a unique one because the plant’s employees, their unity of the people of Russia and Belarus», etc. children, and citizens of Zhlobin can always find the Implementation of a book-crossing project «From required literature, or their request for a certain hands to hands» continues. book can be accepted, and they may get a professional advice. Trade union role and influence at the Company is big. This is evidenced by a positive assessment of its acUSD7,9 thousand from the trade union budget were tivity in 2013 made by the plant’s employees during a spent for purchasing new literature and for subscripcomprehensive study of the social and psychological tion of over 1900 veterans to periodicals. The library climate in the subdivision teams. Index of satisfaction numbers over 3120 regular readers. During previous with the work of the trade union organization in 2013 year the number of visits to the library equaled to was 0,63 (0,65 in 2012). 34241 (32278 in 2012), and 120255 books were given out (112325 in 2012). (EC 8) (SO 1). Primary organization of BRYU So as to increase the role of books and reading in Realization of the state youth policy by the works a modern society, bring up the younger generation in is built on the principle of mutual cooperation with love for an artistic word, attract attention to librarthe primary organization of «Belarusian Republican ies activity, promote belles-lettres literature and reY outh Union» Young Specialists’ Union, Trade Union plenishment of the book stock during 2013 the library Committee and other public organizations acting prepared and carried out 42 thematic information-edat OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding. The Company corporate program «Youth» ucational events: literature and music party «Flower Round Dance» and «I belong to another world», book is carried out by conducting an open constructive dialogue with the parties concerned and continuous festival «Books are our true friends», library lessons «Coincide with etiquette», «Just imagine for a second improvement of the methods of informing, feedback and cooperation. what our life would be without books», «Grown-ups and children dream of safety traffic on our planet», a In conformity with the state strategy in youth policy warning talk «Time to collect garbage», », literature the program implemented at OJSC «BSW – managequiz «Trip to the country of Her Majesty the Book» ment company of «BMC» holding sets the priorities and «Being a guest of fairy tales» actions «Bring your and cooperation directions for the parties concerned friend» and «The best book of today», excursions for with regard to creating favorable conditions for the preschool children and junior schoolchildren «We go development and realization of the youth’s potential in to the library». various spheres of the activity via: 35 thematic book exhibitions were organized: «Help– information support of the state in youth policy; ing graduates», «Let’s worship those great years!», – civil formation, spiritual and ecological education «Books of three generations» as well as exhibitions of the youth; of new arrivals, books, periodicals and advertisement reviews. Two club associations work here: club of – support of research and technology creativity; (PD book lovers «For one’s sole» and flower-fancier club 4.9) «Flora». – youth cooperation and creative potential developInformation leaflets were prepared for the chairmen ment; of the shop committees, the women’s union and vet– healthy lifestyle and tourism development; erans’ union: «Flu is at the threshold», «Family psychology», «Book in a child’s life», «Green pharmacy – improvement of the youth social security protection.  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 131 Social activity  Traditional meetings of young specialists to exchange – «All children are ours» for disabled children and work experience with the youth and representatives of: to support families with a low income with participation of the Regional center of social service of the – state authorities; population;. – regional, town veterans’ unions of Gomel region; The following actions became traditional: – young employees of the enterprises included in – «BSW Youth – to Veterans». Veterans and partici«Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» holding; pants of the Great Patriotic War received congratu– primary organizations of Belarusian Republican lations and presents, they were assisted in improving Youth Union, establishments, organizations and enterof living conditions; prises of the region of activity of Byelorussian Steel – «We – to children» – aid to Zhlobin district center Works; of corrective and developing teaching and rehabilita– youth of the industrial enterprises of the Republic tion in organization of a school-leaving party; of Belarus and CIS countries as part of scientific and – «Pure Nature». Cleaning of the territory adjoining technical conferences. the Virsky artificial pond; Number of the members Primary organization of the Belarusian Republican Youth 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Union (BRYU) 561 1132 1308 1336 1313 1368 1450 1545 1610 – Informing and engaging of young employees of the –«We are for clean town!» cleaning and beautification plant in realization of the state youth policy of the of the Pridneprovsky town park. (EN 13) Republic of Belarus is carried out using all available means of mass media: corporate, republican, Effectiveness of the organization activity is evidenced by its achievements and awards won in 2013: regional newspapers and other sources of information. – 2nd place in the district contest «Best young family – Having the priority right regarding the realization of Zhlobin area»; of the «Youth» program, the works primary organiza– winner of the competition for the best primary tion of Belarusian Republican Youth Union prepares BRYU organization in Gomel region; the photo-reports, posters, information materials reflecting the issues of realization of the state youth – the W inner if the 1 st republican competioning policy. for the best primary organization of BRYU for 2013. At present the organization has 1610 members or 62 % of the youth aged under 31 working at the plant. MSC team of OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding named «A ll up !» is a partici The most significant activities conducted by the youth pant of prestigious regional festivals and tourna organization of OJSC «BSW – management company ments of the MSC: 11 the regional open TV festi of «BMC» holding in 2013 were charitable campaigns val of MSC teams , interregional league of MSC for collecting of voluntary contributions for: (EC 8) «P olesie» (1 st place in the 1/8 of the final ; 1 st (EC 9) (EC 1) (SO 1) place in the ¼ of the final ; 3 rd place in 1/2 of – the action «Do good» dedicated to the International the final ; 6 th place in the final ), G omel regional day of Disabled People; league of MSC ( champion of the season 2013, 2 nd 132 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS place in the summer cup of Gomel ), Mogilyov MSC Women’s Union league (1 st place in the open summer cup of the In 2004 on the basis of the free union the works womMSC «B obruisk O pen Air). en established a primary organization «Belarusian Veterans’ Union (EC 3) Women’s Union» public association. The organization unites 1405 people or 37% of the women working at The organization unites 1866 ex-employees and presthe enterprise. The organization is headed by a president-time pensioners, who made their contribution into ium consisting of 17 women – employees of different establishment and development of the Belarusian steel structural divisions. The association acts considering industry. their will and interests, cooperates with other public All the organization activity was directed towards organizations standing on the platform of democratic enhancing the status of the elderly, social recognireforms in the Republic and contributing to strengthtion of their destinies and life experience, participaening social justice and protection of the population, tion in social life, overcoming their isolation, changdefending women’s interests and rights, increasing a ing the idea of ageing, understanding the story of woman’s role in social, economic, public and cultural their life owing to the dialogue of generations. The life. Veterans’ Union cooperates with the youth organiThe Union priority activities are: zations of the plant during various events: admission to membership in BRYU, initiation into metallurgist, • Woman and production», giving-out diplomas and premiums to the best young specialists participating in scientific and technical • «Woman and family», conferences. • «Healthy lifestyle», It has become a tradition to render material support • «Organizational and informational work». to veterans, visiting them at home, conducting the gala nights of honoring the heroes of anniversaThe organization has a significant work experience and ry, organization of exhibitions of gardening season many good and useful activities. They are: proposals gifts «Golden Sunflower» and work of the amateur to the Collective Agreement, solving problems toclubs: «Needlewoman», «Music Saloon», «Chess gether with the town authorities, meetings with interand Draughts», «Veteran Choir», «Sport Club». esting people. The trade union committee assigned USD 3 thousand Members of the Women’s Union participate in inspectfrom its fund to the Veterans union for different ing the production culture and labor conditions; activarrangements. ities for maternity and childhood protection, children The organization members don’t stand aside of mass health improvement and strengthening of the family, events, such as works-wide Olympics in various kind take part in charity campaigns. of sport; amateur talent groups competition «Song The Women’ Union works in closely cooperates and Work Go Side by Side»; campaigns for providwith the R egional S ocial S ervice C entre . W omen ing material support to lower-income families, handof the works receive qualified legal and psycho icapped children, visiting evening parties, concerts, logical assistance ; there are a trust telephone hockey matches of the favorite team in the Ice Palline and Y oung F amily C lub ; teacher editions , ace. booklets and brochures regarding the issues of Based on the results of 2012, the veterans union of child upbringing and women ’ s issues are developed OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding and given out to the plant ’ s women . I n collabo became the winner in the contest for the best primary ration with the Center campaigns «D o G ood», « organization of the district. «They should not cry » and « a S chool B ag » – to  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 133 Social activity  collect clothes and school accessories for chil modern technologies . Regular sociological stud dren from low income families . The Women’ Union ies on diverse subjects are held . The site of the W omen’ Union was created in the work wise com «Soldiers – internationputer network «INFO-BMZ» (LA 8) (LA 6) (LA 9) alists play a great role in Union of soldiers-internationalists a patriotic upbringing of youth in Zhlobin area. They 90 soldiers-internationalists work in structural diserve an example of being a visions of OJSC «BSW – management company of patriot of their country». «BMC» holding. Issues of their labor, welfare, health improvement are reviewed at Union meetings involving the participation of the management and Trade Union Committee representatives. The union works in close collaboration with international organizations givChairman of Zhlobin district executive committee ing assistance in patriotic education. The works solG.A. Suzdalev diers-internationalists annually take active participation in: tell the stories about the women with active life – in regional festival of Afghan Songs and events stand , who unsparingly devote a lot of time to so dedicated to the Day of Memory of Soldiers-Internacial life , on the pages of newspaper «M etallur tionalists; gist » and TV channel «N uance ». T he U nion con – international conference of local wars participants tinuously encourages the works women ’ s initiative of Baltic states and the city of Kaliningrad; in the social life sphere , make regular proposals regarding the issues of health , labor security and – International festival of military songs in Kalininconditions , promoting health of women and their grad; children , production and welfare culture ; takes – annual regional competition of Afghan songs «Time care of the family strengthening , protection of chose us»; maternity and childhood , low income families or – introduction of proper order in the burial places of «Deeds of arms of Soviet soldiers-internationalists; soldiers during the Afghan – render assistance to parents of soldiers-internawar shall not be forgottionalists. ten. At our enterprise these issues are paid much Tree years in succession on the initiative and with parattention to both by the adticipation of the members of the organization OJSC ministration and the trade «BSW – management company of ‘BMC» holding isunion committee». sues a calendar dedicated to soldiers-internationalists. (LA 9) (PD 2.10) Deputy General Director for personnel and ideoUnion of young specialists logical work V.E. Flaryziak Over 350 young specialists work at Byelorussian Steel Works. In 2013 the enterprise hired 143 young specialists, 101 graduates from secondary families with many children , raising handicapped and special educational establishments, 35 graduates children . I n its activity the Women’ U nion applies from higher institutions. The union considers all the 134 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS issues related with young employees: their adaptation of human resources and training of the manager reat the production, professional growth, research serve, the union of foremen participated in a guest and technology activity, labor-saving work. The immeeting held at OJSC «Slutsky palnt «Emalposuda», portant part of the work is enhancing business and creative activity of the youth, organizing scientific «Present time is not the and technical conferences, young employees’ parbest for steelmaking. ticipation in such forums held at other enterprises, Nevertheless, BSW always exchange of experience. In 2013, 8 young employees steadily follows the way of the Company took part in scientific and technical of development. Naturally, implementing large-scale conferences of young specialists of the steel secplans the plant counts on tor of Russia and the Ukraine. At Novokuznetsk youth. Without your ideas, conference BSW representative won the 1st place. your energy none of the 65 young employees of the plant participated in the projects has prospects. 13th International Conference «Metal-2013» held That is why our enterprises supports young employees in at the Company and won 10 first places, 11 second all possible ways». and 6 third places. In addition to representatives of General Director of OJSC «BSW-management Byelorussian Steel Works, the conference was atcompany of «BMC» holding. A.N. Savianok tended by representatives of 50 guests: representative on integrated steel works, hardware, tire and pipe producers and machine builders, leading higher educational establishments of CIS and BSW business the town of Slutsk, so as to exchange experience and partners. improve qualification of linear leaders of «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» holding, arrange probaO ne of the ways of realization of the long term tion of young specialists-graduates of 2013, analyze strategy of the staff potential development is selection and direction of young specialists to establishments to get post graduate education «Young people are the so as to train its own high grade scientific staff advance-guard of the able to successfully implement the promising enterprise. Future belongs program of technical revamping of B yelorussian to it. Much depends on where S teel W orks . and how ones work starts. Young people who joined Union of foremen Byelorussian Steel Works made the right choice in favor The Union organizes its work in close contact of a serious and respected with the personnel services and solves urgent isprofession». sues of 617 foremen of the Company. The Union holds public discussion and develops recommendations regarding the enhancement of the foremen Deputy General Director for technical developmentrole; participates in the activities for organizing chief engineer of OJSC «BSW-management company professional, ideological and economic training of of «BMC» holding S.M. Borshchov firemen; considers the issues of labor and moral education of the workers, strengthening labor and an active list of the staff reserve for the position of performance discipline, promoting the young worka foreman, senior foreman, analyze functioning of the ers reserve. (PD 4.4) labor protection system of the enterprise, confer the In 2013 implementing the program of the development rank of a Iand II-class foreman (109 people have this  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 135 Social activity tittle: 50 and 59 people accordingly; they get an exand conducting of sport work in the enterprise tra money (5% and 10%) in addition to their contract work team. The Union confirms the schedule of amount, summarize and disseminate the experience of conducting sport contests, tournaments, compethe best foremen, nominees and winners of the competitions and sportive health-improvement programs; tition «Professional Olympus». considers the issues of their material and financial provision. The union organizes all-year-round Supporting the principles of social responsibility and sport competition of OJSC «BSW – management developing charity initiatives of the plant foremen took company of «BMC» holding in 15 kinds of sport and an active part in all charity campaigns held at the plant. other sport events at the plant. In 2013 the Union organized and held 53 sport events and health proUnion of physical training and sports moting events. Number of participants equaled to The Union solves issues of planning, organization 2921 people. 136 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 Responsibility for the goods produced OJSC «BSW – management compay of «BMC» holdDuring production and sales, the plant’s management ing presumes that an efficient business of steel and implicitly follows principle 1 of the UN Global Comsteel structures production should be formed on pact. In compliance with principle 8 of the UN Global the basis of continuous enhancement of quality manCompact the plant’s management undertakes initiatives agement, thereat providing for production with the and holds activities aiming at reduction of the producquality meeting customers’ requirements and expection impact on the environment which is covered in the tations.. section «Environmental Protection». Supporting and implementing the principles of social The plant’s management’s standpoints as per liability responsibility for the goods produced, Byelorussian aspects are outlined in: Steel Works became an active member of the Central – Corporate Policy; and West Europe Quality Leaders Club since 2008. The club unites winners, laureates, and finalists of the documentation of the Corporate Management System international quality tournament. listed in this section; In order to meet the requirements of its customers Code of Ethics. both on the domestic and international markets, the Product life cycle (PD 2.3) plant processes various grades of steel and produces the following material: concast billet, sections and Structurally, OJSC «BSW – management compay of structural shapes, pipes, steel cord, wire and steel «BMC» holding is composed of three basic production fiber. The feedstock for the production is secondary lines (steelmaking, production of rolled material and raw materials is steel scrap. (PR 1PR 9 ) steel cord and wire manufacturing), infrastructure shops and subdivisions of the enterprise’s activity manThe plant’s production is in demand with the conagement. The steelmaking production includes a scrap sumers, and competitive; and over 80% of the yard and two electric melt shops. Acceptance, storplant’s production is exported to all continents of age, classification and processing of scrap are perthe world. formed in the scrap yard. The scrap yard is equipped General provisions (PD 4.10) (PD 4.6) (PD with overhead cranes and racks used for loading ma4.7) (PD 4.9) terial into charging baskets which are delivered to the melt shops by scrap trucks. The steelmaking producThe products manufacturing and packaging are safe tion is represented by three powerful electric-arc for human health and environment. furnaces with the capacity of 100 tons each. The plant’s Director General and its deputies ensure The steelmaking process is intensified by the applicathat the liability aspects, as regards the production, tion of gas and oxygen technologies. Deoxidization are as follows: and alloying of steel is performed in a ladle. Finishing of steel chemical composition is performed in special – ensuring of security and health of customers when ladle-furnaces and vacuum degassers. Steel is cast in contract with the products; by three continuous casting machines; two of them – relevant production marking; being six-strand units producing billet cross-section 125х125 mm, 140х140 mm and one – a four-strand ma– marketing communication with customers and supplichine with 250х300, 300х400 м mm billet cross-secers; tions and round diameter 200 mm. privacy of the customer’s employees;’ life; The high tech rolling production is represented by a – compliance with the established requirements. modernized small-section rolling mill 320, wire rod 138 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS mill 150, duo reverse rolling mill 850 with a set of ence-intensive process which presupposes production equipment for production of rolled sections, strucof brass-coated steel wire diameter 0.15 mm out of tural shapes, wire rod for various applications, and cast billet size 250х300 mm, capable of sustaining reinforcing steel. (PD 4.9) In mill 320 methods of high mechanical loads. The plant is the main supplier production of reinforcing steel against standards of of such world-recognized tire manufactures as ContiGermany, Holland, Great Britain, Finland, Sweden, nental, Michelin, Goodyear, Bridgestone, etc. Norway, Austria, Poland and Russia has been masAnother important hardware product enjoying keen tered and certification of these types of products by demand is the wire for high-pressure hoses (hose the national authorities of these countries has been wire). With respect to automation and equipment levcarried out; slitting process has been mastered with el, wire production is one of the highly developed dividing of a bar into several strands has been develin the world. The plant’s specialists are successoped and this is a new and perspective direction in the fully developing and implementing new steel cord rolling technique. constructions taking into consideration global deJune 2007 witnessed commissioning of a pipe mill the velopment tendencies and tire requirements of the equipment for which was supplied by SMS Meer, a automotive market. German company. The pipe mill uses three types of billet diameters: 140, 160 and 200 mm. «Technology and our The designed capacity of the pipe mill equals to 252 customers’ requirements thou. tons per year; the finished pipe size range varies in respect of the product from 21.3 to 168.3 mm. The amount of USD270 milquality permanently change. lion. was spent for this project implementation. First That is why, if we want to piercing of a hot-rolled seamless pipe took place on be present on the market, June 29, 2007, and at the end of 2008 the mill apwe ought to develop new proached its designed capacity. (EC 8 – EC 9) types of products– this is the only way to guarantee Since commissioning of the pipe mill production of us a certain place on the more than 250 types of pipe products of various range market». has been mastered. Deputy General Director for technology and Pipe quality meets the requirements of Russian and quality of OJSC «BSW-management company of foreign standards: GOST, DIN, ASTM, API 5L, EN. «BMC» holding.A. Peretyagina Products meeting complex requirements of these standards at the customer’s request. The range of wire production output is not limited Over 80% of the pipe products are sold outside by the abovementioned assortment. The plant prothe Republic of Belarus. Our customers represent duces bead wire, welding copper-coated and non-copsuch countries as Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia, per-coated wire, die-rolled cold-deformed reinforcing France, Germany, Great Britain, Hungary, Italy, Latwire for concrete reinforcement, spring, spoke, nail, via, Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, Turgeneral purpose wire and steel fiber (anchor, wavy, key, the USA, Russia, China, Serbia and the Ukraine.. micro-fiber). Hardware production is composed of three steel wire The plant’s infrastructure is represented by repair shops, and a die and tare shop. shops for power, electrical and mechanical equipment, Steel cord production is a most complicated sciproduction provision with fluids and electric power,  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 139 Responsibility for the goods produced  railway and transport shops, and such other auxiliary Production certification in compliance with the redepartments. quirements of national and international standards was commenced at OJSC «BSW – management compay Customers’ health and safety of «BMC» holding in 1991, and has been successfully Main customers of OJSC «BSW – management comperformed thereafter. Quality and security of Byepay of «BMC» holding – are machine-building and lorussian Steel Works products complying with the Scrap yard EMS-1 EMS-2 Rolling mill Rolling mill Rolling mill 150 Pipe mill 320 850 Steel wire shop No.1 Steel wire shop No.2 Steel wire shop No.3 The production structure motor-car construction enterprises, hardware, tire, requirements of the national standards of its cuspipe and reinforced concrete structure plants of the tomers is certified by conformity certificates issued neighboring and far-away countries and those of the in Russia, Belarus, USA and most of the EU counRB. tries. Following the results of 2013 the enterprise holds 53 compliance certificates for various types of Byelorussian Steel Works is aiming at production products. Quality and security of the Company prodof quality goods and services, advantageous and ucts and their compliance with normative documents is safe for the consumers’ health. The best quality systematically checked in the course of supervisory assessment of the plant production is its high comaudits with the frequency established by the certifipetitive ability and continuously increasing sales cation rules of every certain country (1, 2, 3 times a turnover. year). (PD 4.10) In order to provide the inner market security , Confidence in the stable quality of wire production is safety of the citizens and environmental protec ensured by the quality system existing at the entertion , the Republic of Belarus, Russia, EC coun prise and certified for the compliance with standard tries and some other states do not allow to import ISO/TS 16949:2009. products which are not certified for the compli ance with the requirements of their national stan Quality management system in the hardware producdards . (PD 4.8) (PD 4.9) (SO 8) tion is approved by the representatives of wire con140 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS suming companies: Michelin (France), Continental requirements, the production inspection with respect (Germany), Goodyear (Luxembourg), Eaton (USA, to radioactive safety is performed at the plant with Germany), Manuli (Italy), Parker (Italy), Diesse (Italy), the subsequent delivery of the relevant certificates Alfagomma (Italy), Knapheide (Germany) and others, to customers. which perform the counterparty audits. (PD 4.10) Packing, storing, handling operations and delivery of The Central Plant Laboratory is accredited for the products is performed by the personnel in compliance compliance with ISO/MEK 17025 requirements since with the requirements of the enterprise’s standard 2009 (by DAR, German certification body). STP 840-KSM-7.5.5 «Production and maintenance. In 2011 Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian Ensuring the production compliance. Procedure of Steel Works – management company of «Byelorusthe finished product dispatching». Materials ecologsian Metallurgical Company» holding together with ically sound and harmless for human health and enviBelmet Handelgesellschaft m.b.h. (Linz, Austria), its ronment are used for packaging. (EN 26) representative in EC countries and in accordance with REACH regulation No. EC 1907/2006 arranged regIn the reporting period we received several remarks istration of the chemicals (manganese, iron, copper regarding tire cord package damage during transporand silicon) contained in concast billet and bloom as tation to customers by trucks. products which further use is accompanied with the Now we test protective frames of cardboard angles chemical composition change. to provide for goods safety during transportation by All other products of our enterprise belong to goods trucks. which do not suffer their chemical composition change Product marking with appropriate informaand not emitting substance in the course of further tion standard use and are not subject to registration. All BSW products do not contain substances of inAll products supplied to the customers are marked creased hazard (SVHC). and accompanied by a quality certificate. The product marking is performed in compliance with the plant regThe main goal of the REACH system is to provide high ulations on the marking requirements, and includes level of human health and environment protection, ininformation on the manufacturing country, trade mark cluding promotion of alternative methods of substance of the plant, supply contract number, consignment hazard assessment, and free turnover of substances within the domestic market of the European Union, number, country of destination, weight and other thereat enhancing the competitive ability of chemical quality information. Quality certificates contain qualindustry of the Member States and facilitating innovaity information of the product. tive technologies introduction. Packing and shipment are in accordance with the reIn order to inform product consumers on safe appliquirements of the existing process documentation with cation during further processing, safety data sheets consideration of the requests and requirements of the for serial production are executed in compliance with customers stipulated in the contract. GOST 30333 and such other technical-regulatory legal acts as established by the organization’s stanIn August 2006 a permit to use the «CЄ» mark on dard STP 840-KSM-7.5.1.2 «Management facilities structural steel rolled section under the requireof production process. Special processes. Special ments of directive 89/106/СЕ and BS EN 10025-2004 characteristics of the production and special paramewas for the first time received from CARES. At presters of the process». In compliance with the customer ent, OJSC «BSW-management company of «BMC»  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 141 Responsibility for the goods produced  holding holds the following certificates of confor–seamless pipes, row Н and М, and types L, L1 and mity issued to confirm the right to apply CE mark on: L2 Ø 21,3-165,1 mm of non-alloy steel for welding and threading in accordance with DIN EN –hot-rolled seamless hollow profiles of structural 10255:2004+А1:2007(TÜV NORD Systems (Germany steel grades with strength groups ranging from S235 to S460 in compliance with the requirements of an–hot-rolled steel bars of structural steel groups S235 nexes А and B of DIN EN 10210-1:2006 and Directo S450 in accordance with the requirements of DIN EN tive 89/106/EEC of the EC Council for construction 10025-2:2005 and Directive 89/106/ EEC of the EC production amended by Directive 93/68/ EEC of the Council for building products amended by Directive 93/68/ European 4 Council (TÜV NORD Systems (Germany EEC of the EC Council (TÜV NORD Systems (Germany) 3,56 3,45 3,5 3 2,48 2,5 2,1% 2 1,85% 1,5 1 0,87% 0,5 0 2008г. 2009г. 2010г. 2011г. 2012г. 2013г. Percentage of products with СЕ mark 40 37 35 35 32 30 30 25 25 24 20 15 10 5 0 2008г. 2009г. 2010г. 2011г. 2012г. 2013г. Number of QMS and product external audits 142 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS – anchor, wavy and straight fiber (microfiber) in acApproaches used in marketing strategy: cordance with the requirements of DIN EN 148891. Improvement of export infrastructure and diversifi1:2006 and Directive 89/106/ EEC of the EC Council cation of export distribution structure; for building products amended by Directive 93/68/ (TÜV NORD Systems (Germany) 2. Development of new production. In the reporting period we received several messages 3. Participation in exhibitions and fairs. from our customers regarding incorrect tire cord box marking and one remark regarding incorrect indication 4. Interaction with international; marketing networks, of bronze-plated bead wire diameter. Now boxes with improvement of qualification of specialists involved in tire cord are marked with labels of different colors foreign economic activity of OJSC «BSW – managedepending on the direction of unwinding. ment compay of «BMC» holding; For bronze-plated bead wire a new label was devel5. Diversification of the price policy. oped including lot shipment data, an arrow indicating Mutually beneficial cooperation with condirection of unwinding and designation of the diamesumers of the plant’s products (PD 4.10) ter. (PD 4.11) (PD 4.17) (SO7) Marketing communications Our consumers are the most interested parties for us Marketing communications are oriented towards because such cooperation is profitable for the plant. solving of certain tasks which in their turn should OJSC «BSW – management compay of «BMC» holding correspond to the main goals of the communication is guided by needs and expectations of its customers, program: strives for the fullest satisfaction of the partners’ requirements in its activity. – awareness of users of the trade mark; – dissemination of information about OJSC «BSW – management compay of «BMC» holding; – fair business; – formation of a positive image of the plant and its trade mark. The final goal of marketing communications of the Company is a search for markets with stable consumption and product sale at maximum possible price. Marketing strategy for 2010-2015 is aimed at maximum enhancement of export in all directions by groups of products, retaining the traditional In order to study and specify customer requirements, product markets and developing new ones, leading a the plant constantly arranges meetings with its cusmaximum open foreign trade policy, using the existtomers, studies domestic and foreign developments in ing commercial and trading relations, expanding our the field of production quality improvement and work presence on the traditional outlets with absolutely quality optimization, performs analysis of market denew types of products. velopment tendencies.  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 143 Responsibility for the goods produced  Organization of periodic meetings and discussion of STP 840-SMK-7.2 «Processes associated with cusproblems with its partners allow the enterprise to tomers. Procedure of the plant’s product sales». find efficient solutions of the existing and potential Every year following the annual work results, the problems, realize possible product development and plant undertakes an assessment of its customers ’ optimization directions. satisfaction with the help of feedback. CustomWork with customers is organized in compliance with er satisfaction assessment is a part of business the Code of Business Ethics and enterprise standard of OJSC «BSW – management compay of «BMC» Indicators of the satisfaction rating of tire cord and steel wire users 93,4 93,4 91,0 91,1 90,1 87,7 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Indicators of the satisfaction rating of rolled products users 96,0 94,0 91,6 91,7 88,8 89,2 87,0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 144 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Indicators of the satisfaction rating of pipe products users 93,0 91,7 90,0 90,2 88,0 87,8 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Indicators of the satisfaction index of steel products users 93,5 91,6 91,7 90,3 90,5 89,2 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 holding and is aimed at basic problems detection methods of processing the assessment results UM concerning cooperation with customers , determina840-SMK-04-2005 developed on the basis of TK tion of priority directions of its activity and proRB 4.2-Р-07-2002. So as to get high reliability of duction optimization of further development. It is the results, the assessment is performed with concarried out in accordance with goal-oriented orsideration of the level of our customer satisfaction der No.2 «Measures of improvement of quality and with similar goods produced by our competitors on competitiveness of the marketable products» and the market concerned.  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 145 Responsibility for the goods produced  Stable work of the staff aimed at production output Quality of the acquired resources (services) with increase, quality improvement, product range extenconsideration of data on consumer’s quality management sion, and new pipe market development is adequately system functioning and its efficiency in the form of: appraised by our customers. Since the time our plant – results of mass regular supplies without reclamacame into this market a positive tendency is observed tions or claims; in assessment of the customer satisfaction with our products. – compliance certificates for the management system and products of the supplier; Cooperating with its customers in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact Byelorussian – supplier obligations to respect the rights and freeSteel Works does not collect any information about doms of the citizens in compliance with the principles private life and personal data of the customer staff. of the UN Global Compact; (HR 2) There haven’t been any claims related to privacy in– supplier consent to follow the Consumer Qualifringement since the plant erection. (HR 2) ty Manual of OJSC «BSW – management compay of Mutually beneficial cooperation with suppli«BMC» holding. ers The activity of customers is assessed according to the Another equally important party concerned is our following criteria: suppliers providing the plant with stock and raw mate– observation of the volume and terms of product derials for our production. livery (logistics); (PD 4.8) (ЕС6) The procurement procedure is regu– compliance of the delivered product with the establated by the following acts of law: «Procedure of selished requirements and calculation of the delivered lecting a supplier (contractor, executor) to perform goods quality index (IQL) considering the existence state purchases in the RB» approved by Decree No. of the suppler quality system, share of supplies with 618 of the President of the RB dd. 17.11.2008; by deviations in the total number of deliveries and considthe Decision of CM of the RB No. 1987 «Some issues eration of deviation significance coefficient (loyalty); of the state purchases» dd. 20.12.2008, by General Director’s order No. 85 «Formation of a commission – degree of the consumer loyalty to the plant and for purchases arrangement» dd. 30.01.2009. corrective actions execution. OJSC «BSW – management compay of «BMC» holding Supplies quality assessment is reviewed at the plant establishes honest and unbiased relations with suppliquality meetings. ers based on reasonable pricing, recognizing license and trade rights. Cooperation with suppliers is orgaAt the end of 2011 Byelorussian Steel Works intronized in compliance with the Code of Ethics and enduced some changes in the supplier contract requireterprise standard STP 840-KSM-7.4 «Procurement. ments. One of them is use of 8D process in solving Procedure of cooperation with suppliers», and Supquality issues. plier Manual. This process showed itself to advantage in the world Selection of suppliers is performed based on: practice as one of the most effective tools for solving product quality problems of suppliers. It gives the – Study of market and supplier questioning. possibility to eliminate the reasons of the problem ocRating on the commodity and services market. currence and exclude their reiteration. 146 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Introduction of the process of problem solving developed on the basis of 8D method (system exclusion of problems) allowed us to increase the level of co-operation of the plant with its suppliers in the area of information exchange and corrective and preventive action management. So as to develop partnership relations and improve quality of the delivered product by development of the management system with the acceptable suppliers according to the Bulletin of suppliers assessment for the previous period specialists of the Company perform supplier audits. (PD 4.10) Following the cooperation results and assessments, a «List of Approved Suppliers» is drawn up and agents performing deliveries are specified. The results of the supplier assessment are given in the table below. Actual data, % Delivery quality index, Loyalty to the Supplier Logistics,% % plant , % 2010 2011 2012 2013 Excellent IQL=95,1-100 100 100 37,20 32,05 55,22 52,43 Reliable IQL=75,1-95 100 100 50,24 57,84 36,05 38,53 Acceptable IQL=30,1-75,0 85-100 80-100 4,45 3,14 4,58 4,6 Unsatisfactory IQL ≤ 30* <85 <80 8,11* 6,97* 4,29* 4,43 *purchases from this supplier should be cancelled Construction of an effective model of supplier cotention is paid to feedback. Being an essential compooperation and interaction allows the plant to implenent of the plant’s policy, arrangement of feedback ment plans and strategies, and achieve the targets set strengthens mutual trust, joins and unites the parties forth. concerned from the point of view of unified public So as to perfume its activity successfully, special ataims, values, and interests. Criterion 2010 2011 2012 2013 Percentage of certified suppliers 44,2 49,4 36,48 43,4 (TCD supplier assessment bulletin data ), % SOCIAL REPORT 2013 147 Interaction of the parties OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdInteraction with the civil society (EC 8 EC ing cooperates with an extensive number of the parties 9) (PD 1.2) (EC 1) concerned, which goes beyond the frameworks of its production activity. Byelorussian Steel Works sets Byelorussian Steel Works is a town-forming enterprise defining not only the appearance but also the forth a unified approach to the social activity mancharacter of Zhlobin. Throughout its history the agement, including a great majority of various instruplant was involved into construction creating indusments; thereat, the principle of targeted and individual approach is always preserved with respect to every trial and social infrastructure of the town. The first group of the parties concerned. Successful business facility built by BSW was the boiler house «Severis impossible without favorable socio-economic ennaya» commissioned in1983. vironment both internal and external. Investing into Due to BSW Zhlobin takes advantage of 5 educational the development of the region of our presence now, schools, 9 nursery schools, 7 stores, a restaurant, a we are currently creating potential for economical, hotel, children’s department for 120 people and sursocial, material and spiritual growth of thousands of gical building for 240 patients of the regional hospipeople. It also means that we form a stable and free tal. For a convenient highroad service, a viaduct over society confident in tomorrow. (PR 7) the rail track was build connecting two parts of the Being a socially responsible enterprise, OJSC «BSW town. – management company of «BMC» holding cooperates with the parties concerned adhering to the following There was time when we had no stable reception of the approaches: (PD 4.16) republicans and regional TV programs. This problem was solved with the help of a relay station installed by – observance of the legislation and legal norms of the the plant. Liberators’ Square became a real adornment Republic of Belarus as well as principles of the UN of the town. A new building of school No.1 was built Global Compact; (SO 8) by the plant as well as sport center with a skating – involvement of all elements and participants of corink and an aqua-park. With the help of BSW financing operation; Sports game palace was built. (SO 1) (PR 7) disclosure of a complete and reliable information on The town streets were renewed, convenient transport the results in the field of economic, ecological and communication of the developing «metallurgic capital» social activity; is assured by 3 viaducts. Today Zhlobin is a rapidly developing town with modern districts, various sport – promotion of responsibility for the assumed obligaand cultural facilities. tions and their execution; The plant’s management realizes that social and eco– observance of universal norms and values; nomic stability in the region of its presence affects the – formation of favorable internal and external envilong-term stability of business. That is why it is straronment; tegically expedient to abide by the corporate responsibility policy both with respect to the employees and maintaining of reasonable balance of interests of the with respect to the local communities. Investigating the plant and society. peculiarities of the social and economic development of Byelorussian Steel Works is a part of the society and the region of its presence, the plant defines the priority it supports civil initiatives in the field of economic, sodirections and forms of social activity. Besides fulfillcial and cultural development of the region of presing tax obligations, OJSC «BSW – management company ence, preserving cultural heritage, national originaliof «BMC» holding initiates cooperation with regional ty, environmental protection, healthcare and welfare partners and supports programs and projects aimed at of the population and employees. social infrastructure development. 148 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Helping the region, the plant thereby establishes ef2013 was ambiguous. Some difficulties were connectfective relations with the local authorities and comed with the global economy tendencies. Steelmaking is munity opening opportunities to develop its business a rather long production cycle where, as a rule, finover the certain territory, to implement new projects ished product price drops quicker than it component and engage qualified personnel. parts prices: scrap, alloying elements. OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdBesides, in 2013 CCM-2 and EAF-1 were stopped for ing is searching for optimal correlation of its social reconstruction. When CCM-2 reaches its designed obligations and actual potential, maintaining balance capacity, the amount of marketable products will grow between the needs of the region and business conand, accordingly, the plant’s income will rise. The incerns. What for its practical activity, the plant cretroduced oxygen technologies will help to increase ates relationship with the civil society with due considproductivity of the furnace by 30%. Reconstruction eration of the results of the comprehensive research of gas and dust collecting system will help to solve «External impact of the enterprise on the community, environmental issues: new system of EMS-1 emission the plant’s image in the town». Annual multidimensioncleaning will allow us to reduce their amount conal research is carried out with the purpose to study siderably. According to the modernization program, the opinion of the townspeople within the region of construction of one more ladle-furnace and a system the plant’s presence as concerns the degree of BSW of waste gas cleaning and processing has been started influence on the vital activity of the region. (SO 1) so as to increase output of the steelmaking facility. Erection of the facilities for waste gases processing Steady development of the region of presence is an is another large and profitable investment which will important component of the plant development stratfree the plant from environmental tax in future. In Deegy aimed at solving of priority tasks within the field: cember 2014, we plan to commission the first stage of – assistance to the steady development of the territothe new rolling mill, about 40 000 tons of product ry of presence; with a high added value will be produced. That is why prospects of the plant are good and according to the – maintaining stable social and economic environment in forecast of the specialists, 2014 will be more sucthe local communities; cessful for BSW. – development of partnership relations with the reReconstruction and modernization of steelmaking gional authorities and local administration; required large investments (USD225,3 million), this could not but tell upon the amount of charity and – creation of comfortable living conditions for the sponsorship. Nevertheless, OJSC «BSW-management plant employees and population of the region; company of «BMC» holding continued its participation – establishment and maintaining the image of conscienin solving publicly important tasks on the regional and tious and attractive employer. national level. The plant management has a clear understanding that charity and sponsorship carried out Charity and sponsorship by the plant does not only help to form the image of Byelorussian Steel Works’ policy in the field of charthe plant, but really helps those in need to improve ity and sponsorship is aimed at facilitation of the fortheir living standard and solve important problems. mation of the socially accepted image of the efficiently In 2013, the priority directions of corporate charity operating and socially responsible enterprise, to afand sponsorship were: environment, support of social fect the public recognition of the social importance facilities in the area of the plant presence. of metallurgy, to consolidate its standing and enhance the loyalty to BSW on the part of all interactive Distribution of funds allocated by the plant for this groups and the civil society. purpose is given in the table below.  SOCIAL REPORT 2013 149 Interaction of the parties  Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 Sponsorship, total ($ thou.), including: 9 485,9 16 400,6 15 814,3 1 228,3 Financial aid to the development of physical culture and sports in 7 168 9 589,5 8 581,8 0 the RB, total: Aid to the “Hockey Club CJSC” “Metallurg-Zhlobin 3 978,0 7 922,6 7 322,2 Aid to the SE “Gomel Volleyball Club, Ltd” 839,5 1 189,6 899,7 Aid to football club “Zhlobin 165,85 Aid to UE “Belarusian biathlon club” 311,4 239,9 Aid to the association Hockey federation of RB 120,0 Financing of erection of a sport facility in Zhlobin 2 350,5 5 049,5 4 738,6 788,7 Aid to third-party organizations, total: 2 317,9 1761,6 2 493,9 227,3 construction of the National Park “Prypiatsky 1 936,2 OJSC “Avtoremproekt” 239,9 HE Kalinkovichy Central District Hospital 6,6 OJSc “Legmash Plant” 216,0 OJSC “Slutsky Plant “Emalposuda” 4,7 OJSC “Sitomo” 250,7 Organizations of Zhlobin and Zhlobin districts, including: district education department 21,4 repair of roads in Zhlobin 677 district organization “Belarusian union of Afghanistan war 4,7 4,5 veterans” PE Metallurgtorg 1,1 PE “Paporotnoe” 377,0 1058,7 1 847,4 211,2 Educational establishments, including: GSTU named after P.O. Sukhoi 89,8 Zhlobin state metallurgical college 42,0 SEE “Institute “Industrial Staff” 24,0 BSW finance distribution BSW employees personally participate in charity acRealization of the scheduled activities had a favortions. During the years of realization of this direction, able impact on the plant cooperation with the main an effective mechanism of operative assistance to people groups of stakeholders: authorities, civil society, has been developed. In 2013 plant’s workers actively ecology community employees. It helped to strengthparticipated in the following charity actions: «All chilen BSW reputation as a socially responsible enterdren are ours», «Do good», «We to children», etc. prise and achieve the highest social and economic Results of personal participation of the employees in efficiency from the money spent on charity and sponcharity activity are given in the table below. sorship purposes. 150 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Amount collected, USD Name of the action 2010 2011 2012 2013 Belarusian peace fund 3 533,8 437,8 343,7 259,1 Byelorussian Red Cross Society 1 519,1 1452,6 1389,2 973,4 OSVOD 409,7 173 125,3 National action «Our children» 414,5 Republican public cultural action «Belarus is us!» 1 007,4 «We to children» (children’s district hospital, design and construction of children’s hospice in Borovlyany, employee’s assistance to 671,6 1369,0 964 1621,5 medical treatment of children, assistance to the secondary school in Paporotnoe) «Do good» 396,9 1412,3 6535,4 1114,7 (dedicated to disabled people day) BSW youth to veterans 115,6 119,9 «All children are ours» (collection of money for purchasing of school accessories to674,1 1214,3 gether with the regional centre of social service ) For medical treatment and surgery of: – Elena Bliznyuk 640,6 30419,7 – Yulia Reket 1178,9 3636,1 – Aleksandr Furs 358 Donations to victims of the act of terrorism in Minsk under1010 ground Issuing of the book «My pride – Zhlobin krai!» 292,9 Minsk religious school 64,9 the parish of St. Serafim Sarovsky church 159,5 reconstruction of the building of the local history museum in 1 800,0 Zhlobin construction of the church of St. John soldier-martyr in Zhlo796,5 bin Total: 9 338,5 8 886,8 10 848,2 39 531,7 Results of the employees’ personal participation in charity Interaction with mass media (PD 1.2) (PR 7) customers, competitors, and community. OJSC «BSW OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» hold– management company of «BMC» holding realizes iming closely cooperates with the regional mass media portance of work in this direction and pays much attenbeing an important channel of applying to potential aution to the information policy. The enterprise closely dience of the enterprise: partners, state structures, cooperates with various mass media: newspapers, jour SOCIAL REPORT 2013 151 Interaction of the parties  nals internet portal and informs the community about – BSW cooperation with Ukrainian enterprises; results of its production activity, important events – Organization of a new production at BSW. Conand arrangements, supplies actual and reliable inforstruction of a small-section wire mill; mation. – Prospects of BSW development in 2011-2015. Forming its informational policy, BSW aims at openness and transparency. Only such approach allows us OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdto build up effective relations with mass-media and as ing strives for informational openness and transpara result, to achieve a high level of awareness of the ency of its activity as it understands the importance target audiences. of interaction and exchange of experience with all parties concerned. Press releases are prepared in During 2013, national and regional newspapers, news relation with all important events of the plant life. tapes of Belarusian and international information Its regular distribution base includes 6 information agencies publish over 170 positive materials about acagencies, 6 periodicals, 5 TV channels, and 4 Intertivity of Byelorussian Steel Works and 12 plots were net portals shown by the central TV channels. Key topic of 2013 which was paid much attention to Information of the plant was given in the following – modernization of production. It was conditioned on newspapers: «Sovetskaya Belarussiya», «Respubimplementation of the largest in BSW history modernlika», «Narodnaya Gazeta», «Zvyazda», «Belarussization program. kaya Stroitelnaya Gazeta», «Belarusskaya Voennaya Gazeta», «Gomelskaya Pravda», «Znamya Yunosty», In 2013, the following important events were orga«Belorusskaya Niva», «Novyi Den»» and journals: nized and held on the basis of the plant: «Economy of Belarus», «State Control», «Metal – Courier» , «Casting and Metallurgy», «Ferrous Met• meeting of a working group of the investigation comallurgy», «Steel» and on Belarus 1, Belarus 2, Pubmittee of the Republic of Belarus; lic National Television, Capital TV, MIR TV channels • trade union conference of the team of OJSC and Gomel radio. Regularly, not less than two times «BSW-management company of BMC» holding; a month, information reports about the plant’s life are printed by information agencies: «BelTA», «Bela• seminar «Innovative developments of personal proPAN», «PRIME-TASS» and are allocated on official tection facilities according to the Technical Regulasites of Zhlobin district executive committee, Gomel tions of the Customs Union; regional executive committee, Ministry of Industry, • exhibition of children’s drawings «I want to be a and other Internet resources. information about the steelmaker»; enterprise is published 2 times a month on the national Internet sites. • round table with representatives of Chinese engineering corporation САМС; Specially for our business partners – suppliers, customers, financial organizations and other interested • international scientific & technical conference parties a review of BSW key news has been prepared «Metal-2013»; since November, 2013. It is printed in two languages – • laying down of a capsule into the foundation of air English and Russian – and every quarter it is supplied separation unitNo.3; via e-mail. • Open Day; In 2013, on the initiative of BSW 3 press-conferences were held with representatives of mass-media to dis• Tourist rally of young employees of the «Byeloruscuss the following: sian Metallurgical Company» holding; 152 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS • Guest meeting of the Presidium of the Republican cerned on the basis of the following basic principles: Committee of Belarusian Trade Union of Industrial respect and consideration of interests, opinions and Workers; preferences, openness and transparency, trust and sincerity, implicit abidance by the legislation, interna• Seminar to exchange experience with young employtional and Belarusian standards, responsible fulfillees of Mozyr petroleum refinery; ment of the assumed obligations, respect of the his• Public hearing of the Corporate Report for 2012; tory, culture, traditions, way of living and heritage of the people residing within the business territory. • Extended meeting with the subjects of the commodity distribution network of the plant «Results of joint Ensuring compliance of the activity and strategy of work in 2013 and strategy of further development». the plant development with the general social and economic direction and interests of the country and reSpeaking about effective communication with target gion of the business activity is a highly important task audiences it is important to underline that BSW pays facing the plant employees. Constructive interaction much attention to introduction of the enterprise in the with the governmental bodies helps OJSC «BSW – Internet environment. Main news of the Company is management company of «BMC» holding to find soluregularly allocated on its external site. In 2013, over tion of this rather complicated task. 60 news was published there. Recently, work with the largest and most popular Belarusian information «Discussion global tasks of portals TUT.BY and Onliner has been expanded. Some development of the economy work is carried out in social networks. Thanks to of the region and the counthe existing subject group «BSW: plant news» about try in general one under1000 employees of the Company receive key news of stands that Byelorussian the plant simply communicating on the popular with Steel Works has a very young people resource «Vkontakte». good potential and contributes to the budgets of all In accordance with the principles of the UN Globlevels». al Compact OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding ensures free access to the information, develops external communication, and acknowlDeputy Chairman of Gomel Regional Executive edges its readiness for open dialogue with the parties Committee B.K. Pirshtuk concerned. In September 2013, an employee of the Company took part in the national forum «UN Global Compact in BeDecisions on burning issues of the social and economic larus: best practices of a social responsible business development of the region, work with the youth, hold– 2012» held on the basis of the representative office ing joint events, and optimization of medical care for of the local network of the UN Global Compact in the population are taken by the plant’s management and Belarus and exchanged his experience and informed local authorities in the course of monthly business representatives of the business communities about the meetings. procedure of establishment and functioning of the system of corporate responsibility functioning at BSW. Prospects of Gomel region development, progress of the socially important programs, extension of the Interaction with authorities (PD 1.2) plant’s export policy, plans for designing and conOJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holdstruction of a small-section mill, and reconstruction ing builds up cooperation with all the parties conof the steelmaking production were regularly dis SOCIAL REPORT 2013 153 Interaction of the parties  cussed by the general director at his meetings with The enterprise clearly understands the importance Deputy Prime Minister of RB V.I. Semashko, Minisof innovative activity being a key tool of the proter of Industry of RB D.S. Katerinich, Chairman of duction development and pays much attention to it. the State Control Committee of RB A.S. Yakobson There are 8 candidates of science, 11 undergraduduring their multiple visits to Byelorussian Steel ates, and 19 bachelors working at BSW. The ComWorks pany established strong partnership relations with such establishments as BNTU, GSTU named after (S05) The plant’s management believes that particiP.O. Sukhoi, FTI of the NAS of Belarus, divisions pation of its representatives in the work of elected of the NAS of Belarus. The plant cooperates with authorities would be important for the formation of institutes of powder metallurgy, hot-rolled metparity relationships with the governmental bodies and als, metal technologies and mechanics of polymer formation of the state policy. The loyalty of the region systems. During last three years 10 joint works population to the plant and its employees is proved by were fulfilled. Economic effect of this cooperthe outcomes of the election campaigns resulted in 11 ation equals to hundreds of USD thousand. To plant employees being elected to local, regional and coordinate scientific research activity of OJSC republican regulatory bodies: «BSW-management company of «BMC» holding and – Zhlobin District Soviet of Deputies – 10 perN ational Academy of Science of Belarus a Scientific-production center (SPC) was established in sons; (PD 4.11) (PD 4.17) 2013 including representatives of the Ministry of – Gomel Regional Soviet of Deputies – 1 person. Industry of the Republic of Belarus, Gomel regional executive committee, OJSC Rechitsa Hardware (S06) Alongside with that, OJSC «BSW – managePlant, OJSC «Mogilyov Metallurgical Plant», ment company of «BMC» holding did not provide doOJSC «Legmash Plant», OJSC «Minsk bearing nations in favor of any political parties or individual Plant», OJSC «Polesieelectromash», National politicians. Academy of Science of Belarus and Byelorussian Interaction with science (PR 7) (PD 1.2) Steel Works. Co-chairmen of the Board are: head of the office of NAS of Belarus academician P.A. Innovative development of industry is a guarantee of Vityaz and General Director of OJSC «BSW-maneconomic security of Belarus. The plant follows the agement company of «BMC» holding A.N. Savianok. route of innovative development courageously implementing new projects. By the decision of the State A paramount task the SPC faces is increase of the efCommittee on science and technologies of the Reficiency of work of the enterprise due to reconstrucpublic of Belarus adopted in 2008 BSW was includtion, modernization and improvement of the production ed into the register of high-tech enterprises of our processes so as to improve quality of products and country. increase productivity. So as to strengthen its positions on the market and To solve the above task, BSW research center conwithstand tough competition it is not enough for tinues to develop a complex of measures aimed at an industrial enterprise to show good production expansion of duration of steel furnaces campaign results. It is necessary to manufacture products and step-by-step increase of the refractory life up characterized by high quality and optimal prime to 1000 heats. Large work is carried out to develcost. Besides one should not forget about meetop and introduce the method of lining of the slide ing customer requirements and filling free market gate of steel ladles in EMS-1 and use of a slide niches with new types of products. Achievement of gate of a new type. Production technology of new all components of success is impossible without scistructural steel grades for automotive industry entific and research support. according to the requirements of ISO TS16949 154 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS and a production method of wire rod and rounds from billet cross section 140х140 mm in mill 150 have been mastered in the rolling production. We started mastering the production of OCTG seamless pipe resistant to bacterial-hydrosulfuric or acid corrosion. Cooperation of Byelorussian Steel Works and science has a many-sided character. The enterprise acts together with leading higher educational establishments of the country in training progressive engineers. Seminars and refresher training of managers and specialists of the Company is organized on the basis of higher educational establishments of the country, practical training at BSW is organized for students of institutes and universities. Being a participant of the state program of educating and training of specialists in foreign economic activity, Byelorussian Steel Works arranged practical training for students of the corresponding departments of Belarusian State University, Belarusian State Economic University, Gomel State University named after F. Skaryna in its foreign representative offices. Together with Belarusian National Technical University a branch of the department «Machines and casting technology» was established . In 2011 branches of the departments «Metal deformation process» and «Metallurgy and casting» of Gomel State Technical University named after P.O. Sukhoi were established on the basis of BSW so as to further develop interaction with educational institutions in the area of development and implementation of specialists training program. (EC 8) (EC 9). A cooperation agreement on training of specialists of 1st and 2nd stage of higher education as well as on free assistance in development of material and technical basis of the university for 2011-2015 was signed with this university. Programs of training courses for teachers of the university in divisions of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding and teachers of the plant’s Training Centre in EE GSTU named after P.O. Sukhoi. SOCIAL REPORT 2013 155 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЕ / ANNEX Список используемых сокращений American Petroleum Institute – non-governmental organization, the USA, performing investigations in the oil API and gas sector. Global Reporting Initiative – an independent non-commercial organization which mission is development and worldwide distribution of unified reporting principles in the area of stable development first GRI of all with the help of Reporting Manual for the area of stable development. Established in 1988, the organization has the headquarters in Amsterdam and is managed by international experts of various organizations worldwide. EFQM European Fund of Quality Management ISO International Organization for Standardization OHSAS Professional health and labour safety management system SA 8000 International standard «Social responsibility 8000» BMZ Byelorussian Steel Works BNTU Belarusian National Technical University BRYU Belarusian Republican Youth Union GDP Gross domestic product GOST State industrial standard SEE State educational establishment PCM Palace of Culture «Metallurg» EAF Electric-arc furnace CJSS Children and juvenile sport school EU European Union UWRB Unified wage rate book ZMF Zhlobin meat factory HB Housing board Info-BMZ Information system of the plant kg kilogram CMS Corporate management system PC Purpose courses MAZ Minsk automotive factory MISiS Moscow institute of steel and alloy CCM Continuous casting machine mln million bn billion mm millimeter MSD Medicosanitary department MTZ Minsk tractor plant IFRS International Finance Reporting System NAS National academy of sciences 156 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS NP National park IIWD Information and ideological work department UNO United Nations Organization LPD Labour protection department ISD Industrial safety department ODS Ozone depleting substances QMD Quality management department DGCU Dust and gas collecting unit MPC Maximum permissible concentration PA Production association RB Republic of Belarus EW&S Executive workers and specialists BMC ‘Byelorussian Metallurgical Company’ holding OJSC Open Joint Stock Company «Byelorussian Steel Works’ ‘BSW’ RF Russian Federation CM Council of Ministers MM Mass media YSC Young specialists council CIS Commonwealth of Independent States RM Rolling mill STP Plant standard STB Belarusian standard SWS Steel Wire Shop EMS Environment management System LPMS Labour Protection Management System USA United States of America TNLA Typical Normative-Legal Acts TU Technical requirements r.f.t. Reference fuel ton Thou. Thousand FPR Fuel&Power Resources EP & ISB Environment protection and industrial sanitary board SHF Sport and Health Facility CEE Central and East Europe RWPS Refractory wastes processing shop EMS Electric melt shop SOCIAL REPORT 2013 157 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЕ / ANNEX Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual (PD 3.12) Reference in GRI Description of the indicator the report, index page. 1 Strategy & analysis 1.1 Declaration of the General Director, the Chairman of the Board of the directors 6,7 1.2 Key impacts, risks and possibilities description 22,29,63,6568,70-73,8890,96,102,108, 109,113,114,150155 2 Description of the organization 2.1 Name of the organization 36 2.2 Main brands, types of products and (or) services 14,36,37 2.3 Functional structure of the organization including the main subdivisions, operational companies, daughter companies and joint-ventures 37,138 2.4 Location of the central office 9,36 158 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 2.5 Countries (regions) where organization is functioning and which are most significant from the point of view of the questions of sustainable development covered by the report. 36,42 2.6 Nature of the ownership and legal and organizational form 36 2.7 Markets where the organization is working (including the geographical breakdown, the sectors serviced, the categories of the consumers and the beneficiaries). 39,43,69-70 2.8 Size of the organization including: — Quantity of workers and officials; — Net sales (for the private sector organizations) or net proceeds (for the state organizations); 26,31,37,41,65, — General capitalization with the breakdown by borrowed and own capital (for the private 93-97 sector organization); — Quality characteristics of the products or the services rendered; — General value of the assets 2.9 Considerable changes in the organization activity and (or) in the structure of the ownership during the reporting period including: — opening, closing and development of the enterprises; — changes in the structure of the share capital and other actions to form, support or 39,43 change the capital (for the private sector organizations) 2.10 Awards in the reporting period 39,45,46,47,107, 108,120-121, 130,134 3 Report parameters GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REPORT 3.1 The reporting period (for example, financial/calendar year) to which the submitted information refers to 8,9 SOCIAL REPORT 2013 159 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЕ / ANNEX Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual (PD 3.12) 3.2 The date of publication of the latest previous report (if any) 8,9 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, two-year etc.) 8,9 3.4 Contact information about the report and its contents 8,9,59 SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES OF THE REPORT 3.5 Process of the reports’ contents determination including significance and priorities and subject determination within the framework of the report as well as revealing of the interested parties considered as potential users of the report. 8,951,57-59, 128-136 3.6 Bounds of the report (countries/regions, subdivisions/units/joint-ventures / daughter companies) 8,9 3.7 Indicate any limits of the scope or the bounds of the report 8,9,52 З.8 Grounds for inclusion in the report of the data concerning joint-ventures partly belonging to the daughter companies, production rent, transfer of a part of the functions to external contractors and other situations, which can essentially influence the comparison with the 8,9 previous reports and/or other organizations 3.9 Methods of data measurement and calculations including proposals and procedures used for indices preparation and other information of the report 8,9 3.10 Description of the nature and meaning of any fresh wording of the information given in the previous reports, and grounds for such fresh wording (for example, merger/absorption, change of the reporting period, business nature, evaluation methods) 8,9 160 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 3.11 Important changes concerning the previous reporting as regards the scope, bounds or methods of measurement used in the report 8,9 GRI INDEX 3.12 Table of the arrangement of the standard components in the report CONFIRMATION 3.13 The policy and practical approaches applied concerning an independent confirmation of the report. If the confirmation is not attached to the report in the area 58-59 4 Control, obligations and interaction with the parties concerned MANAGEMENT 4.1 Structure of the management including the main committees in the top managing body, responsible for concrete tasks, for example, strategy development or general supervision over the organization’s activity 37,48-51,52-54 4.2 Indicate if the chairman of the highest managing body is at the same time the CEO of the company (and, in case of a positive answer, what is the role of this manager in the company management and what are the reasons for such state of affairs) 52-54 4.3 For the organizations with a unitary board of directors, indicate the number of independent members of the highest managing body and/or the members who do not refer to the executive board of the company 52-54 4.4 The mechanisms which are used by the shareholders or the personnel of the organization to direct the activity of the managing body or give it recommendations 51,52-54,51-59, 73,88,112,127128,129,130,135 SOCIAL REPORT 2013 161 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЕ / ANNEX Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual (PD 3.12) 4.5 Link between payments (including the severance pays) for the members of the top managing body, representatives of the top management and the executive management and the efficiency of the organization (including social and ecological efficiency) 50,52-54,103 4.6 The existing processes in the top managing body called upon to avoid conflicts of interests 48-51,52-54,5759,73,92,97,127128,130,138 4.7 The existing processes in the top managing body called upon to avoid conflicts of interests 50,52-54,97,138 4.8 Mission, declaration of values declaration, codes of corporative behavior and principles de13,14,22,30,49, veloped inside organization, and principles significant from the point of view of economic, 51-55,60,63,72ecological and social efficiency as well as the degree of its actual implementation 73,77,79,88,92, 93,96,98,102,107 109,110,113-115, 140,146 4.9 Processes used by the top managing body to supervise and control assessment of the eco13,14,22,23,34, nomic, social and environmental efficiency by the organization including determination of the 35,48-51,52-54, corresponding risks and possibilities, their control and also observation and correspon59-61,64,66,72, dence to international standards, codes of corporative behavior and principles 73,77,79,92,93 96,98-99,102,107 109-110,127,128, 131,138,139,140 4.10 Processes of evaluation of its own efficiency by the top managing body , in particular, con10-14,23,26,34, cerning the economic, ecological and social results of the organization’s activity 35,50,52-54,5759,62,64,65,66 72,73,77,79,93 96,102,107,109110,138,140-141 143-146 PARTICIPATION IN EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 4.11 Explain, if and how the organization uses principle of precaution 10-14,22,29,31, 34,35,38,52-54, 57,59,66-68,72, 73,77,106,108, 109,143-146,148, 154 4.12 Developed by external parties voluntary economic, ecological and social charters, systems of principles or other initiatives, to which the organization has joined and which it supports 10-14,22,52-54, 77,81,129,143146,148,154 4.13 Membership in associations (for example, branch) and/or national and international organizations defending interests 10-14,16,22,5254,57,129,132, 143-146,148,154 162 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 4.14 List of the interested parties with which the organization cooperated 10-14,16,22,5254,57,101,102, 128,143-146,148, 154 4.15 Base for determination and selection of the interested parties for further cooperation with them 10-14,16,22,5254,57,69-70,77, 94,101,102,128, 143-146,148,154 4.16 Approaches to cooperation with the interested parties including frequency of cooperation 10-14,16,22,31, by forms and interested groups 52-54,57,62,63 77,101,102,128136,143-146,148 154 4.17 Key questions and interests raised or revealed during the process of cooperation with the interested parties, and how the organization took into consideration these questions and 10-14,22,31,54, interests 57,59-61,77, 101,102,128-136, 143-146,148,154 Indices of economical efficiency ECONOMICAL EFFICIENCY EC1 Created and distributed economical cost including gains, operational costs, compensation of employees, donations and other investments in the community, undistributed profit, payments to suppliers of capital and to countries (basic) 64-66,102,103, 106,107,114,123, 130,132 EC2 Financial aspects and other risks and possibilities for organization’s activity related to change of the climate ( basic) 22,27,66-68, 80,81 EC3 Security of the obligations of the society linked to the pension plans (basic) 115-116,124,130, 133 EC4 Financial assistance from the government (basic) 68-69 PRESENCE ON MARKETS SOCIAL REPORT 2013 163 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЕ / ANNEX Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual (PD 3.12) EC5 Relation of the initial salary and the fixed minimum salary in the significant regions of the organization’s activity (basic) 103,107 EC6 Practical approaches for the purchases from the local suppliers and percentage of such purchases in the important regions of organization activity (basic) 146 EC7 Hire procedure of local population and portion of top management hired from local population in the significant regions of the organization’s activity (basic) 31,93,94,96, 97-102 INDIRECT ECONOMICAL INFLUENCE EC8 Development and influence of investments on the infrastructure and services rendered by the organization in social interests by commercial, natural or beneficent participation (basic) 22,29,65-66,7880,102,110-111, 114-117,130-132, 139,148-149,155 EC9 Description of the significant indirect economical influences including the area of influence 22,29,31,64-66, (additional) 79-80,94,102,107 110-111,114-117, 132,139,148149,155 Indicators of ecological efficiency MATERIALS EN1 Used materials with the specification of weight or volume (basic) 36,78 EN2 Percentage of the materials representing processed or recycled wastes (basic) 78 ENERGY EN3 Direct use of energy with the indication of the primary sources (basic) 78,80 164 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS EN4 Indirect use of energy with the indication of the primary sources (basic) 78,80,81 EN5 Energy saved as a result of the measures taken to decrease consumption of power and to increase efficiency of energy (additional) 78,80,81 EN6 Initiatives to propose energy-effective products and services or those based on the use of the renewable energy and decrease of the need for energy as a result of these initiatives 29,30,78,80,81 88-89 EN7 Initiatives to decrease indirect consumption of energy and the decrease achieved (additional) 29,30,78,80,81 88-89 WATER EN8 General quantity of the taken-in water with the breakdown by the sources (basic) 84-86 EN9 Water sources considerably influenced by the water diversion by the organization (additional) 84-86 EN10 Percentage and total volume the reused and recycled water (additional) 84-86 BIOVARIETY EN11 Location and area of the land owned, leased and managed by the organization and situated on the preserved territories and those with high value of biovariety outside their boundaries or adjoining such territories (basic) 74-75,78 EN12 Description of important activity influences, products, services on biovariety on guarded territories with high value of biovariety outside its borders (basic) 74-75,78 SOCIAL REPORT 2013 165 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЕ / ANNEX Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual (PD 3.12) EN13 Preserved or restored habitats (additional) 74-75,88-89,132 EN14 Strategies, actions and future control plans of impact on biovariety 74-75,78,88-89 EN15 Quantity of species entered in the Red List of the IUEP and the national list of protected species inhabiting the territory affected by the organization’s activity with the breakdown according to the level of treat to the existence of a species (additional) 74-75,78 EMISSIONS, DISCHARGE AND WASTES EN16 Full direct and indirect emission of hothouse gases with the indication of the weight (basic) 80-84 EN17 Other significant indirect emissions of hothouse gases with the indication of the weight (basic) 80-84 EN18 Initiatives to decrease emissions of hothouse gases and the decrease achieved (additional) 29,30,80-84, 88-89 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances with the indication of the weight (basic) 83 EN20 Emission of NOx, SOx and other significant polluting substances to the atmosphere with the indication of the weight (basic) 80-84 N21 Total amount of discharged wastes indicating the quality of the sewage water and the receiving unit (basic) 84-86 166 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS EN22 Total amount of the wastes with the breakdown by type and method of handling (basic) EN23 Total amount and quantity of considerable spills (basic) 87 EN24 Amount of transported, imported, exported or processed wastes being «dangerous» according to Annexes I, II, III и VIII of Basel convention (additional) 87 EN25 Characteristics, size, status of protection and value form the point of view of the biovariety of the water objects and the related habitats significantly affected by the discharge of the organization and the surface drainage from the territory of its units 84-86 PRODUCTION AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives aimed at softening (decreasing) the influence of the products and services on the environment and the size of the reached decrease of the influence (basic) 29,3081,87,8889,141 EN27 Portion of the products sold and its packing materials returned to the producer for processing with the breakdown by categories (basic) 87 CONFORMITY TO THE REQUIREMENTS EN28 Big penalties in money terms and total quantity of non-financial sanctions imposed due to non-conformity to the ecological law and standard requirements (basic) 90 TRANSPORT EN29 Significant impact of the transportation of products and other goods and materials used for organization’s activity and the transportation of manpower on the environment (additional) 80-84 SOCIAL REPORT 2013 167 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЕ / ANNEX Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual (PD 3.12) GENERAL EN30. Total costs and investments in protection of the environment with the breakdown by types (additional) 88-89,90 Indicators of the efficiency of the approaches to labor organization and worthy labor EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total quantity of manpower by the type of employment, occupation agreement and region (basic) 94 LA2 Total number of the personnel and employee turnover by age group, sex and region (basic) 94 LA3 Payments and advantages granted to the employees working on the basis of full employment which are not granted to people working on the basis of incomplete or temporary employment (additional) 102,130 INTERRELATIONS BETWEEN THE EMPLOYEES AND THE MANAGING BODY LA4 Portion of the employees covered by the collective agreements (basic) 126-128 129-131 LA5 Minimum period (periods) of notification concerning considerable changes in the organization’s activity and its determination in the collective agreement (basic) 127-128 HEALTH AND SECURITY AT A WORKING PLACE LA6 Portion of all people represented in the official joint committees for health and security with the participation of the management and the staff taking part in monitoring and forming recommendations concerning health and security programs at a working place (basic) 110-111, 112-113,134 LA7 Level of production traumatism, level of professional illnesses, coefficient of missed days and coefficient of absence at a working place as well as total number of fatal cases linked to job with the breakdown by regions (basic) 110 168 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS LA8 The existing programs of education, training, consultation, prevention and control of risk to help the employees, members of their family and the population concerning serious illnesses 55,99-100.112, (basic) 115-116,121-122, 125,134 LA9 Reflection of health and safety problems in official agreements with the trade union (additional) 115,126-128, 129-131,134 TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average number of hours per an employee in a year by categories of the employees (basic) 99,100 LA11 Programs for development of skills and education aimed to support employees capability to employment and support them when their career terminates 88,96,97-102, 99,112 LA12 Percentage of employees for whom periodic assessment of career effectiveness and development are carried out 96-97 VARIETY AND EQUAL POSSIBILITIES LA13 Structure of the organization’s top management and the staff by sex and age indicating the minorities and other indices of variety (basic) 94,103,106 LA14 Relation between the average salary of men and women by categories of the staff (additional) 103,106 Efficiency indicators: human rights PRACTICE OF INVESTMENTS AND PURCHASES HR1 Share of important investment agreements including clauses guaranteeing human rights or being assessed from the point of view of human rights (basic) 89-90 HR2 Portion of important suppliers and contractors from the point of view of human rights (basic) 140-141,146 SOCIAL REPORT 2013 169 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЕ / ANNEX Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual (PD 3.12) HR3 Forms of training the employees in policies and procedures linked to aspects of human rights which are significant for the organization’s activity and also the number of trained employees (additionally) 99-100,112,125, 128 BANNING OF DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of cases of discrimination and taken measures (basic) 103,126-128 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND HOLDING OF COLLECTIVE NEGOTIATIONS HR5 Activity within the framework of which the right to freedom of association and holding of collective negotiations can be subject to significant risks and actions taken to support these rights (basic) 97,126-128 CHILD LABOR HR6 Activity within the framework of which there is a significant risk of use child labor and measures taken to participate in the exterminate of child labor (basic) 126-128 FORCED AND MANDATORY LABOUR HR7 Activity within the framework of which there is a significant risk of use of forced and mandatory labor and measures taken to exterminate forced and mandatory labor (basic) 126-128 APPROACHES TO SECURITY HR8 Portion of the security staff trained in the policies and procedures related with the human rights connected with the realized activity (additional) 88,99-100,112113,126-128 RIGHTS OF NATIVE AND SMALL NATIONS HR9 Total number of violations of the rights of native and small nations and taken measures (additional) 103,126-128 Indicators of efficiency of interaction with the community COMMUNITY SO1 Programs and actual approaches in the field of evaluation of the influence of the organization’s activity on the local communities and control of this influence, covering the beginning 58,72-73,77,78of the activity, its implementation and completion (basic) 80,87,88,130,131 132,148,149 170 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS CORRUPTION SO2 Portion and total number of business units analyzed from the point of view of risks connected with corruption 59 SO3 Portion of employers trained in the anticorruption policies and procedures of the organization (basic) 59,99-100 SO4 Measures taken to prevent corruption (basic) 59,97 STATE POLICY SO5 Position in respect of the state policy and participation in formation of the state policy and lobbying (basic) 10,11,14,29,66, 129,154 SO6 Total amount (in natural and money terms) of donations to political parties, politicians and the organizations connected with them by countries (additional) 154 OBSTACLES TO COMPETITION SO7 Practical approaches to avoid monopolistic practice and the results of their application (additional) 29,143-146 CONFORMITY TO REQUIREMENTS SO8 Conformity to the law and standard requirements (basic) 60,63,66,68-69, 73-74,77,87-88, 99,108-109,112113,127-128 Indicators of efficiency: responsibility for production HEALTH AND SECURITY OF A CUSTOMER PR1 Stages of the life cycle on which influence on health and security of products and services is evaluated to reveal the possibilities of improvement and the portion of significant products and services subject to such procedures (basic) 108-113,138 SOCIAL REPORT 2013 171 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЕ / ANNEX Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual (PD 3.12) PR2 Correspondence with the standard norms and voluntary codes related to the influence of products and services on health and safety (additional) 108-113,138 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MARKING PR3 Types of information about the properties of products and services required by the procedures and portion of significant products and services subject to such information requirements (basic) 138 PR4 Standard requirements and voluntary codes related to the information about the properties of products and services and marking (additional) 138 PR5 Practices related to the satisfaction of a customer including the results of investigation of the level of a customer’s satisfaction(additional) 138 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 Programs to ensure conformity with the legislation, standards and voluntary codes in the area of marketing communications including advertising, promotion of products and sponsor39,65-66,120,138 ship (additional) PR7 Correspondence to the standard requirements and voluntary codes related to marketing 39,102,120,138, communications including advertising, promotion of products and sponsorship (additional) 148,150-151, 154-155 INVIOLABILITY OF THE PRIVATE LIFE OF A CUSTOMER PR8 Total number of legitimate complaints regarding the violation of the private life of a customer and loss of customer’s data (additional) 138 CORRESPONDENCE WITH REQUIREMENTS PR9 Monetary value of considerable penalties for violation of the law and the standard requirements related to the delivery and use of products and services 138 Table of conformity to the GRI elements and indices is prepared with the help of the Manual of accounting in the area of stable development of the Global Reporting Initiative (revision 3) 172 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS NOTES SOCIAL REPORT 2013 173 Dear readers,  You have just got acquainted with the Social Report of Open Joint-Stock Company «Byelorussian Steel Works – management company of «Byelorussian Metallurgical Company» holding. Your opinion on this document will be highly appreciated and your comments and proposals will be taken into consideration in future reports as much as possible. Please, fill the form and fax it to: + 375-2334-5-54-26;+ 375-2334-2-42-61; + 375-2334-3-16-35 Or mail to: 37 Promyshlennaya str., 247210 Zhlobin, Gomel region with the mark «Social Report 2013». You may also e-mail the filled form to: (secr.dpir@bmz.gomel.by) 1. To which group of stakeholders do you belong to? representative of authorities  representative of community  Investor  Partner  Customer  Employee  Another group of stakeholders _______________________________________________________________________________________ 2. What is your appreciation of the Social Report in terms of completeness of the information presented?  High  Average  Low  3. What is your appreciation of the Social Report in terms of and credibility of the information presented? High  Average  Low  4. What is your appreciation of the Social Report in terms of search of the information required? High  Average  Low  5. What is your appreciation of the design of the Social Report? High  Average  Low  6. Has the Social Report helped you to understand the activity of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in the area of sustainable development? Yes, fully  Yes, partially  No, not quite  No, not understandable at all  7. Please, evaluate the following sections of the Social Report of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding from the point of view of interest, relevance and completeness of disclosure (from 1 (low) to 5 (very high) Steelmaking. Reaching a new level  Description of the plant  Participation of the republican scientific potential  Description of the plant  in the development of the metallurgical complex  Economic activity  Description of key impacts, risks and possibilities  Environment activity  Management, obligations, interaction with  Social activity  interested parties  Interaction of parties  Responsibility for the product manufactured  8. Has the Social Report influenced your attitude to the activity of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding? Yes, my attitude improved  No  My attitude became worse  9. What information in the Social Report was the most interesting for you?__________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 10. What directions of the activity of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding in your opinion require improvement so as to raise social responsibility? ____________________________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________________________ 11. What information would you like to see in future social reports of OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding? _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________ _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you for cooperation! OJSC «BSW – management company of «BMC» holding 174 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Expert findings on 2013 corporate social report by ojsc «byelorussian steel works management company of «byelorussian metallurgical company» holding» strategy, transparence of its activities and a deep belief in the principles of corporate social responsibility (CSR). The BSW actively supports international initiatives in the area of CSR. In 2008, the enterprise joined the UN Initiative «Global Compact», thus reaffirming its willingness to introduce the principles of corporate social responsibility on a systematic basis into its business practice, make responsible investment decisions and take care of the local community. The Report contains significant information about the social and economic aspects of responsible business practice in accordance with the principles of corporate social responsibility. Its structure and contents fully comply with the requirements of the GRI guidelines. The Report consists of eight main chapters, including the strategy and goals in the area of sustainable development, cooperation with interested parties and principles of work with partners, as well as principles of economic and ecological activities and responsibility for products. Most of the Report is dedicated to coverage of internal and Yeletskikh, Taisiya Vladimirovna external social activities of the enterprise and projects, Ph.D. in Economics, project manager at the UN Development which were implemented by the Company in 2013 and which Programme. Expert in the domain of CSR and socially have an important public significance for the city. These responsible restructuring of enterprises, business issues continue development of the key topics of the previous consultant, practicing training specialist. Author and cosocial reports, which provides for certain continuity of the author of numerous books and articles concerning CSR. information and demonstrates the significance of CSR for Stood at the origins of development of the UN Initiative the organisation. «Global Compact» in Belarus, which promotes the principles In implementation of the CSR strategy, the BSW pays of corporate social responsibility. Winner of the contest tremendous attention to addressing ecological issues. It «CSR-Award» in the category «Person of the Year 2013». is an open secret that the specific nature of metallurgical Member of the jury for many years, president of the jury in production presupposes a negative impact on the environment. the category «Socially Responsible Brand» of the contest However, the responsibility of such companies consists in the «Brand of the Year». fact that they accept it and consistently do their best to In the world practice, voluntary nonfinancial reporting is an reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and pollutants. The element of ethics in doing business, based on the principles information presented in the Report confirms what has been of responsible business practice. Being among the leaders of previously said. As the data of the Report for the year 2013 the metallurgical industry, the Byelorussian Steel Works show, we may observe a positive dynamics in the decrease in (BSW) has joined this process, and for more than 6 years the specific consumption of fuel and energy resources in the it has been reporting back to its partners, colleagues and main areas of power-consuming production of the works. All society on its activities in the area of sustainable development. this has become the consequence of effectiveness of the measures implemented by the enterprise and aimed at energy The BSW is the first company in the country that has submitted usage reduction and efficiency improvement, development and a social report to interested parties in accordance with adoption of resource-saving, low-waste and environmentally the internationally accepted GRI standard. The Corporate friendly technologies in the production. Report for the year 2013 has become another confirmation of the consistency of the managers and employees of the As is known, the main sources of negative impact on the company in implementation of the sustainable development environment are sources of pollutant emissions into the SOCIAL REPORT 2013 175 atmospheric air. The enterprise shows systematic work on been invested in measures aimed at improvement of working protection of the air basin, from the use of quality fuel for conditions. A bonus system has been designed to encourage vehicles to adoption of modern «clean» technologies of and increase personal responsibility for compliance with steel melting. What concerns the development of provisions rules and norms of workplace safety. Apart from compulsory of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the insurance, each worker is additionally insured against nonOzone Layer, the enterprise continues work on a stepwise industrial accidents, which may happen when workers travel reduction of consumption of these substances. to and from their work places. One cannot but be impressed by the work of the enterprise The Company takes care of health of the personnel and on the rational use of water resources. Particularly, the invests considerable amount of funds in medical and health consumption of circulating water in comparison with the level promotion programmes. The works has its own network of of the year 2012 has decreased by 7 %, the use of stormhealth facilities. The information on progress in this sphere water has increased by 17%, and the use of process water is supported by corresponding data. In particular, in 2013, has decreased by 27%. the sickness rate with temporarily disability decreased by 63 Taking into account the importance of ecological education days, which indicates the positive dynamics of decrease in the and communication with stakeholders, the company carries out sickness rate of the employees. work on improvement of environmental culture of the employees Great attention has been paid to the families of the workers and arrangement of the dialogue with non-profit environmental and their children. It is indicated by numerous programmes, organisations with the aim to detect the most vulnerable issues campaigns and events, aimed at health improvement and and initiate nature-protection campaigns and events. recreation of the workers and their families, development It is difficult to overestimate the social activities of the of physical education and sports activities and support of BSW. Taking into account the function of the BSW as the cultural events and pensioners working at the works. main employer and its significance on the local labour market As is known, socially responsible companies not only (every fifth resident of Zhlobin works at the enterprise), the carry out ethical business themselves, but also demand it main principles of the social policy are traditionally aimed at from their partners. Responsible business practice of the creation of decent jobs, social partnership and respect of partners is a key aspect, which is taken into account when interests, improvement of social security and development of concluding contracts at the BSW. The work with partners corporate culture. is guided by the Ethics Code, the «Procurement. Procedure The Report for the year 2013 shows the key achievements for Work with Suppliers» standard of the enterprise and the of the Company in this sphere: the average wages 1.33 «Guidelines for the Supplier». time exceed the national level; the high efficiency of the Overall, we may state that the nonfinancial report of the «Personnel Management» process has been confirmed by Company for the year 2013 provides a full and detailed the results of the audit conducted by local and international presentation of the activities of the organisation in the experts with the aim to establish compliance of management sphere of sustainable development and corporate social systems with requirements of standards. responsibility, which are considered by the company as The works has introduced elements of unified integrated strategic priorities. The disclosure of information in the corporate culture. Particularly, the Corporate Culture Corporate Report for the year 2013 reflects successive and and the Ethics Code have been developed and adopted at the steady movement of the Company towards more openness and works, the basis of which is represented by such main values readiness to actively cooperate with all interested parties, as respect and cooperation. while meeting their expectations and taking into account their The Company takes care of professional and career interests in the strategy. development of the personnel: there is the Training Centre, The use of the GRI standard demonstrates the intentions which contributes to effective functioning of continuous of the BSW to continue development in line with worldwide professional training. In 2013, the average number of hours tendencies of corporate management, increase information for training per employee was 40.7 hour. Some employees transparence of its activities and create confidential and have improved their qualification and skills at training centres lasting relations. Undoubtedly, such initiatives on the part of the enterprises in Great Britain, Italy, Germany and China. of the domestic business community are a positive sign, which The Company attaches great importance to industrial indicates that Belarusian companies have achieved a certain security and improvement of working conditions. The level of maturity in doing business and that they are ready responsibilities of the employer in this sphere are integrated to contribute to sustainable development of the country and into the Collective Agreement. Over 0.5 million dollars has society. 176 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Feedback questionnaire SOCIAL REPORT 2013 177 Feedback questionnaire 178 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2013 179 180 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2013
