PDF version MHI CSR D DATABOOK 2014 MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES GROUP CSR Initiatives (PDF version) For the Year Ended March 31, 2014 Disclosure Structure of Information Disclosure MHI Report contains information that is material to understanding MHI. More detailed information is available on our website. Please see the Financial Section of MHI Report, provided as a separate booklet, for more detailed fi nancial information. http://www.mhi-global.com/finance/library/annual/pdf/report_2014_financial.pdf For detailed CSR information, please see the CSR section of our website. http://www.mhi-global.com/company/csr/index.html Reference Guidelines International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) International Integrated Reporting Framework Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Fourth Edition, or G4) Ministry of the Environment of Japan Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version) ISO26000 Forward-Looking Statements Forecasts regarding future performance in these materials are based on judgments made in accordance with information available at the time this presentation was prepared. As such, these projections involve risks and insecurity. For this reason, investors are recommended not to depend solely on these projections for making investment decisions. It is possible that actual results may change signifi cantly from these projections for a number of factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, economic trends affecting the Company's operating environment, currency movement of the yen value to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies, and trends of stock markets in Japan. Also, the results projected here should not be construed in any way as being guaranteed by the Company. 1 Contents 3 4 9 4 10 5 12 6 15 7 17 19 18 21 21 29 30 24 32 53 43 45 57 46 60 47 62 69 77 66 83 90 90 98 99 94 105 95 2 4 4 5 6 7 9 10 12 15 17 18 19 3 Strategy CSR Concepts and Actions MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines (formulated July 2007) Promoting CSR through manufacturing as an innovative contributor to society In accordance with the three principles that define the spirit of our creed, the MHI Group serves as a manufacturing corporation that contributes to societal progress through its business endeavors of delivering products and technologies in support of social and industrial infrastructure worldwide. In this way MHI is contributing to the resolution of global issues. Furthermore, MHI believes the basis of corporate social responsibility (CSR) is to engage in business activities that take its diverse range of stakeholders into consideration and return profits to all stakeholders in optimum fashion, while at the same time providing excellent products and technologies to realize a sustainable society and a secure future for people and the planet. Based on our creed and CI statement, Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow, the MHI Group has also instituted CSR Action Guidelines to serve as collective standards for all Group employees when conducting business activities centered on the principles of CSR. 4 Strategy Participation in the UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary initiative initially proposed by Kofi Annan, the UN Secretary General, at the World Economic Forum at Davos in 1999. On that occasion, Mr. Annan called for business corporations and organizations worldwide to embrace and promote a set of principles, now ten in number, within their respective capacities. The Global Compact principles address four issues: human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Today (as of December 2007), more than 4,800 companies and organizations are party to the compact. MHI became an active participant in 2004. In keeping with the compact's principles, the company is contributing in myriad ways that include the development and dissemination of technologies to protect the environment, support to areas that suffer natural disasters, and promoting the awareness of human rights. The Ten Principles of the Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 5 Strategy Undertaking ISO 26000-Focused Initiatives The MHI Group has broadened its CSR program from the domestic front to the global stage. From fiscal 2011, we began according priority to ISO 26000, which provides international guidelines on the social responsibilities of organizations. In fiscal 2011, we engaged in dialogue with experts who could be helpful with certain important initiatives while contributing to communities, providing ongoing assistance to disaster-hit areas, and otherwise involving ourselves with communities. We will continue to draw on ISO 26000 in soliciting stakeholder participation as we identify important initiatives for the entire value chain and pursue CSR management based on global standards. The seven core subjects of ISO 26000, and MHI's main efforts 1. Organizational governance Organizational governance Current Status of Corporate Governance and Internal Controls 2. Human rights Due diligence / Human rights risk situations / Avoidance of complicity / Resolving grievances / Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Civil and political rights / Economic, social and cultural rights / Fundamental principles and rights at work Commitment to Our Employees Promoting CSR Procurement 3. Labour practices Employment and employment relationships / Conditions of work and social protection / Social dialogue / Health and safety at work / Human development and training in the workplace Commitment to Our Employees 4. The environment Prevention of pollution / Sustainable resource use / Climate change mitigation and adaptation / Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats MHI Environmental Vision 2030 Environmental Report Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact 5. Fair operating practices Anti-corruption / Responsible political involvement / Fair competition / Promoting social responsibility in the value chain / Respect for property rights Compliance Fair Dealing 6. Consumer issues (responsibility towards customers) Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices / Protecting consumers' health and safety / Sustainable consumption / Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution / Consumer data protection and privacy / Access to essential services / Education and awareness Commitment to Our Customers 7. Community involvement and development Community involvement / Education and culture / Employment creation and skills development / Technology development and access / Wealth and income creation / Health / Social investment Response of MHI and its Group Companies to the Great East Japan Earthquake Social Contribution Activities 6 Strategy Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities Promoting more business-integrated CSR In October 2006, the company set up the CSR Committee, chaired by the President, and the CSR Department, which reports directly to the President, in order to strengthen CSR-oriented management. In October 2012, these functions were moved to the Corporate Communication Department of the Presidential Administration Office (Corporate Communication Department in Business Strategy Office) in order to consolidate CSR, public relations, advertising, and other stakeholder communication functions and thus promote more business-integrated CSR activities. Businessintegrated CSR activities are those that not only use products and technologies to contribute to the resolution of environmental and other social issues but also prevent or reduce negative impact and increase positive impact on society via efforts to address social issues in all business processes. Going forward, we will work to build a more effective organizational framework and further promote CSR activities through their integration with business management. CSR Promotion System (as of April 1, 2014) Cultivating CSR awareness through CSR Sessions CSR sessions aimed at deepening employees' awareness of CSR were held successfully at each site and at a number of Group companies in fiscal 2013 and 558 people participated. CSR sessions for new employees were held at all works, including the Head Office, and 431 people participated in fiscal 2013. CSR sessions and CSR sessions for new employees have been taking place for six years since fiscal 2007 and a total of 11,801 people have now received the sessions. CSR sessions consist primarily of lectures and group discussions. Lectures are designed to provide a basic introduction to CSR, present the latest trends in CSR on a global level, and explain initiatives taking place in the MHI Group. Group discussions encourage employees to approach their day-to-day work from a social responsibility perspective. To clarify the issues of CSR activities and ascertain employees' understanding of CSR, a survey was conducted based on the CSR Action Guidelines of employees who have participated in CSR sessions since they were commenced. Each year, employees' understanding of CSR is improving as a result of improvements in areas of poor performance and efforts made in the continuation and development of activities. 7 Strategy Number of current and new employees who attended CSR sessions(note) Note: Includes employees from certain Group companies CSR sessions at Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works 8 Strategy Operation of Funds for Community Engagement, a new in-house system MHI has operated the in-house system Funds for Community Engagement (former Social Contribution Fund) since fiscal 2012 to promote active involvement in social contribution activities designed to address needs and issues of the local communities around company facilities and contribute to the solution of global societal issues. Under this system, time donated by company employees to volunteer work is converted to a monetary value, which is then converted to an equivalent budget allocation. Money in the budget is used along with the dispatch of employee volunteers to build collaborative relationships with NPOs and other local groups and address social issues together. In fiscal 2013, MHI also cooperated with Plan Japan, and international NGO, to provide science laboratories and profit teacher and student training at eight junior and senior high schools in the northern Indian district of Uttarkashi. In India, where corporate social responsibility has become obligatory, MHI plans to continue activities aimed at encouraging children's desire to learn about scientific topics and cultivating the next generation of engineers. In fiscal 2013, the year the system was launched, MHI developed and implemented social contribution activities designed to encourage employees from all works and facilities to get involved in volunteer programs. For example, the Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems' Biwajima Plant received support from the Toki-Shonai River Support Center — an NPO that works in community development and river maintenance throughout the watershed of the Shonai River, which flows near the plant, and the Toki River, the name of the upstream portion of the same river — to run a booth for making reusable chopsticks at the plant's community event (Family Festival). Wood obtained by thinning cedar, cypress, and other tree species from forests at the source waters of the Toki-Shonai River was used to make the chopsticks. Since participants could make their own one-of-a-kind chopsticks, the booth was a big success and allowed time for employees to enjoy interacting with members of the local community. This event included, in fiscal 2013 MHI supported the activities of 15 organizations working in such varied fields as education, social welfare, environmental conservation, culture, the arts, and sports. Because this new system also creates great opportunities for MHI employees to communicate with people from local communities, MHI will look to expand the scope of activities, for example by supporting activities in fields that have a close connection to MHI's businesses. Festival visitors make their own reusable chopsticks from thinned wood (Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Division) ■ List of support recipients in fiscal 2013 Global Fund for Education Assistance (general incorporated foundation) Plan Japan (international NPO) LINC (NPO) Community Support Center Kobe (NPO) Shimonoseki Social Welfare Council (social welfare corporation) Sherlock Holmes (NPO) Shinwa Gakuen (Social welfare corporation) Science Café Harima MACH B&F (NPO) Komaki (NPO) Hitachi Science Club (NPO) Mihara City Environmental Committee Sagamihara City Rugby Ball Association (NPO) Toki-Shonai River Support Center (NPO) Ritto Forest Club projects, Ritto-city Society of Commerce and Industry 9 Strategy Policies That Identify Material Social Issues Enhancing Corporate Value by Resolving Social Issues In line with ongoing globalization, in recent years the economic, environmental, and social impacts that companies have on the countries and regions they enter into have become more pronounced. Accordingly, the importance is growing for companies, as well as governments, to identify and resolve diverse social issues facing us on a global scale, starting with environmental problems. The MHI Group, which is accelerating its global business development, recognizes the accurate response to such social issues as a condition for its ongoing corporate existence. We consider the ability to continue with sustainable value generation to be the source of our competitiveness. Accordingly, the MHI Group identifi es issues the Group should prioritize and proactively works towards the resolution of social issues through its products, technologies, and activities within all business processes to prevent or reduce the Group’s negative impact and increase its positive impact, and thereby contributes to the realization of a sustainable society and enhances corporate value. 10 Strategy Approaches and Processes Defining Material Issues The MHI Group considers material issues to be those that significantly affect both society and corporate value— primarily, issues related to ESG. We define these material issues through social issues by employing analysis that takes into account the social perspective, including various international standards and stakeholder opinions, and our corporate perspective. The main international standards that we refer to are the seven core subjects of ISO 26000—organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development—as well as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Fourth Edition, or G4). We obtain stakeholder opinions by engaging in dialogue with institutional investors in Japan and overseas and through customer supplier questionnaires. We also incorporate social feedback from influential questionnaires related to environmental, social, and governance issues. We have set as a task for completion by the end of fiscal 2014 the identification of material issues in accordance with the steps outlined below. We are currently at the stage of eliciting and analyzing issue candidates. We will identify material issues and formulate response strategies through deliberations of the CSR Committee, which is chaired by the executive officer in charge of CSR (head of the Business Strategy Office) and includes the CFO, CAO/CRO, CTO, and officer in charge of Human Resources, Labor Relations, and Global Personnel as well as officer in charge of Global Business Planning & Operations. Issues considered to be of particular importance will be determined through deliberations of the Executive Committee. Following the decisions of these committees, corporate departments and individual domains will plan and promote various measures as we endeavor to resolve social issues. In the following pages, we will introduce activities related to the business overview in our four domains, case studies, research and development, and corporate governance reforms from both the financial and non-financial perspectives. STEP 1 Understand the issues Analyze issues that are potentially material from the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) perspectives. STEP 2 Prioritize the issues (analyze materiality from the standpoint of society and the Company) and identify material issues After issues have been identified, prioritize them from the perspectives of both a social perspective and the perspective of their relationship to business, defining them as material issues. STEP 3 Gain authorization from stakeholders and management After having obtained stakeholder understanding of processes for defining material issues and their boundaries, define after receiving approval from the CSR Committee or the Executive Committee. STEP 4 Report Report on the material issues and defining processes that have been determined through such media as the integrated report and the website. 11 Strategy Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2013 CSR Committee: Promotion of Measures Aimed at Integrating CSR Management At the 14th Session of the CSR Committee, which took place in June 2013, as measures toward the integration of CSR management, the decision was made to appoint the head of the Presidential Administration Office as chair of the CSR Committee and to appoint directors in charge of internal corporate functions as committee members. In the interest of addressing societal issues pragmatically and expeditiously, we aim to integrate CSR management by adopting a system in which important items are discussed by the Executive Committee. The 15th Session of the CSR Committee, held in December 2013, responded to global social trends by setting basic policy for the MHI Group in the human rights field. This policy was announced both internally and externally in February 2014. The 15th Session of the CSR Committee, December 2013 Risk Management & Compliance Committee: Discussing corporate-wide compliance promotion plans The Compliance Committee was established in 2001 as an organization that discusses issues such as the state of compliance promotion throughout the Group. It handles the creation of corporate-wide compliance promotion plans and confirms the status of progress. The committee also endeavors to educate employees on compliance awareness, and since fiscal year 2003 has been continuously holding compliance promotion training. Environment Committee: Discussing the Group's promotion of yearly environmental measures The Environment Committee was established as an inter-departmental organization for the entire corporation in 1996. During its twice-yearly meetings, it plans and composes corporate-wide environmental measures for the year and sets the tone for initiatives, as well as promotes and follows up on the yearly environmental preservation plans of individual works, plants and districts. The 2013 Environmental Management Promotion Plan outlined the strengthening of measures to eliminate accidents which pollute the environment, power usage reduction activities and promotion of the Second Environmental Targets, and each works, plants and districts implemented measures to meet these targets. Discussions were also held on the implementation of environmental meetings, and the committee has held initiatives for Group-wide promotion of consolidated environmental management. Furthermore, it deliberated on implementing plans for environmental audits of works, plants and districts for the purpose of continually reducing environmental risks and thoroughly complying with environmental laws and regulations. The committee aims to improve the management level at each works, plants and districts by following up on the outcomes of those actions. 12 Strategy Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights: Promoting a workplace where human rights are respected and differently-abled people are actively employed MHI set up the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights in 1992 to promote the establishment of a sound workplace in which every employee correctly understands the issue and respects the human rights of others. Chaired by the director in charge of personnel and with the membership of general managers in charge of personnel of each works, the committee endeavors to raise awareness of human rights, share information and promote human rights training. In fiscal 2013, the committee continued to implement a training program for raising awareness among new recruits, newly appointed managers and supervisors. In an effort to strengthen the company's response as a whole to sexual harassment and power harassment (workplace bullying & harassment), continuing on from fiscal 2012 the committee conducted awareness training for multiple works senior managers on power harassment. In addition to continuing with training programs targeting Group company executives that commenced in fiscal 2011, the committee reinforced initiatives aimed at addressing sexual harassment and power harassment by taking the lead in setting up a new external consultation desk for Group companies in Japan. In fiscal 2013, the committee continued their efforts to expand employment through proactively advancing recruitment by using its website mano a mano in Spanish or hand to hand, which was created to support the employment of differently-abled people while coordinating with local job-placement offices and skill-building schools for differently-abled people, holding meetings with employment officers, setting employment rate targets within the company. As a result, as of April 1, 2014, MHI's figure was 2.16 percent, which exceeds the statutory employment rate of 2.0 percent. The mano a mano webpage for differently-abled people International Trade Control Committee: Promoting education on legal compliance and updating various rules and manuals MHI is aware that export controls complying with export-related laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Exchange & Foreign Trade Control Act, are taking on greater importance. Since its inception, the International Trade Control Committee has been convened regularly on a monthly basis, and has reached 316 times (as of March 2014). Through the Committee's activities, MHI carries out stringent screening for the transfers of controlled technologies as well as exports of controlled commodities, or transactions designated to nations and regions which have concerns or are subject to international sanctions, in order to prevent our technologies and commodities from being used for nefarious purposes, such as for weapons of mass destruction. The Committee also draws up and revises effective rules, promotes internal audits and conducts consultations and education activities. In fiscal 2013, MHI continuously promoted e-learning programs for all employees in our export business and saw around 1,500 staff participating. Further training sessions were regularly held for employees responsible for each division and, in addition to conducting training on topics such as highlights of export controls, recent legal changes, and U.S. re-export legislation, employees shared information about past examples of both successful and mistakable export control management, and discussed examples of mistakes that can easily be made in order to deepen their understanding of the issues. English versions of the e-learning materials have also been created to provide support for export control management at overseas subsidiaries. 13 Strategy Business Compliance Committee: Integration of Order Compliance Committee and Construction Business Act Compliance Committee for activating and upgrading the committee management The Order Compliance Committee was launched in August 2005 to promote appropriate order-receiving activities after reflecting upon violations of the Anti-Monopoly Act in the past. In fiscal 2013, committee activities also expanded to the prevention of bribery, which has a level of risk on a par with activities related to the Anti-Monopoly Act, and rolled out various initiatives to ensure the same level of compliance as with the Anti-Monopoly Act. Meanwhile, in fiscal 2003, MHI established the Construction Business Act Compliance Committee, realizing that compliance with the Construction Business Act was extremely important in light of its involvement in new construction and renovation work on facilities such as electric power generation plants. Partly because they commenced activities at different times, the two committees have worked as separate organizations in their development of various compliance activities related to the Anti-Monopoly Act compliance, prevention of bribery and the Construction Business Act. However, because the two committees' activities relate similarly to business processes, the majority of their members serve on both committees. Given this fact, the commonality of their discussion content, as well as the reality that the Construction Business Act also requires Anti-Monopoly Law compliance and prevention of bribery, we took the October 2013 transition to a domain-based business structure as an opportunity to integrate the two committees and enhance their activities as the Business Compliance Committee. Nuclear Safety Steering Committee continues to establish nuclear safety In December 2004, we established the Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business in light of a secondary piping damage accident in August 2004 at the Mihama Nuclear Power Plant Unit 3, which was built by MHI and operated by Kansai Electric Power. In January 2013, the name of the board was changed to the Nuclear Safety Steering Committee to share and decide the issues and courses of action related to MHI’s nuclear business, as well as to internally reform and expand the nuclear quality assurance management system. The committee has been conducting these activities under the guidance of a steering committee whose mission is to manage activities that help ensure nuclear safety. Activities in Fiscal 2013 In fiscal 2013, the Nuclear Safety Steering Committee discussed and debated the status of efforts to foster a nuclear safety culture and the activities of the “Working Group on Voluntary Efforts to Improve Nuclear Safety” in the context of demands from regulators around the world and nuclear safety at MHI. The committee concluded that the requests of the regulators to ensure the safety of the nuclear power plants were strict, but MHI would continue working to enhance nuclear safety. 14 Strategy CSR Medium-Term Action Plan CSR Medium-Term Action Plan and Results of Promotion The MHI Group has formulated and is operating in accordance with a CSR Medium-Term Action Plan, which covers individual departmental initiatives and ongoing CSR activities. These activities are being undertaken by individual departments. However, after considering their operational and evaluation methods, in fiscal 2013 we discontinued our previous approach of conducting a comprehensive review of the results of these activities. Going forward, the CSR Committee will deliberate their action policies and respond, in the same manner as for other efforts. CSR Medium-Term Action Plan (FY2011-2013) CSR targets for the period between FY2011 to FY2013 were established as follows based on the results of activities effected between FY2008 and FY2010. Area Priority item Medium-term targets (FY2011-2013) Organizational Broadened CSR awareness Penetration of global awareness towards CSR including overseas locations and governance Group companies Global information dissemination of status of CSR activities Risk management Commonizing a consciousness for important risks among all departments and sections and establishing a risk management PDCA cycle through efficient and effective audits Promotion of IR activities Improve timely and accurate information dissemination capabilities as per the needs of investors and strengthening in-house feedback on information to be used as reference material by management Human rights Raising awareness of human Embedding understanding and consciousness about human rights issues rights company-wide Development of sexual harassment and power harassment (workplace bullying & harassment) prevention efforts Establish a workplace and corporate culture where human rights issues do not arise Company-wide penetration of understanding and consciousness regarding the expansion of employment of the differently-abled people 1. Achieve company-wide employment rate of 2.2% by the end of FY2013 2. Plan to increase employment in all divisions Labor practices Creating a better workplace Strengthening global human resource development based on the road map for 1. Enriched education cultivation of global human resources (G-MAP) 2. Strengthening mental health Conduct effective measures to combat mental health problems from prevention 3. Nurturing the next to return to work generation Continue to maintain the next-generation accreditation mark Environment Reduced CO2 emissions Average CO2 emission between FY2008 and FY2012 to be reduced by 6% compared to 1990 level Establish CO2 emission reduction target until FY2020 (including Group companies) and promote reduction activities Group environmental Increase the Group's environmental performance data collection rate both in management Japan and overseas Encourage the acquisition of certifications of environmental ISO standards and others to Group companies in Japan and overseas that are consolidated 15 Strategy Area Priority item Medium-term targets (FY2011-2013) Fair operating Thorough compliance Decrease matters in need of improvement even at Group companies practices Early comprehension and improvement of matters in need of improvement Order compliance Continuation of zero policy for violations to the Anti-Monopoly Act Penetration of order compliance activities Establishment of order compliance consciousness through awareness and educational activities Compliance with the Establishment of a self-compliance system (compliance activities incorporated Construction Business Act in daily tasks) Enhancing compliance at Group companies Enhancing contract compliance with business partners Compliance with export-related Strengthening the export control management systems and fostering experts in laws and regulations export control management Further continuous supports for Group companies to strengthen their export control management systems CSR procurement Sharing values regarding the promotion of CSR activities with business partners and avoiding procurement risks with key partners Effect extensive compliance and adherence to laws and regulations with regard to procurement tasks Continuous compliance to environmental regulations Consumer issues Product safety Developing product safety activities within quality management Steady development of product safety activities Maintaining the infrastructure for product safety activities Ensuring quality and safety of Refine and continually improve QMS (Quality Management System) with an eye nuclear business on global business development Exhibit our comprehensive technological strengths and enhance customer satisfaction Enhance the attitude of compliance with laws and rules and cultivate a strong nuclear safety culture Enhancement of brand value Acquiring broad recognition as a global company and increasing the number of MHI fans Community Socially beneficial activities Proactive development of social contribution activities with the cooperation of involvement and various stakeholders development Examining possibilities for the globalization of social contribution activities and development of social business Improvement of the Mitsubishi Establish its role as a facility that provides opportunities for children to develop Minatomirai Industrial Museum an interest in science by showing them the pleasure of manufacturing 16 Policy CSR Action Guidelines CSR Action Guidelines In order to ensure a secure future for the Earth, we will establish and maintain, Close ties with the Earth Safeguard an abundantly green Earth through environmental technologies and environmental awareness; Close ties with society Build a relationship of trust with society through proactive participation in society and trustworthy actions; A bridge to the next generation Contribute to the cultivation of human resources who can shoulder responsibility in the next generation through technologies that can realize dreams. Specific Guidelines Close ties with the Earth Contribute to the resolution of global environmental and energy issues through superlative technologies. Reduce environmental burdens in all areas of business through a high level of environmental awareness by all individuals. Close ties with society Provide safe products of high quality matching the needs of customers and society. Through continuous sincere actions, respect social norms and achieve transparency of information. Maintain self-awareness as a member of society and contribute proactively to development of regions and societies. Bridge to the next generation Foster comfortable working environments and a working culture where creativity blossoms. Through business operations and technologies that make dreams come true, cultivate children who are filled with hope. 17 Policy MHI Compliance Principles We have promoted the business activities MHI fairly and faithfully in order to base our activities on honesty, harmony, and a clear distinction between public and private life. As a more specific activity guideline, we established the MHI Compliance Principles in 2001. Business activities We will conduct sensible company activities in compliance with laws and in an appropriate manner, and contribute to society by providing safe, high-quality products and services. 1. We will endeavor to provide safe, high-quality products and services. 2. In conducting business activities, we will pursue fair and free intercorporate competition in compliance with the Antimonopoly Act, the Act against Delays in the Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors, the Construction Business Act, and other relevant regulations. 3. Regarding gift-giving and entertainment with civil officers and suppliers, we will not violate laws or deviate from socially accepted practices. 4. We will implement appropriate accounting and tax accounting in accordance with relevant laws, accounting standards, and internal regulations. 5. In relation to overseas business, we will follow laws related to import and export and local laws. Relationship between the company and society We will try to preserve the environment and live in harmony with society as a good corporate citizen. 1. We will follow environment-related laws and try to preserve the environment. 2. We will disclose information related to management in an appropriate and timely manner. 3. We will not make political donations exceeding the amounts stipulated in our internal regulations. 4. We will respond firmly to antisocial forces. Relationship between the company and employees The company will secure a safe, healthy work environment, and company members will make clear distinctions between public and private, comply with laws and internal rules, and execute their duties faithfully. 1. The company will follow labor-related laws and try to secure a safe, healthy work environment. 2. Company members will follow internal regulations such as labor regulations. 3. Company members will not engage in discriminative behavior or sexual harassment. 4. Company members will handle company secrets appropriately, and will not disclose them without prior consent. 5. Company members will not conduct unfair transactions in stock (insider trading). 18 Policy Basic Policy on Human Rights We formulated “MHI Basic Policy on Human Rights” to protect the human rights of every stakeholders involving with our business activities, and for the further progress of sustainable society. MHI Basic Policy on Human Rights The Mitsubishi Heavy Industries group endeavors to fulfill its responsibilities for the protection of human rights in order to continue truly contributing to social progress in accordance with the MHI creed. We act in line with the “Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights” adopted by the U.N. Human Rights Council and endeavor never to act in ways that elicit or facilitate human rights violations by others or other negative actions or effects. Other Policy Privacy Policy http://www.mhi-global.com/privacy.html Policy of Safety and Health http://www.mhi-global.com/company/policy/safety_health.html Environmental Management Promotion System http://www.mhi-global.com/company/csr/esg/environment/management/management02.html Procurement Policy http://www.mhi-global.com/company/procurement/policy/index.html MHI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines http://www.mhi-global.com/company/procurement/csr/index.html Basic Policy Concerning Conflict Minerals http://www.mhi-global.com/company/procurement/csr/index.html Fulfilling our Policy on Social Contribution Activities http://www.mhi-global.com/company/csr/esg/social/socialcontribution/society02.html 19 21 24 29 30 32 43 45 46 47 53 57 60 62 66 69 77 83 20 Governance Current Status of Corporate Governance and Internal Controls Strengthening the oversight functions of the Board of Directors through such measures as appointing outside directors The Board of Directors makes important key management decisions and oversees the execution of business operations, while statutory auditors audit the execution of duties of directors and other matters. Currently, 3 of the company's 12 directors and 3 of its 5 statutory auditors are from outside MHI. These outside directors and statutory auditors provide advice and oversight to the management of MHI based on their broad range of experience and considerable insight as managers, administrators and specialists. They operate from an unbiased position which is independent from the company's executive management. MHI has also established an Executive Committee to serve as a forum for discussing important matters related to business execution. This allows for a more cohesive approach in terms of discussions as part of the operational execution framework centered on the President, and consequently leads to more effective management decisions and business execution. In tandem with its transition to the Business Domain Structure from the Business Headquarter Structure in April 2014 the company introduced the Chief Officer System. This system is designed to elicit comprehensive strengths and synergies of the MHI Group and foster the creation of structures that will enable the Group to respond quickly and flexibly to market and customer needs. As a result, we expect to expand our businesses and boost our earnings capacity in global markets. In the Chief Officer System, under the CEO (president) are chief officers to whom the president delegates certain rights and responsibilities. These chief officers include Domain CEOs, as well as the CFO, CAO/CRO, and CTO. The CEO oversees initiatives to address companywide business strategy and issues, while the Domain CEOs manage and execute business in individual Business Domains encompassed by the group-wide strategy. The CFO is tasked with all activities, including management planning, related to finance, accounting, and funding. The CAO/CRO handles administrative tasks including management audits, general administration, personal and labor relations, as well as all of risk management. The CTO manages and executes all activities related to technology management and ICT. Furthermore, the CFO, CAO/CRO, and CTO retain supervisory and command rights companywide pertaining to their spheres of activity, and they provide the structure that underpins the Business Domains. Simultaneous with these initiatives, we have revised the number of directors. We further reduced the number of directors at the general meeting of shareholders in June 2014, increasing the percentage of outside directors. Through this measure, we have reinforced the Board of Directors' decision-making and supervisory functions. Statutory auditors also periodically exchange information and opinions with the Management Audit Department and accounting auditors, and collaborate closely with them in other ways, including receiving audit results and attending accounting audits. The Statutory Auditors' Office has been set up with its own dedicated staff to support the implementation of auditing tasks and facilitate the work carried out by statutory auditors. （Note）CFO: Chief Financial Officer CAO/CRO: Chief Administrative Officer/Chief Risk Officer CTO: Chief Technology Officer 21 Governance Outside Directors and Outside Statutory Auditors and Reasons for their Appointment Officers Name Field / Affiliation Reason for appointment Outside Director Yorihiko Kojima Chairman of the Board of Mr. Yorihiko Kojima was appointed to the position of Outside Mitsubishi Corporation Director since he has provided beneficial views and candid assessments on the management of MHI as an Outside Director based on his considerable experience as a business manager, and it is desired that he continues his contribution to improving the soundness and transparency of the decision-making process. Christina Professor of Hitotsubashi Ms. Christina Ahmadjian was appointed to the position of Outside Ahmadjian University Graduate Director since she has provided beneficial views and candid School of Commerce and assessments on the management of MHI as an Outside Director Management from her global perspective based on her extensive knowledge regarding such fields as corporate governance and management. acquired through her experience as a researcher, even though she has not been directly involved in corporate management except for acting as an Outside Director. Based on this, it is desired that she continues her contribution to improving the soundness and transparency of the decision-making process. Hiroki Tsuda Former Administrative Mr. Hiroki Tsuda was appointed to the position of Outside Director Vice Minister of Finance since he has extensive views regarding fiscal and monetary policies acquired through his experience as a government administrative officer and a researcher, even though he has not been directly involved in corporate management other than as an Outside Director, and it is desired that he continues making a contribution as an Outside Director to improving the soundness and transparency of the decision-making process by providing his beneficial views and candid assessment on the management of MHI, based on his experience. Outside Statutory Nobuo Kuroyanagi Senior Advisor of The Mr. Nobuo Kuroyanagi was appointed to the position of Outside Auditor Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Statutory Auditor since he has provided beneficial views and candid UFJ, Ltd. assessments on the management of MHI as an Outside Statutory Auditor based on his considerable experience as a business manager, and it is desired that he continues his contribution to ensuring sound and appropriate management. Haruya Uehara Senior Advisor of Mr. Haruya Uehara was appointed to the position of Outside Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Statutory Auditor since it is desired that he makes a contribution to Banking Corporation ensuring sound and appropriate management by providing his beneficial views and candid assessments on the management of MHI, based on his considerable experience as a business manager. Shinichiro Ito President & Chief Mr. Shinichiro Ito was appointed to the position of Outside Statutory Executive Officer, ANA Auditor since it is desired that he makes a contribution to ensuring Holdings Inc. sound and appropriate management by providing his beneficial Chairman of the Board, views and candid assessments on the management of MHI, based All Nippon Airways on his considerable experience as a business manager. Co.,Ltd. 22 Governance Corporate Governance Structure (including internal control systems) (as of April 1, 2014) Strengthening the internal control systems In compliance with legal requirements, the MHI Board of Directors has determined a basic policy for internal control systems. The company is promoting the strengthening of areas including the oversight function of the Board of Directors, management systems in response to risk types, increasing the effectiveness of compliance including a whistleblower system, management systems between MHI and Group companies and a system which permits effective auditing by statutory auditors. MHI is striving to strengthen these initiatives through internal audits and the PDCA management cycle. The designs and operations of internal controls are monitored annually through internal audits, in line with the internal audit policy which was formulated by the Management Audit Department. Under the internal control reporting system regarding financial reporting, which is stipulated by the Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (also known as J-SOX), the Management Audit Department and the internal audit divisions of our manufacturing works carried out assessments of the design and operation of the internal controls and concluded that as of the end of March 2014, the MHI Group's internal controls over financial reporting were functioning effectively. The accounting auditors concurred with this assessment. Every year at the Board of Directors meeting, the current status of initiatives concerning the establishment of internal control systems is reported in order to confirm the effectiveness of our internal control systems. 23 Governance Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group Placing persons responsible for compliance in all departments and Group companies MHI's Compliance Committee was established in May 2001 to strictly observe applicable laws and social norms and to promote fair and honest business practices (altered to the Risk Management & Compliance Committee in December 2012). This committee is chaired by the CAO/CRO, and its members consist of senior general managers from relevant departments at the Head Office, heads of all works, and general managers from the Planning & Administration Departments of all Business Domains. The committee meets twice annually to draw up company-wide compliance promotion plans, confirm progress, and engage in other activities. In April 2006, Departmental Compliance Committees were established in all departments of the company in order to strengthen compliance measures for each respective department. These committees are chaired by the member of the Risk Management & Compliance Committee in each department. At the same time, Compliance Liaison Conferences were set up for regularly exchanging compliance information with Group companies. Through these two types of organizations, each department works to consistently implement its own compliance and to act independently and responsibly in carrying out compliance activities. Compliance Promotion System (as of April 1, 2014) 24 Governance Implementing internal and external whistleblower hotlines for all employees and clients A hotline has been established specifically for business clients and employees (including contract employees) of MHI and all Group companies, who wish to report or discuss potential unlawful or dishonest acts they have come upon. Contact can be made through email, phone and so on. The Risk Management & Compliance Committee will promptly investigate the reported information including report to the CAO/CRO if necessary. Information on what should be reported is contained in the Compliance Guidelines distributed to all employees and in bulletins published in-house. Furthermore, in order to increase choices for informants on compliance, the External Hotline was established in December 2011 in addition to the internal hotline. This was followed by the sequential establishment of Harassment Contact Hotlines inside and outside of the company starting in January 2012 as a measure to respond to power harassment (workplace bullying & harassment), which is becoming an increasingly serious social issue. Setting clear protection of the rights afforded to in-house informants With the operation of the hotline, protection of the rights afforded to informants were set out in the 2007 company regulations, entitled Compliance Promotion Regulations. These regulations state that the informant's name will not be released without his/her consent, and that the informant will not be placed at any disadvantage because of the information s/he has reported. Employees have been advised of protection of the rights given to in-house informants and have been told of the existence of the hotline. An investigation is conducted to determine whether such individuals' rights have been violated. Establishing an external whistleblower hotline MHI has created the MHI External Whistleblower Hotline since December 2011. Contact can be made through email, fax, or telephone. If the informant wishes, their name and other information will not be disclosed to the company. The Risk Management & Compliance Committee will promptly investigate the reported information. Answers based on the investigation results can be also received via the lawyers that have been entrusted with the operation of the External Whistleblower Hotline. The establishment of this External Whistleblower Hotline is based on a proposal from the Public Works Business Process Validation and Advisory Committee, which was created in July 2010. It is an effort to receive a broader range of information and strengthen internal checks and balances functions by increasing choices for in-house reports. Ensuring transparency and legality in order-receiving activities MHI took the October 2013 transition to a domain-based business structure as an opportunity to integrate the Order Compliance Committee and the Construction Business Act Compliance Committee and enhance their activities into the Business Compliance Committee. With respect to correcting order-receiving activities, in fiscal 2013 MHI entered into a plea agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice concerning the U.S. Antitrust Laws in connection with the sales of compressors and condensers for automotive air conditioning systems. To date, MHI has made every effort to provide instruction and education about legal compliance. MHI takes seriously the fact that this incident occurred. Specifically, to ensure thorough legal compliance—including at Group companies in Japan and overseas—we are reinforcing compliance training and have introduced a host of measures to prevent recurrence. We have prepared educational videos and are working with lawyers to conduct presentations about compliance with antimonopoly legislation in Japan and overseas, and preparing e-learning programs. Among its principal activities in fiscal 2013, the committee sought to foster a thorough understanding of compliance by conducting training sessions about compliance with antitrust law and anti-bribery law at MHI and Group companies in Japan and overseas. Attendees from Japan and abroad numbered 5,000, including people who participated in the previous year's training sessions. The committee also monitored and audited the status of compliance and industry body activities at MHI and Group companies in Japan. In this manner, MHI is putting all its energies into initiatives aimed at restoring trust in the company as quickly as possible. Regarding the Construction Business Act, we have revised our system of operational bases in line with our transition to a domain-based business structure. Also, we conducted on-site monitoring at 3 MHI construction sites. To maintain and further augment the level of compliance at Group companies, we performed system monitoring at 12 of the 57 companies that have maintained construction business permissions consistently since fiscal 2011. We also conducted onsite monitoring of construction at 18 companies. Furthermore, we held Construction Business Act training sessions a total of 10 times at MHI works that were attended by 878 people, including employees of Group companies. Through these activities, we are working to enhance the compliance level at MHI and its Group companies, and to ensure thorough transparency and legality in order-receiving activities. 25 Governance Improving Compliance Principles/Guidelines The Compliance Principles Clarify Behavior Standards The MHI Compliance Principles established in September 2001 explicitly set forth required behavior standards so that compliance with applicable laws and social norms can be comprehensively achieved in business activities, societal relationships, and employee relationships. This policy has been printed on cards so that it can be easily carried and has been distributed to all employees, including contract workers. In addition, all employees have been provided with MHI's Compliance Guidelines in the form of a booklet, which contains straightforward explanations on specific areas requiring caution during the execution of daily duties. Moreover, articles on compliance have regularly been included in company bulletins. From fiscal 2010, illustrated articles have been included to further deepen employee understanding. Compliance Guidelines MHI Compliance Principles I. Business activities We will conduct company activities in a sensible and appropriate manner and in compliance with applicable laws and social norms, and will contribute to society by providing safe, high-quality products and services. II. Relationship between the company and society We will try to preserve the environment and live in harmony with society as a good corporate citizen. III. Relationship between the company and employees The company will provide a safe, healthy work environment, and company members will make clear distinctions between official and private activities and obligations, comply with applicable laws and internal rules, and execute their duties faithfully. Establishing regulations and standards for the more thorough prevention of bribery MHI strives for fairness in its global commercial transactions by strictly observing the anti-bribery laws of all countries, including Japan's Unfair Competition Prevention Act, which prohibits the giving of illicit benefits by Japanese citizens to overseas government officials. MHI established the Guidelines for the Prevention of Bribery Involving Foreign Civil Servants in 2005 to define rules of conduct based on the Unfair Competition Prevention Act. In addition, the Anti-Bribery Rules and Anti-Bribery Procedural Guidelines based on these guidelines were created in February 2012 in order to respond to the enactment of British Bribery Act 2010 (Note) of July 2011 and strengthened regulations in various countries. In fiscal 2013, MHI conducted the monitoring for each division of MHI and the group companies of domestic and overseas to confirm whether they had built their compliance rules and mechanisms based on MHI rules and standards, in consideration of the form of business operated by each Group company and the local laws and regulations and business practices for overseas Group companies. If necessary, we provided guidance for improvement. (Note) Generally said to be the most stringent anti-bribery law in the world, having provisions that make it illegal even to neglect to take actions to prevent bribery. The law applies also to foreign companies operating in the U.K. 26 Governance Firm responses to antisocial forces MHI's Compliance Principles clearly set forth firm measures to deal with antisocial forces. All MHI facilities have established departments to take measures if unjust demands are made by antisocial forces. The departments will work together to comprehensively deal with the incident as an organization. In addition, MHI has taken actions, including compliance promotion training, to promote the ideal mindset and essential concepts for responding to undue claims. Moreover, MHI pro-actively strives to build close cooperative relationships with police, lawyers, and special institutions, to gain advice and support for dealing with unjust demands. Furthermore, while ordinances for the elimination of organized crime groups have been enacted since 2011 by all prefectures in Japan, the MHI Group has added clauses to its contracts with clients and business partners based on these ordinances in order to exclude antisocial forces Eliminating Camouflage Contracts Based on the Policies of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare In 2007, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare created the Guidelines for Measures that Should be Adopted by Outsourcers Striving to Improve and Optimize Employment Management of Contract Work for Manufacturing Businesses. Based on these guidelines, MHI is working towards making suitable applications such as by creating an independent inspection chart and using it in workplaces. In addition, MHI is voluntarily and actively working to prevent incidences of the so-called camouflage contract problem by implementing compliance training, thoroughly auditing worksite conditions, and holding consultations with the labor department. 27 Governance Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness Implementing discussion-based training adapted to daily duties Discussion-based compliance promotion training sessions for all employees have been carried out in all MHI worksites since fiscal 2003. The training is held with the goal of increasing awareness so that employees can properly judge and act in accordance with compliance, no matter what the situation. In the discussions, employees consider what they would do or what the proper action would be if, for example, they were to feel anxiety over compliance because they are faced with strict costor delivery-related demands, or if they are pressured by a supervisor. In fiscal 2013, the compliance training program included awareness education through e-learning sessions in the first half. In the second half, the program included training via a discussion-type formant. Around 75,000 people participated, amounting to more than 95 percent of MHI Group employees. Of particular note in the second half were discussions themed on fostering a positive and friendly working environment through communication and confirming the importance of workplace communication to compliance. In addition to the above, new recruits, newly appointed general managers, section managers and deputy managers, and technical employees in leadership positions receive education according to their respective ranks. Rate of attendance & Number of participants at compliance promotion training FY 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Rate of attendance 96.4% 96.5% 96.8% 95.1% 96.6% Number of participants 33,309 32,211 32,333 34,972 75,871* *all employees of MHI Group companies in 2013 Yearly compliance awareness survey Since fiscal 2004, every year the Risk Management & Compliance Committee conducts a compliance awareness survey. MHI considered expanding the survey scope to all MHI employees from the current 30% of employees (based on random sampling), and decided to conduct an expanded survey of all employees in fiscal 2013 as part of e-learning compliance sessions. The results showed that 98 percent of employees are aware of compliance, while the indicators heightened awareness due to participation in training, recognition of the MHI Compliance Principles, and workplace environment regarding compliance set new highs, suggesting that compliance actions are yielding positive results and that compliance awareness among employees is steadily growing. 28 Governance Risk Management Precisely comprehend risks throughout the Group and steadily implement risk reduction measures MHI precisely comprehends risks throughout the Group and is carrying out measures to steadily reduce these risks. In fiscal 2013, based on discussions between the General Manager of the Management Audit Department and the heads of business segments and administration departments, MHI identified the important risks to each segment and department, and worked to enhance its risk management system throughout the Group by strengthening overall risk management activities for important risks mentioned above and by operating a risk management system that combines controls centered on voluntary management and assessments by process owners (Note) and monitoring by the Management Audit Department. Among the important risks, they identified serious management risks that have the potential to significantly affect operations of the company or require an emergency response for management at a senior-management level and assigned a corporate director to oversee their control. As the result, MHI has kept overall risk an acceptable controlled level, without its level increasing. In fiscal 2014, we will continue to develop our activities in line with the same risk management cycle used in the previous fiscal year. However, in keeping with the introduction of two new structures, the Business Domain structure and the system of chief officers, we will review the important risks identified for each business segment, clarifying responsibilities in line with the new structure. Going forward, we aim to become a highly profitable company with annual earnings on a scale of ¥5 trillion. Toward this goal, specific initiatives in fiscal 2014 include groupwide risk control activities with a focus on reinforcing business administration, responding to organizational restructuring on the management and control fronts, and compliancerelated risk management. (Note) Organizations and/or persons responsible for establishing and executing risk management mechanisms for individual business functions. 29 Governance Secure Safeguarding of Proprietary Information The Legal & General Affairs Department together with the ICT Planning Department head the protection of confidential information MHI has built a corporate-wide system for confidential information management through the Legal & General Affairs Department together with the ICT Planning Department in order to thoroughly safeguard confidential information, such as company management information, technological information and information related to customers and business partners. MHI is working to carry out appropriate information security. Using the manual and database to thoroughly protect personal information In conjunction with the enforcement of the Act on the Protection of Personal Information in April 2005, MHI announced its own Privacy Policy and formulated Personal Information Protection Rules and the Personal Information Management Manual. In addition, the company compiled key points related to our business into a digest and distributed it to all employees in an effort to ensure thorough protection of personal information. A personal information database registration system has been developed and used as a means for consolidating the handling of personal data by registering all data owned by respective divisions. Formulating and thoroughly enforcing rules related to information management In an effort to more appropriately manage confidential information, in October 2013 MHI formulated Information Management Rules. In addition to making consistent companywide rules more transparent and stricter, rules related to the Information Security Management Standards have been successively revised to respond to new information technologies, threats and legal reforms. MHI created the Confidential Information Management Manual and the Manual on the Rules for Protection of Confidential Information from Leakage and distributed them to improve employee awareness of confidential information management. In the past, computers from employees at MHI and partner companies have been infected with computer viruses and product information has been leaked, causing trouble for clients. Therefore, MHI strictly enforces measures to prevent a recurrence of such incidents by forbidding the use of private personal computers for work and the introduction of software not required for work. Also, as measures against information leaks as a result of theft or loss of computers and external storage media, MHI has provided employees with comprehensive instructions on encrypting data on PCs, external storage media, and e-mail, and has clarified procedures for taking these devices outside the company. In addition, MHI enters into nondisclosure agreements with subcontractors to ensure comprehensive management of confidential information. Preventing computer virus infection MHI has always taken various measures to maintain a high level of information security, however, we became aware of a case of computer virus infection in August 2011. Because of this incident, MHI is taking efforts to reinforce the checks for viruses attempting to enter the system including strengthening the observation system for unauthorized access and enhancing education on information security. Currently, the various countermeasures implemented in-house in response to the incident are being rolled-out to group companies. Implementing employee training to enhance awareness of confidential information management On the overall topic of confidentiality management, MHI provides e-learning for all employees to ensure a thorough understanding of specific handling measures and rules. Topics related to personal information protection have also been incorporated into the compliance promotion training given to all employees, as well as training by employee level. In addition, since fiscal 2011, simulation tests have been conducted by sending targeted spoofed e-mails. 30 Governance Continuously assessing the status of information security measures through internal audits To safeguard information, it is important to continuously evaluate and reassess the state of information security measures being implemented. MHI has prepared a checklist to be used in all departments and holds an annual internal audit to determine the status of measures being implemented. As a result, when issues are discovered they are revised and the following year during the audit, those revisions are assessed, leading to steady improvements. Operating PDCA cycles for information security management throughout the Group MHI has always been aware of the importance of its own products and technologies, and has worked to maintain a high level of information security. Because MHI views the August 2011 virus infection as a serious issue, it is working to further reinforce security by taking measures such as running PDCA cycles for information security management throughout the Group, and by improving information management regulations and conducting internal audits of information management throughout MHI and domestic and overseas Group companies. 31 Environment Environmental Management Promotion System Promotion of environmental management by a company-wide committee and promotion entities for each works, plants and districts The Environmental Committee, chaired by the director in charge of the environment, sets out the company-wide annual environmental program. Decisions are conveyed to the entire company and all Group companies. Environmental Committees established at each works, plants and districts promote policies and conduct environmental management corresponding to the specific features of each works, plants and districts. In addition, Environmental Liaison Conferences for individuals in charge of the environment at the Head Office, each works, plants and districts along with Energy Conservation Liaison Conferences, where energy and CO2 reduction measures are discussed, are held. Furthermore, an Energy Conservation Sectional Meeting and Waste Management Information Exchange Meeting, comprising section heads and subordinates from each works, plants and districts, are convened. Basic Policy on Environmental Matters (Established 1996) As clearly laid out in provision 1 of its creedWe strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. -MHI believes its primary purpose is to contribute to society through its R&D, manufacturing and other business activities. Accordingly, in the performance of its business activities the company shall embrace the awareness that it is an integral member of society and, in all aspects of its business activities, it will strive to reduce burden on the environment and shall devote its comprehensive technological capabilities to the development of technologies and products that will protect the environment, as its way of contributing to the development of a sustainable society. Action Guidelines (Established 1996) 1. Accord high priority to environmental protection within company operations, and take steps company-wide to protect and enhance the environment. 2. Clarify roles and responsibilities regarding environmental protection by developing an organized structure to deal with environmental protection matters, defining environment-related procedures, etc. 3. Strive to alleviate burden on the environment in all aspects of company business activities-from product R&D and design to procurement of raw materials, manufacture, transport, usage, servicing and disposal-through pollution prevention, conservation of resources, energy saving, waste reduction, reuse and recycling. 4. Strive to develop and provide advanced, highly reliable, wholly proprietary technologies and products that will contribute to solving environmental and energy problems. 5. Strive continuously to improve and enhance environmental protection activities not only by fully complying with environmental laws and regulations but also, when necessary, by establishing, implementing and evaluating independent standards and setting environmental goals and targets. 6. In the performance of business activities overseas and exportation of products, pay full attention to impact on the local natural and social environments and strive to protect those environments; also, become actively involved in technological cooperation overseas in matters of environmental protection. 7. Take steps to raise environmental awareness among all employees through environmental education, etc., undertake activities to provide environment-related information to the public, and proactively make environmentenhancing contributions to society. Environmental Management Structure (as of April 1, 2014) 32 Environment Adopting Second Environmental Targets for the entire Group and promoting various activities to reduce environmental burden Following on from initiatives based on the MHI Group midand long-term environmental targets formulated in 2008, in April 2013 we formulated the Second MHI Group Environmental Targets, setting reduction targets on items such as CO2 emissions, landfill waste and water usage. These initiatives encompass Group companies. The Environmental Meetings with group companies held in fiscal 2013 reaffirmed the commitment of the companies to incorporating and promoting the Second MHI Group Environmental Targets. The Group will continue to work together towards attaining the targets. Environmental audits at all works, plants and districts in Japan MHI conducts environmental audits at works, plants and districts in Japan to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations and to conduct physical, on-site verification of operational conditions. Audits are performed by teams of auditors from works, plants and districts other than the works, plants and districts being audited. Results on environmental performance and improvements are reported to the Environmental Committee, through which they are shared with the rest of the company. In fiscal 2013, audits were conducted at Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Meirei District, and Ritto District. The audits confirmed that issues identified by previous audits were being addressed and steps were being taken to improve the level of management. Initiating Environmental Meetings with Group companies Environmental Meetings have been held to unify environmental management across the entire MHI Group. The meetings identify problems and support the study of improvements and the exchange of information related to the environment, with the primary goal of ensuring the compliance of Group companies and preventing environmental pollution. In fiscal 2013, Environmental Meetings were held for 9 companies that have adopted the Kobe Environmental Management System (KEMS). At the meetings, the companies reviewed concrete actions that were being taken to reduce electricity use, reduce CO2 emissions, reduce paper use, and reduce industrial waste. The MHI Group will continue to hold Environmental Meetings to promote environmental activities across the Group and meet Group environmental targets. Collection of periodic environmental data from group companies conducted in pursuit of the Second Environmental Targets Faced with global warming and other global environmental problems, it is becoming increasingly important that companies expand the scope of environmental data collection from their own operations to include the operations of companies with which they are affiliated. In the second MHI Group Environmental Targets issued in April 2013, the MHI Group set reduction targets on items such as CO2 emissions, landfill waste and water usage for Group companies in Japan and overseas. The MHI Group as a whole will continue efforts to achieve the new group environmental targets 33 Environment Establishing and Operating an Environmental Management System Promoting the establishment of an Environmental Management System at Group Since fiscal 2013, MHI has been progressing from the certification of each works under ISO 14001 to integrated companywide certification. We have been working on establishment of an environmental management system (EMS) that is consistent throughout the company, and we are promoting environmental preservation activities and initiatives that contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. We are also encouraging the introduction of EMSs at Group companies. In addition to ISO 14001, Eco Action 21, and the EMSs of municipal bodies, we have formulated and are promoting the introduction of our own EMS standard, M-EMS. In fiscal 2013 (as of April 2014), 84 of our 126 domestic Group companies and 26 of our 164 overseas Group companies had received ISO 14001 and other EMS certifications. Fostering environmental awareness for every employee through stratified environmental training At MHI, each works and plants formulates its own environmental education curriculum based on e-learning and other methods to provide environmental education to employees. In addition to the internal environmental auditor training program organized by our Head Office, specialized training that deals with daily management procedures and handling emergencies also takes place for employees doing painting tasks and handling dangerous materials. Registered ISO 14001 Internal Auditors (as of April 1, 2014; Note) FY 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number 815 847 980 995 989 988 (Note) In principle, all the data represents data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. 34 Environment Initiatives to Preserve Biodiversity Promoting the preservation of biodiversity in accordance with the Environmental Policy and CSR Action Guidelines The Basic Policy on Environmental Matters and Action Guidelines, the MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines and MHI Environmental Vision 2030 includes the concepts of the Guidelines for Private Sector Engagement in Biodiversity released by the Ministry of the Environment and the Biodiversity Declaration from the Japan Federation of Economic Organizations. Each works pursues various biological diversity activities in accordance with these principles and guidelines. Breeding program for Japanese honeybees in danger of extinction An endangered Japanese honeybee breeding program was launched in fiscal 2010 at the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works. Inspired by the honeycomb structure of airplanes, the breeding program provides beehives for honeybees at the Works. Breeding Japanese honeybees Promoting forest conservation and non-native species removal activities In recent years, MHI has been an active supporter of corporate forestry programs together with local governments and other organizations. Head Office and five works are involved in ongoing local government forest care programs. Led by employees and their families, there is a continuous effort involving planting, tree thinning and other forest care activities designed to preserve important forest habitats for many different creatures. Working with NPOs and other organizations, MHI also actively participates in programs to remove non-native species that are impacting Japan's ecosystem. Forest cultivation volunteers (Machine Tool) at Megumi no Mori forest 35 Environment Main programs undertaken in fiscal 2013 Work/business site Date(s) conducted Description Kobe Shipyard & Machinery May 18, November Onaza forest (Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works) Works 9, 2013 Employees and others planted saplings and tended the forest, numbering 62 on May 18 and 47 on November 9. Shimonoseki Shipyard & November 15, 2013 Creating a Forest to Protect Water from the Koya River Machinery Works Three employees participated in forestation activities sponsored by the Nagato Agriculture and Forestry Office, Shimonoseki, Yamaguchi Prefecture Takasago Machinery Works June 25, 2013 MHI Takamikura Forest On March 9, 2013, approximately 50 employees planted 200 trees (first time), and 23 employees conducted maintenance by clearing away underbrush in planting areas. November 16, 2013 Twenty-seven employees cleared away underbrush in this planting area. Mihara Machinery Works December 7, 2013 Hiroshima Forest Development Forum Nineteen employees, including those from Group companies, participated in a forest conservation activity General Machinery & September 7,20 Corporate Forestation Activities in the Yadorigi Forest Special Vehicles October 21, 2013 A total of 74 people, including MHI and Group company employees and their families, experienced forest thinning and other forest preservation activities. Air-Conditioning & Participated in Beaver Forest, Kihoku Refrigeration Systems Machine Tool April 26, Forest management volunteering at Megumi no Mori forest September 27, Held jointly with the Konze Production Forest Union and Ritto-city Society of 2013 Commerce and Industry. fifty employees and others participated. Held with support from MHI's Funds for Community Engagement. Machine Tool May 26, 2013 Participation in Lake Biwa non-native fish removal event Around 140 people, including MHI employees, participated in event to remove black bass, bluegill, and other non-native fishes. Nagasaki Shipyard & March 8, 2014 Agurinooka Environmental Preservation Activity Machinery Works A total of eight people, including employees, cooperated with activities conducted by Farm Circle, an NPO. 36 Environment Results of evaluation of corporate biodiversity activities MHI supports forest conservation programs and carries out a wide range of other activities to promote biodiversity and nature protection. To obtain a measure of the impact our business activities have had on biodiversity preservation, we asked BirdLife International Tokyo (Note) to conduct an evaluation of our corporate biodiversity activities so we can determine the current state of these activities in fiscal 2012. The results are shown below. In FY2013, MHI provided education to the environmental affairs manager of each works, plants and districts by the BirdLife with the educational contents including the aforementioned evaluation results and the latest trends and basic knowledge of biodiversity. We will conduct the education in each works, plants and districts on the basis of the contents, and spread awareness of biodiversity, and will lead to future business activities. (Note) BirdLife International Tokyo: a secretariat in Asia of BirdLife International (headquartered in Cambridge, UK), an international environmental group working in habitat protection using bird species as an indicator of ecosystem health. Established in England in 1922, BirdLife International is the world's oldest international environmental NGO. Results of evaluation Description of evaluation categories Category Description Raw materials procurement Evaluates efforts made through raw materials procurement. In all manufacturing sectors, this category is considered to have the largest impact on biodiversity. Land use Evaluates whether efforts have been made to limit impacts on the environmental and biodiversity in worksite land use management. Worksite operation Evaluates whether efforts have been made to limit impacts on the environment and biodiversity at a plant or other worksite. Research, development, product Evaluates whether efforts have been made to limit impacts on and contribute to biodiversity and design environmental conservation through products. Marketing and sales Evaluates whether efforts have been made to limit impacts on and contribute to biodiversity and environmental conservation through sales, customer management, and other activities. Transportation and distribution Evaluates the state of efforts to reduce environmental impact in the transportation and distribution of goods and people. Purchasing (other than raw Evaluates whether special considerations for the environment and biodiversity are made in purchasing materials procurement) and procurement. Energy conservation, recycling, Evaluates the state of efforts to conserve energy, recycle, and manage waste in the administrative waste management departments. Social contribution activities Evaluates whether efforts have been made to limit impacts on and contribute to biodiversity conservation in social contribution activities. 37 Environment Executive Summary MHI’s environmental conservation activities thus far have consisted of efforts made on the basis of the company’s Basic Policy on Environmental Matters, Action Guidelines, mediumto long-term environmental targets, and, more recently, the MHI Environmental Vision 2030 formulated in June 2012. We commend these efforts as they have made steady progress and are rooted in MHI’s core businesses, advanced by ISO 14001-certified environmental management systems and embodied in environmentally friendly products in a wide range of fields. However, viewing these efforts from a biodiversity conservation perspective, MHI has not fully understood the connection between its businesses and biodiversity and the importance of conservation. Since the company has already undertaken a large number of concrete initiatives in global warming mitigation, resource recycling, and social contribution that may contribute to biodiversity conservation, we strongly urge MHI to take this opportunity to expand environmental efforts in all business activities to include such. That MHI attempted to gauge its biodiversity efforts in light of the 20 Aichi Biodiversity Targets adopted at COP10 for this evaluation is a major break from the norm in that regard. It is crucial that MHI fully recognizes that all of its business activities are linked to biodiversity and dependent on the services that biodiversity provides. What to do going forward? The first step, and an urgent one, should be the formulation of group-wide policies, guidelines, procedures, and other guiding documents on biodiversity conservation, and to create an action plan or system for implementing these documents in the various domains of business activities. It is also important to introduce basic biodiversity concepts into environmental education programs for employees, particularly for those who have environment-related duties. MHI has experience developing and manufacturing a host of products that are environmentally friendly because they save energy or reduce CO2 emissions. These products, which span from renewable energy and other energy generation technologies, to energy storage, waste and water treatment, industrial and machine tools, and transportation equipment, can have an extremely broad and powerful positive impact on biodiversity conservation. Going forward, MHI should raise these products to a standard that is more conscious of biodiversity, and by doing so, strive to establish its brand and exert its leadership as a company known as a biodiversity steward in the heavy industries field. Lastly, overseas operations can be a major risk factor for global companies. We strongly urge MHI to incorporate biodiversity conservation concepts into all business activities—from research and development through worksite operations and supply chain management—not just in Japan but across the group worldwide. With great anticipation, we look forward to seeing MHI make a greater effort and take on new challenges for biodiversity conservation. Keiko Suzue Doctor of environmental symbiotic studies Representative Director, BirdLife International Asia Division Makoto Kawanabe Doctor of agricultural sciences Executive Research Officer, BirdLife International Asia Division 38 Environment Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks Clarifying the risks at each works, plants and districts, and addressing them through daily management MHI has prepared and uses an ISO-based manual for each works, plants and districts, encompassing such issues as risk identification methods, daily management procedures and contingency plans. At each works, plants and districts, emergency response drills are carried out to confirm the effectiveness of response procedures for emergencies such as oil spills and earthquakes. In the event of any crisis, the company's in-house crisis management information system is prepared to quickly convey information to the President. Status of Incidents and Legal Violations Relating to the Environment Promoting activities to strengthen measures designed to eliminate environmental incidents As part of ongoing efforts to strengthen measures designed to eliminate environmental incidents, MHI established in fiscal 2013 Guidelines for Controlling Environmental Non-Conformities, which includes rules for setting up an Incident Investigation Committee to thoroughly investigate the causes of environmental incidents when they occur. Since fiscal 2013, we have formulated an action plan to eliminate accidents that pollute the environment for each work and plant and have been implementing these plans as part of our company-wide Environmental Management Promotion Plan. Primary content of this plan includes analyzing past environmental instances and processes and proposing measures to address them, as well as reviewing environmental risk and planning and conducting facility maintenance and upgrades. As a result of these initiatives, in fiscal 2013 MHI succeeded in preventing any major environmental incident from occurring. 39 Environment Environmental Management Systems Adopted at MHI and Its Subsidiaries As of April 1, 2014 ISO 14001 certification at MHI works, plants and research & development centers, etc. Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) MHI sites and Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Oct. 31, 1997 plants, etc. Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works May 22, 1998 Takasago Machinery Works Jun. 26, 1998 Meirei District Nov. 20, 1998 Sagamihara District May 21, 1999 Mihara Machinery Works Sep. 3, 1999 Hiroshima Machinery Works Sep. 30, 1999 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nov. 24, 1999 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Dec. 18, 1999 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Feb. 18, 2000 Iwatsuka Plant Mar. 17, 2000 Ritto District Dec. 28, 2000 Chemical Plant & Infrastructure Division Jun. 29, 2001 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works (unification of certification acquired independently by plants) Oct. 1, 2003 Head Office Apr. 6, 2006 MHI research Nagasaki Research & Development Center Aug. 21, 2006 & Advanced Technology Research Center Nov. 9, 2006 development Yokohama Research & Development Center Nov. 9, 2006 centers Hiroshima Research & Development Center (Mihara) Dec. 5, 2006 Nagoya Research & Development Center Dec. 26, 2006 Takasago Research & Development Center Mar. 9, 2007 Hiroshima Research & Development Center (Hiroshima) Aug. 2, 2007 Group companies that acquired ISO 14001 certifications independently Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Domestic MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. Aug. 28, 1998 Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Co., Ltd. Jul. 24, 2001 Nagoya Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 14, 2002 Nishinihon Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2002 Chubu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd., Head Office Jan. 13, 2004 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Environmental & Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd. (Head Office and Apr. 12, 2004 Branch Office) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Environmental & Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd. (Engineering Division) Feb. 17, 2005 Shimonoseki Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 14, 2005 Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 17, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Food & Packaging Machinery Co., Ltd. Mar. 17, 2005 Seibu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd., Head Office Mar. 22, 2005 Kusakabe Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Tamachi Building Co., Ltd. Mar. 25, 2005 Hiroshima Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Apr. 9, 2005 Ryoju Cold Chain Co., Ltd. Apr. 22, 2005 Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Precision Casting Co., Ltd. May 11, 2005 Tokiwa Machinery Works Ltd. May 18, 2005 Jukan Operation Co., Ltd., Head Office Aug. 1, 2005 MHI Aerospace Logitem Co., Ltd. Jan. 5, 2007 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Corporation, System Production Sep. 14, 2007 Department Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd., Chiba Plant Mar. 25, 2010 Kaminoshima Factory and Branch Offices, MHI Oceanics Co., Ltd. Oct. 28, 2011 Mitsubishi Nichiyu Forklift Co., Ltd. Jul. 19, 2013 Nichiyu Machinery Co., Ltd. Jul. 19, 2013 Toyo Engineering Works,Ltd. Mar. 13, 2009 Babcock-Hitachi K.K. Jan. 1, 2014 Bab-Hitachi Industrial Co., Ltd Jan. 1, 2014 Bab-Hitachi Business Corporation Jan. 1, 2014 40 Environment Group companies that acquired ISO 14001 certifications independently Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Overseas Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Haier (Qingdao) Air-Conditioners Co., Ltd. Dec. 14, 1998 MHI Equipment Europe B.V. Nov. 9, 2001 Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift Europe B.V. Jul. 25, 2002 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Climate Control Inc. Jun. 12, 2003 Thai Compressor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Jun. 27, 2003 Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Americas, Inc. Orlando Service Center Feb. 18, 2004 MHI Automotive Climate Control (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jul. 11, 2005 CBC Industrias Pesadas S.A. Dec. 1, 2005 MHI Korea Ltd. Dec. 17, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Mahajak Air Conditioners Co., Ltd. Dec. 21, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Jinling Air-Conditioners Co., Ltd. Jan. 24, 2006 MHI Machine Tool (H.K.) Ltd. Mar. 30, 2006 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Hong Kong) Ltd. Apr. 5, 2006 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jul. 5, 2006 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Private Ltd. Dec. 7, 2006 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. (Headquarters,Tire Machinery Division) Oct. 15, 2007 Tire Machinery Division, Headquarters, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift America Inc. Dec. 6, 2007 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Dec. 31, 2007 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Dongfang Gas Turbine (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. May 14, 2008 MHI Equipment Alsace S.A.S Mar. 17, 2009 Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery South Asia Private Ltd. Jul. 14, 2010 Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Europe Ltd. Oct. 1, 2010 Mitsubishi Turbocharger Asia Co., Ltd. Dec. 22, 2010 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Precision Tools, Ltd. Mar. 27, 2012 EcoAction 21 certification at MHI Group companies Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Domestic Daiya Building Service Co., Ltd. Apr. 21, 2005 Nuclear Development Co., Ltd. May 30, 2005 Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Engineering Co., Ltd. Yokohama Division. Oct. 31, 2005 Kyushu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd. Head office Jun. 11, 2008 Hiroji Center Co., Ltd. Jan. 29, 2010 K-EMS certification at MHI Group companies Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Domestic Seiryo Engineering Co., Ltd. Dec. 24, 2004 Kinki Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Feb. 23, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd. Feb. 23, 2005 MHI Nuclear Engineering Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Nuclear Power Training Center, Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 MHI General Services Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Techno Data Engineering Co., Ltd. Feb. 27, 2006 Energis Co., Ltd. Mar. 23, 2006 Kamakura EcoAction 21 certification at MHI Group companies Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Domestic Shonan Monorail Co., Ltd. Apr. 4, 2007 MHI Group companies adopting M-EMS (based on ISO 14001) Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Domestic Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Inspection Technologies, Ltd., Yokohama Division Apr. 25, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Engine Systems Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2005 Overseas Mitsubishi Engine North America, Inc. Jan. 19, 2007 MHI Group companies M-EMS EcoAction (based on EcoAction 21) Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Domestic Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Transportation Equipment Engineering & Service Co., Ltd. Tokyo Office Apr. 20, 2005 and Nishinihon Branch Office Shunjusha Ltd. Apr. 26, 2005 MHI Sagami High-tech Ltd. May 9, 2005 MHI Information Systems Co., Ltd. Chugoku Branch May 11, 2005 MHI Marine Engineering, Ltd. May 16, 2005 Churyo Engineering Co., Ltd. May 16, 2005 MHI Aerospace Systems Corp. Jul. 12, 2005 MHPS Control Systems Co., Ltd. Head Office(Yokohama District), Yokohama Division Jul. 22, 2005 Ryosei Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 10, 2009 41 Environment Group companies within the scope of ISO 14001 accreditation of MHI works and plants Location or company name Date of issue Names of works and plants which (or registration) acquired ISO14001 Domestic Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plastic Technology Co., Ltd. Apr. 1, 2000 Iwatsuka Plant MHI Aerospace Production Technologies, Ltd. Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Diamond Air Service Inc. Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work MHI Information Systems Co., Ltd Nishinihon Branch Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works (Shimonoseki District) MHI Shimonoseki Engineering Co., Ltd. Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works MHI Machine Tool Engineering Co., Ltd. Feb. 25, 2005 Ritto District MHI Aero Engine Service Co., Ltd. Apr. 11, 2005 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works MHI Logitec Co., Ltd. Apr. 11, 2005 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Marine Machinery & Engine Co., May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Ltd. Nuclear Plant Service Engineering Co., Ltd. May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Parking Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Yokohama Branch May 14, 2005 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works MHI Energy & Service Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Inspection Technologies, May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Ltd., Takasago Division Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Engineering Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Takasago Division MHPS Control Systems Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Takasago Division MHI Information Systems Co., Ltd , Kansai Branch(Takasago May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works District) Nuclear Plant Service Engineering Co., Ltd., Takasago May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Division Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Machinery Technology Corp. Jun. 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plant Construction Co., Ltd. Jun. 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery, Inc. Jun. 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Sagami Logistics & Service Co., Ltd. Sep. 13, 2005 Sagamihara District MHI Ship & Ocean Engineering Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Inspection Technologies, Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Ltd., Nagasaki Division Kowa Kogyo Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works MHPS Control Systems Co., Ltd. Nagasaki Division Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Engineering Co., Ltd., Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nagasaki Division MHI Maritech, Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works MHI Information Systems Co., Ltd Nishinihon Branch Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works (Nagasaki District) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Machine Tool Sales Co., Ltd. Jan. 13, 2006 Ritto District Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Department of Facilities Management Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Service Tamachi Bldg. Co., Ltd., Shinagawa Building Management Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Center MHI Personnel, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office MHI Accounting Service, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office MHI Finance Co., Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Daiya PR Co., Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Diamond Air Service Inc., Tokyo Office Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office E-Techno, Ltd. May 12, 2006 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Choryo Engineering Co., Ltd. Aug. 21, 2006 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Aug. 2, 2007 Hiroshima Machinery Works Engineering Co., Ltd. MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. Takasago Branch Apr. 9, 2008 Takasago Machinery Works MHI Information Systems Co., Ltd Kansai Branch (Kobe May 1, 2008 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works District) Nagasaki Diamond Staff Co., Ltd. Jun. 16, 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nagasaki Ryoko Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 16, 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Yokohama Building Service Oct. 19, 2009 Head Office Department Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Compressor Corporation Oct. 14, 2010 Hiroshima Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Printing & Packaging Nov. 19, 2010 Mihara Machinery Works Machinery, Ltd. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Transportation Equipment Nov. 19, 2010 Mihara Machinery Works Engineering & Service Co., Ltd. Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation Oct. 14, 2011 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Tokyo Office, Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation Oct. 14, 2011 Head Office Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Automotive Thermal Systems Co., Nov. 20, 1998 Meirei District Ltd. Mitsubishi Nichiyu Forklift Co., Ltd. Sagamihara Headquaters May. 21, 1999 Sagamihara District Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems,LTD. Head Office Feb. 1, 2013 Head Office Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, LTD. Feb. 1, 2013 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Yokohama Works Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, LTD., Takasago Works Feb. 1, 2013 Takasago Machinery Works Overseas MHI Industrial Engineering & Services Private Ltd. Dec. 29, 2011 Chemical Plant & Infrastructure Division 42 Environment Targets and Progress Promotion of the Second MHI Group Environmental Targets In line with the MHI Environmental Vision 2030, which was established in June 2012, the Environment Committee established the Second MHI Group Environmental Targets to be achieved by the end of fiscal 2014. The Environmental Vision lists four categories of environmentally conscious production activities to be addressed: (1) Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, (2) Reduction in waste generation, (3) Reduction in emissions of chemical substances, and (4) More efficient water usage. For the purpose of promoting these activities throughout the MHI Group, the committee has set separate detailed targets for MHI and the MHI Group, individually attuned to the actual circumstances of each activity. The entire MHI Group will make efforts to achieve these targets. Social awareness is growing toward CO2 reductions and biodiversity considerations in the supply chain. In response to this, MHI decided to launch the MHI Supplementary Action Plan for the Second Environmental Targets (to be promoted in conjunction with the Second Environmental Targets). Second MHI Group Environmental Targets (FY2013-FY2014) Category Item Scope of Target (FY2013-FY2014) Progress (as of the end of Evaluation target FY2013) Reduction in Reduction in Production [Production bases in Japan] Unit energy consumption at greenhouse gas CO2 emissions bases in Japan Reduce unit energy consumption production bases in Japan down emissions by 3.5% every year. by 4.1% from FY2012 level; target (Item contained met. in Environmental Offices in [Offices in Japan] Reduce unit Unit energy consumption at Vision) Japan energy consumption by 1% every offices in Japan down by 1.6% (Head Office, year. from FY2012 level; target met. branch offices, etc.) Group [Group companies in Japan] Unit energy consumption at companies in Reduce the unit energy Group companies in Japan down Japan consumption of main from 0.10 tons CO2/million yen in manufacturing companies to FY2012 to; 0.12 tons CO2 /million below FY2013 levels. yen in FY2013, target not met. (Note 1) 13 companies targeted. Energy consumption per unit was evaluated by CO2 emissions per unit. Group [Group companies in countries Unit energy consumption at companies in other than Japan] Reduce unit Group companies in countries countries other energy consumption of main other than Japan down from 0.29 than Japan manufacturing companies to tons CO2/ million yen in FY2012 below FY2013 levels. 0.27 tons CO2/ million yen in (Note 2) 18 companies targeted. FY2013; target met. Energy consumption per unit was evaluated by CO2 emissions per unit. Reduction in Production [Production bases in Japan] Unit greenhouse gas emissions at greenhouse bases in Japan Reduce unit greenhouse gas production bases in Japan down gases (Note 3) (Note 3) Excluding CO2 from 0.038t/kh in FY2012 to emissions from energy use. 0.034t/kh in FY2013; target met. CO2 All companies Promote the manufacture of Contributions to CO2 reductions Reductions (promoted by environmentally friendly products, for FY2013 are indicated. with MHI Head Office) and report every year on the Product Usage contribution to CO2 reductions through the use of products sold. Reduction in Reduction in Production [Production bases in Japan] Total waste generated at (Evaluation waste generation total waste bases in Japan Reduce total waste generated in production bases in Japan at in FY2015) (Item contained generation FY2014 by 40% compared to 123,000 tons in FY2013, down in Environmental FY1992. 43% against FY1992 levels; Vision) target met. Reduction in Production [Production bases in Japan] Volume of landfill waste at (Evaluation volume of bases in Japan Reduce volume of landfill waste production bases in Japan at 470 in FY2015) landfill waste in FY2014 by 98% compared to tons in FY2013, meeting target of FY2000. 98% reduction from FY2000 levels. Group [Group companies in Japan] Landfill waste by Group (Evaluation companies in Reduce volume of landfill waste companies in Japan up from 330 in FY2015) Japan by main manufacturing tons in FY2012 to 405 tons in companies in FY2014 to below FY2013; target not met. FY2013 levels. (Note 4) 13 companies targeted Reduction in Production [Production bases in Japan] Landfill disposal ratio above 0.5% (Evaluation landfill disposal bases in Japan Ensure that landfill disposal ratio at four production bases in Japan; in FY2015) ratio in FY2014 at all works plants and target not met. districts is less than 0.5%. 43 Environment Category Item Scope of Target (FY2013-FY2014) Progress (as of the end of Evaluation target FY2013) Reduction in Reduction in VOC Production [Production bases in Japan] Atmospheric emissions of VOCs (Evaluation emissions of emissions bases in Reduce the atmospheric (xylene, toluene and in FY2015) chemical Japan emissions of VOC (xylene, ethylbenzene) at production substances toluene and ethylbenzene) in bases in Japan at 1,094 tons in (Item contained FY2014 by more than 30% FY2013, down 51% compared in Environmental compared to FY2000. with FY2000 levels and meeting Vision) the 30% reduction target. Zero atmospheric Production [Production bases in Japan] Atmospheric emissions of (Evaluation emissions of bases in Eliminate all atmospheric dichloromethane, in FY2015) organochlorinated Japan emissions (Note 5) of trichloroethylene and hazardous air dichloromethane, tetrachloroethylene at pollutants trichloroethylene and production bases in Japan at 3.5 tetrachloroethylene by FY2014. tons in FY2013, falling short of (Note 5) Except for use in target of zero atmospheric research and testing purposes. emissions. Group [Group companies in Japan] Atmospheric emissions of (Evaluation companies in Reduce atmospheric emissions dichloromethane, in FY2015) Japan (Note 7) of dichloromethane, trichloroethylene and trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene at Group tetrachloroethylene by main companies at zero. Aiming to manufacturing companies in maintain zero emissions target. FY2014 to below FY2012 levels. (Note 6) 13 companies targeted (Note 7) Except for use in research and testing purposes. More efficient Reduction in water Production [Production bases in Japan] Unit water consumption at water usage usage bases in Reduce unit water consumption production bases in Japan at (Item contained Japan by 1% every year. 196 tons/kh in FY2013, down by in Environmental (water: industrial water, tap 3% year on year; target met. Vision) water, groundwater, rivers, lakes; excluding seawater). Group [Group companies in Japan] Unit water consumption at (Evaluation companies in Reduce unit water consumption Group companies in Japan at in FY2015) Japan of main manufacturing 2.6 tons/ million yen in FY2013, companies in FY2014 to below over FY2012 level of 2.0 tons/ FY2012 levels. million yen, target not met. (water: industrial water, tap water, groundwater, rivers, lakes; excluding seawater). (Note 8) 13 companies targeted Group [Group companies in countries Unit water consumption at (Evaluation companies in other than Japan] Reduce unit Group companies in countries in FY2015) countries water consumption of main other than Japan at 1.8 other than manufacturing companies in tons/million yen in FY2013, Japan FY2014 to below FY2012 levels. meeting target of at or below (water: industrial water, tap FY2012 level of 2.1 tons/million water, groundwater, rivers, yen. lakes; excluding seawater). (Note 9) 18 companies targeted MHI Supplementary Action Plan for the Second Environmental Targets (to be promoted in conjunction with the Second Environmental Targets) Category Item Scope of Action plan (FY2013Progress (as of the end of Evaluation target FY2014) FY2013) Reduction in Reduction in CO2 Head Office Commence study on the Commenced hearing of principal greenhouse gas emissions in the (performed by amount of CO2 emitted business partners. Continuing in emissions supply chain Head Office) along the supply chain. FY2014. Biodiversity Biodiversity Entire Incorporate biodiversity Invited BirdLife International, an considerations education company principles into NPO, to conduct biodiversity (Item not contained (excluding environmental education. education to environmental in Environmental Group managers at manufacturing bases in Vision) companies) Japan. Biodiversity Head Office Commence study on Commenced hearing of principal considerations in the (performed by initiatives for biodiversity business partners. Continuing in supply chain Head Office) in the supply chain. FY2014. 44 Environment Material Balance To carry out its business operations, MHI uses various types of energy and resources. We consistently strive to reduce environmental load throughout the lifecycle of a product, from development, design, procurement and manufacture to distribution, on-site installation, usage, servicing and disposal. Input/Output Status (FY2013) (In principle, data is for manufacturing sites of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., on a non-consolidated basis. Data on the collection and recycling of used products is for Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Corporation.) 45 Environment Environmental Accounting Adoption of Environmental Accounting Guidelines MHI quantitatively monitors investments and costs for environment preservation as part of the performance reviews of the company's business activities and also calculates the relative benefits of these efforts. The company refers to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines published by the Ministry of the Environment. 9.1 billion yen in investments and 12.5 billion yen in costs Total investments amounted to 9.1 billion yen while total costs were 12.5 billion yen for fiscal 2013. The investment decreased in comparison with fiscal 2012. The main cause was the reduced investment in environmental protection equipment. Economic advantages valued at 1.3billion yen were gained during the fiscal year, consisting mainly of revenues from recycling and reduced costs for purchasing electricity due to energy savings. Environmental preservation: costs and economic benefit (In principle, all the data represents data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated.) (million yen) Cost Category Activities in FY2013 Investment Cost Economic benefit Environmental preservation: 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Description benefit 1. Production 4,217 4,330 6,079 4,626 1,744 1,312 activities (1) Pollution Maintenance and operation 1,936 2,973 3,304 2,110 4 0 Reduced emissions control of wastewater and flue gas of air and water treatment facility pollutants (2) Global Energy savings 2,051 1,171 291 206 165 149 Cost reduction from Reduced energy environmental energy savings input preservation (3) Recycling Reduced waste generation, 140 186 2,484 2,310 1,574 1,162 Income derived recycling from recycling, cost reduction from reduced waste generation 2. Upstream and Recycling of household 8 4 downstream electrical appliances and costs container packaging 3. Management Development of 67 0 1,008 889 activities environmental management systems, ISO Office, publication of MHI Social & Environmental Report 4. R & D Development of 5,842 4,646 5,423 6,550 Development of environmentally friendly Diverse products environmentally friendly products 5. Public and Support of environmental 1 2 272 287 social activities preservation: initiatives, greening activities 6. Environmental Soil remediation measures 416 131 89 96 Prevention of oil and remediation chemicals spills Total 10,452 9,108 12,879 12,451 1,744 1,312 1 Total capital investments in fiscal 2013: 82.9 billion yen. Portion related to the environment: 9.1 billion yen (11.0 percent). 2 Total R&D outlays in fiscal 2013: 104.9 billion yen. Portion related to the environment: 11.2 billion yen (10.7 percent). 46 Environment Promotion of Measures to Curtail Greenhouse Gas Emissions Promoting Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction at Bases in Japan MHI's 2nd Environmental Targets set reduction targets for CO2 emissions and emissions of greenhouse gases other than CO2, and we are working to achieve these goals. With regard to reducing CO2 emissions at production bases in Japan, the target is for a 3.5% annual reduction in unit energy use. In fiscal 2013, this figure amounted to 4.1%, achieving the target. Also, the reduction target for unit emissions of greenhouse gases other than CO2 at production bases in Japan is to remain below levels for fiscal 2012. We achieved a 9.7% year on year reduction, thereby meeting this target. The target for reducing CO2 emissions at offices in Japan is a 1% year on year reduction in unit energy use. We met this target, reducing unit energy use 1.6% year on year. MHI will continue to strive for further reductions, as outlined in its plan for updating in-house air-conditioners formulated in November 2010 and through efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions generated through manufacturing processes. Rate of reduction in unit energy use (percentage change) and CO2 emissions volume at manufacturing bases in Japan (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 CO2 emissions 482,000 474,,000 533,000 538,000 t/year t/year t/year t/year Rate of reduction in unit energy use (percentage change) 100.0% 95.9% Greenhouse gas unit emissions and emission volume for manufacturing bases in Japan (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2012 2013 Greenhouse gas emission volume 1,316t 1,193t Greenhouse gas unit emissions 0.0380t/kh 0.0343t/kh 47 Environment Rate of reduction in unit energy use (percentage change) and CO2 emissions volume at offices in Japan (Note) In principle, these data represent office sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2012 2013 CO2 emissions 11,200 t/year 12,000 t/year Rate of reduction in unit energy use (percentage change) 100.0% 98.4% Greenhouse gas emissions (excluding CO2 emissions from energy use) (Note) Hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) 31.8% 380t Dinitrogen monoxide (N2O) 21.7% 259t Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) 5.4% 64t Methane (CH4) 35.6% 425t CO2 emissions not 5.5% 66t resulting from energy use (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. Gross energy input (Note 1) (Note 1) In principle, these data represent both production sites and office sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 10,621TJ 10,346TJ 10,303TJ 9,796TJ (Note 2) 1 TJ (terajoule) = 1 trillion joules (1,000,000,000,000 J) 48 Environment Electricity purchases (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent both production sites and office sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2012 2013 768,661MWh 745,691MWh Switching to alternative types of fuel at works and Group companies MHI is making efforts to switch to LNG or city gas, which when burned produce small amounts of CO2 emissions compared to heavy oil or kerosene, as fuel for its boilers and other equipment. For example, at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works the switch to alternative types of fuel was carried out systematically from fiscal 2007 to 2010. At the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works and Hiroshima Machinery Works, fuel switching was implemented in order to reduce CO2 emissions. FY Works Achievements 2005 Takasago Machinery Works The fuel for the forging heating furnace was switched from propane to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 55 percent, including waste heat recovery. 2007 Nagasaki Shipyard & The boiler plant's three heat treatment furnaces were switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. Machinery Works CO2 emissions were reduced by 40 percent. 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & The boiler plant's annealing furnace was switched from kerosene to LPG. CO2 emissions were Machinery Works reduced by nine percent. 2010 Nagasaki Shipyard & ⋅Together with facility renewal for the foundry plant's air compressor, a switch was made from the Machinery Works engine-driven type that used Heavy Fuel Oil A to the electric motor type. CO2 emissions were reduced by 54 percent. ⋅The private generation facilities were switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 31 percent. 2011 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Together with the renewal of the boiler for air conditioning, the fuel was switched from kerosene to Works (Tobishima Plant) city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by approximately 45 percent. Hiroshima Machinery Works ⋅The tempering furnace was switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. CO2 emissions were (Foundry & Forging Shop) reduced by 26 percent. ⋅The heating furnace was switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 30 percent. ⋅The gas tempering furnace was switched from butane to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 17 percent. 2012 Hiroshima Machinery Works The ladle preheater was switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced (Foundry & Forging Shop) by 10 percent. 2013 Nagoya Aerospace Systems The steam boiler for heating was switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. CO2 emissions were Works (Komaki Minami Plant) reduced by 29.7 percent. 49 Environment One million kWh of green power used annually thanks to wind power generation MHI has contracted with Japan Natural Energy Co., Ltd. (JNE) to purchase 1 M kWh of wind-generated power from JNE each year for a period of 15 years starting April 2002. Of the power purchased in fiscal 2013, 491,000 kWh were used at the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Head Office Building, and 494,000 kWh were used at the Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum. The Certificate of Green Power Approx. 45,000 tons in emissions credits from CDM projects were transferred from an MHI account to a government account without compensation. MHI plans to utilize emission rights to ensure that its CO2 emission reduction targets are reliably met. MHI has concluded emission rights purchasing agreements with four projects undertaken by Kyoto Mechanisms JI (Joint Implementation) (Note 1) and Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) (Note 2). MHI's midand long-term environmental targets called for a reduction in average CO2 emissions for the five years from fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2012 by 6% compared with fiscal 1990 levels. As the company's CO2 reduction over this period was 1.9%, falling short of the target, 45,000 tons in emissions credits—the shortage as of May 2014—were transferred from an MHI account to a government account without compensation. The transferred emission credits will be added to Japan's greenhouse gas reduction volume. (Note 1) JI: System in which a company invests in greenhouse gas reduction projects in advanced countries and applies the reduced emissions to achieve its own goals. (Note 2) CDM: System in which a company invests in greenhouse gas reduction projects in developing countries and applies the reduced emissions to achieve its own goals. 50 Environment Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transportation Promotion of energy-conservation in transportation through modal shift and load ratio improvement MHI, which handles cargo transportation of over 30 million ton-km per year, is a specified consigner according to the revised Act Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. For that reason, MHI is implementing an action plan towards energy conservation during transportation, such as by promoting modal shifts at works and improving load ratios. MHI is also working to streamline this plan, energy consumption, and consumption measured in basic units for energy. Energy consumption (measured in basic units for energy) in fiscal 2013 was 51 units, a 13.3 percent increase from the amount of 45 units in the benchmark year of fiscal 2009. Total Volume of Transportation Total Volume of Transportation FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 109,327 120,899 117,417 82,955 thousand ton-km thousand ton-km thousand ton-km thousand ton-km Energy consumption and CO2 emissions (Note) 1 GJ (gigajoule) = 1,000 MJ (megajoules) Energy consumption and CO2 emissions FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total energy consumption 190,474 GJ 217,424 GJ 232,059 GJ 163,925 GJ Total CO2 emissions 13,100 t-CO2 14,900t-CO2 15,900 t-CO2 11,228 t-CO2 51 Environment Energy-saving Activities in Offices Promoting Cool Biz and Warm Biz MHI promotes an energy-saving dress code known as Cool Biz during the summer (office air-conditioning systems are set to 28°C and employees do not need to wear neckties) and Warm Biz during the winter (office air-conditioning systems are set to 20°C and employees are encouraged to bring an extra layer of clothing). Implementing summer and winter power-saving measures In response to electricity shortages following the Great East Japan Earthquake, since fiscal 2011 MHI has maintained in place policies designed to reduce peak power consumption and conserve energy at its 14 works in the regions serviced by the Kyushu, Chugoku, Kansai, Chubu, and Tokyo electric power utilities. To lower peak power consumption, we operate our own independent power generation facilities and time-shift operations at facilities that consume large amounts of electricity. To conserve energy, we have installed LED lighting and upgraded turbo refrigeration units. Such measures have enabled us to reduce electricity consumption by 9.3 percent compared with fiscal 2010-before the Great East Japan Earthquake struck. MHI will continue to cooperate with efforts to alleviate electricity shortages by striving to save power and conserve energy. CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2013) CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2013) Sector CO2 reduction Basis of calculation Remarks (thousand tons) Power plant 26,679 Estimates based on MHI's actual delivery Thermal plants (combined, conventional), record in FY2013, compared with FY1990. nuclear plants, wind turbine and geothermal The estimate for nuclear power is based on power generation, etc. actual output generated in FY2013 by plants provided by MHI. Transportation 2,672 Estimates based on MHI's actual delivery Ships, transportation systems, etc. record in FY2013, compared with FY1990. Mass and medium-lot 1,478 Estimates based on MHI's actual delivery Air-conditioners, centrifugal chillers, gas manufactured products record in FY2013, compared with FY1990. engines, etc. Data for fiscal 1990 is calculated based on the IEA's (International Energy Agency's) World Energy Outlook 2011 MHI is working to create a low-carbon society across a broad spectrum of fields, including large-scale power generation technologies such as highly efficient thermal power generation plants and nuclear power plants; power generation systems that utilize wind, geothermal, and other renewable energies; ships and transportation systems for improving the efficiency of the transportation sector; and high energy-saving air-conditioning systems that use heat pump technology. CO2 reductions from the fiscal 1990 level through the use of MHI's products in fiscal 2013 came to about 30 million tons. 52 Environment Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal Promoting the reduction of overall waste generation and landfill disposal volumes In the current fiscal year, MHI has embarked on initiatives to achieve the overall waste generation and landfill disposal amounts established in the 2nd Environmental Targets, which were formulated in fiscal 2013. First, against a target of “reducing total waste generated in fiscal 2014 by 40% compared with fiscal 1992 levels,” we achieved a 43% reduction. In addition, the company met its target of “reducing landfill disposal volumes in fiscal 2014 by 98% compared with fiscal 2000 levels,” decreasing this amount by 98%. Similarly, against the target of “reducing landfill disposal ratio for all works, plants and districts to below 0.5%,” the Group recorded a figure of 0.4% as a whole. Achievement of landfill disposal ratios of 0.5 percent or less Works Landfill disposal ratio (percent) Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works 0.6 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works 0.5 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works 0.02 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works 0.1 Takasago Machinery Works 0.1 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works 0.4 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works 0.8 Hiroshima Machinery Works 0.01 Mihara Machinery Works 0.04 Sagamihara District 0.1 Meirei District 0* Ritto District 0.5 Iwatsuka Plant 0.002 * Because it is a very small amount, we have displayed as zero. Landfill disposal volume/ratio (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2000 2011 2012 2013 Landfill disposal volume 23,884 tons 714 tons 602 tons 470 tons Landfill disposal ratio 12.6% 0.6% 0.5% 0.4% 53 Environment Waste generation volumes and recycling rate (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Generation volume 151,000 tons 131,000 tons 133,000 tons 129,000 tons 132,000 tons 123,000 tons Recycling rate 83% 89% 90% 90% 88% 88% Waste generation by material Scrap metal 59.1% Acid and alkali wastes 7.5% Waste wood 6.5% Slag 5.7% Waste plastic 5.3% Waste oil 4.8% Waste paper 5.0% Sludge 4.9% Other 1.2% Paper usage (including Head Office usage amount) (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Paper usage 2,950t 2,718t 2,719t 2,563t 2,268t 54 Environment Protecting Water Resources Reducing water usage during production In its 2nd Environmental Targets, the MHI Group set reduce unit water consumption by 1 percent per year as a target for manufacturing bases in Japan. In fiscal 2013, at its manufacturing bases in Japan MHI used 6.82 million tons of water (3 percent less than in the preceding fiscal year), which amounted to unit water consumption of 196 tons/kh. MHI met its target with this figure, which was also 3 percent less than in the previous year. As an example of measures to reduce water usage, water usage was reduced at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works by employing a coolant purification system when renovating the compressors. At Takasago Machinery Works, old pipes are regularly replaced, leading to large reductions in water usage. (Note) Water usage: Total volume of water supply, industrial water, and groundwater Water usage and Unit water consumption(Note) Base units: 203 tons/kh for fiscal 2012, 196 tons/kh for fiscal 2013 (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2005-2007 2010 2011 2012 2013 average Usage amount 9,520,000t 7,660,000t 7,220,000t 7,020,000t 6,820,000t Unit water consumption － － － 203 ton/kh 196 ton/kh 55 Environment Water usage and discharge (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 Water supply 2,656,000t 2,495,000t 2,241,000t 1,968,000t Industrial water 3,058,000t 2,732,000t 2,774,000t 2,850,000t Groundwater 1,947,000t 1,996,000t 2,005,000t 1,998,000t Other 2,410,000t 2,043,000t 2,763,000t 2,645,000t Total usage amount 10,071,000t 9,266,000t 9,783,000t 9,461,000t Discharged into public waters 8,291,000t 8,133,000t 8,261,000t 7,788,000t Discharged into sewer system 620,000t 527,000t 472,000t 463,000t Total discharge amount 8,911,000t 8,661,000t 8,733,000t 8,251,000t Recycled water usage Recycled water usage by all of MHI in fiscal 2013 was 426,000 tons, a 141,000 ton decrease from 567,000 tons in fiscal 2012. Recycled water is used to cool down products and equipment in manufacturing processes, to clean office floors and restrooms, and for landscaping use at works. We will investigate more methods for utilizing recycled water— including at works where recycled water use is under employed—and make efforts to reduce our water usage. 56 Environment Curbing the Use and Emissions of Chemical Substances through Proper Management and Use of Alternatives Promoting the reduction of substances subject to the PRTR system In fiscal 2013, MHI released a total of 1,118 tons of substances subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) (Note 1) system (Note 2). Roughly 98 percent of these emissions consisted of xylene, toluene, and ethylbenzene, which are primarily used in painting and cleaning applications. Xylene is used for painting ships, and its usage is typically specified by ship owners. It is therefore difficult to use an alternative substance, making reducing the amount of xylene a challenge. In the future MHI will continue promoting the adoption of alternative products (such as water-based paint) and steadily carry out activities to reduce the usage of substances subject to the PRTR system. (Note 1) PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register): The PRTR system requires publication of the sources and emission volume of toxic chemical substances and the amounts of such substances removed from manufacturing plants. The system is provided for under the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law. (Note 2) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. PRTR emission and transfer amount PRTR emission of environmental pollutants (Unit: t) (Note 1) No. Name of Substance FY2012 FY2013 Emission Amount 20 2-Aminoethanol 0.1 0.0 53 Ethylbenzene 314.7 224.3 57 Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether 5.1 58 Ethylene glycol monomethyl ether 71 Ferric chloride 0.0 0.0 80 Xylene 904.0 539.4 82 Silver and its water-soluble compounds 87 Chromium and chromium(III) compounds 0.0 0.0 88 Chromium(VI) compounds 0.0 0.1 (Note 2) 104 Chlorodifluoromethane (HCFC-22) 0.0 0.0 132 Cobalt and its compounds 0.0 0.0 133 2-Ethoxyethyl acetate 4.4 181 Dichlorobenzene 0.0 0.0 185 Dichloropentafluoropropane (HCFC-225) 186 Dichloromethane 0.2 188 N,N-Dicyclohexylamine 0.0 0.0 238 Hydrogenated terphenyl 0.0 0.0 240 Styrene 11.5 11.3 243 (Note 2) Dioxins (Note 3) 0.0 0.0 262 Tetrachloroethylene 8.4 3.5 281 Trichloroethylene 296 1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene 1.7 1.0 297 1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene 2.4 2.3 300 Toluene 552.9 329.8 304 Lead 0.0 308 Nickel 0.0 0.0 333 Hydrazine 1.2 0.0 336 Hydroquinone 349 Phenol 374 Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts 0.0 0.0 384 1-Bromopropane 4.4 4.0 391 Hexamethylene diisocyanate 0.0 392 n-Hexane 0.2 400 (Note 2) Benzene 0.0 0.0 408 Poly(oxyethylene)octylphenyl ether 3.1 2.9 410 Poly(oxyethylene)nonylphenyl ether 1.8 0.0 412 Manganese and its compounds 0.0 0.6 438 Methylnaphthalene 448 Methylenebis(4,1-phenylene) diisocyanate 0.0 0.0 57 453 Molybdenum and its compounds 0.0 0.0 Environment (Note 1) In principle, all these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. (Note 2): For designated Class 1 specified chemical substances (marked with a star), records are for substances whose annual transaction amount is 0.5 tons or more. For other Class 1 specified chemical substances, records are for substances whose annual transaction amount was 1 ton or more. (Note 3): The unit of dioxins is mg-TEQd Promotion of organochlorides reduction and replacement activities Dichloromethane, trichloroethylene, and tetrachloroethylene are used as paint removal agents and oil cleaning agents. MHI established a goal of achieving zero atmospheric emissions by fiscal 2014, and made efforts to reduce usage of these substances and switch to alternative substances. As a result, replacement equipment for cleaning equipment that used trichloroethylene was introduced, and reuducing the entire company's atmospheric emissions of trichloroethylene to zero from fiscal 2012. Meanwhile, the replacement of dichloromethane has been carried out sequentially from fiscal 2010. However 0.03 tons of atmospheric emissions of dichloromethane remained in fiscal 2013. For tetrachloroethylene, an alternative agent has been selected and facilities for changing over to the alternative agent have been installed, but 3.5 tons of tetrachloroethylene emissions still remained in fiscal 2013. As a result, atmospheric emissions of dichloromethane, trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene totaled 3.5 tons in fiscal 2013, falling short of the goal of zero atmospheric emissions. We will continue working toward the target of achieving zero atmospheric emissions by fiscal 2014. Atmospheric emissions of organochlorides FY 1996 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Target Dichloromethane 55.0t 18.6t 8.9t 0.6t 0.4t 0.0t 0t Trichloroethylene 54.2t 2.1t 0.7t 0.9t 0.0t 0.0t 0t Tetrachloroethylene 153.0t 6.6t 9.1t 9.9t 8.4t 3.5t 0t Total 262.2t 27.3t 18.7t 11.4t 8.8t 3.5t 0t 58 Environment Voluntary targets for the reduction of VOCs atmospheric emissions Emissions of VOCs, which are causal agents of photochemical smog, are regulated for facilities that release a given volume of these substances under the Air Pollution Control Law. In addition to legal and regulatory compliance, MHI set a voluntary target for decreasing atmospheric emissions of VOCs at manufacturing locations in Japan in fiscal 2014 by 30 percent from the fiscal 2000 level—targeting xylene, toluene, and ethylbenzene, which are emitted in large volumes—and worked to accomplish reductions. In fiscal 2013, emissions totaled 1,094 tons, representing a 51 percent decrease from fiscal 2000 levels. Atmospheric emissions of VOCs FY 2000 2012 2013 2014 target Toluene 581t 553t 330t 406t Xylene 1,504t 905t 540t 1,053t Ethylbenzene 150t 315t 224t 105t Total 2,235t 1,773t 1,094t 1,564t Promotion of outsourced disposal of equipment using PCBs As of March 2006, MHI had already registered the disposal of equipment using PCBs (Polychlorinated biphenyls) either currently in use or stored at its works, with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO), a special entity wholly funded by the Japanese government. The company also signed a consigning contract for disposal in 2007. By fiscal 2013, consigned disposal was undertaken at 12 sites (Note). However, according to the Law Concerning Special Measures for Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Waste, even equipment which uses trace amounts of PCBs not disposed of by JESCO must be detoxified by March 2027. Therefore, MHI has begun disposal at Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works and six other sites in fiscal 2013. (Note) MHI Head Office, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Takasago Machinery Works, Hiroshima Machinery Works, Mihara Machinery Works, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works, Meirei District, Ritto District, Iwatsuka Plant PCBs storage facilities at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works 59 Environment Main Products and Technologies in 2013 MHI to Develop and Demonstrate Electric Bus and Quick-Charging System in Brazil MHI has concluded an agreement for the testing of electric bus operation with Empresa Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos de Sao Paulo S.A. (EMTU/SP), a public transport operator in the city of Sao Paolo, and Metra Sistema Metropolitano de Transportes Ltda. (METRA), a local bus company. Awareness of environmental issues is high especially in Sao Paolo State, and plans call for the conversion of some 70,000 units to be replaced by vehicles run on renewable energies by around 2020. The operational testing is scheduled to be carried out by August 2014. The project calls for the development of a large articulated electric bus 18 meters in overall length, and also encompasses test operation, carrying passengers, and evaluation on an actual bus route in the Sao Paolo metropolitan area. Through this verification test, MHI will develop a pantograph-based quick-charging system for electric buses and aims to establish technologies related to electric bus systems that meet market needs. MHI plans to use this project as a foothold to proactively develop markets for electric buses throughout Latin America. The electric bus Test operation commencement ceremony MRJ, a Next-Generation Regional Jet, Moves Closer to Its Maiden Flight Mitsubishi Regional Jet (MRJ) is a family of 70–90-seat next-generation aircraft featuring a revolutionary engine and state-of-the-art aerodynamics to drastically reduce fuel consumption, noise, and emissions, making the MRJ environmentally friendly. MRJ would be the quietest and cleanest in its class. Thanks to its overwhelming operational economy and environmental compliance, the MRJ is expected to contribute to increases in airline competiveness and profitability. In June 2016, the first MRJ flight test aircraft moved a step closer to its maiden flight, as installation of its revolutionary engine was completed. In addition to achieving optimal efficiency through the high-speed revolution of its low-pressure spool, the engine uses low-speed fan rotation to curtail sound significantly. Efficiency improvements have allowed reductions in the number of engine stages and fan blades, thereby cutting engine weight and lowering operating costs. MHI remains firmly committed to the success of Japan's aviation industry, and will continue enhancing its environmental technologies through the MRJ business. MRJ's first flight test aircraft 60 Environment MHI Ene-Conductor Heat Source Control System Wins 2013 Minister's Prize, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Energy Conservation Center Contest The Ene-Conductor heat source control system developed by MHI was awarded the Minister's Prize, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for electricity conservation in the product and business model category, in the Grand Prize for Excellence in Energy Efficiency and Conservation contest sponsored by the Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ). The prize was bestowed in recognition of the Ene-Conductor's optimal control technology, which leverages MHI's expertise as a chiller manufacturer to achieve significant energy conservation and CO2 emission reductions in air-conditioning systems. The Ene-Conductor enables integrated control of centrifugal chillers and peripheral equipment such as chilled water and cooling water pumps and cooling towers. The system is capable of controlling multiple units, and can regulate chilled water and cooling water variable flow rate, cooling water temperature, and other operating parameters. It can also maximize overall system performance by optimizing individual chiller loads based on monitored data. The Grand Prize for Excellence in Energy Efficiency and Conservation contest is supported by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and has been held since 1990 to spread energy conservation awareness and to promote increased use of energy-saving products. Contest awards are presented in recognition of activities, products, and business models which have achieved excellent energy conservation. Heat source control system Ene-Conductor 61 Contributions to Society Fair Dealing Opening a door to new suppliers and ensuring fair evaluation and selection MHI procures a variety of materials and services both domestically and abroad that include materials such as steel, machinery, equipment, and components. MHI is open to all motivated and competitive suppliers. Suppliers are fairly and equitably selected and evaluated in accordance with the applicable laws and industry practices, in order to build relationships of trust predicated on mutual prosperity. This approach is stipulated in the MHI Procurement Policy (released in 2002), which can be viewed on the Procurement page of the company website. The Procurement page also includes application guidelines for prospective suppliers and contact information for material procurement for the benefit of companies that are interested in doing business with MHI. MHI Procurement Policy 1. Openness We strive to provide business opportunities openly to suppliers throughout the world, and welcome creative and competitive suppliers. 2. Fairness We provide chances for competition to qualified suppliers, and evaluate and select suppliers fairly based on criteria such as the suppliers' product quality, price, delivery schedule, technology and financial conditions. 3. Partnership We regard our suppliers as partners based on the mutual understanding that both partners should benefit from the relationship. 4. Compliance We comply with rules, regulations and social norm based on our compliance management policy, and all information submitted to MHI will be kept and used properly. Thoroughly preventing illegal and unfair dealings The Compliance Principles, which set out compliance requirements under applicable laws and regulations, are used by the Procurement Department to ensure compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors, which forbids unfair dealings by large companies towards smaller companies, as well as the Construction Industry Law. MHI is striving to prevent improper practices such as fraudulent ordering through a system of separating the departments responsible for ordering, receiving and utilizing procured goods and having them provide mutual restraints. Compliance is carefully monitored at every stage of ordering and inspection, with the results checked via internal audits in accordance with the PDCA cycle for legal compliance. 62 Contributions to Society Promoting CSR Procurement Guidelines and CSR activities in the entire supply chain In June 2010, MHI drew up the MHI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines, and provided MHI's business partners with information about CSR activities and programs that are designed to promote a consistent approach to CSR throughout the supply chain. The Guidelines are divided into five points that include comprehensive compliance and promotion of corporate ethics, and assurance of product safety and quality, cost, delivery schedule (QCD), enhanced technological development capabilities, and considerations regarding human rights and workplace safety. Business partners are expected to embrace the MHI Guidelines, which are discussed at dedicated presentations and are also available on the company website. Some 300 business partners took part in a self-assessment survey of CSR programs conducted in fiscal 2011. MHI has incorporated the CSR efforts of business partners as one item for evaluation and is preparing a method which appropriately evaluates these efforts. In fiscal 2012, MHI instituted a partner evaluation method with the aim of optimizing its supply chain and strengthening collaboration with business partners. MHI evaluated all five points (quality, cost, delivery, technology, and management) against a group-wide policy at major partners in each business. MHI also included results on assessments of CSR involvement level into some partner evaluations. MHI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines 1. Compliance and Corporate Ethics We ask all Partners to persist in compliance related to all business activities, to foster corporate ethics, and also, to work on building and operating an organization to facilitate this. 2. Safety, Quality, Cost, Delivery and Innovation In order to maintain and improve the value of MHI's products, we ask all of our Partners to provide materials and services with assured safety and quality, cost and delivery ( QCD ). Moreover, in order to create end products with high added value, we ask for your continuous improvement in developing new technology. 3. Human Rights, Health and Safety In the business activities of all of our Partners (including their respective supply chains), the human rights of all employees must be respected and safe, comfortable working environments be assured. 4. Respect for the Environment In order to achieve a more sustainable society, we ask all of our Partners to continuously monitor and seek to reduce environmental impact of their activities. 5. Contribution to the Region and Society We ask all of our Partners to work positively on the activities to contribute to the development of international society as well as regional society and to foster the next generation etc. Our Partners are free to determine the most effective way to fulfill their social responsibilities, which may include contributions through normal course of their business, charitable donations or contributions of facilities and/or resources. 63 Contributions to Society Building closer ties with business partners through management reforms and other improvement programs At the first Business Partners Conference in 2008, MHI pledged to incorporate requests, suggestions and feedback from business partners in Japan into management reforms and other improvement programs at MHI. The company remains committed to this process. During fiscal 2013, MHI continued to solicit Value Engineering (VE) (Note) proposals from business partners through its VE promotion system (website). Of the 4,616 proposals received, 4,159 have been adopted. The sixth Business Partners Conference in November attracted approximately 300 companies. The conference included speeches by the MHI president and general manager of the Procurement Planning & Administration Department, a speech by the chairman of the Society of Japanese Value Engineering, and presentations on examples of improvement initiatives carried out with business partners. Certificates of gratitude were presented to 16 partners for stronger product price competitiveness, higher quality, and shorter lead times. In addition, business partner conferences have been held at individual works and business segments, including at locations overseas, and MHI will continue to foster stronger ties with business partners through such reciprocal communication. (Note) VE: Value Engineering / A method for both improving product value and reducing costs [Overview of Overseas Business Partners Conferences Held] City and Country of Conference Date (Companies Attending) Bangalore, India February 2013 (13), March 2014 (25) Shanghai, China March 2013 (60) London, United Kingdom October 2013 (83) Los Angeles, United States February 2014 (40) Business Partners Conference The business partner conference in India The business partner conference in North America The business partner conference in Europe Declaring Basic Policy Concerning Conflict Minerals Armed groups engaged in conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries have committed serious human rights abuses and acts of environmental destruction. Some of the minerals produced in this region are thought to be a source of funding for these armed groups. In April 2013, MHI Group published its Basic Policy Concerning Conflict Minerals on its website, declaring that the company has no intention of abetting human rights abuses or environmental destruction by procuring raw materials, parts or products which contain the conflict minerals. Working with our customers and business partners, the MHI Group will continue efforts to avoid benefiting these armed groups . 64 Contributions to Society Procurement Education and Training Training for employees engaged in procurement activities Procurement departments at MHI provide a range of training programs designed to ensure compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. In fiscal 2013, MHI concentrated on providing training to more Group companies. Fifty-three young employees, including 32 from Group companies, attended a training session covering procurement-related laws and regulations and important points to be aware of when carrying out procurement work. A total of 92 new employees and employees just transferred to procurement departments, including 44 Group employees, were given an introductory course on basic information concerning procurement practices. Additionally, 416 MHI employees and a further 509 Group employees took an e-Learning course on the Act Against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors. MHI remains committed to providing procurement training programs tailored to the company's operational plans and ongoing amendments to legislation. Compliance training 65 Contributions to Society Disclosure Principles and IR Activities Promoting IR activities to facilitate a detailed understanding of our business Through Investor Relations (IR), MHI strives to keep institutional and individual investors in Japan and around the world fully informed of the activities of the company. The Managerial & Finance Planning Department set up for the sole purpose of managing investor relations, provides useful and up-to-date information as well as briefings and meetings designed to provide opportunities for direct communication. Comments and suggestions from these meetings are incorporated into future IR programs. Providing accurate information online that is easy to understand MHI releases information in accordance with laws and regulations as mandated by the exchanges on which the company is listed. In addition, information is constantly being updated on the Investor Relations section of the website. In an effort to communicate information that is accurate and easy-to-understand, the website also features a range of useful information and data that is not required by laws and regulations, along with charts and explanations of securities terminology. There are also videos of the General Meeting of Shareholders and other meetings such as financial results briefings and meetings on business operations for the benefit of institutional investors and analysts. In fiscal 2013, we diversified our communication methods to broaden our interface with shareholders and other investors. We developed an app that allows users to read the MHI Annual Report 2013 on a tablet device (iPad) and began providing smartphone (iPhone) access to the most recent information at MHI IR, allowing access to important company information without constraints of time or space. We also sought to make this information easier to read and search through by providing an online edition of the Annual Report. Implementing various briefings on business operation and strategy In response to demand from investors and analysts for more information on business performance and future planning of individual operations, MHI holds quarterly financial briefings as well as other types of briefings related to business performance and planning. The fiscal 2013 Financial Results Briefing and 2012 Status of Medium-Term Business Plan Briefing was held in April 2013, with 166 attendees. MHI maintained its commitment to good communication with individual investors. Briefings were held fifteen times in cities across Japan (mostly in locations close to MHI facilities) and drew a combined attendance of around 1,850. The briefings at Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum (in Yokohama, Kanagawa), History Museum (Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works) and M's Square (in Shinagawa, Tokyo) also included facility tours. The online briefing for individual investors was also held, with investors across Japan listening in. Given the positive feedback we have received on these briefings, such as comments on how useful they are for understanding MHI's various businesses and financial results, we will continue to make efforts to disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner. 66 Contributions to Society Holding plant tours for shareholders MHI has been conducting twice-yearly plant tours for shareholders since 2005 to provide opportunities to deepen understanding of its business activities. Plant tours in fiscal 2013 were held at the General Machinery & Special Vehicles division (now, the Sagamihara District Main Plant (in September 2013) and the Hiroshima Machinery Works (in March 2014). Visitors commented that they were thrilled with the opportunity to witness experienced Japanese craftsmanship and were impressed by how they maintain the cleanliness inside the factories. MHI will continue striving to incorporate feedback and suggestions on IR programs. Plant Tours (FY2013) General Machinery & Special Vehicles division (now, the Sagamihara District Main Plant (in September 2013 with 70 participants) ·Tour of the turbocharger plant, mediumand large-scale engine assembly line, and turbocharger testing and research center Turbocharger comprehensive assembly line (General Machinery & Special Vehicles division) Hiroshima Machinery Works (in March 2014 with 78 participants) ·Tour of the radiation therapy equipment production line, the turbine and compressor plant and the aircraft plant Tour of the turbine compressor plant (Hiroshima Machinery Works) 67 Contributions to Society Share and Dividend Report Fiscal 2013 dividend distributions For fiscal 2013, a 8 yen per share year-end dividend was distributed. An interim dividend of 4 yen per share was distributed, which brings the total dividend for the year to 8 yen per share. Dividend disbursements over the past five years FY Dividend per share 2013 8 yen 2012 8 yen 2011 6 yen 2010 4 yen 2009 4 yen Inclusion of MHI in Eco-funds and SRI Indicators Selection by Eco-funds and SRI Indicators The MHI Group practices management with a focus on CSR and conducts a wide range of activities to enhance its business, environment and society, including corporate governance and risk management. Thanks to efforts like these, MHI was again included in the eco-funds, formed based upon surveys of companies conducted by corporate rating agencies in Japan and overseas, and MS-SRI, a socially responsible investment index coordinated by Morningstar Japan K.K. 68 Contributions to Society Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources Active recruitment and utilization of mid-career, overseas and female workers In addition to new graduates, MHI also hires many mid-career professionals in order to ensure the diverse range of human resources required to maintain its position as an industry leader. In fiscal 2013, approximately 450 new graduates (who joined the company in April 2013) and approximately 60 mid-career professionals were hired. When hiring both new graduates and mid-career workers, MHI carries out fair screening with an emphasis on human rights and without discrimination due to gender or other reasons. Most mid-career hires fill technical or engineering positions that require a high level of expertise and where they can use the special skills they have developed in their respective fields. MHI is also working on a broad basis to recruit excellent personnel throughout the world. MHI is also promoting the employment and utilization of female workers. In fiscal 2013, approximately 25 percent of newly university graduated non-engineer recruits were women. In fiscal 2013, 1.3 percent of managers were female; this number has been increasing each year. In the interest of promoting diversity management further, by 2020 we plan to triple the number of female managers from the present level. Helping all seniors use their skills for a longer period after retirement With the size of Japan's workforce declining as a result of a low birth rate and aging population, MHI introduced on April 1, 2014, an employment extension program to provide veteran employees with opportunities to continue using their extensive knowledge and skills after retirement. The new program is a revised version of a previous program that set standards for eligibility. Now, all retirees are eligible for employment up to the age of 65. As of April 1, 2013, MHI, on a nonconsolidated basis, has rehired approximately 2,000 employees. These re-employed workers are active as experienced professionals, and serve to transfer their skills and expertise to others. Expansion of hiring to utilize skills of the differently-abled people MHI works to expand job opportunities for differently-abled people and to create a suitable working environment for all employees. For example, the Work Supporting Center was established at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works in July 2005 to provide a workplace for carrying out the digitization of in-company materials, data entry, shipping work, and other tasks. Other works are also working to create environments that will allow a greater number of differently-abled people to work with peace of mind, for example by educating employees, installing emergency warning lights, and making other efforts, both tangible and intangible, so they can hire people with hearing disabilities. In fiscal 2013, MHI's efforts to promote the expansion of hiring for differently-abled people included strengthening its hiring activities by further raising in-house target values for the employment of differently-abled people, utilizing an employment website for differently-abled people, collaborating with regional Hello Work (Employment Security Bureau) offices, and proactively utilizing various types of recruitment information such as job interview events. As a result, MHI's employment rate for differently-abled people reached 2.16 percent as of April 1, 2014, exceeding the statutory minimum of 2.10 percent. We will further increase such hiring in the future with the help of information and close cooperation with each of our main hubs. 69 Contributions to Society Improving education to strengthen global responsiveness MHI is working to improve employee capabilities and enhance education with the aim of being a global corporation that is capable of responding to changes in the rapidly transforming market. Based on on-the-job training (OJT) in workplaces, we are implementing various educational programs starting immediately after hiring according to job level and function. The main themes of education according to job level include leadership and management. With the aim of strengthening our ability to respond to globalization, starting from fiscal 2011 MHI established new systems including MHI Global Training (MGT). In fiscal 2013, 38 employees were dispatched overseas for this training. Strengthening development of local employees Training and promoting staff who are hired locally is crucial to MHI's effort to accelerate business globalization. It is therefore important that local employees understand MHI's management principles, the history of the MHI Group, and the types of businesses it operates. It is for this reason that MHI has created and begun distributing to local employees around the world Introduction to MHI Group , a succinct educational booklet on the MHI Group. MHI will use this material to better educate a growing number of local employees. Introduction to MHI Group 70 Contributions to Society Strengthening the development of junior technicians on the forefront of manufacturing At MHI, the number of junior technicians is increasing as more senior technicians retire. For that reason there is an urgent need to train technicians who can maintain the front line of manufacturing. To that end, MHI prepared textbooks that are standardized for the entire company to ensure the commonality and uniformity of education. We have also made DVDs to create digital versions of Skills of the Master manuals developed by veteran technicians. These and other efforts are to ensure the steady succession of techniques and the rapid development of junior technicians. In addition, with the aim of improving levels of expertise and energizing our junior technicians, we hold company-wide skills contests in machine assembly, lathing, welding, and other fields. MHI is also working to improve the leadership skills of employees who serve as instructors. Bolstering training activities for Group company employees To reinforce the management and overall constitution of MHI Group business operations, employee education initiatives throughout the entire Group are being implemented since fiscal 2007. Since fiscal 2009, MHI has provided Group company employees with group training, where managers take training according to their respective ranks and all employees take courses on English business communication and business skills. In fiscal 2013, a total of 10 such courses were held, attended by 581 people. Group training for MHI Group companies We hold various types of group training, soliciting participation from Group companies in Japan Encouraging mutual understanding through dialogue and the enhancement of personal capabilities MHI is taking action to develop the abilities of each person, and to create working environments in which employees can perform invigorating work that is free from anxiety, by encouraging mutual understanding and trust through dialogues between supervisors and subordinates. A common awareness of issues is created by having supervisors provide regular opportunities for dialogue based on self-reports by subordinates. Supervisors communicate with subordinates about the roles they are expected to fulfill while also paying attention to their requests and business improvement suggestions. For example, for white-color employees, MHI operates a Management by Objectives (MBO) system in which work targets are set and progress evaluations are made twice a year. In addition, in manufacturing divisions subordinates and their supervisors hold discussions once a year for the purpose of two-way communication. 71 Contributions to Society Basic Data Breakdown of employees by age (FY2013) Under 30 30-39 40-49 50-59 60 and over Male 4,966 6,502 4,999 3,266 280 Female 503 602 646 367 16 Total 5,469 7,104 5,645 3,633 296 Number of new graduates hired (MHI on a nonconsolidated basis) University Vocational school and junior Total college, high school, other (females in brackets) Joined the company 348 286 634 (60) in April 2012 Joined the company 285 167 452 (44) in April 2013 Number of female managers (section manager and above; excluding medical staff) (MHI on a nonconsolidated basis) April 2010 April 2011 April 2012 April 2013 April 2014 248 266 288 293 256 Number of post-retirement employees with extended employment periods (excluding those from Group companies) October 2011 April 2012 October 2012 April 2013 2,229 2,259 2,368 2,426 72 Contributions to Society Building a Better Working Environment Supporting the balance between childcare, family care and work in various ways In order to create an environment in which it is easy for employees to work and also have a family, MHI is making efforts to expand its various support systems that give consideration to childcare and family care. In November of fiscal 2011, MHI newly established the child planning leave system, which can be used for infertility treatment, and the annual holiday by hour system, in which employees can use their leave in increments of one to two hours according to their circumstances for purposes such as childcare and family care, and to make it easier to commute during pregnancy by avoiding rush hour. Furthermore, the periods for family-care leave and family-care work have been expanded; and each can be used for a total of up to one year. In addition, the systems for childcare leave, childcare and work, family-care leave, and family-care work all now exceed statutory minimums. Information about the systems and procedures regarding childcare and family care are available on our intranet so that employees can access it easily. We host lectures on career planning and work-life balance for female employees, given by MHI's first non-Japanese female director. Other initiatives include holding regular discussion panels between individuals on childcare leave and those who have taken such leave in the past in hopes of enabling a smooth transition back to work. Programs that focus on work-life balance Childcare and childbirth Child planning leave Childcare leave system Using accumulated paid holidays for childcare purposes (Note 1) Childcare work shift system (shortened work hour system) Work leave to care for a sick child and for other purposes Special grants for employees who balance work and childcare (Note 2) Next generation nurturing support grants (Note 3) Career Return Program (Note 4) Family care Family-care leave system Using accumulated paid holidays for family-care purposes (Note 1) Family-care work shift system (shortened work hours system) Work leave to care for a family member Career Return Program (Note 4) Other Flex-time system Paid holiday system by half day Annual holiday by the hour system Trips and time off for longtime employees (Note 1) Accumulated paid holidays is a system in which up to 60days paid holidays can be accumulated to use for illness, injury, childcare, family care, and other purposes. (Note 2) Special grants for working employees who place their children in daycare provide ¥5,000 per month to working employees who place children in daycare until the end of the fiscal year in which the child reaches three years of age (approximately 940 grants paid in fiscal 2013). (Note 3) Next generation nurturing support grants provide ¥100,000 per employee with three or more children (approximately 230 grants paid in fiscal 2013). (Note 4) The Career Return Plan is a system that opens the door to individuals who want to reenter the company after having left due to marriage, childbirth, childcare, family care and transfer of spouse. 73 Contributions to Society Nursery operated In April 2010, the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works opened the first MHI in-house nursery, MHI Kira Kids Nursery. All MHI Group employees working in the Nagasaki area can leave their preschool-aged children at any time between 7am and 8pm. Since opening its doors, the nursery has held various events such as parent & child picnics and Christmas parties, as well as English, gymnastics, and art classes. In January 2014, a childcare facility called Sun Marina Kids that is operated by the Nichii Gakkan Company opened within our Yokohama Building. MHI has reserved all spaces at the center, so that MHI Group employees can have children up through the age of three cared for there between the hours of 7a.m. and 8p.m. Sun Marina Kids has introduced its own cleaning service, which reduces the number of items parents need to bring with them to the center. The center has also introduced educational courses including English, gymnastics, and eurhythmics. In addition to our goal of continuing to be a nursery well loved by employees and local residents, we look to establish nurseries at other MHI locations as well based on the performance of this nursery. [Nagasaki] Cooking class as part of kids' food education [Yokohama] The center's popular slider Efforts for raising awareness of human rights in individual workplaces Since the establishment of the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights in 1992, MHI has been improving awareness of human rights throughout the company. Human rights awareness training is held each year for new employees and newly appointed managerial staff, such as managers and deputy managers. This training handles themes related to human rights issues and harassment, including fundamental knowledge and points to be aware of. In fiscal 2013, approximately 450 new recruits and 1,000 newly appointed managers and supervisors participated in human rights awareness training. In order to prevent power harassment (workplace bullying and harassment), we continued to hold an e-Learning course that was introduced in fiscal 2010, and have conducted awareness training for senior managers at multiple works several times since fiscal 2012. Since 2011, we have also been working to educate the rest of the MHI Group. We have also been working to raise awareness among all employees in various ways. For example, we are stepping up our efforts to address sexual harassment and power harassment by leading in the introduction of external consultation desks for Group companies in Japan. MHI will continue working to strengthen its activities to increase awareness of human rights. 74 Contributions to Society Creating safe and healthy workplaces centered on a basic policy for employee safety and health MHI embraces a basic policy for employee safety and health founded on the following three commitments: (1) Always hold fast to the conviction that life is precious, and carry out measures that prioritize safety and are appropriate to each position and location; (2) Devote every effort to safety in creating outstanding products that contribute to the development of society; (3) Maintain awareness that sound health is the basis upon which all else depends, and ensure that all employees have comfortable workplaces that enable them to be sound in body. Based on these principles, we operate an occupational health and safety management system throughout the company to create safe, pleasant workplaces. We will continue to further enhance our efforts aimed at reducing occupational accidents and leave due to injury or sickness. Industrial accident frequency rate FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 MHI 0.31 0.23 0.29 0.27 0.11 0.23 Manufacturing industry 1.12 0.99 0.98 1.05 1.00 0.94 (Note) Industrial accident frequency rate: number of deaths or injuries sustained through industrial mishaps per million hours on the job. It is calculated as follows: number of deaths or injuries sustained on the job that require one or more days of leave / aggregate number of hours worked × 1,000,000. Risk management and training to prevent work-related accidents and injuries In order to reduce the risk of occupational accidents, MHI makes improvements based on the results of risk assessments implemented at each works. These assessments are related to tasks and equipment, and are mainly focused on the safety and manufacturing sectors. We are also implementing safety education for entry-level employees and other people. This education utilizes visual learning materials and hands-on equipment that makes it possible to actually experience accident simulations. This hands-on equipment has been installed at nine works including the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works and Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works. Furthermore, in the future MHI will continue to make systematic efforts to improve equipment and update outmoded facilities in order to create safe, comfortable workplaces. 75 Contributions to Society Opening the Safety Transmission Center at Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works In October 2010, the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works opened a new educational facility on work safety. Called the Safety Transmission Center, the facility is dedicated to the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works' resolution not to let any fatal accidents occur in its production operations. The facility consists of two zones: the Accident Case Studies Zone, where videos and displays show employees how accidents happen and what to do to prevent them, and the Human Error Study Zone, where employees can learn, in a hands-on format and using real-life examples, the principles that trigger human error and how to identify risks before accidents occur. The Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works is working to cultivate in its workforce a sensitivity to hazards and a culture of safety, using the Safety Transmission Center as a place where all employees, from mangers to operators, can learn nearly firsthand the horror of accidents and the pain they cause, and decide for themselves what they can and should do to prevent them. Safety Transmission Center Maintaining and improving physical and mental health At MHI, we create healthcare divisions at each works in order to proactively support employees in maintaining their physical and mental wellbeing. We carry out the maintenance of systems, as well as the drafting and unified development of measures, as part of a project to strengthen health management throughout the entire company. Specifically, MHI is implementing health promotion measures that include health-related guidance and the setting of company-wide targets based on the Body Mass Index (BMI; a body mass index that serves as a standard for obesity, etc.). Various mental health measures are also implemented. Health promotion and mental health measures Health promotion measures (implemented at each office) ⋅Measures to prevent lifestyle diseases (implementing health-related guidance targeted at reducing the ratio of employees with a BMI ≥ 25) ⋅Health lectures, health consultations ⋅Activities to increase health (walking rallies, athletic meets, long-distance relay races, etc.) Mental health measures ⋅Primary prevention (employee education) -Education, training -Anti-stress measures in workplaces (stress checks) -Interviews regarding long periods of overtime work (more than 45 hours per month) ⋅Secondary prevention (early detection and treatment) -Encouraging the usage of consultation hotlines -Strengthening cooperation with medical specialists, consultants, industrial physicians, etc. ⋅Tertiary prevention (screening when returning to work, the rehabilitation working program) -Implementing work screening and the rehabilitation working program (Note) as support for returning to work (Note) The system is set according to person's plan for returning to work, within the range of four to eight hours of designated working time, or for half-day work in either the morning or afternoon, for a period of up to three months -Detailed follow-up after returning to work as a measure to prevent reoccurrence Promoting communication between management and employees MHI believes that communication between management and employees is crucial for carrying out smooth business operations. In line with this thinking, the company's intranet, corporate newsletter and other resources are fully utilized to disseminate management information and messages from top management to all employees as quickly as possible. In addition, various labor-management consultations provide forums for management to both convey management policies and strategies as well as to hear the views of the employees to be integrated into management practices. 76 Contributions to Society Enhancing Product Safety Strengthening safety and quality management systems MHI is continuing to promote product safety activities throughout the company. One example of our efforts started in fiscal 2005, is the Product Safety Project between the Legal Department and the Production System Innovation Planning Department. The Product Safety Project — which was brought to an end in fiscal 2012 — involved risk assessments to ascertain and reduce areas of risk related to product safety in three product groups — mass and medium-lot manufactured products, built-to-order components and built-to-order plants — along with strategies in other areas such as completion of instruction manuals. In fiscal 2013 it was expanded to include product business support and thorough training and human resources development. The QMS Promotion Group was established in April 2013 as part of the Monozukuri Innovation Planning Department at the Technology & Innovation Headquarters. Inheriting responsibility for the activities originally conducted by the Quality Management & Product Safety Planning Center in the same department, the new Group is working to entrench and enhance management systems in the areas of safety and quality. Continuously strengthening product QMS MHI has created a quality management system (QMS) to offer products that are safe and of assured high quality. As of June 2014, all production facilities in Japan and almost all of facilities worldwide have completed the ISO 9001 certification process. The QMS is optimized to the product categories at each facility and is subject to ongoing improvement. In April 2013, MHI established a QMS Promotion Group in the Monozukuri Innovation Planning Department. The QMS Promotion Group has been working to strengthen quality management, including at Group companies, and improve work processes to meet the needs of globalization by sharing technologies and knowledge horizontally across the Group. Conducting training to prevent product accidents with the establishment of an Accident Exhibit and Materials Room and other measures It goes without saying that, as a global and highly diversified manufacturer, the MHI Group's top priority is to ensure the safety and quality of its products. To promote product safety, we work to educate employees about safety and quality to prevent product accidents. One example of this is the establishment of the Accident Exhibit and Materials Room based on past accidents. The Accident Exhibit and Materials Room, opened in April 2010 at an MHI training center in Nagoya, introduces examples of serious accidents that have happened involving MHI Group products, such as a large cruise ship that caught fire while under construction. Its mission is to give all employees who handle MHI Group products, whether it be through design, procurement, manufacturing, or after-sale services, to pledge not to allow accidents like these to happen again, to learn from these accidents, and to put the lessons learned from these accidents to use in their respective jobs. The facility was given an extensive overhaul in April 2012, including the addition of new video presentations and artifacts designed to convey a greater sense of realism in regards to the nature of the accidents and the events experienced at the accident site. Approximately 22,000 visitors have passed through the facility since its opening. Meanwhile, since 2010 MHI has also held safety and quality training sessions describing past safety incidents, attended by new engineering and administrative recruits, employees in their fourth year at the company, and newly appointed deputy managers. In fiscal 2013 MHI expanded this to include newly appointed managers and newly recruited technicians, increasing the total number of employees who have received this training to around 7,400. Going forward, MHI will continue to expand its product safety education program to give employees more opportunities to become aware of the importance of safety and quality. The refurbished Accident Exhibit and Materials Room 77 Contributions to Society Quality and safety programs for key products Nuclear Safety Steering Committee continues to establish nuclear safety In December 2004, we established the Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business in light of a secondary piping damage accident in August 2004 at the Mihama Nuclear Power Plant Unit 3, which was built by MHI and operated by Kansai Electric Power. In January 2013, the name of the board was changed to Nuclear Safety Steering Committee to share and decide the issues and courses of action related to MHI's nuclear business, as well as to internally reform and expand the nuclear quality assurance management system. The committee has been conducting these activities under the guidance of a steering committee whose mission is to manage activities that help ensure nuclear safety. In fiscal 2013, the Nuclear Safety Steering Committee discussed and debated the status of efforts to foster a nuclear safety culture and the activities of the Working Group on Voluntary Efforts to Improve Nuclear Safety in the context of demands from regulators around the world and nuclear safety at MHI. The committee concluded that the requests of the regulators to ensure the safety of the nuclear power plants were strict, but MHI would continue working to enhance nuclear safety. Measures for enhancing PWR power plant safety MHI set up an emergency task force immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake. After the Advanced Plant Safety Department was established in August 2011, the task force was transferred to this department and developed countermeasures against blackout that occurred at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant. The task force has been reflecting these countermeasures at PWR power plants built by MHI in Japan. Furthermore, in July 2012, by offering support to Kansai Electric Power Company as it restarted Units 3 and 4 of the Oi Nuclear Power Plant, MHI has contributed to the first operational restart in Japan after the earthquake. The new safety criteria that was developed by the Nuclear Regulation Authority (NRA: established in September 2012) went into effect in July 2013. Currently, applications have been filed to restart the 12 PWR power plants, and safety inspections are underway. MHI is providing technical support to power companies to early restart the plants. MHI has been supporting power companies to implement midand long-term countermeasures, such as filtered containment vents and secondary back-up generators. MHI continues to contribute to the improvement of the safety and reliability of nuclear power plants and to the establishment of a stable power supply. Shipbuilding: enhancing QMS activities to prevent product accidents In Shipbuilding & Ocean Development, MHI builds and repair a wide range of ships and marine products in the Nagasaki, Kobe, Shimonoseki, and Yokohama regions. Although each region accommodates different types of ships according to its unique capabilities, the company strives to adopt the same quality indicators, non-conformity management systems, safety and quality education programs, and internal audits in all regions, and is working with each region to improve work processes and quality management capacity to realize a more advanced QMS and cultivate an attitude focused on safety and quality. Shipbuilding & Ocean Development operations work to deliver products and services that meet customers' expectations by ISO 9001 external audit for QMS activities and by obtaining worksite certification from various classification societies (Note). (Note) Non-profit organizations that establish rules and standards for the construction and outfitting of ships 78 Contributions to Society Aircraft: endeavoring to ensure aircraft safety through education and training, and promotion of safety measures Based on the Aircraft Safety Policy established in 1991, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works has given its highest priority to assurance of aircraft safety. Unfortunately, in 2000 there was an emergency landing accident involving an MH2000 helicopter, and in 2007 an F-2 jet fighter crashed and burst into flames. MHI understands the gravity of these incidents, and to prevent such incidents from occurring again, MHI pilots give presentations to MHI employees and employees from partner companies in order to ensure safety awareness. In fiscal 2013, 21 presentations were given to many employees of the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works and other divisions, employees of onsite contractors, and employees of partner companies from June 2013 through September. We plan to extend these presentations to employees in our corporate and technical divisions as well. We are also working on applying the three-pronged strategy we have adopted for preventing future accidents with the F-2 jet fighter—more detailed and precise work instructions (publishing of new work instructions), better self-checking by workers (creation of a self-checking program), and better skills management—to other aircraft models manufactured and serviced by the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works. Safety and quality assurance reform meetings attended by the general manager of the manufacturing site have been held since 2007. These are used to pursue education activities and improvement activities for increasing the efficacy of measures to prevent the recurrence of incorrect connection. To integrate these improvement activities with front-line operations, shop floor discussion meetings are held at each plant, where participants share information such as yearly progress and future goals. MHI will continue to carry out these actions as it strives to improve safety of aircraft manufacturing and maintenance. Transportation systems: ensuring the safety of transportation systems based on quality management systems MHI is working on the development of various transportation systems with a high potential for use in public settings, such as an Electronic Toll Collection (ETC) system and Automated People Mover (APM) for use in airports and other facilities in cities. To ensure that such transportation systems function with high degree of safety, MHI operates a quality management system based on ISO 9001 and our own quality policies in all processes from design, procurement, and manufacturing to installation and test operation. Every year, top managers and relevant personnel in Machinery & Steel Infrastructure Systems review these activities, evaluate the effectiveness of the quality management system and propose new actions for improvement. Workshops are also held so that relevant personnel can share information, for example, information on revisions made to laws, regulations and standards pertaining to railways. Mechanisms are also being developed to incorporate safety standards and customer requirements in various countries into the initial design stage of projects developed in and outside Japan. In addition to these efforts, MHI has introduced the system tool for sharing of lessons learned of past projects. Employees involved in past projects disclose and record their experiences and lessons learned so that current project members can acquire and share useful skills and knowledge, and find a stronger awareness of product safety. Air-conditioners: implementing safety verifications in every stage-development, usage, and disposal, based on design management standards Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters established design management standards in 1994 to ensure the safety of air-conditioners. To that end, when developing a product, quality check sheets and other measures are used to verify that products, when properly used, will not cause harm to people or property due to reasons such as harmful materials or possible fire or explosion at any point from development through to usage and disposal. In fiscal 2010, the department participated in the company-wide Product Safety Taskforce, and received instruction from key MHI experts on product safety risk assessment procedures for centrifugal chillers and ground transportation refrigeration units. This information was used to create a risk assessment template for complying with the EU machinery directive, which has been used to verify the safety and quality of MHI products sold in the EU since May 2011. 79 Contributions to Society Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) Pursuing products and services that can be trusted from the prioritized customer point of view One statement of the MHI creed is: We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. Therefore, the company's top priority is to always place itself in the customer's shoes and meet their expectations by providing products and services with high added value. In fields of business where companies are our customers, such as power generation and engines, we ask customers directly to complete questionnaires. For example, for areas in which general consumers are our customers, such as air conditioning, we have set up a desk to respond to Internet and telephone inquiries. Each year, we receive around 8,000 responses through this channel. In our questionnaires, we are setting evaluation criteria for each Business Domain. In the environmental plant division, after delivery is complete we ask customers to fill out questionnaires that contain a comprehensive range of items spanning sales activities, design drawings, on-site construction, and post-delivery service, soliciting their feedback on criteria at five evaluation levels. In the division that handles the thermal power generation business, we have introduced a VOC (Voice of Customer) feedback system to share information with our sales headquarters and individual works. In the compressor division, after meeting customers face to face we fill out customer satisfaction surveys and review summaries of evaluation results.Each headquarters and division of MHI works to boost customer satisfaction (CS) levels by conducting CS surveys and soliciting feedback and suggestions from the market and from customers. Basic CS Training, introduced in 2002, is used to improve employee awareness and foster the development of a customer-oriented corporate culture at MHI. Through these activities, MHI will continuously work to provide products and services that satisfy customers. Basic CS training (Hiroshima) Promoting advertising activities MHI established the Corporate Communication Department to promote advertising activities based on MHI business plans that target stakeholders in all global regions. As MHI moves ahead with its activities, the department confirms facts in close conjunction with the Global Business Planning & Operations Headquarters, the Corporate Department, and each domain and overseas sites and Group companies, to enable them to provide accurate information to customers, and endeavors to abide by all provisions in related laws and industries. After running advertisements, the Department assesses the improvement in recognition level in each form of media and the spreading of the corporate image. In fiscal 2013, we continued with the previous year's theme of broadcasting a TV commercial series in Japan presenting MHI manufacturing technologies, highlighting the air brakes that help rolling stock stop safely and reliably. We also ran corporate ads online and in radio media in conjunction with the TV commercial. Also, to mark the 130th anniversary of MHI's establishment on July 7, 2014, we launched a new TV commercial set in Nagasaki, the city where the company commenced manufacturing. It interweaves the dreams of children, symbolic of the future, and MHI's deep sentiments toward manufacturing. Also, overseas we ran a series of ads in the Financial Times (U.K.) promoting our rocket engines, turbochargers, and machine tools. There were no legal or regulatory violations related to our advertising activities in fiscal 2013. 80 Contributions to Society Implementing technical support as an aspect of preventative maintenance Since 1999, MHI has been maintaining high operating rates of thermal power plants (gas turbine) delivered around the world and providing technical support services to prevent problems. Through these paid services, we observe and support the operations of gas turbine plants 24 hours a day, 7 days a week in real time from remote monitoring centers established in two locations, one in Japan and the other abroad. We have been utilizing more than 10 years of the operational data of the plants to prevent problems. Also, we minimize shutdown of the plants by quickly and automatically detecting plant anomalies, applying quality engineering and immediately implementing troubleshooting procedures. As of April 2014, the service was used globally on 97 generators at 43 plants whose total output is over 20 million kW, and we have been contributing to stable power generation operations for our customers. Remote monitoring center Promoting nuclear power Public Acceptance (PA) activities Since 1988, MHI has been hosting tours of nuclear power plant factories at Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works to promote nuclear PA activities so that the attendees can gain a better understanding of the need for and safety of nuclear power generation. MHI encourages attendance, on these tours every year. In addition, although our nuclear power plants are PWRs, which are different from BWRs of TEPCO's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant, MHI has been supporting TEPCO for stabilizing the accidents caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake. MHI has also been deploying emergency safety countermeasures at MHI-built nuclear power plants to increase their safety and reliability. MHI will continue PA activities, such as providing related information and hosting tours, to restore public confidence in nuclear power generation. (Note) Nuclear Power PA (Public Acceptance) activities: Public outreach programs to provide a better understanding of nuclear energy Touring the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works 81 Contributions to Society Maintaining and Strengthening Defense Production and Technological Bases Contributing to the peace and safety of Japan through technology MHI is dedicated to the core vision of supplying cutting-edge technology for national safety and security. As a leading supplier in the Japanese defense industry, MHI endeavours to maintain and strengthen defense production and technological bases. MHI develops and manufactures a vast array of defense equipment based on the requirement of government of Japan, including fighter planes, helicopters, missiles, defense vessels and tanks, and also provides operational support. The environment surrounding the defense of Japan has been changing dramatically over the last few years. In light of the current financial difficulty of Japan and the speed of technological progress, it is increasingly important to maintain and strengthen defense production and technological bases, in order to satisfy the requirements of the government. MHI is focusing on the future security environment and is developing various technologies that meet the needs of the country. This includes research on the Advanced Technology Demonstrator for the purpose of achieving technologies, such as stealth and high maneuver flight control technology to be applied to future jet fighters. Cutting-edge technologies in the defense sector have a broad reach, and ripple effects to the civilian sector are expected, in the fields of materials, components, and processing technology. So we believe defense technologies can also contribute to long-term technological advances in Japan and the defense sector is expected to develop as a national strategic industry. UH-60JA utility helicopter (for use by the Japan Ground Self-Defense Forces). Ratio of defense-related businesses sales to total sales FY Ratio Amount 2011 12.8% 359.7 billion yen 2012 11.0% 308.6 billion yen 2013 11.6% 387.3 billion yen 82 Contributions to Society Fulfilling our Policy on Social Contribution Activities Conducting activities that suit the characteristics of each region based on the MHI policy on Social Contribution Activities MHI used the opportunity of the publication of the Social and Environmental Report in 2004 to formulate the basic concepts for social contribution, stated as We are obligated to be an innovative partner to society and We place importance on relationships with local communities based on mutual trust. The MHI policy for social contribution activities was released in 2007 based on extensive discussion and debate regarding the nature of public expectations as well as feedback from external sources. Various programs are being carried out in each region of Japan in accordance with the policy. Local contribution Live together with communities and contribute to their development Our basic policy is to live together with local communities of branch offices, overseas offices, and Group companies in foreign countries, building strong relationships based on mutual trust. With this in mind, we undertake various activities suitable for local cultures and contribute to the local development and activation both in Japan and overseas. Upbringing of the next generation Transfer the heart of Japanese manufacturing as well as the arts of science and technology to the next generation MHI has developed and produced more than 700 kinds of products in its long history, cultivating the heart of Japanese manufacturing and the arts of science and technology. To pass its knowledge and skills onto succeeding generations, MHI has a tradition of organizing educational activities such as science classes with experiments for children. 83 Contributions to Society Reports on Social Contribution Activities Expenditure of approx. 1.478 billion yen on social contribution activities MHI endorses the One Percent Club, a program initiated by Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) in which participating members commit at least 1 percent of ordinary profit to social contribution activities. As a member of the One Percent Club, MHI is actively involved in a range of social contribution activities. The company reports expenditure on social contribution activities each year. In fiscal 2013, MHI spent approximately 1.478 billion yen on social contribution activities, equivalent to 0.81 percent of ordinary profit. Change in expenditures on social contribution activities FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Academic research 247 million yen 164 million yen 177 million yen 143 million yen Education 633 million yen 596 million yen 503 million yen 494 million yen Community activities 141 million yen 180 million yen 153 million yen 125 million yen Sports 149 million yen 133 million yen 173 million yen 149 million yen Other 440 million yen 1,023 million yen 474 million yen 566 million yen Total 1,610 million yen 2,096 million yen 1,480 million yen 1,478 million yen Percentage of ordinary profit 2.36% 2.39% 1.00% 0.81% (Note 1) Figures include cash donations, payments in kind, activities by employees, free use of company facilities, etc., converted into monetary equivalents; activities privately performed by employees are not included. (Note 2) Includes group companies under consolidated accounting. (Note 3) Social contribution expenditures related to the Great East Japan Earthquake (donations, etc., made from March 11 through March 31, 2011) are included in the figures for FY2011, not FY2010. About donation recipients In addition to groups with a close business relationship with MHI, groups that perform the following activities, either in isolation or in conjunction with MHI, were chosen as the main beneficiaries of donations, in accordance with the MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines. Close ties with the Earth: environment preservation, etc. Close ties with Society: disaster relief, community work, welfare, promoting culture and the arts, international exchange and international cooperation A bridge to the next Generation: nurturing the next generation, academic research, boosting technical capabilities 84 Contributions to Society Robust recovery assistance to areas hit by natural disasters The MHI Group has long embraced a humanitarian perspective and offered assistance and support across the world in the aftermath of large-scale natural disasters. Continuing our reconstruction assistance for communities hit by the Great East Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011, in fiscal 2013 we again engaged in various activities to support children, such as teaching science classes, sponsoring charity musicals, and hosting a rugby workshop. We also launched new assistance efforts, such as the MHI Miyagi Mini-Fund, which provides assistance to community restoration efforts in the disaster regions, and donating (Note) dishes and eating utensils made from a MHI proprietary shape-memory polymer to social welfare facilities. (Note) In partnership with the labor union, a matching donation given by the company on top of money donated by employees through the Tomoshibi Fund. Employees soliciting donations to the Tomoshibi Fund Major support activities in recent years Year Disaster Scale of support Type of support 2013 Great East Japan Earthquake 28.04 million yen Cash donation and donation of air-conditioners and other supplies Damage from Typhoon Haiyan 5 million yen Cash donation 2012 Great East Japan Earthquake 28.62 million yen Cash donation and donation of refrigeration unit and other supplies 2011 Thailand floods 45 million yen Cash donation and supplies Great East Japan Earthquake 680 million yen Cash donation and donation of solar power systems and forklift trucks 2010 China Qinghai Earthquake 10 million yen Cash donation Chile Earthquake 5 million yen Cash donation Haiti Earthquake 10 million yen Cash donation and donation of lighting towers with generators 2009 Indian Ocean Earthquake and Tsunami 3 million yen Cash donation Damage from Typhoon Morakot 2.54 million yen Cash donation L'Aquila Earthquake in Italy 2.54 million yen Cash donation 85 Contributions to Society Activities that support the development of the next generation Science classes held by employees of various worksites The decline in children's interest and understanding of science has been an important issue in Japan in recent years, as such a decline could lead to a drop in global competitiveness for Japan, which depends on science and technology for economic growth. Given this context, since 2008 MHI has been supporting a visiting science class program, where employees in each business segment and works across Japan teach a science class in a variety of formats, such as by visiting local schools, or by inviting students to plants or the Minato Mirai Industrial Museum. The goal of the program is to help raise human resources who can contribute to science and technology and the global community. Classes were held again in fiscal 2013, with employees in each business segment partnering with local NPOs and other organizations to teach the class using products and technologies from their respective workplaces. More than 5,400 students participated in these classes nationwide. Host schools have responded with great enthusiasm, commenting on how the classes are not only fun but also relevant, and how they are thankful for having classes that pique the children's interest. Science classes held in FY2013 Taught by Grade level Number of Activities, topics participants (Note) Nagasaki Shipyard & Elementary school 26 Elementary school lecture on Boats, Buoyancy, and Propulsion Machinery Works Kobe Shipyard & Elementary school 150 Related to the Shinkai 6500 summer school, water pressure Machinery Works experiment and making paper craft models of deep-sea fish; lecture using wakamaru communication robot Shimonoseki Shipyard & Elementary school 248 Monozukuri Classrooms: Construction of a ship propelled by a Machinery Works rubber engine; windmill construction using a PET bottle; pop-pop boat construction; lecture on aircraft and ships Yokohama Dockyard & Elementary school 341 Kids' Club science classes: Buoyancy experiment using clay and a Machinery Works steel plate; construction of a flutter boat; lecture on wind turbines Takasago Machinery Elementary school 1,132 Summer school on wind and water Works Nagoya Aerospace Elementary, junior 1,197 Lecture on rockets and aircraft, hands-on experiment on aircraft Systems Works high, and high structure assembly (riveting) schools Nagoya Guidance & Elementary, junior 2,358 Lecture on rockets Propulsion Systems high, and high Works schools Hiroshima Machinery Elementary school 604 Lecture using wakamaru communication robot Works Mihara Machinery Elementary school 51 Lecture on motors and brakes and the principles of how trains start Works and stop Sagamihara District Elementary school 97 Lecture on turbochargers Meirei District Elementary school 221 Lecture on the mechanism behind temperature change Ritto District Elementary school 97 Lecture on motors and gears Head Office Elementary school 595 Lecture on planes and wind power generation systems on water Mitsubishi Minatomirai Elementary and 1,819 Paper airplane and ship-themed craft workshops Industrial Museum junior high schools (Note) Includes repeat participants; participants include students' parental guardians and teachers of host schools Science classes at headquarters and works (aircraft in Science classes at headquarters and works (Shimonoseki Vietnam) Shipyard & Machinery Works) 86 Contributions to Society Supporting the next generation at all stages from junior high to graduate school In addition to science classes for elementary schools, MHI also extends support to students at various stages in their education, from junior high school to graduate school. In March 2013, MHI and the Institute of National Colleges of Technology, Japan signed a comprehensive partnership agreement aimed at promoting academic excellence and industrial technology in Japan. By providing internships, sharing lecturers, and conducting joint research, we hope to cultivate and strengthen the manufacturing skills of young people. Teaming up with the University of Tokyo, we established an endowed chair on cutting-edge energy conversion engineering (Energy & Environment Domain) in September 2008 and an endowed chair on aerospace innovation (Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems Domain) in August 2009, thus contributing to the development of the next generation in technical fields related to MHI's business and in public policy research. 87 Contributions to Society MHI to Sponsor Nationwide Performances of the Shiki Theatre Company's Kokoro no Gekijo Based on MHI's CSR action guidelines of maintaining close ties with society and building a bridge to the next generation, through musicals the Company is working to cultivate a richness of spirit among the children of the next generation. Accordingly, from fiscal 2014 we will sponsor the Shiki Theatre Company's Kokoro no Gekijo ( Theater of the Heart ) productions. In 2008, the Shiki Theatre Company began conducting Kokoro no Gekijo, which uses legend to communicate on stage some of life's key lessons, including the importance of life, concern for others, and the joy of trusting one another. The musicals are being performed free of charge for children throughout Japan, from the island of Rishiri off Hokkaido in the north to the Okinawan islands of Ishigaki and Miyako in the south. In fiscal 2013, MHI sponsored performances in Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures as part of its efforts to support recovery in the area affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Employee volunteers from MHI took part in the production of the Shiki Theatre Company's Kokoro no Gekijo production Momojiro no Bogen ( The Adventures of Momojiro ) on Friday, January 10, 2014, in the city of Iwaki, Fukushima Prefecture. The 11 volunteers assisted with stage construction and dismantling, reception, and ushering and guidance within the venue. Including the morning and afternoon showings, the performances in Iwaki attracted some 2,975 attendees from 54 elementary schools. From their laughing at the lighthearted dialog and clapping at actors' cries, and then their earnest looks at the closing of the narrative, it was clear that the children had clearly taken to heart the show's message. After the production, the children looked on enthusiastically as the on-stage actors gave them a send-off. During our nationwide sponsorship in fiscal 2014, employee volunteers will assist on the day with performances located near MHI's works. Shiki Theatre Company http://www.shiki.jp/en/ Employees providing directions and guidance within the Helping with the loading and unloading of stage equipment theater Commemorative photo of staff and actors after the A message board decorated by the performers performance 88 Contributions to Society Tanegashima Space Art Festival Pre-event The island of Tanegashima springs to mind when Japanese people think of space. Various activities are now starting up in preparation for the Space Art Festival that is planned for 2017 and intended to expand the field of space art. This project, sponsored by the Tanegashima Space Art Promotion Council*, began as a grass-roots initiatives to cultivate the new category of space art and attract tourism, with art exhibits and educational pre-events commencing in fiscal 2013. MHI, which has been involved in space development for some time, took this opportunity to sponsor a children's space art classroom and music festival as pre-events in fiscal 2013. At Starry Sky Illumination, a Tanegashima space art pre-event held from August 12 to September 1, 2013, MHI held the event Children's Space Art Festival 2013 in Yokohama: Let's Everybody Make Stars at the craft workshop in its Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum. The object of the event was to teach children in Yokohama about the planet we live on, and encouraged them to draw on a plastic hemisphere, using marker pens. The completed works were lit from the inside with LEDs and put on display at the Tanegashima Space Center's Shibafu Plaza. In 2014, MHI plans is sponsoring the Space Art Exhibition Artist in Residence Project 2014. In addition to supporting children's and community activities, MHI plans to continue taking part in a host of projects that help people realize major dreams and goals. Through our CSR activities at Tanegashima, in addition to providing support for children's and community activities, we are taking into consideration such activities as inviting children from throughout Japan to view space art and attend launches, as well as sea turtle biodiversity preservation activities. * Tanegashima Space Art Promotion Council (members: JAXA, Tanegashima Tourist Association, Minamitane, beyond) Tanegashima space art festival pre-events (2013) 89 Recognition from Society Recognition from Society Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2013 April Received a fiscal 2013 Science and Technology Mitsubishi Heavy Minister of Education, category Science and Technology Award from the Industries, Ltd. Culture, Sports, Science Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and and Technology Technology in the development division for the development of an abdomen radiation therapy system with target tracking capability (Certificate of Appreciation) April Completion during a short period of time of new Mitsubishi Heavy Construction Management Construction of Route 6 Yamatogawa Line of the Industries, Ltd. Headquarters, Hanshin Hanshin Expressway and reconstruction work on the Expressway Co., Ltd. Route 14 Matsubara Line April Recognized for excellence at the 42nd Japan Industrial Mitsubishi Heavy Minister of Education, Technology Awards, sponsored by Nikkan Kogyo Industries, Ltd. Culture, Sports, Science Shimbun, Ltd., for the establishment and start of service and Technology of the SACLA X-ray free electron laser facility April 1st place among Gold recipients in machinery Mitsubishi Heavy Morningstar Japan K.K. category of Gomez IR Site Rankings Industries, Ltd. April Certificate of Commendation for TABLE FOR TWO Mitsubishi Heavy TABLE FOR TWO contributions Industries, Ltd. International April Matched the amount collected by the headquarters Mitsubishi Heavy Osaka Council of Social branch of MHI's labor union for the Tomoshibi Fund and Industries, Ltd. Welfare used this money to purchase and donate shapeHeadquarters Branch, memory spoons and forks developed by MHI, Mitsubishi Heavy contributing to the welfare of people with disabilities Industries Labor Union May Support for TABLE FOR TWO (Bronze Supporter) Mitsubishi Heavy TABLE FOR TWO Industries, Ltd. International May Matched the amount collected by the headquarters Mitsubishi Heavy Tokyo Council of Social branch of MHI's labor union and used this money to Industries, Ltd. Welfare purchase and donate shape-memory spoons and forks developed by MHI, contributing to the welfare of people with disabilities May Received a Fiscal 2012 Technology Award from the Mitsubishi Heavy Japan Society of Dam Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Industries, Ltd. Engineers and the Japan Society of Dam Engineers in recognition of contributions to the development of dam technology used in the construction of the Obara Dam (Certificate of Appreciation) May Completed construction on the No. 6 generator of the Mitsubishi Heavy Nippon Steel & Sumitomo central generation facility at Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Industries, Ltd. Metal Corporation Metal Corporation's Muroran Works in a short period of Muroran Works, Bar & time without accident and in a difficult construction Wire Rod Division environment May Employed advanced technologies, making a significant Mitsubishi Heavy Plant Engineering & contribution to smooth engineering work to improve the Industries, Ltd. Facility Management efficiency of in-house power generation at Nippon Steel Center, Nippon Steel & & Sumitomo Metal Corporation's Muroran facility Sumitomo Metal Corporation May Recognized for outstanding contribution to furthering Mitsubishi Heavy Kansai Regional Chapter, and completing the comprehensive improvement work Industries Bridge & Steel Japan Society of Civil (Hanshin Expressway Co., Ltd./steel girder Structures Engineering Engineers improvement work) in concentrated construction that Co., Ltd. connected existing steel I-beams June Completion of construction on toll collection equipment Mitsubishi Heavy Construction Management and ETC exit route facilities in tandem with construction Industries, Ltd. Headquarters, Hanshin of the Route 2 Yodogawa-Sagan Line of the Hanshin Expressway Co., Ltd. Expressway June Received a strong evaluation and a commendation for General Machinery & Sagamihara Construction taking the initiative on crime prevention activities while Special Vehicles, Project Society for Crime serving as the head of the Sagamihara Construction Mitsubishi Heavy Prevention Project Society for Crime Prevention in fiscal 2011 and Industries, Ltd. 2012 and for diligent community safety activities, including the participation in various other initiatives June Received a commendation for our excellent record in Mitsubishi Heavy Executive Officer, Ibaraki the management of construction with no incidents or Industries Engine Systems Branch, Kandenko Co., accidents as well as process management, in Co., Ltd. Ltd. managing high-voltage generation facility construction 90 Recognition from Society Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2013 July Received a Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Mitsubishi Heavy Minister of Economy, Award at the 39th Excellent Environmental Equipment Industries, Ltd. Trade and Industry Commendation sponsored by the Japan Society of Industrial Machinery Manufacturers for our R&D on equipment for collecting CO2 from combustion exhaust gases July Received the Ship of the Year 2012 Technology Special Mitsubishi Heavy Japan Society of Naval Award for the Hakurei marine resources survey vessel Industries, Ltd. Architects and Ocean Engineers July Received the Regional Special Award for contributions Mitsubishi Heavy JATCO Ltd to the erection of the company's JTL facility Industries, Ltd. July Support in sending vaccines to children in developing Nagoya Ryoju Estate Co., Japan Committee countries (part of PET bottle cap collection campaign) Ltd. Vaccines for the World's Children July Received the Good Construction Project Award from Mitsubishi Heavy Kinki Regional the head of the Kinki Regional Development Bureau for Industries Bridge & Steel Development Bureau, construction repair work on the No. 6 gate facilities of Structures Engineering Ministry of Land, the Yodo River floodgates Co., Ltd. Infrastructure, Transport (Absorption-type company and Tourism split to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd.) July Received the Good Construction Project Award for Mitsubishi Heavy Nagaragawa Estuary external construction on connecting gate No. 1 facilities Industries Bridge & Steel Barrage Operation and for the Nagara River estuary weir from the head of the Structures Engineering Maintenance Office, Japan Nagaragawa Estuary Barrage Operation and Co., Ltd. Water Agency Maintenance Office (Absorption-type company Incorporated split to Mitsubishi Heavy Administrative Agency Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd.) July Received the Safety Division Award for Accident-Free Mitsubishi Heavy Safety Council, Ikeda Dam Completion of Construction from the head of the Safety Industries Bridge & Steel Control Head Office, Japan Council of the Ikeda Dam Control Head Office for Structures Engineering Water Agency external construction on the Semeura Dam flood control Co., Ltd. Incorporated facility gates (Absorption-type company Administrative Agency split to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd.) August Received the Good Construction Project Award from Mitsubishi Heavy Civil Engineering Office, the head of the Shizuoka Prefecture Civil Engineering Industries Bridge & Steel Transportation Office for diversion channel maintenance and repair Structures Engineering Infrastructure Department, construction (water gate maintenance and repair Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Prefecture construction) on the Otani River, a Class B river (Absorption-type company split to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd.) August Completed construction without accident or injury of Nishinihon Ryoju Estate Special Machinery Phase 2 Isahaya construction work for Nishinihon Ryoju Co., Ltd. Department, Aerospace Estate's special machinery division Systems, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. September At the 40th anniversary of establishment of the Mitsubishi Heavy Turbomachinery Society of Turbomachinery Society of Japan, received a Special Industries, Ltd. Japan Contribution Award for major contributions at the time of the society's establishment, industry advancement and the creation of a path for the training of excellent researchers and engineers September Completed repair construction on free-flow ETC Mitsubishi Heavy Hanshin Expressway Co., equipment (23 Shinkan) and toll collection ETC Industries, Ltd. Ltd. equipment (23 Daikan and Shinkan) with considerable success and excellent results September Completed boiler fuel conversion construction on the Mitsubishi Heavy Kashima South Joint company's No. 1, 2, and 3 generators without accident, Industries, Ltd. Power Corporation disaster, or pollution September Cooperated with the Great East Japan Earthquake Mitsubishi Heavy National Federation of recovery support activities of the National Federation of Industries, Ltd. UNESCO Associations in UNESCO Associations in Japan and made a Japan substantial contribution to support activities in the affected area 91 Recognition from Society Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2013 October Completed construction without incident and within a Mitsubishi Heavy Japan Agency for tight schedule of the Shinsei Maru, a research vessel to Industries, Ltd. Marine-Earth Science and study marine ecosystems in the ocean off Tohoku Technology October Space Design Award 2013 Environment and Energy Japan Design Space Zone of the Mitsubishi Association Minatomirai Industrial Museum, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. October Completed design, construction, and supervision, Nishinihon Ryoju Estate Hayase Iron Works Co., without accident or disaster, of Phase 3 construction of Co., Ltd. Ltd. the company's Koe Factory November Significant contribution to the command's mission Mitsubishi Heavy Air Materiel Command, through a deep understanding of the mission of national Industries, Ltd. Japan Air Self-Defense defense and the Self-Defense Forces, the supply of Force parts and repairs on the Patriot System, and technological support during the establishment of guided missile destruction measures November Significant contribution to the development of the Japan Mitsubishi Heavy Chief of Staff, Air Air Self-Defense Force by demonstrating a deep Industries, Ltd. Self-Defense Force, understanding of the importance of the mission of Ministry of Defense national defense and the Self-Defense Forces and the enlargement of an employment relief framework November Certificate of Commendation for participation in the Yokohama Dockyard & Japan Relations Office, Kodomo Ecohatsu Campaign Machinery Works, United Nations World Food Mitsubishi Heavy Programme (WFP) Industries, Ltd. November 2012 Internet IR Excellence Award Mitsubishi Heavy Daiwa Investor Relations Industries, Ltd. Co., Ltd. November Best Site Award and 1st place in machinery industry in Mitsubishi Heavy Nikko Investor Relations the fiscal 2013 comprehensive ranking of Industries, Ltd. Co., Ltd. extensiveness for all listed companies' websites December Completed construction, without accident or incident Mitsubishi Heavy Hirono Thermal Power and with a significantly shortened schedule, of the No. 6 Industries, Ltd. Station, Tokyo Electric unit of the company's Hirono Thermal Power Station Power Co., Inc. December Completed construction, without accident or incident Mitsubishi Heavy Hirono Thermal Power and with a significantly shortened schedule, of the No. 6 Industries Mechatronics Station, Tokyo Electric unit of the company's Hirono Thermal Power Station Systems, Ltd. Power Co., Inc. December Manufactured and installed, without accident, a power Mitsubishi Heavy Kashima Kyodo Electric train in tandem with construction on the No. 5 unit of the Industries, Ltd. Power Company company's power station. December Due to rigorous processes adjustments, completed Mitsubishi Heavy Hirono Thermal Power chimney shaft augmentation construction, without Industries Bridge & Steel Station, Tokyo Electric accident or disaster, on the No. 6 unit of the company's Structures Engineering Power Co., Inc. Hirono Thermal Power Station Co., Ltd. (Absorption-type company split to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd.) December Swiftly completed, under a substantially shortened Mitsubishi Heavy Hitachinaka Thermal schedule, construction on the No. 2 unit of the Industries Bridge & Steel Power Station, Tokyo Company's Hitachinaka Thermal Power Station, by Structures Engineering Electric Power Co., Inc. combining extensive experience with superior Co., Ltd. technologies (Absorption-type company split to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd.) December Certificate of Appreciation for cooperating with blood Kanazawa Plant, Governor of Kanagawa donations Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. December City of Yokohama Outstanding Works for Reduce, Kanazawa Plant, Mayor of the City of Reuse, Recycle Activities Yokohama Dockyard & Yokohama Machinery Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. December City of Yokohama Outstanding Works for Reduce, Honmoku Plant, Yokohama Mayor of the City of Reuse, Recycle Activities Dockyard & Machinery Yokohama Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. December Asakawa Award and Award for Excellence in the No. 1 Mitsubishi Heavy IBM Fellow Chieko Web Grand Prix, Corporate Grand Prix Division Industries, Ltd. website, Asakawa, Japan MHI Graph Advertisers Association, Inc., Web Advertising Research Council 92 Recognition from Society Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2014 January Certificate of Commendation (for contributions to charity Takasago Machinery City of Takasago concert revenues) Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. January In the company's Best Innovation 2013 chemical milling Mitsubishi Heavy Mitsubishi Heavy process department, contributed to increasing the Industries Mechatronics Industries, Ltd. uniformity of product quality, boosting productivity, and Systems, Ltd. curtailing costs January Demonstrated a deep understanding of and proactive Komaki South Plant, Head of the Nishibiwajima cooperation with police operations, contributing Nagoya Aerospace Police Station, Aichi significantly to the promotion of smooth policing Systems Works, Mitsubishi Prefecture operations Heavy Industries, Ltd. January Demonstrated a deep understanding of and proactive Tobishima Plant, Nagoya Head of the Kanie Police cooperation with police operations, contributing Aerospace Systems Station, Aichi Prefecture significantly to the promotion of smooth policing Works, Mitsubishi Heavy operations Industries, Ltd. February For the works' overall activities, received the Pika Pika shimonoseki Shipyard & City of Shimonoseki Grand Prize in the corporate division of the Pika Pika Machinery Works, Campaign, sponsored by the City of Shimonoseki Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. February Received the Director's Award in the technology Mitsubishi Heavy Advanced Cogeneration development division of the Cogeneration Award 2013 Industries, Ltd. and Energy Utilization for the MEGANINJA series container-configured power Center generation system February Contribution to the formation of a recycling-oriented Tamachi Building Co., Ltd. Minato-ku society through proactive activities to reduce trash volume and ensure appropriate processing at large-scale commercial building (Daiichi Tamachi Building) February Received award for in the history division for Nagasaki Shipyard & City of Nagasaki, Nagasaki Sensyokaku, at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Machinery Works, Prefecture Work, in the 18th Nagasaki City Scenery Award Mitsubishi Heavy Commendations (Certificate of Appreciation) Industries, Ltd. March Construction of the Koshikijima high-speed ship, Mitsubishi Heavy City of Satsumasendai combining the Company's high level of expertise in Industries, Ltd. high-speed vessels with technologies used in the construction of passenger ships March Through wholehearted efforts toward completion, Nishinihon Ryoju Estate Trucking Business contributed to the construction and design supervision Co., Ltd. Promotion Center of Kitakyushu Truck Station improvement construction March Received a Comprehensive Award in the magazines Global Arch, Group Keidanren (Japan and newspapers division for the fiscal 2013 Keidanren newsletter for Mitsubishi Business Federation) Commendation for Internal Publications Heavy Industries, Ltd. Keidanren Business Service Co., Ltd. March First price in the 2014 Report Cover Design Awards Mitsubishi Heavy Heartway Co., Ltd., Industries, Ltd. Infoword Co., Ltd. March Ranked 21st in the Toyo Keizai CSR Corporate Mitsubishi Heavy Toyo Keizai Inc. Rankings (with 540.8 points out of a possible 600 ) Industries, Ltd. 93 Recognition from Society Main Third-party Opinions on Past CSR Reports and Our Responses Main opinions on the 2013 report and our responses 1. The interview with the president clearly states the Company's policy on nuclear power. We give high marks to the fact that the head of MHI is clearly stating the Company's position. We hope to continue seeing such care taken toward transparency and accountability going forward. In the 2014 Report (Website) With regard to Japanese and overseas regulatory demands concerning nuclear power safety, on our website we introduce our initiatives aimed at ensuring nuclear power safety. For instance, the site shows the status of activities that cultivate a culture of nuclear power safety and activity by the Nuclear Safety Steering Committee, which reports and deliberates on developments by the Working Group for Enhancing Voluntary Safety Efforts on Nuclear Power. See the website for details. (Enhancing Product Safety: http://www.mhi-global.com/company/csr/esg/social/customers/customers02.html) 2. Building a workplace where women as well as people from diverse nationalities and cultural backgrounds can live up to their full potential is an issue that all Japanese companies share. MHI should step up its activities aimed at increasing workforce diversity. In the 2014 Report (Website) We consider the cultivation of diverse human resources necessary in order to win out amid increasingly severe competition, and we introduce a host of initiatives toward this end. See the website for details. (Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources: http://www.mhi-global.com/company/csr/esg/social/employees/employees02.html) 3. I believe that the way companies think in terms of prioritizing the various challenges facing different regions and deciding how to contribute to their solution is in itself an important tool for enhancing competitiveness over the long term. In the 2014 Report (Website) The MHI Group understands material issues to be issues that materially affect both society and corporate value (mainly, those related to ESG). We analyze these issues, both from the viewpoint of society—on the basis of various international standards and stakeholder feedback—and from the Company's perspective. During fiscal 2014, we aim to complete the process of specifying material issues. We are currently at the stage of eliciting and analyzing issue candidates. See the website for details. (Specific Policies Addressing Material Social Issues: http://www.mhi-global.com/finance/mr2014/management/material.html) 94 Recognition from Society Progress Toward a Sustainable Society MHI's Activities Year Major Events in Japan and Abroad( :Society/ :Environment) ( :Society/ :Environment) Japan World 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 1967 Institution of Basic Law for Environmental Pollution Control. 1970 Completion of Japan's first 1970 PWR power plant. 1971 Establishment of Environment Agency. 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human Environment convenes in Stockholm. Adoption of Statement for Human Environmental Quality. Establishment of United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). 1973 Inauguration of Environment Management Department. 1976 OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises issued. 1977 Development of Basic Guidelines for Safety & Health Management. 1978 Creation of Environmental Manager Conferences. 1980 Establishment of Committee 1980 on Promotion of Training in the Dowa Issue. 1981 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women went into effect. International Year of Disabled Persons. 1985 Enactment of Equal Employment Opportunity Law. 1987 Establishment of Export1987 Enactment of Ozone Layer Protection Law. related Regulations Monitoring Committee. 1988 Launch of In-house Conference on CO2 Measures and In-house Conference on CFC Measures. 1989 Launch of In-house Conference on CO2 Measures and In-house Conference on CFC Measures. 1990 1990 Institution of Americans with Disabilities Act. 1991 Establishment of Keidanren Global Environmental Charter. Establishment of Keidanren Charter of Corporate Behavior. Enactment of Child Care Leave Law. 1992 Committee on Promotion of 1992 Ministry of International 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment Training in the Dowa Issue Trade and Industry requests and Development (Earth Summit) convenes in renamed Committee for Raising Voluntary Plan on the Rio de Janeiro; adoption of Rio Declaration on Awareness of Human Rights. Environment. Environment and Development and Agenda 21. Establishment of Committee for the Promotion of Employment of the Handicapped. 1993 Formulation of voluntary plan 1993 Enactment of Basic entitled, Our Approach to Environmental Law. Environmental Problems. 1994 Caux Round Table draws up Principles for Business. 1995 Child Care Leave Law 1995 1st Conference of the Parties to the United revamped into Child Care and Nations Convention on Climate Change (COP1) Family Care Leave Law. convened in Berlin. 1996 Formulation of Environmental 1996 Revision of Keidanren 1996 ISO 14001 is instituted. Policies and establishment of Charter of Corporate Behavior. 2nd Conference of the Parties to the United Environment Committee. Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP2) convened in Geneva. 95 Recognition from Society MHI's Activities Year Major Events in Japan and Abroad( :Society/ :Environment) ( :Society/ :Environment) Japan World 1997 Acquisition of ISO 14001 1990 1997 Formulation of Keidanren Voluntary 1997 3rd Conference of the Parties to the certification by Yokohama Action Plan on the Environment. United Nations Framework Convention Machinery Works, a first for on Climate Change (COP3) convened Japan's heavy industry in Kyoto. manufacturers. Launch of R410A-compatible air-conditioners. (R410A: new type of environment-friendly refrigerant) 1998 Development of system that 1998 Enactment of Law Concerning the 1998 4th Conference of the Parties to the thermally decomposes PCBs Promotion of Measures to Cope with United Nations Framework Convention contained in industrial effluents. Global Warming. on Climate Change (COP4) convened Enactment of Law to Promote in Buenos Aires. Specified Nonprofit Activities. 1999 Delivery of combined-cycle 1999 Enactment of Pollutant Release and 1999 5th Conference of the Parties to the power plant incorporating the Transfer Register (PRTR) Law. United Nations Framework Convention M701G gas turbine, featuring on Climate Change (COP5) convened the world's highest efficiency in Bonn. rating. 2000 ISO 14001 certification 2000 2000 2000 Enactment of The Basic Law for 2000 6th Conference of the Parties to the acquired by all production bases Establishing a Recycling-based Society. United Nations Framework Convention (13 works). Revision of Law for the Promotion of on Climate Change (COP6) convened Recycled Resources Utilization. in The Hague. Enactment of Construction Material United Nations Global Compact is Recycling Law, Food Recycling Law and instituted. Law on Promoting Green Purchasing. Issuance of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 1. 2001 Acquisition of ISO 14001 2001 Establishment of Ministry of the 2001 7th Conference of the Parties to the certification by Engineering Environment. United Nations Framework Convention Department. Enactment of Law Concerning Special on Climate Change (COP7) convened Establishment of Compliance Measures against PCB Waste. in Marrakech. Committee. Enactment of Fluorocarbons ISO Council launches feasibility study Recovery and Destruction Law. on establishing international CSR standards. 2002 Establishment of mediumto 2002 Ratification of Kyoto Protocol. 2002 World Summit for Sustainable long-term environmental activity Enactment of Soil Contamination Development convened in goals. Countermeasures Law. Johannesburg. Nippon Keidanren revamps Keidanren 8th Conference of the Parties to the Charter of Corporate Behavior into United Nations Framework Convention Corporate Behavior Charter. on Climate Change (COP8) convened First meeting of CSR Standardization in New Delhi. Committee held by Ministry of Economy, GRI Sustainability Reporting Trade and Industry. Guidelines Version 2 released. 2003 Establishment of Construction 2003 2003 Trial project for trading of 2003 First study meeting held to discuss Business Act Compliance greenhouse gas emissions implemented treaty on safety of radioactive waste Committee. by Ministry of the Environment. management. Emissions standards for diesel 9th Conference of the Parties to the vehicles tightened. United Nations Framework Convention Revision of Waste Management and on Climate Change (COP9) convened Public Cleansing Law. in Milan. Japan Association of Corporate Executives for Economic Development releases 15th Corporate White Paper, entitled, Evolution of Market and Social Responsibility-Minded Business Management. 2004 Joined United Nations Global 2004 Tenth item (on corruption prevention) Compact initiative. added to United Nations Global Establishment of Managing Compact. 10th Conference of the Board for Innovation in the Parties to the United Nations Nuclear Business. Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP10) convened in Buenos Aires. 2005 Introduction of Executive 2005 Enactment of Act on the Protection of 2005 Kyoto Protocol goes into force. Officer system. Personal Information. 11th Conference of the Parties to the Establishment of Internal United Nations Framework Convention Audit Department. on Climate Change (COP11) and the Establishment of CSR Center. 1st Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Establishment of Order Protocol (COP/MOP1) convened in Compliance Committee. Montreal. 2006 Acquisition of ISO 14001 2006 Enactment of New Company Law. 2006 GRI Sustainability Reporting certification by Head Office New National Energy Strategy Guidelines Version 3 released. (including branch offices). formulated. 12th Conference of the Parties to the Establishment of CSR United Nations Framework Convention Committee. on Climate Change (COP12) convened Establishment of CSR in Nairobi. Department. EU announced target of reducing CO2 emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels by 2020. 96 Recognition from Society MHI's Activities Year Major Events in Japan and Abroad( :Society/ :Environment) ( :Society/ :Environment) Japan World 2007 Establishment of CSR Action 2000 2007 21st Century Environmental Nation 2007 Fourth Assessment Report released by Guidelines. Strategy formulated. the United Nations Intergovernmental Enactment of the revised Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Consumer Products Safety Law. 2008 Development of CSR Action 2008 Application of internal control report Plan. system based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (J-SOX) started. Holding of the G8 Hokkaido Toyako Summit. Revision of Act Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. 2009 Revision of Soil Contamination 2009 The Green New Deal advocated by the Countermeasures Law. U.S. is embraced by countries across the globe. 2010 Achievement of zero emission 2010 Cabinet determines Basic Law for 2010 15th Conference of the Parties to the at all locations Prevention of Global Warming United Nations Framework Convention on Establishment of the Accident Cabinet determines 2010 National Climate Change (COP 15) convened in Exhibit and Materials Room Strategy for the Conservation and Copenhagen. Establishment of the CSR Sustainable Use of Biological COP10 10th Conference of the Parties Promotion Section of the Diversity to the Convention on Biological Diversity Presidential Administration Revision of the Waste Disposal Act held in Nagoya Office Revision of the Air Pollution Control Adoption of the Nagoya Protocol and Aichi Law Target Revision of the Water Pollution CSR Standards (ISO 26000) issued Prevention Act 2011 Implementing Energy-saving 2011 Decision to introduce an 2011 International energy management Measures at All Works environmental tax for measures standard (ISO 5001) issued against global warming UN International Year of Forests Feed-in Tariffs for renewable Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) energy Accounting and Reporting Standard Establishment of Principles for 17th Conference of the Parties to the Financial Action towards a United Nations Framework Convention on Sustainable Society Climate Change (COP17) convened in Durban GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version 3.1 released 2012 Establishment of the CSR 2012 Publication of General Guidelines 2012 UN Conference on Sustainable Group in the Corporate on Supply Chain GHG Emission Development (Rio+20) held in Rio de Communication Department of Accounting Ver. 1.0 Janeiro, Brazil the Presidential Administration Amended Water Pollution Control Eleventh Meeting of the Conference of Office Law enters into force the Parties (COP11) to the Convention on Creation of MHI Feed-in tariff system for renewable Biological Diversity held in Hyderabad, Environmental Vision 2030 energy launched India Funds for Community Cabinet approves National Eighteenth Meeting of the Conference Engagement established Biodiversity Strategy of Japan of the Parties (COP18) to the UN 2012-2020 Framework Convention on Climate Environmental tax for measures Change held in Doha, Qatar against global warming goes into 2012 International Year of effect Sustainable Energy for All U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission adopts rule mandating companies to disclose use of conflict minerals 2013 Becomes first Japan's first 2013 Revisions to the Act on Promotion 2013 Fourth edition of the Sustainability member in the World Ocean of Global Warming Countermeasures Reporting Guidelines (GRI) announced Council (WOC) announced India revises its corporate law, making Shift to Domain-based Act on the Promotion of the CSR mandatory Organizational Structure Employment of Disabled Persons International Integrated Reporting Establishment of the MHI revised Framework announced Group 2nd Environmental Revisions to the Act Concerning the Minamata Convention on Mercury Targets Rational Use of Energy adopted Act on Promotion of Recycling Small Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment goes into effect 2014 MHI introduces chief officer 2014 Financial Services Agency 2014 European Union adopts protocol on system announces the Japanese version of disclosure of non-financial information Establishment of the CSR the Stewardship Code European Environmental Agency Group in the Corporate Worker Dispatching Act revised envisions new actions such as priority Communication Department of Basic Law on the Water Cycle issues for 2014 the Business Strategy Office enacted European Union proposes regulations Formulated the MHI Group related to the issue of transactions Basic Policy on Human Rights involving conflict minerals Sun Marina Kids childcare Industry-specific GRI, G4 guidelines center opens in MHI's announced Yokohama Building 97 Recognition from Society Relationship with Stakeholders For detailed shareholder dialogue content, please see our website. http://www.mhi-global.com/company/csr/policy/stakeholder/index.html MHI held a stakeholder dialogue to discuss the main human rights issues in the manufacturing sector (in 2013) MHI held a stakeholder dialogue to learn from two experts, Mr. Makoto Teranaka and Mr. Hiroshi Ishida, in order to identify human rights impacts. Approach to Environmental and Energy Technologies In Line with MHI's Environment Vision 2030 (in 2012) A summary of the valuable opinions expressed by outside experts towards our Environment Vision 2030, along with MHI's views on the points they brought up. Expectations for Science Class Support Activities (in 2011) Discussions were held with the Board of Education and NPO to exchange opinions on Meeting of Future Space Child (KU-MA). Kodomo Uchu Mirai Association Sustaining and enhancing the science class in collaboration with local communities (in 2010) Discussions were held with the Board of Education and NPO to exchange opinions on Meeting of Future Space Child (KU-MA). Kodomo Uchu Mirai Association Bringing MHI's unique science classes to elementary and junior high schools across the country (in 2008) We invited children from Osaka Nonaka Elementary School who attended the science class and experts in next-generation education to share their feedback and recommendations. MHI's Responsibility to Support Space Development Today and Tomorrow and Hopes for the Future (in 2007) MHI and experts discussed H-IIA Project that transferred into our hands. Expectations Held of MHI to Achieve Stable Energy Supplies Worldwide and a Sustainable Society (in 2006) The second stakeholders meeting focused on energy, marked by active discussions involving representatives from various related fields. The Role to be Filled by MHI For the Realization of a Sustainable Society (in 2005) The first stakeholders meeting was held based on the 2004 Social and Environmental Report. 98 Recognition from Society GRI Guideline Comparison List Comparison Chart of Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the CSR Web Site Guidelines (Fourth Edition, or G4) and United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Principles Principle 1.Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization (e.g., Interview with the President CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Interview with the President MHI's CSR CSR Medium-Term Action Plan Targets and Progress 2.Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. MHI REPORT 2014 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. MHI REPORT 2014 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. MHI REPORT 2014 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of MHI REPORT 2014 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. MHI REPORT 2014 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types MHI REPORT 2014 of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. MHI REPORT 2014 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Recognition from Society 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. MHI REPORT 2014 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). MHI REPORT 2014 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) MHI REPORT 2014 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. MHI REPORT 2014 Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content MHI REPORT 2014 MHI's CSR 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased MHI REPORT 2014 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. MHI REPORT 2014 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including MHI REPORT 2014 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the Environmental Accounting compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2013) 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. (This page) Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 99 Recognition from Society Comparison Chart of Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the CSR Web Site Guidelines (Fourth Edition, or G4) and United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Principles Principle 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Current Status of Corporate Governance and highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting Internal Controls strategy or organizational oversight. Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2013 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Current Status of Corporate Governance and executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's Internal Controls management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of Current Status of Corporate Governance and members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or Internal Controls non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations Current Status of Corporate Governance and or direction to the highest governance body. Internal Controls Building a Better Working Environment Disclosure Principles and IR Activities 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance Web body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of Current Status of Corporate Governance and interest are avoided. Internal Controls 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of Current Status of Corporate Governance and the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on Internal Controls economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and Creed principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and MHI's CSR the status of their implementation. CSR Medium-Term Action Plan Improving Compliance Principles / Guidelines Environmental Management Promotion System MHI Environmental Vision 2030 Targets and Progress Fair Dealing Promoting CSR Procurement Fulfilling our Policy on Social Contribution Activities 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's Interview with the President identification and management of economic, environmental, and social MHI's CSR performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and Current Status of Corporate Governance and principles. Include frequency with which the highest governance body Internal Controls assesses sustainability performance. Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2013 Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group Establishing and Operating an Environmental Management System Environmental Management Promotion System 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Interview with the President addressed by the organization. Risk Management Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2013 Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group Improving Compliance Principles / Guidelines Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks Enhancing Product Safety Fair Dealing Promoting CSR Procurement 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, MHI REPORT 2014 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or Interview with the President endorses. Participation in the UN Global Compact MHI's CSR 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Participation in the UN Global Compact national/international advocacy organizations. 100 Recognition from Society Comparison Chart of Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the CSR Web Site Guidelines (Fourth Edition, or G4) and United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Principles Principle Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. MHI's CSR 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. MHI's CSR 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Interview with the President engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Relationship with Stakeholders Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities Enhancing Product Safety Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) Disclosure Principles and IR Activities Promoting CSR Procurement Building a Better Working Environment Social Contribution Activities 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder MHI's CSR engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics CSR Medium-Term Action Plan and concerns, including through its reporting. 5.Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, MHI's CSR operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community Social Contribution Activities investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and ESG data 2014 governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Interview with the President organization's activities due to climate change. MHI's CSR Initiatives to Enhance Corporate Value CSR Medium-Term Action Plan Targets and Progress Environmental Accounting CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2013) Main Products and Technologies in 2013 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Interview with the President provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro Initiatives to Enhance Corporate Value bono engagement. CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2013) Main Products and Technologies in 2013 Social Contribution Activities EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, Promoting CSR Procurement including the extent of impacts. Building a Better Working Environment Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Principle 8, Principle 9 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Principle 8 Material Balance EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Principle 8 Material Balance Promotion of Measures to Curtail Greenhouse Gas Emissions EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Principle 8, Principle 9 Promotion of Measures to Curtail Greenhouse Gas Emissions Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transportation EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Principle 8, Principle 9 Interview with the President and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these Initiatives to Enhance Corporate Value initiatives. Targets and Progress CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2013) Countermeasures against Global Warming Main Products and Technologies in 2013 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Principle 8, Principle 9 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Principle 8 Material Balance Protecting Water Resources EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Principle 8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Principle 8, Principle 9 Protecting Water Resources 101 Recognition from Society Comparison Chart of Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the CSR Web Site Guidelines (Fourth Edition, or G4) and United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Principles Principle Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Principle 8 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Principle 8 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Principle 8 Initiatives to Preserve Biodiversity EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on Principle 8 Initiatives to Preserve Biodiversity biodiversity. Targets and Progress EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species Principle 8 with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Principle 8 Targets and Progress Material Balance Promotion of Measures to Curtail Greenhouse Gas Emissions Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transportation EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Principle 8 Material Balance Promotion of Measures to Curtail Greenhouse Gas Emissions EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Principle 7, Principle 8, Targets and Progress Principle 9 Promotion of Measures to Curtail Greenhouse Gas Emissions Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transportation EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Principle 8 Targets and Progress Material Balance Promotion of Measures to Curtail Greenhouse Gas Emissions EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Principle 8 Material Balance Curbing the Use and Emissions of Chemical Substances through Proper Management and Use of Alternatives EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Principle 8 Material Balance Protecting Water Resources EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Principle 8 Material Balance Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Principle 8 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed Principle 8 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and Principle 8 related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and Principle 7, Principle 8, Interview with the President extent of impact mitigation. Principle 9 MHI's CSR Initiatives to Enhance Corporate Value Targets and Progress CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2013) Main Products and Technologies in 2013 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Principle 8, Principle 9 reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non--monetary Principle 8 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Principle 8 Targets and Progress and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in members of the workforce. Transportation Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Principle 7, Principle 8, Environmental Accounting Principle 9 Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, MHI REPORT 2014 broken down by gender. Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources ESG data 2014 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by Principle 6 Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human age group, gender, and region. Resources LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 102 Recognition from Society Comparison Chart of Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the CSR Web Site Guidelines (Fourth Edition, or G4) and United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Principles Principle Labor / Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Principle 1, Principle 3 Building a Better Working Environment ESG data 2014 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether Principle 3 it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementPrinciple 1 Building a Better Working Environment worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on ESG data 2014 occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Principle 1 Building a Better Working Environment number of work-related fatalities by region. ESG data 2014 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in Principle 1 Building a Better Working Environment place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Principle 1 Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career Resources endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human development reviews. Resources Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Principle 1, Principle 6 Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and Resources other indicators of diversity. ESG data 2014 Ratio of Basic Salary of Men to Women by Employee Category LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Principle 1, Principle 6 ESG data 2014 Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and Principle 1, Principle 2, contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that Principle 3, Principle 4, have undergone human rights screening. Principle 5, Principle 6 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone Principle 1, Principle 2, Promoting CSR Procurement screening on human rights and actions taken. Principle 3, Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning Principle 1, Principle 2, Building a Better Working Environment aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the Principle 3, Principle 4, percentage of employees trained. Principle 5, Principle 6 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Principle 1, Principle 2, Principle 6 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association Principle 1, Principle 2, and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to Principle 3 support these rights. Child Labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Principle 1, Principle 2, Activities of Major Related Committees in incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective Principle 5 Fiscal 2013 abolition of child labor. Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group Promoting CSR Procurement Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Principle 1, Principle 2, Activities of Major Related Committees in incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the Principle 4 Fiscal 2013 elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group Promoting CSR Procurement Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or Principle 1, Principle 2 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Principle 1, Principle 2 and actions taken. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to Principle 1, Principle 2, human rights reviews and/or impact Principle 4, Principle 5, assessments. Principle 6 Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and Principle 1, Principle 2, resolved through formal grievance Principle 4, Principle 5, mechanisms. Principle 6 103 Recognition from Society Comparison Chart of Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the CSR Web Site Guidelines (Fourth Edition, or G4) and United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Principles Principle Society Community SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Principle 10 Risk Management corruption. Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2013 Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies Principle 10 Risk Management and procedures. Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2013 Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group Improving Compliance Principles / Guidelines Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Principle 10 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Principle 1, Principle 2, lobbying. Principle 3, Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6, Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9, Principle 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Principle 10 politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance monopoly practices and their outcomes. that Encompasses the Entire Group Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. that Encompasses the Entire Group Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and Principle 1 Enhancing Product Safety services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Principle 1 Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services that Encompasses the Entire Group during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Enhancing Product Safety Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Principle 8 percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Principle 8 Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Principle 1 privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 104 Recognition from Society Environmental Reporting Guidelines Comparison List Comparison Chart of Environmental Reporting Guidelines of the Ministry of the Relevant page(s) in the CSR Web Environment ( Fiscal Year 2012 Version) 1． Basic Information 1. Fundamental requirements of reporting (1)Organizations and period covered by the report MHI REPORT 2014 (2)Coverage ratio and difference in reporting period (3)Reporting policy MHI REPORT 2014 (4)Policy for publication media MHI REPORT 2014 2. CEO's statement Interview with the President 3. Outline of environmental reporting (1)Outline of environmentally conscious management MHI's CSR Environmental Management Promotion System Efforts of Head Office, Business Segments to Conserve Environment MHI Environmental Vision 2030 (2)Time-series list of KPIs CSR Medium-Term Action Plan Targets and Progress (3)Summary of responses to individual environmental issues CSR Medium-Term Action Plan Targets and Progress 4. Material balance Material Balance 2． Information and Indicators that Describe the Status of Environmental Management 1. Environmental policy, vision, business strategies, etc. (1)Environmental policy MHI's CSR Environmental Management Promotion System Efforts of Head Office, Business Segments to Conserve Environment MHI Environmental Vision 2030 (2)Important issues, vision and business strategies, etc. MHI's CSR CSR Medium-Term Action Plan Environmental Management Promotion System Targets and Progress Efforts of Head Office, Business Segments to Conserve Environment MHI Environmental Vision 2030 2. Organizational structure and status of governance (1)Organizational structure of environmental conscious management Environmental Management Promotion System (2)Environmental risk management system Environmental Management Promotion System Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks (3)Compliance status of environmental regulations 3. Status of responses to stakeholders (1)Responses to stakeholders Interview with the President Relationship with Stakeholders (2)Social contributions through environmental activities Social Contribution Activities 4. Environmental efforts in the value chain (1)Environmental efforts and strategies in the value chain Promoting CSR Procurement (2)Green purchasing/procurement Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks (3)Products and services that contribute to reducing negative environmental impacts Initiatives to Enhance Corporate Value Main Products and Technologies in 2013 (4)Research and development of new environmental technologies Initiatives to Enhance Corporate Value Main Products and Technologies in 2013 (5)Environmentally friendly transportation Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transportation (6)Environmentally conscious resource and real estate development/investments (7)Environmentally conscious waste disposal and recycling Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal 105 Recognition from Society Comparison Chart of Environmental Reporting Guidelines of the Ministry of the Relevant page(s) in the CSR Web Environment ( Fiscal Year 2012 Version) 3． Information and Indicators that Describe the Status of Activities to Reduce Environmental Impacts of Business Activities and Reduction Measures 1. Input (resources and energy) (1)Total amount of energy input and reduction measures Material Balance Promotion of Measures to Curtail Greenhouse Gas Emissions Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transportation Energy-saving Activities in Offices (2)Total amount of material input and reduction measures (3)Amount of water input and reduction measures Material Balance Protecting Water Resources 2. Status of cyclical utilization of resources (within organization's operational area) Protecting Water Resources 3. Output (manufactured products, environmental impacts) (1)Total amount of manufactured products or sales (2)Amount of greenhouse gas emissions and reduction measures Material Balance Promotion of Measures to Curtail Greenhouse Gas Emissions Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transportation Energy-saving Activities in Offices (3)Total amount of water discharge and reduction measures Material Balance Protecting Water Resources (4)Air pollution, its environmental impacts on the living environment, and reduction Material Balance measures (5)Amount of release and transfer of chemical substances, and reduction measures Material Balance Curbing the Use and Emissions of Chemical Substances through Proper Management and Use of Alternatives (6)Total amount of waste generation and final disposal, and reduction measures Material Balance Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal (7)Leakage of hazardous substances and preventive measures Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks 4. Status of preservation of biodiversity and sustainable utilization of biological resources Initiatives to Preserve Biodiversity 4． Information and Indicators that Describe the Status of Economic and Social Aspects of Environmental Conscious Management 1. Economic aspects of environmental management (1)Economic aspects of environmental management in business Environmental Accounting (2)Economic aspects of environmental management in society Environmental Accounting 2. Social aspects of environmental management (Organizational governance) Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Ethics, compliance, personal information protection, fair trade with business partners, Encompasses the Entire Group compliance with the Anti-Monopoly Law, intellectual property rights Improving Compliance Principles / Guidelines Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness Secure Safeguarding of Proprietary Information Fair Dealing Promoting CSR Procurement Procurement Education and Training (Human rights) Promoting CSR Procurement Child labor, labor in poor environments, or exploitative labor used by raw material suppliers Use of conflict minerals (Labor practices) Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources Improvement in the workplace environment, long working hours, diversity, work-life Building a Better Working Environment balance Health management of employees, prevention of industrial accidents, mental health, MSDS system (Consumer protection and product safety) Enhancing Product Safety Design and manufacture of products and services, response to consumer complaints, Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) product recalls (Local communities) Promoting CSR Procurement Respect for local culture and communities, fair trade, the establishment of CSR Fulfilling our Policy on Social Contribution Activities procurement Social Contribution Activities (Other) Maintaining and Strengthening Defense Production and Technological Bases Added value distribution policy Animal experiments, weapons and goods that can be diverted for military use 5． Other matters reported 1. Subsequent events, etc. (1)Subsequent events (2)Temporary events 2. Third-Party Review 106 Business Strategy Office Corporate Communication Department
