Sustainability Report 2015 ConnectingChemistry ABOUT BRENNTAG Brenntag is the global market leader in chemical distribution Brenntag connects chemical manufacturers and chemical and present on all of the key world markets with its wide ­users. The company provides its suppliers and customers with portfolio of products and services. Headquartered in Mülheim tailor-made distribution solutions for industrial and specialty an der Ruhr, Germany, the Group operates a global network chemicals. With over 10,000 products and a supplier base of with more than 490 locations in 72 countries. several thousand companies, Brenntag offers one-stop-shop solutions to around 170,000 customers. KEY FIGURES IN EUR M 2014 2013 2012 Sales 10,015.6 9,769.5 9,689.9 Gross profit 2,027.5 1,945.5 1,925.7 Operating EBITDA 726.7 698.3 707.0 Profit after tax 339.7 338.9 337.8 Free cash flow 521.6 543.4 579.3 Employees  at Dec. 31 13,870 13,431 13,258 Accident rate (LTIR) 1.6 1.8 2.0 Employee fluctuation in % 6.5 5.8 6.1 ISO 9001 certifications % of operating sites 90 88 86 SALES BY REGION EMPLOYEES BY REGION as at Dec. 31, 2014 as at Dec. 31, 2014 IN % IN % 7.5 4.4 11.9 0.9 8.6 10.4 33.3 46.2 29.7 47.1 Europe North America Latin America Asia Pacific All other segments BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG 1 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG ConnectingChemistry OUR COMMITMENT WITHIN THE VALUE CHAIN As the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag connects chemical manufacturers and users in a value-creating partnership. This concept is reflected in our global slogan “ConnectingChemistry”. Brenntag’s key role in the value chain offers huge potential – but also entails a high level of responsibility. AT BRENNTAG, SUSTAINABILITY is essential to the way we operate. The issues of safety, health and environmental protection are deeply embedded in our corporate culture, as cornerstones of our responsibility to our employees, customers and suppliers and also to the communities we operate in. We aim to use the resources available to us efficiently and sustainably. THIS REPORT FOCUSES ON sustainability issues associated with Brenntag’s day-today business and its portfolio of services: safety, efficient use of resources, supply chain responsibility, compliance and our relationship with our employees and with society at large. We aim to continuously improve on our performance in these areas. For this purpose, we establish and optimize appropriate standards and processes within our international corporate structures, we sensitize our employees accordingly and we provide them with suitable training. Our goal is the continuous global development of our sustainability strategy, thus harmonizing economics with ecology and social issues as part of our business activities. CONTENTS 2 CEO Letter 4 Sustainability at Brenntag 14 Safety 22 Resource efficiency 32 Supply chain responsibility 34 Employees 38 Community 40 Report profile 41 GRI index Imprint More information online More information within the report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 2 ConnectingChemistry “WE AIM TO CONTRIBUTE TOWARDS GREATER SUSTAINABILITY IN ALL THE INDUSTRIES AND ­APPLICATIONS WE SERVE. ‘CONNECTINGCHEMISTRY’ ALSO STANDS FOR THIS GOAL.” STEVEN HOLLAND, CEO CEO LETTER 3 I‘D LIKE TO EXTEND A WARM WELCOME to all Brenntag stakeholders. In its more than 140-year history, we are a member of the “Together for Brenntag has become the global market leader in full-line Sustainability” initiative, which aims to chemical distribution. This success is based on our broad encourage sustainability­throughout the portfolio of products and services, our global presence and chemical industry’s value chain. business activities spanning multiple sectors, the market and technical expertise of our employees as well as a strictly This report illustrates Brenntag’s comcustomer-oriented approach. Through our global network, mitment to sustainability in relation to we connect chemicals producers and users and bring them the key subject areas. It describes mantogether in a value-creating partnership. This commitment is agement approaches, organizational reflected in our slogan “ConnectingChemistry”. structures and processes; selected case studies from the company’s regions Our market leadership is not only evident in terms of ecoprovide­an insight into its contribution nomic indicators and success. When it comes to sustainaat a practical level. bility, we also have a leading position and play a key role in the value chain: we aim to contribute towards greater Our 2015 Sustainability Report adheres sustainability in all the industries and applications we serve. to the guidelines of the Global Report­“ConnectingChemistry” also stands for this goal. ing Initiative and also serves as a progress report for the UN Global Compact The size of our business only enhances the strategic signifi­ (UNGC). We joined this initiative in Occance of sustainability. Various sustainability issues may tober 2014. This was a conscious and have a direct impact on our business and on the relationship logical step for us, through which we with our partners. Safety is a paramount concern regarding officially signed up to the UNGC’s ten both our global workforce of more than 13,500 employees principles in the areas of human rights, and also in relation to processes and products. Accordingly,­ labour standards, environmental proa number of years ago we established a global Health, Safetection and fighting corruption. These ty­and ­Environment (HSE) structure. Our employees are the principles now complement the standcornerstone of our success. We aim to protect their health ards which we apply in evaluating all of and to develop their capabilities in the best manner possible. our business activities. I am therefore particularly pleased to report that in 2014, we were able to achieve a further reduction in the Group’s LTIR Dear readers, we are working con(lost time injury rate) accident rate, which fell from 1.8 (2013) tinuously to achieve greater sustainto 1.6. We also aim to minimize the environmental impact of ability in our company. We wish to our activities and to use resources efficiently. pursue this commitment in dialogue with you, our stakeholders, in order For many years now, we have lived up to our responsibilto satisfy your needs and requireity in the chemical industry’s supply chain by supporting ments. Please feel free to contact us at and fulfilling the standards of the “Responsible Care” and sustainability@brenntag.de if you have “Responsible Distribution” chemicals initiatives. Moreover, any comments or questions. Best wishes, Steven Holland Chief Executive Officer Brenntag Group Mülheim an der Ruhr, July 2015 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 4 ConnectingChemistry BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 5 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG SUSTAINABILITY – A FUNDAMENTAL­ PART OF OUR ­BUSINESS MODEL Sustainability means thinking of tomorrow, today. For com­ panies, this implies factoring environmental and social aspects into their business activities and considering the im170,000 pact of these activities. In this context, sustainability means striking an appropriate balance between business, ecology and social issues and reconciling these different priorities. CUSTOMERS BRENNTAG Our central position in the chemical industry’s value chain, OFFERS A FULL-LINE our portfolio of services and our international corporate strucRANGE ture pose a large number of sustainability challenges that we tackle in our day-to-day operating activities. Sustainability is a fundamental part of our business model and guides Brenntag’s­­­ activities. COMPANY PROFILE Brenntag is the global market leader in chemical distribution. Connecting chemical manufacturers (our suppliers) and chem10,000 ical users (our customers), Brenntag provides both complete CHEMICAL PRODUCTS distribution solutions as well as individual chemical products. AND MANY SERVICES Brenntag distributes industrial and specialty chemicals for thousands of suppliers, enabling the company to achieve economies of scale and to offer around 170,000 customers a full-line range of more than 10,000 chemical products as well “WE INVEST IN PEOPLE, EQUIPMENT AND RESOURCES TO PLACE THE BUSINESS IN A ROBUST AND SUSTAINABLE POSITION FOR FURTHER GROWTH.” STEVEN HOLLAND, CEO as many services. This includes specific application technologies, extensive technical support and also value-added services such as just-in-time delivery, product mixing & blending, repackaging, inventory management and drum return handling. Brenntag’s customers are active worldwide in diverse end-market industries such as adhesives, paints, oil & gas, food, water treatment, personal care and pharmaceuticals. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 6 ConnectingChemistry Brenntag maintains a global network with more than 490 ­locations in 72 countries in the regions North America, FACTS AND FIGURES Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific. NORTH AMERICA As a provider of a full-line product portfolio and as a onestop-shop, Brenntag plays a key role in the chemical industry’s value chain and, as a strategic partner, contributes to greater efficiency. High diversification means that Brenntag is largely independent from the volatility of any single specific market 3.3 segment or region. The goal of Brenntag’s corporate strategy is to remain the EUR BN preferred distributor for both specialty and industrial chemEXTERNAL SALES > 4,000 icals for its customers and suppliers and, at the same time, the industry leader in safety, growth and profitability. As a guiding principle, the “2020 Vision” sets out how Brenntag wants to position itself in the chemical distribution market in the future, in order to continue its successful development: READING EMPLOYEES IN NORTH AMERICA USA // W e are the safest chemical distributor, striving for zero accidents and incidents. HOUSTON // Throughout the world, we connect chemistry by USA ­providing the most effective industry channel for our customers and suppliers. // We are the global leader in all our chosen markets LATIN AMERICA and industries, offering the most professional sales & ­marketing organization in the industry, ensuring­ ­consistently high standards every day, everywhere. // We strive to provide a working environment where 0.9 the best people want to work. // We aim to generate sustainable and high returns for our shareholders and all other stakeholders. EUR BN EXTERNAL SALES > 1,400 Efficiency, safety and responsibility towards our employees are fundamental aspects of our corporate strategy and therefore of Brenntag’s sustainability strategy too. EMPLOYEES IN LATIN AMERICA ConnectingChemistry CHEMICAL BRENNTAG’S VALUE-­ MANUFACTURERS PURCHASING TRANSPORT STORAGE CREATING FUNCTION WITHIN THE SUPPLY Our suppliers CHAIN / Several thousand suppliers worldwide / Full-line product portfolio with more than 10,000 industrial As a provider of a full-line product portand specialty chemical products folio and as a one-stop shop, Brenntag / Network with more than 490 locations in 72 countries brings together chemical manufacturers and chemical users in a profitable partnership. SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 7 EUROPE > 6,500 EMPLOYEES IN EUROPE EUR 4.6 BN EXTERNAL SALES ASIA PACIFIC MÜLHEIM/RUHR 0.7 GERMANY EUR BN EXTERNAL SALES SINGAPORE > 1,600 REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE EMPLOYEES IN ASIA PACIFIC CHEMICAL USERS FILLING MIXING AND EXTENSIVE TECHNICAL WAREHOUSE PACKAGING PACKAGING BLENDING SUPPORT MANAGEMENT TRANSPORT LABELLING Our customers / Repackaging / Just-in-time delivery and inventory / Filling, labelling, barcoding and palletizing management / Local distribution and marketing teams comprising more than / Return of packaging drums 5,000 experts / Efficient logistics and transport / Product mixing in line with specific customer requirements ­management / Blending and technical service in our own application ­laboratories 8 ConnectingChemistry SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT At Group level, there are numerous straBrenntag’s understanding of sustainability is closely linked tegic guidelines, policies and projects to its own value chain. Its sustainability activities therefore in the area of sustainability that have a focus on those issues resulting from our business activities global scope. Moreover, in accordance and from our portfolio of services: safety, resource efficiency, with the Group’s guidelines and objecsupply chain responsibility, compliance and our relationship tives, Brenntag’s individual companies with our employees and with society at large. As part of an and locations pursue a large number of internal materiality analysis, we have identified these issues activities of their own accord and in line as key priorities for our company, since they directly influence with local and regional requirements our business development, our relationships with our partand commitments. ners as well as Brenntag’s reputation. In 2011, Brenntag established an inBrenntag aims to achieve continual performance improveternational team which successfully ments in these key areas. With this goal in mind, we implepursues the systematic development ment, establish and optimize relevant standards and processof sustainability at Brenntag. Its memes, raise our employees’ awareness accordingly and provide bers include representatives from the them with further training. In this way, we intend to shape areas of HSE, Compliance, HR, Operaour sustainability strategy at a global level and to develop it tions, Purchasing and Communications. further. Brenntag’s Board of Management and SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG – OUR APPROACH / “Zero Accidents and incidents” GOALS / Development of a “Sustainable Procurement Programme” / Implementation of an energy and CO2 efficiency programme / Publication of sustainability reports TRANSPARENCY / From 2015: annual reporting / Compliance with GRI standards / EcoVadis assessment of our sustainability performance / Since November 2002, participation in the “Responsible Care” and “Responsible Distribution” association initiatives MEMBERSHIPS / Since July 2015, member of the chemical industry’s “Together for Sustainability” initiative / Since October 2014, membership of the UN Global Compact – annual progress report on our activities BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 9 regional top management support the activities of this susCOMPLIANCE ORGANIZATION: At the tainability committee. In addition, Brenntag Group’s Corporate head of Brenntag’s compliance organ­ Development department now has a sustainability coordinaization is the Board of Management tor who manages and promotes global projects and initiatives and, within this body, its chairman. and who maintains a dialogue with those line managers at Brenntag AG’s Governance, Risk & ComGroup level and in Brenntag’s regions. pliance (GRC) manager regularly reports to the Board of Management on compliQUALITY MANAGEMENT ance­issues and in urgent cases will do so immediately. Furthermore, the reguYear Locations with lar meetings of the Supervisory Board’s ISO 9001 certification (in %) Audit Committee include reporting on compliance and whistle-blowing as well 2010 75 as on the ongoing development of the 2011 81 Group-wide compliance management 2012 86 system. The GRC manager is support2013 88 ed by an internal advisory body, the 2014 90 Compliance Committee. This includes representatives from the areas of Law, Brenntag guarantees the quality of its products and services Audit, Accounting, Health, Safety and through quality management systems, certificates and auEnvironmental Protection as well as dits. The basis for quality management within the Brenntag Human Resources. Group is the internationally applicable ISO 9001 standard. At the end of 2014, 90% of our operating sites had already At a regional level, the Regional Execuintroduced quality management systems certified according tive Management is responsible for the For the management ­systems and certifications to this standard. issue of compliance. Regional compliin the fields of environance managers have been appointed mental protection and occupational safety, please CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE in Brenntag’s regions, who regularly see the SAFETY chapter Brenntag has always attached great importance to the pass on information and experience (page 16). ­responsible, prudent and sustainable corporate governance. through dialogue with Brenntag AG’s With these objectives in mind, its management uses various GRC manager. They ensure close inteinternal control and risk management systems as well as gration with our business activities at Brenntag’s compliance organization. a regional level. Brenntag’s regional A detailed description of BRENNTAG’S INTERNAL compliance managers receive, assess CONTROL AND RISK 72 and report any compliance issues and/ ­MANAGEMENT SYSTEM is provided on page 123 ff. or questions referred to them and coof the 2014 Annual Report. ordinate the compliance management You will find the system at a regional level. ­CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT on page 54 ff. of BRENNTAG MAINTAINS MORE THAN CODE OF CONDUCT: As a global com­ Brenntag’s 2014 Annual Report. 490 LOCATIONS IN 72 COUNTRIES pany, Brenntag is subject to a large number of laws, directives, regulations and In all its business activities, Brenntag is committed to acting ordinances. Furthermore, ­Brenntag’s­ honestly, fairly and in good faith in its dealings with customhighest priorities are honesty and integers, suppliers and competitors as well as with its employrity. Our fundamental company ­values, ees and the public. Every Brenntag employee is personally ethical principles, compliance with laws, ­responsible for complying with all applicable laws, directives, rules and regulations as well as the relpolicies and regulations. evant guidelines and procedures which THE BRENNTAG CODE OF are of key significance for Brenntag and BUSINESS CONDUCT AND its reputation are summarized in a comETHICS is freely available in German and English prehensive Code of Business Conduct at www.brenntag.com/ and Ethics. compliance/index.html. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 10 INTEGRITY It’s Brenntag’s priority to combine excellent customer services, industry leading performance and quality with the highest degree of ethics, reliability and transparency. This applies to all of our employees and The aim is to give all employees guidance in the legal and is thus a central part of our compliance ethical challenges of their daily work and to encourage proper system. It encompasses the fundamental conduct. requirements for Brenntag’s overall business activities in fields such as: This Code of Business Conduct and Ethics has been translated into various languages and has been distributed throughout // Health, safety and the environment the entire Brenntag Group and made available to all of our // Human rights and working employees. Its observance is monitored by the respective conditions management teams of Brenntag’s companies. Every infringe// Relationships with business ment of this code of conduct may lead to disciplinary action ­partners and public institutions and is punished in line with the common company policies. // Bribery and corruption // Competition and antitrust law As well as the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, there // Avoidance of conflicts of interest are further Group guidelines which stipulate compliance // Data privacy and information requirements. security BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 ﻿ 11 Brenntag attaches great importance to respect for human rights within its sphere of influence and aims to safeguard these rights through its commitment to uphold the principles of the UN Global Compact. In the reporting years 2013 and 2014, Brenntag did not learn of any violation of human rights within its corporate group. TRAINING: Our compliance programme focuses particularly on observing antitrust law requirements as well as environmental protection and health. We therefore hold regular employee training sessions covering these issues – through regional events which employees attend either in person or via e-learning systems. The aim is to keep all of Brenntag’s employees’ knowledge up to date and to avoid any illegal actions as well as to protect the environment and employees. In 2015 and 2016, this training will focus on the topics “general code of conduct”, “anti-­corruption activities” as well as “antitrust law”. Brenntag’s newly implemented global e-learning tool will be used for this. BRENNTAG’S GLOBAL E-LEARNING TOOL (see page 37). WHISTLE-BLOWER SYSTEM AND SANCTIONS: Tried-and-tested processes are in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance and processing of Groupwide complaints as well as anonymous reports. Employees can report relevant information either to their direct line manager, to the regional compliance manager or alternatively via a central email address. External persons can also use this central email address. The information received will always be dealt with on a strictly confidential basis. The reports received are examined and appropriate action taken if a compliance infringement has taken place. These processes are managed by Brenntag AG’s GRC manager. Email addresses have also been set up at a regional level. The regional compliance managers receive and assess any incoming reports and initiate appropriate measures, where necessary. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 12 ConnectingChemistry UN GLOBAL COMPACT: Incoming reports concern cases of susTHE 10 PRINCIPLES pected fraud and theft, violations of the code of conduct (e. g. discrimination in the workplace) and other compliance issues. If a suspected case is confirmed, 1 this will incur the sanctions permitted under employment law. Compliance managers also receive general inquirHUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support ies, e. g. concerning possible conflicts of and respect the protection of internationally interest as well as inquiries regarding 2 proclaimed human rights. the acceptance of gifts or invitations. Year Number of confirmed HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should ensure 3 compliance incidents* that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2013 8 2014 12 * These are cases notified to the GRC manager and for which sufficient evidence has been established. ComLABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should pliance incidents may also occur which are notified, 4 uphold the freedom of association and the assessed and processed at a local or regional level but which are not reported centrally on grounds of relevance. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. UN GLOBAL COMPACT In October 2014, Brenntag was the 5 LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should first-ever chemicals distributor to sign commit themselves to eliminating all forms up to the United Nations Global Comof forced labour. pact (UNGC). This prestigious, international, voluntary initiative aims to LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should encourage sustainable development 6 ­commit themselves to abolishing child labour. and social commitment. To this end, ten principles in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption 7 LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should commit themselves to eliminating have been endorsed. In signing up to ­discrimination in respect of employment the UNGC, Brenntag has undertaken to and occupation. enshrine these principles as an integral part of its corporate strategy. They will ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Businesses supplement the corporate values and 8 should take a precautionary approach to principles which guide our activities. dealing with environmental challenges. 9 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental awareness. 10 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Businesses should encourage the development and distribution of environmentally friendly ­technologies. FIGHTING CORRUPTION Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG﻿ 13 STAKEHOLDERS a day-to-day basis. It also regularly carBrenntag pursues dialogue with the business community, the ries out systematic customer and suppolitical sphere and with society at large in various ways. plier surveys. It pursues dialogue with Our stakeholders include those groups that are significantly business partners worldwide, including affected by the economic, ecological or social impact of our at the many trade fairs where the combusiness or who may be so in future. They also include those pany is present. Brenntag’s Corporate groups that may influence the economic, ecological and social Investor Relations and Communications impact of Brenntag now and in the future. departments engage in regular dialogue with investors, analysts, journalists, etc. Brenntag’s key stakeholder groups: They notify their target groups regularly // Suppliers and promptly of current developments // Customers within the company. Brenntag maintains // Employees an active dialogue concerning industry-­ // Investors and analysts specific issues as a member of relevant You will find a list of BRENNTAG’S KEY MEMBERSHIPS on our // Journalists technical and industry associations at a website. // Governments and authorities local, regional and international level. // Associations and organizations Our employees are kept informed of cur// Neighbours and local residents, local communities rent issues through their line managers and also through our internal print and Brenntag regularly engages in transparent and target-grouponline media. At its various locations, specific dialogue with its stakeholders. The goal is to enable Brenntag pursues lively dialogue with our stakeholders to obtain a comprehensive picture of our local residents and local authorities. company and its business activities. In return, this dialogue Through events such as open days, it ofenables Brenntag to identify the needs and expectations of fers the opportunity to get to know one our stakeholders, to evaluate them and to appropriately reanother and to find out more. Regular flect them in our business decisions. issues discussed with the Group’s stakeholders include occupational safety, the The Brenntag Group pursues dialogue with its stakeholders in supply chain, efficiency and compliance. various ways. Due to the nature of its business model, Brenntag They have been included in this sustainmaintains close contact with its suppliers and customers on ability report accordingly. DIALOGUE At an event organized by the industry initiative “Together for Sustainability” in October 2014 in Shanghai, Brenntag discussed current sustainability issues with its customers and suppliers. 14 ConnectingChemistry SAFETY SAFETY FIRST – TOP PRIORITY AT BRENNTAG Our goal is to be the safest chemical distributor worldwide. This commitment encompasses the health and safety of our employees as well as product safety and the protection of the environment. Safety is part of our corporate strategy and is the highest priority in our “2020 Vision”. Worldwide, we “WE WANT TO SET SAFETY STANDARDS WITHIN THE INDUSTRY AND WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO ACHIEVE OUR ULTIMATE GOAL OF ZERO ACCIDENTS WORLDWIDE.” STEVEN HOLLAND, CEO operate in line with the “safety first” principle and have implemented a global strategy in the areas of health and safety and protection of the environment (HSE strategy). This is realized in a variety of ways in the company’s regions and is practised by every one of our employees. Brenntag is bound by the highest standards in the industry and adopts policies which in many countries far exceed statutory requirements. We are continuously working to further improve our com­ pany’s safety culture. We invest in our infrastructure and train our employees with this goal in mind. HSE STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Our global HSE strategy encapsulates our principles in the areas of safety, product stewardship, the environment, adherence to laws (compliance) and quality. This strategy is implemented in our company’s various regions within the scope of separate HSE programmes. HSE manuals define concrete goals, measures, processes and procedures which are applied and implemented in the regions’ locations. These programmes and measures are coordinated through regional HSE officers and teams at the Group’s locations. They constitute Brenntag’s global HSE network and maintain a continuous process of dialogue with follow-up to correct any deficiencies noted. Compliance with the HSE programme is reviewed through regular internal and external audits. HSE AT BRENNTAG: OUR APPROACH  Commitment to the principles of our Responsible Care/Responsible Distribution Programme / Product stewardship and product safety / Occupational health and safety, incl. transportation / Comprehensive protection of the environment (air, water, soil, raw materials and waste) The Brenntag approach SAFETY AND A SAFETY HSE PROGRAMMES CLEAR GUIDELINES AND APPROPRIATE REGULAR INTERNAL CULTURE AS CENTRAL AND REGULAR PROCEDURES ­TECHNOLOGY AND EXTERNAL VALUES ­TRAINING ­REPORTING 16 ConnectingChemistry Brenntag manages HSE data in various databases at regionPRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AND SAFETY al level and also forwards them to the company’s central Brenntag takes appropriate measures to ­Corporate Health, Safety & Environment department. At each ensure the proper handling of our prodindividual location, together with external experts Brenntag ucts while they are under the Group’s continuously examines and evaluates the environmental risks, stewardship. This includes procurement, including historical data which allow inter alia conclusions to packaging, classification and labelling, be drawn about possible contamination. This information is handling, storage and safe transportacollated in an environmental database which also serves as tion as well as the creation of product a basis for determining environmental provisions and is an dossiers and safety instructions as well instrument for organizing necessary environmental remedias disposal, where necessary. Here, ation work. Brenntag is bound by currently appli­c­ able standards and regulations and also Brenntag has implemented various management systems in closely cooperates with the industry’s the field of HSE. Certifications and assessments by independnational and regional umbrella associent third parties document the company’s performance and ations which our country subsidiaries ensure its compliance with applicable standards. belong to. Certified and assessed ISO 14001 OHSAS SQASRESPONSIBLE CARE/RESPONSIBLE operating locations (in %)* 18001 ESAD** ­DISTRIBUTION: For many years now, (Europe) Brenntag­has taken part in the “Respon2010 20 11 73 sible Care/Responsible Distribution” 2011 27 18 63 (RC/RD) Programme of the organization 2012 26 18 68 of the International Council of Chem­ 2013 28 17 69 ical Trade Associations (ICCTA). We are therefore committed to the implemen2014 26 17 79 tation of the eight guidelines laid down *T he percentage figures for ISO 14001 include purely sales-based locations as well in this global programme covering the as warehouse locations. The OHSAS 18001 figures exclusively refer to warehouse locations. following areas: ** S QAS-ESAD (Safety and Quality Assessment System, European Single Assessment Document) is a catalogue featuring more than 500 detailed questions on the handling of chemicals. It is intended to provide a uniform assessment of the HSE and quality management system of chemical distributors and is associated with the Responsible Care/Responsible Distribution industry initiative. HSE PROGRAMMES OF THE BRENNTAG REGIONS Brenntag’s regions have developed HSE programmes in order to document and evaluate their performance in the areas of quality, health, safety and the environment and to promote a general culture of safety, for accident prevention and to improve safety in the workplace: / Europe: “Cornerstone Programme” and “Safety First Award” / North America: “Brenntag Cornerstone Process” / Latin America: “CASA Management System” (CASA = CALIDAD/Quality, SEGURIDAD & SALUD/Health and Safety, MEDIO AMBIENTE/Environment) / Asia Pacific: “5-Star Facility Award” BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 SAFETY 17 AWARD-WINNING SAFETY Within the scope of Germany’s 2015 Responsible Care Competition, Brenntag GmbH received awards for its positive ideas in the areas of transport safety and sustainable logistics. // Legal requirements REACH: Since June 1, 2007, the ­European­ Further information on REACH at Brenntag is // Management of risk Union’s chemicals regulation REACH available at www.brenntag// Policies and documentation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisareach.com // Provision of information tion and Restriction of Chemicals) has // Training formed the legal framework for im// Emergency response proved handling of chemicals to pro// Ongoing improvements tect the environment and human health // Community interaction while also complying with sustainability objectives. Registration of all chemical Brenntag’s implementation of the contents of the RC/RD substances is mandatory by mid-2018. ­Programme is reviewed by external experts. EnvironmenAfter this deadline, non-registered subtal performance and safe handling of chemicals are thus stances and forms of use will become ­reviewed and documented by independent third parties. illegal. REACH also regulates the safe use of chemical products at user level. Year Proportion of Brenntag legal entities ­participating in the RC/RD Programme Brenntag is affected in various respects (in %) by REACH as part of its business oper2010 69 ations as a distributor, importer and 2011 67 formulator and in certain cases, as a 2012 67 producer of chemicals. With our trans2013 70 national REACH team, consisting of a Since 2002 Brenntag ­participates in the chemiEuropean network of experienced HSE cal industry’s “Responsible 2014 76 and REACH experts, as well as with the Care” Programme. support of the management, Brenntag To ensure effective and systematic chemicals management, is well equipped to meet the numerous data that are necessary for the safe handling of our products requirements of the REACH regulation during storage, transport and within the delivery chain are in full. stored in central databases at Brenntag. This data is available to most of the Group, and further subsidiaries are c­ontinuBrenntag also offers an extensive range ously­signing up for this system. In this way, it is possible, for of services: Under the motto “REACH beexample, to implement all amendments to European laws yond”, our REACH-trained product mansimultaneously in all countries and make them accessible to agers and sales teams in Europe provide the staff. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 WELL PREPARED In order to be able to react appropriately and quickly in case of emergency, as part of its CASA programme Brenntag Latin America regularly performs emergency simulations and rescue exercises, in which local emergency personnel, partner companies and neighbours also participate alongside the company’s employees. our suppliers and clients with support covering every aspect any measures necessary to avoid acciof the regulation: dents and incidents. Accidents at work, near misses and similar occurrences // Ensuring a REACH-compliant supply and usage system are recorded and evaluated centrally // Safeguarding optimal communication within the delivery according to a standardized system. chain Any important conclusions are commu// Support in relation to many REACH-related issues nicated throughout our organization. // Assistance with imported substances Assessment findings and their consequences are included in HSE manuals. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY This ongoing process of improvement Safeguarding our employees’ health and safety is our top has enabled us to continuously reduce priority. Brenntag raises its employees’ awareness of these the number of reportable industrial ­issues, provides them with related training and implements ­accidents within the Group. A SAFE WORKING ­ENVIRONMENT Brenntag’s employees receive training covering the correct use of machinery and equipment and wear suitable personal protective gear. SAFETY 19 In Latin America, occupational safety Year Group accident rate LTIR* forms part of Brenntag’s comprehensive 2010 3.8 CASA programme. A health and safety CASA stands for Quality (CALIDAD), Health and 2011 2.5 week takes place within the scope of Safety (SEGURIDAD 2012 2.0 this programme every year in all of the & ­SALUD) and Environment (MEDIO AMBIENTE). 2013 1.8 region’s locations. Workshops and in2014 1.6 formation events, demonstrations and * LTIR (Lost Time Injury Rate): number of industrial accidents resulting in at least exercises are held, e. g. covering the three days’ absence from work per one million working hours. correct use of protective clothing, emergency procedures, responsible driving Unfortunately, despite our extensive preventative and safety and healthy lifestyles. Free health checkmeasures, Brenntag suffered one fatal accident in the years ups are also offered. Internal assessunder review 2013 and 2014. We deeply regret this. ments have shown that this training week helps to improve the work envir­ Regular training is an important element of Brenntag’s occuonment and has increased Brenntag’s pational safety culture. This ranges from safety instruction for employees’ level of safety awareness new employees to comprehensive training measures specially and their readiness to undergo further tailored for the work situation and the risk potential of occutraining. pational groups or individual employees. Training is given by internal HSE managers and also by external experts, both in ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION the form of face-to-face events as well as digitally. Brenntag Brenntag continuously works on miniis also continuously investing in its equipment and infrastrucmizing the environmental impact of its ture so as to optimize plant safety and work processes at its business activities on the soil, water and locations and thus further minimize safety risks and sources of air. In addition to the efficient use of reSee “RESOURCE EFFICIENCY” chapter from page 22ff. accidents. Several practical examples from our regions follow. sources, protection of the environment therefore plays a key role for all Brenntag locations. We aim to identify environ80 – 90% mental risks early on, to control them See CASE STUDY on page 21. by means of various measures – investments in infrastructure, optimized work procedures and qualified employees – and to avoid environmental incidents. OF THE ACCIDENTS ARE CAUSED BY HUMAN BEHAVIOUR Brenntag’s locations in all of its regions fully comply with applicable rules and In several European countries, Brenntag has already achieved regulations relating to the protection zero accident-related days of absence for an entire year and of the environment and also fulfil our has significantly reduced its overall accident rate during the Group’s stringent safety standards. reporting period. The various measures implemented within Whenever new buildings or plants are the scope of its “Cornerstone” programme are paying off. For constructed or necessary modernization instance, employees’ use of personal protective equipment and renovation work is under­taken, has been continuously improved upon – this is one reason environmental protection issues are why the rate of accidents in the “chemical burns” category considered and reflected both in terms has fallen by 75% since 2009. The company also held “beof the construction approach and also haviour-based safety” training events in 2014. These focus plant engineering. on human behaviour, which is the main cause of an accident in 80 to 90% of cases. These management and behaviour-­ At all of our locations worldwide, in focussed training courses increase employees’ risk awareness. the period from 2003–2004 the comOur truck drivers were another core area of focus in 2014, pany’s environmental impact underwith the goal of intensively raising this occupational group’s went a comprehensive assessment by awareness of the specific risks associated with this core Brennmeans of an extensive “Environmental tag activity. These measures have also helped us to reduce the Evaluation Questionnaire”. Due to their number of accident-related days of absence suffered by our many years of industrial use, the soil drivers in Europe by more than 50%. and ground water are contaminated at BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 20 ConnectingChemistry STRUCTURE OF FLOOR SEALING STRUCTURAL CONCRETE PRECAST CONCRETE SLABS COMPACTED SUBSTRATE (E. G. GRAVEL) BLINDING LAYER PROTECTIVE AND SEPARATOR FELT LAYER (400 G/SQ.M.) SEALING SHEET (URSUPLAST EN, TYPE PE-HD) PROTECTIVE CONCRETE many Brenntag locations due to historical issues. Clean-up ensure air pollution control and exhaust measures are ongoing to address issues at these sites. The air purification. For example, gas leaksoil and ground water situation is now reviewed and recorded ages during the process of transfer from annually at all of our locations, in cooperation with external the road tanker to the storage tank are experts. At the same time, necessary measures are identified prevented by means of a special gas and implemented. displacement procedure; when drums and cans are filled, the company’s sub-­ Brenntag’s location in Duisburg, Germany, is an exemplary case surface method prevents splashes and study of how our holistic approach to protection of the three reduces emissions; exhaust air emitted environmental media – soil, water and air – is put into practice: during transfer processes is purified in air washers. The soil in the warehouse is protected through multiple layers, thus preventing contamination of the subsoil and the While there are local variations due to ground water. Double-walled tanks for acids and alkalis are legal requirements in different countries also fitted with a collection tray. A separate closed circuit as well as each plant’s architectural hishas been installed for the water used in the site’s process tory, all of Brenntag’s sites implement engineering, in its extinguishing systems and for cleaning appropriate soil, water and air protecpurposes. Industrial water is captured and then cleaned and tion measures. Our high environmental treated in several phases before being fed into the public sewprotection and safety standards are aper systems just as in normal household water. Water quality plicable throughout our Group, and we is continuously monitored and documented. A large number invest in appropriate infrastructure via of measures in and around our plant engineering systems modernization measures. SAFETY 21 CASE STUDY SAFE DRIVING AND TRANSPORTATION Every day, Brenntag employees operate a large number of checked. Brenntag Asia Pacific’s drivers vehicles – trucks, tractors, trailers and forklift trucks – on and operating personnel are also subour company’s premises, on those of our customers and on ject to unannounced alcohol and drug public roads. This has serious risks and hazards associated testing. with it and can cause significant harm to humans and the environment if accidents occur. Brenntag Asia Pacific is aware Employees are required to wear suitable of these risks and has drawn up a comprehensive vehicle safety equipment and clothing such as and transport safety scheme as part of its HSE “5-Star Facility reflective vests while at work. All deProgramme”. This ensures that employees are able to operlivery vehicles are fitted with personal ate vehicles and equipment expertly and safely throughout safety equipment as well as leakage prothe region. The core components of the programme include tection systems which undergo regular driver training, the vehicles’ good overall condition and the checks. Pathways are marked and approrequired safety equipment, both for vehicles as well as on priately indicated on Brenntag Asia Pathe company’s sites. cific’s premises. In places with poor visibility and in blind spots, convex mirrors Drivers regularly undergo special safety training. This trainhave been fitted to prevent collisions ing includes hazardous goods classification, safe loading and accidents involving forklift trucks, ­methods, behaviour in the event of an emergency, securing for example. Thanks to its vehicle and cargo and defensive driving. Employees’ driving skills are transport safety programme, Brenntag regularly assessed by their superiors. Employees also receive Asia Pacific has been able to reduce the inspection and maintenance training to ensure the vehicles number of accidents in the region (LTIR operate at an optimal level. At the start of every working 2013: 0.4; LTIR 2014: 0.0) and to increase day, a safety meeting is held and vehicles and equipment are its employees’ level of safety awareness. SAFE WALKWAYS Marked paths on the company’s premises help to prevent accidents and collisions. 22 ConnectingChemistry RESOURCE EFFICIENCY SPARING AND OPTIMAL USE OF RESOURCES – A WORTHWHILE GOAL We aim to minimize the ecological impact of our business See “SAFETY” activities. Besides protection of the environment, therefore, chapter from page 14ff. sustainable and optimal use of resources plays a key role at Brenntag. Through various measures we are seeking to use electricity, fuel, water and other materials as efficiently as possible and to reduce our emissions. At the same time, through its products and services Brenntag helps its customers to use resources sparingly. Brenntag’s environmentally efficient products, processes and services help to reduce the ecological footprint while also lowering the company’s material, energy and disposal costs. Brenntag will establish a Group-wide CO2 reporting system to enable a greater level of transparency in future and for improved measurement of the economic and ecological effects of its activities. INTERNAL EFFICIENCY MEASURES Brenntag aims to conduct its business activities as efficiently as possible. This includes the use of resources at our locations worldwide. Brenntag is implementing various efficiency-­ boosting measures in the context of local and regional outline conditions and legislative proposals, tailored to the com­pany’s activities at each of its locations. These measures are frequently based on the data collected through the com­ pany’s occupational safety and environmental protection programmes, which provide information regarding the volume and nature of resources used. Our measures focus on the use of water and energy, waste reduction as well as transport and fleet management. A few practical examples from Brenntag’s regions follow, which provide an insight into the various measures which our company has implemented in relation to this issue. CASA stands for Quality WATER: As part of its extensive CASA programme, Brenntag (CALIDAD), Health and Safety (SEGURIDAD & Latin America is regularly monitoring water use at all of its loSALUD) and Environment cations for documentation, analysis and control of the volume (MEDIO AMBIENTE). and nature of its use over time. Brenntag’s locations in this region have already implemented a large number of efficiency measures with this goal in mind. For example, they capture and store rainwater. This is used in sanitary facilities, for emergency showers and fire protection systems, for ­irrigation of green spaces and also in production processes. RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 23 Over the years, the measures implemented in Brenntag’s Latin America region have lowered water use: –36% BRENNTAG LATIN AMERICA 2014 2013 2012 Water use per tonne 68.3 94.1 106.4 product sold * THE LATIN AMERICA (in litre) REGION HAS CUT WATER Total water use 76.2 77.0 89.2 (in million litres) CONSUMPTION PER * Warehouse sales ­TONNE OF GOODS SOLD BY OVER A THIRD. Brenntag’s location in Costa Rica serves as one example of this holistic approach: in a first phase, actual water use here was monitored in the company’s office and warehouse buildings. Any identified leaks or uncontrolled use was eliminated. In a WORLDWIDE, BRENNTAG’S second step in 2014, various measures LOCATIONS IMPLEMENT were implemented to enable the use of APPROPRIATE MEASURES collected rainwater. During the rainy season, up to 6,000 litres of water are capTO ENSURE MAXIMUM tured in containers on top of the roof of RESOURCE EFFICIENCY the company’s main warehouse. Using only FOR THEIR BUSINESS the force of gravity and a system of tubes, this water is fed to the location’s various ACTIVITIES. buildings and used here for a number of different purposes. Water-conserving sani­ tary installations have also been installed. Green spaces are no longer irrigated from above. This is now handled by means of a system of pipes which are directly linked up with the plants’ roots. Overall, these measures have had a considerable impact: at this Brenntag location alone, water use has been reduced by more than half over a period of three years. 24 ConnectingChemistry BRENNTAG COSTA RICA: WATER USE SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCED Through its “Project Respect” programme, IN MILLION LITRES Brenntag UK & Ireland has also monitored usage data for its 18 locations and for its vehicle fleet for several years now, with the 4.0 3.6 goal of a reduction in its CO2 emissions in the long term. A core focus of this project 2.5 is the optimization of logistics processes. 2.0 1.5 This includes employee training courses covering the area of environmentally efficient driving, energy efficiency measures such as the use of time-controlled lighting 0.0 plus investments in reusable packaging. 2012 2013 2014 Over time, these measures have delivered a significant reduction: ENERGY: The Latin America region is also a role model for energy saving and shows how Brenntag’s locations are working BRENNTAG UK & IRELAND 2014 2013 2012 towards the goal of efficient use of resources. The warehouses at many locations in this region have been designed to enable CO2 emis20.72 22.00 22.01 natural lighting and natural ventilation. Many office buildings sions per also receive natural light by means of so-called “solar tubes”. 1.000 tonnes product sold Sensors and time switches for lighting systems and refriger*(in tonnes) ators reduce power consumption, as do energy-saving light Total CO2 22,952.73 22,919.40 22,930.65 sources. In Honduras, solar panels on the roof of the plant are emissions used to heat water for production of Brenntag’s AGROFEED (in tonnes) fertilizer; in Brazil, solar cells power street lighting on the * Warehouse and in direct sales company’s site. WASTE/RECYCLING: Brenntag maintains BRENNTAG LATIN AMERICA a close dialogue on the subject of waste/ 2014 2013 2012 recycling with manufacturers and with the national umbrella associations of chemicals Energy use per tonne 16.2 15.7 14.6 product sold * distributors. For instance, the latter have (in Megajoule) introduced various measures to reduce Total energy use 12,243,642 12,814,532 18,049,803 the volume of waste in the industry and (in Megajoule) to increase recycling rates. Many Brenntag * Warehouse sales entities have enrolled in these programmes and have established collection and recyDespite the energy-saving measures listed above, energy use cling systems at their locations. They recycle in this region has increased over the past three years. This is drums and other containers for further use. attributable to acquisitions as well as the expansion of several Intensive and regular training of Brenntag warehouse locations, including electrical equipment. Over employees covering the issues of handling, the next few years, the energy saving measures applied in storage and transportation of chemical all the region as well as the best practices implemented in products also ensures that unnecessary this area, are expected to be reflected in a reduced volume waste is avoided right from the outset and of energy use. reduces the volume of waste. SOLAR POWER Brenntag’s location in Honduras uses solar panels to heat water for its fertilizer production. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 A concrete example is the “chemicals distributors’ deposit scheme for re­usable chemicals packaging” which many of the firms belonging to the German chemicals trade association (Verband Chemiehandel, VCH) initiated in 1996. Since this time, a uniform deposit-based system has been successfully introduced for the supply and collection of reusable chemicals packaging. The Group’s German subsidiary Brenntag GmbH is a member of this scheme and has thus undertaken to adopt specific procedures for the supply and collection of reusable chemicals packaging. The joint goals of the scheme are as follows: // Careful handling of packaging, thus preserving its value; // Improved occupational safety for chemical distributors and their customers, by reducing the risks associated with residues and the unauthorized addition of foreign substances to empty containers; // Avoiding customers’ misuse of ­reusable chemicals packaging as mixing containers; // Improved safety for transportation of empty containers, by ensuring that they are in good condition, have been completely emptied, are properly sealed and appropriately labelled; // The return of empty containers and their recycling in line with applicable regulations – unnecessary waste is avoided by completely emptying containers and prohibiting the addition of any foreign substances or waste; // Orderly disposal of empty containand limit fuel consumption and waste gas emissions as far ers which are no longer usable, with as possible. Our drivers also receive regular training on the the goal of recycling as much of the topic of resource-efficient driving. packaging materials as possible. Many Brenntag companies use modern telematics systems TRANSPORT/FLEET MANAGEMENT: for their transport logistics, so as to optimize the use of their As a distributor, Brenntag causes air-­ vehicle fleets. These generally include on-board computers, polluting CO2 emissions through its fleet which register vehicles’ data and transmit this back to the deof vehicles. Thanks to a well-­organized pot. These telematics systems are also linked up to upstream route planning system and modern and downstream business management software systems. logistics management, Brenntag’s loThis system registers various items of information concerning cations avoid unnecessary journeys the merchandise transported and also the individual drivers, BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 26 EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES: their routes and the individual vehicles. This data is clearly Brenntag’s experts are frequently in Brenntag’s trained employees avoid unnecessary waste in handpresented on a dashboard. In particular, this information indemand for their in-depth expertise in ling, storing, and transporting cludes driving times and durations, the number of stops, the the fields of chemicals, components, products and ensure that materials are used efficiently. maximum speed, kilometres driven and fuel usage. procedures, processes and application technol­ogies. The following examples On-board units also provide visual and acoustic signals which illustrate the added value associated warn drivers if they are close to exceeding the permitted with our services. driving time. Drivers can visualize from directly within their ve­hicles their own driving performance in terms of their WATER TREATMENT: Brenntag serves driving speed, engine speed, acceleration, braking and encustomers in the field of water treatgine idling. These units thus provide transparency, enable ment worldwide. As well as a secure environmentally-­efficient driving and, not least, improve our supply, this industry requires the highdrivers’ occupational safety. est quality standards in relation to a large number of biological, physical SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS and chemical processes. In this case, Through innovative products and tailor-made solutions, Brenntag can rely on many years of Brenntag helps its customers to preserve resources and experience and expertise in relation to to use them more efficiently in their business processes. water treatment process engineering. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 27 SEGMENTS WATER TREATMENT One example of this is Brenntag’s product Clorious2. This new type of stable See case study on page 30f. chlorine dioxide solution efficiently and sustainably removes and prevents microbial infestations within water cycles. Among other benefits, it significantly reduces the volume of water use. A further example of Brenntag’s water DRINKING INDUSTRIAL expertise involves a customer solution WATER WATER in Chile: to reduce the mining industry’s use of scarce fresh water, seawater is now used for copper refining. However, this seawater has to be transported to the mines which are frequently situated well inland and requires energy-intenWASTE POOL WATER WATER sive desalination once there. To avoid these steps, a Brenntag customer has developed a technology which enables the use of seawater for copper sulphide treatment. Since 2014, it has used a solution consisting of sodium bisulphite powder and salt water which Brenntag Our experts have specialist knowledge of every aspect of the Chile manufactures on site. Brenntag industry, closely cooperate with the manufacturers, are familconstructed a dilution plant which it opiar with applicable safety and quality regulations and advise erates at the mine for this purpose. This customers on implementation. has not only reduced the costs for the customer but has also improved the enOur portfolio of high-quality chemical products and application-­ vironmental footprint: with a full rate of specific mixtures, blends and formulations ­covers­every water utilization, annual use of fresh water has treatment issue and every phase of this process, including been reduced by an estimated 12,000 cutreatment of waste and process water, sludge treatment, bic metres, while annual CO2 emissions treatment of drinking water and disinfection of s­ wimming have been cut by an estimated 1,000 pools. tonnes as more than 400 tanker lorry trips to the mine are saved every year. 12,000 FUELS: Vehicle emissions are one of the key causes of air pollution and the greenhouse effect. Brenntag’s AdBlue/ Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) product helps to reduce diesel engines’ harmful nitroCUBIC METRES OF FRESH WATER ARE gen oxide and soot particle emissions. SAVED ANNUALLY AT A CHILEAN COPPER Brenntag distributes this product under MINE THANKS TO BRENNTAG’S different names on different continents: CUSTOMER SOLUTION AdBlue in much of Europe and now also in Asia Pacific, DEF in North America. AdBlue/DEF is a high-purity chemical Brenntag closely cooperates with its customers and provides which consists of urea and deminerexpert advice: our technicians help to develop tailored formualized water. Brenntag delivers the lations and give seminars and workshops, so as to optimize mixture to its customers in quantities use and handling of products. Brenntag thus helps to improve matching their individual requirements. the level of efficiency within the supply chain, with optimized Each batch includes a quality certificate use of resources and improved productivity for its customers. guaranteeing the purity of the product. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 28 ConnectingChemistry CHEMICAL LEASING – A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL Through chemical leasing, Brenntag offers its customers an innovative, service-oriented and sustainable business model whereby customers pay for the benefit which they realize through a chemical product. The supplier (in this case, Brenntag) is paid on the basis of functional units within the process – e. g. the volume of water purified – instead of the volume of the chemical supplied for the cleaning process. Chemical leasing fulfils a joint objective for both the supplier and the customer: to achieve the desired effect while using the lowest possible volume of c­ hemicals. Both parties have an incentive to achieve a further reduction in their use of chemicals through process optimizations. Where necessary, Brenntag thus provides in-depth technical advice for its customers as well as supplementary services to ensure that this business model works for both parties. Chemical leasing is particularly attractive in the areas of cleaning, heating/cooling, coatings, paints and finishes and also waste water treatment. CHEMICAL LEASING MODEL ALIGNED OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE: DECREASE VOLUME SERVICE & SOLUTION SUPPLY SUPPLIER LIFECYCLE COSTS CUSTOMER (MATERIAL, LABOUR, WASTE MANAGEMENT) OBJECTIVE: DECREASE VOLUME RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 29 For diesel engines fitted with selective catalytic reduction (SCR) technology, a precisely dosed quantity of this urea solution is sprayed into the exhaust flow. This results in a chemical reaction which produces ammonia. Once this passes the cata­ lytic converter together with the nitrogen oxide, the latter is converted into water and nitrogen in the form of harmless molecules which are also present in the air we breathe. Demand for AdBlue/DEF has increased due to the manda­ tory introduction in many countries of SCR technology in the diesel engines of commercial vehicles as well as other statutory regulations requiring lower emissions. Brenntag is one of the leading providers of this sustainable product as well as related services (storage, filling and transportation) and thus helps to reduce the level of air pollution associated with heavy vehicle traffic. FERTILIZERS: For over 15 years, Brenntag Latin America has produced and distributed a series of liquid fertilizers under its AGROFEED brand. These products involve a combined fertilization and irrigation concept developed by experts in cooperation with Brenntag. Using a special method, the primary nutrients nitrogen, phosphate and potassium carbonate are enriched with calcium and magnesium. In a composition and dosage which is specially mixed for the customer, these liquid fertilizers are directly added to the irrigation system for plants, improving their uptake of these nutrients. This system uses less fertilizer than other methods require to achieve the same effect, and the tubes of the irrigation system do not need to be cleaned as frequently. With its AGROFEED products, Brenntag offers its customers in Latin America an environmentally friendly and also cost-efficient solution and is thus helping to improve sustainability in agriculture. VERSATILITY: Brenntag can rely on many years of experience and expertise in relation to water treatment process engineering. Our portfolio of high-quality chemical products and application-specific mixtures, blends and formulations covers every water treatment issue and every phase of this process. 30 SUSTAINABLE IMPACT Brenntag’s product “Clorious2” removes and prevents ­microbial infestations within water cycles and thus contributes to increased sustainability and efficiency within the bodywork pretreatment process. APPLICATION OF CLORIOUS2 IN CAR BODY PRETREATMENT SUPPLY DEMINERALIZED ADDITION OF CLORIOUS2 WATER SPRAY RINSING DIP RINSING PASSIVATING DIP RINSING PHOSPHATING E-COAT BASIN ADDITION OF CLORIOUS2 WASTE WATER RAW WATER GRAVEL ION DEMINERAL­ TREATMENT FILTER EXCHANGE IZED WATER BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 31 CASE STUDY CLORIOUS2 – A SUSTAINABLE SOLUTION FOR THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY Due to the statutory ban on the use of toxic heavy metals Brenntag offers Clorious2 as part of a (e. g. nickel and chrome VI) in bodywork pretreatment, the holistic concept: the toxic gas chlorine automobile industry faces tough challenges due to microbial dioxide is liquefied in a concentrated infestation. This leads to large numbers of germs in the funcsolution and transported in a specialtional baths for the surface treatment process and, above all, ly designed container which complies in the immersion rinsing zones filled with fully desalinated with the highest safety standards (while water between the individual coating processes. Biofilms and resembling a normal drum) and can be slime films form in the basins as well as in inaccessible areas used directly from this container. The of the system such as pipelines. This results in a series of chlorine dioxide agent completely derecurrent, timeand cost-intensive conditions which affect composes during the process. Clorious2 production, consume additional resources, permanently damdoes not contain any undesirable or age the equipment and adversely affect the surface quality harmful by-products and only biologic­ of the bodywork. ally decomposable products result during its use (“green fingerprint”). Through its product “Clorious2”, Brenntag offers automobile manufacturers an efficient and sustainable solution for the reMoreover, Brenntag distributes this moval of microbial infestation and – even more ­importantly­ – product on the basis of its “chemical for its permanent prevention. This new type of chlorine dioxleasing model”. Brenntag thus charges ide solution is used as an oxidizing agent and disinfectant in for the quantity of process water treatthe water recirculating systems of the rinsing zones during ed instead of the quantity of Clorious2 the bodywork pretreatment process – with many positive sold. This results in a win-win situation, effects. since both the client and Brenntag have an interest in efficient use of Clorious2. Changes thanks to the use of Clorious2 Further advantages Use of microbiology in Measurable reduction in the volume of bacteria, fungi, No bio-corrosion; careful treatment of the equipment the production process yeast and algae; removal of existing biofilms in the long in the long term means greater longevity; less mainterm; more stable process water quality tenance; fewer cleaning intervals; reduced use of bag filters means less waste Use of biocides Reduction of more than 40% in the biocide quantities Immediate improvement in water quality; reduced used; improvement in the range of effects and without quantities of waste water oxidative stress for ion exchange resins Water use Reduction of approx. 20% in water use; reduced use Improved environmental footprint thanks to reduction of pumps in use of water and electricity; lower costs for effluent water treatment Occupational safety Minimization of health risks due to the reduction in Low level of risk for employees the level of microbial contamination; use of a special, contact-free Clorious2 removal system BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 32 ConnectingChemistry SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY WORKING TOGETHER FOR SHARED SUCCESS As the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag ECOVADIS SCORING See COMPANY PROFILE plays a key role within the industry’s supply and value chain. To ensure the transparency of its own and GRAPH sustainability performance and to satisSUPPLY CHAIN on pages 6 and 7. Brenntag fy its customers’ requirements, Brenn// h as a range of more than 10,000 industrial and specialty tag undergoes external assessment by chemicals products, EcoVadis, a leading provider of sus// sourced from several thousand suppliers, tainability assessments. Performance is // for approx. 170,000 customers, evaluated in terms of four different cat// with more than 490 locations in 72 countries. egories: environment, labour practices, // In 2014, the total cost of materials amounted to fair business practices and sustainable EUR 7.94 billion (2013: EUR 7.78 billion). procurement. EcoVadis awards scoring points on the basis of the responses Brenntag is aware of the responsibility which comes with this that the assessed company provides in position. The safety and quality of chemical products and sera comprehensive online questionnaire vices can only be ensured through the joint commitment of all as well as its accompanying documenstakeholders within the chemical industry. Sustainability issues tation. EcoVadis evaluates approx. 6,000 such as health, safety and environmental protection, working companies every year in this way, in practices, supplier management and governance are increasaround 150 different industrial sectors ingly important criteria when choosing business partners and in 95 countries. making purchasing decisions. In its February 2015 assessment, BrennBrenntag maintains a close and ongoing dialogue with its tag was awarded 47 points and there2015 EcoVadis scoring: suppliers and customers – through its regional and global by upgraded to silver status. Brenntag SILVER STATUS FOR BRENNTAG procurement and distribution structures as well as its HSE is keen to achieve further scoring imorganization. Over the past few years, there has been an provements. To this end, it is currentincreasing demand – particularly on the part of customers ly reviewing the possibility of further – for information concerning the issues of sustainability. measures within in its various business Brenntag is responding to these needs by ensuring that our segments. sustain­ability performance is transparent and measurable, e. g. through sustainability reports, EcoVadis scoring, and Moreover, since mid-2015, Brenntag has issue-­specific audits at our locations. encouraged its own suppliers to undergo an EcoVadis self-assessment, in orBrenntag also contributes to increased levels of information der to achieve greater transparency reand safety within the supply chain by providing safety data garding the sustainability performance sheets, which are delivered in bulk to all of our customers within the supply chain. Brenntag aims with every product sold. In 2014, Brenntag Europe alone sent to initiate around 200 assessments per more than 450,000 safety data sheets to its customers, mainly year from 2015 onwards and to review electronically. the findings. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY 33 CASE STUDY “TOGETHER FOR SUSTAINABILITY” – THE INDUSTRY INITIATIVE As an association of renowned international chemical com­ panies, the “Together for Sustainability” (TfS) initiative is based on the idea of working together to promote sustain­ability. Founded in 2011 by BASF, Bayer, Evonik, Henkel, Lanxess­and Solvay, the initiative’s membership is continuously growing. The common goal is to develop and implement a global audit programme for suppliers, in order to improve sustainability within the chemical industry’s supply chain and to set industry standards. In July 2015, Brenntag was the first chemical distributor who became a member of TfS: as a ­member, Brenntag is part of a recognized sustainability network and is able to adopt established standards and instruments and thereby further professionalize its own ­sustainability ­approach. Since October 2014, Brenntag is ­already participating in the initiative through working groups, and plans to fully complete the TfS onboarding process by 2016. “The members of TfS are convinced that the chemical industry can only achieve change in the area of sustainability by acting in unison. We bring together the relevant industry players with this goal in mind. As the global market leader in chemical distribution, Brenntag is an important link in the supply chain and will help to improve the sustainability performance of the industry as a whole. That is why, in 2014, we invited the company to apply for TfS membership and we are confident that Brenntag will fulfil our demanding requirements,” says Ruediger Eberhard, Chief Procurement Officer of Evonik Industries and TfS President. www.tfs-initiative.com SUSTAINABILITY IS BECOMING A KEY ASPECT WITHIN THE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRICE PRODUCT SUSTAIN­ QUALITY PRICE ABILITY ENVIRONMENT HEALTH & SAFETY ON-TIME PRODUCT LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS DELIVERY QUALITY ON-TIME GOVERNANCE DELIVERY 34 ConnectingChemistry EMPLOYEES QUALIFICATION AND ­MOTIVATION – WORKING FOR BRENNTAG With their expertise, their skills and their dedication, our PERSONNEL AND EXECUTIVE employees are a cornerstone of our company’s success. To­DEVELOPMENT gether with their commitment, our employees’ high level of Through a large number of training qualification and their targeted development are prerequ­is­ courses and measures, Brenntag helps ites for Brenntag’s long-term competitiveness. The recruitits employees to comply with ever more ment, retention and development of the best employees are stringent national and international reone of Brenntag’s strategic objectives. This is why Brenntag quirements and supports their profespositions itself as an attractive employer that offers its emsional and personal development. In ployees good working conditions and a working environorder to meet local requirements, indiment that motivates them. vidual locations are responsible for specific personnel development measures HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT and their management. In every region, Brenntag’s operational human resources management activities employees receive training in accordare handled on-site in its regions and at its various locations. ance with their duties in the company True to our company’s overarching goals and values, proand their individual development needs. grammes and measures are implemented here in the areas of Occupational safety is a key area of fopersonnel recruitment, support and development. Experienced cus for training. Our employees’ safety HR managers assist our employees in all human resources isis one of Brenntag’s most important prisues as well as in their development within the company. Every orities and basic values. Worldwide, we For information on Brenntag region provides needs-oriented training measures operate in accordance with the “Safety ­occupational safety, please that employees can make use of in accordance with their duties First” principle. Our training measures see the “SAFETY” chapter starting on page 18. and the requirements of their position. also include tech­nical seminars, courses and workshops in fields such as sales, In 2014, the central position of “Global Human Resources logistics, chemistry, environmental proDirector” was established as part of our strategy to position tection and quality management, as Brenntag as the preferred employer globally in the field of well as personal development measures chemical distribution. The goal is the ongoing development such as intercultural training, negotiatand management of the company’s global HR strategy, whereby ing skills, presentation techniques and long-term personnel development and succession planning for conflict management. management positions are key priorities. To ensure the timely preparation of junEMPLOYEE STRUCTURE ior managers to take on more advanced As at December 31, 2014, Brenntag’s total workforce amounttasks with management responsibility, ed to 13,870 employees, an increase of 439 employees, or various programmes for their develop3.3%, on the previous year. This increase reflects our Group’s ment are offered at a regional level that growth strategy and has resulted from the expansion of our are aligned with the specific requirecapabilities in the Asia Pacific region as well as the acquiments of Brenntag’s various regions and sitions made in 2014, among other things. Nearly 90% of countries as well as local conditions. At Brenntag’s workforce are employed outside Germany. the “HRM Expo” trade fair, Brenntag’s BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 EMPLOYEES 35 EMPLOYEES BY REGION Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 in % abs. in % Europe 6,529 47.1 6,360 47.4 North America 4,116 29.7 3,990 29.7 Latin America 1,452 10.4 1,422 10.6 Asia Pacific 1,652 11.9 1,538 11.4 Other segments 121 0.9 121 0.9 Brenntag Group 13,870 100.0 13,431 100.0 EMPLOYEES PER AREA OF WORK Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 in % abs. in % Sales 5,225 37.7 4,930 36.7 Distribution 1,905 13.7 1,877 14.0 Warehouses 4,282 30.9 4,141 30.8 Administration 2,458 17.7 2,483 18.5 Brenntag Group 13,870 100.0 13,431 100.0 EMPLOYEES BY GENDER Dec. 31, 2014 Dec. 31, 2013 in % abs. in % Women 4,670 33.7 4,512 33.6 Men 9,200 66.3 8,919 66.4 Brenntag Group 13,870 100.0 13,431 100.0 EMPLOYEE FLUCTUATION 2014 2013 in % in % Brenntag Group 6.5 5.8 The number of employees indicated has been calculated on the basis of the Group’s headcount as at the end of the past year. 36 ConnectingChemistry PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT Brenntag’s executive management programme BOSS serves the development of the individual abilities and management skills of our company’s experienced key players worldwide. German national organization received a silver medal for the DIVERSITY AND EQUAL “2013/2014 International German Training Prize” from the ­OPPORTUNITIES German professional association for trainers, advisers and Brenntag benefits from its employees’ coaches (Bundesverband für Trainer, Berater und Coaches, diversity and sees this as an important BDVT e. V.). factor for the success and the competi­ tiveness of its business. The recruitIn accordance with the Group’s growth strategy, the “­Brenntag ment, employment and development Organic Sustainable Strategies” (BOSS) executive manageof employees solely reflect their qualiment programme, which was developed specially for Brennfications and abilities in relation to their tag, promotes global human resources development. This respective duties. programme is run by INSEAD, one of the world’s largest and most prestigious graduate business schools, and serves the Brenntag will never discriminate against development of the individual abilities and management its employees, business partners or third skills of our company’s experienced key players worldwide. parties on grounds of their race, ethnic This programme also promotes the systematic, international origin, gender, marital status, age, reliknowledge transfer at management level. gion or belief, skin colour, disability or sexual orientation. These principles are HEALTH AND WORK-LIFE BALANCE laid down in our own “Code of Business Brenntag actively promotes its employees’ health as well as Conduct and Ethics”. a work-life balance. In each of Brenntag’s regions, there are measures that reflect the local social norms and conventions. REMUNERATION AND PENSION For instance, in countries with inadequate social security ar­SCHEMES rangements, these measures include supplementary private Brenntag’s remuneration policy is defined health insurance. In addition, Brenntag organizes information by factors such as cost-­effectiveness,­ events covering health issues or makes a financial contribucompetitiveness, attractiveness and tion to preventative measures. fairness. Employees’ qualifications, experience and level of responsibility are The compatibility of their family and professional needs is paramount criteria. a further key factor in employees’ job satisfaction. Flexible working time models are available at many locations, to There are both defined benefit and desupport employees who have children or who are caring for fined contribution pension plans for the relatives. employees of the Brenntag Group. The pension obligations differ due to the legal, tax and economic conditions of the respective country and depend on the number of years of service and the pay grade of the respective employee. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 EMPLOYEES 37 CASE STUDY E-LEARNING AT BRENNTAG Since 2014, Brenntag’s regions have gradually rolled out a global learning management system that supports compliance with Brenntag’s guidelines as well as relevant laws and regulations. Employees are able to access a virtual e-learning tool online, at any time and anywhere. This system offers the full range of modern training measures, including presentations, videos and additional reference materials. This new system sensibly complements Brenntag’s range of training courses in its various regions. The tool enables the Group’s human resources departments to manage mandatory further training courses – e. g. for central compliance issues such as antitrust law and Brenntag’s code of conduct – and thus supports the Group’s local management teams. Using this e-learning tool, every Brenntag employee will be required to undergo training that covers the company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in future. The Latin America region pioneered this system in 2014 and now uses it across the region, currently offering more than 300 courses in the fields of business and management skills, chemistry and industry expertise, HSE, sales and quality management. This tool is currently being implemented in Europe; the Asia Pacific and North America regions will follow successively. Course content can be adjusted in line with national considerations, whether in terms of legal issues or due to differ­ ences between the Group’s various business units and locations. 38 ConnectingChemistry COMMUNITY TAKING RESPONSIBILITY – AT A LOCAL LEVEL With its more than 490 sites worldwide, Brenntag is present in in south-eastern Anatolia. In partnership many local communities – as an employer, a business partner with the “Society of Women Engineers”, and a neighbour. We see ourselves as part of these commu­ Brenntag North America provides college nities, as a “corporate citizen”, and we maintain a close dialogue scholarships for young women. with them. Brenntag and its employees assume social responsibility at a local level in various ways – by contributing funding, LOCAL COMMITMENT donations in kind, expertise and personal commitment. Many Brenntag sites have signed mutual aid agreements in their respective Local needs vary in line with governmental, cultural and struccommunities. For instance, in North and tural differences in the many countries in which Brenntag Latin America, Brenntag provides finanoperates. Brenntag’s sites therefore make their own decisions cial support for the local fire brigade, on where and how to get involved, in order to provide the police and emergency services, as well best possible support. as equipment and technical expertise in the form of joint exercises and semPROMOTING EDUCATION inars. We also provide aid in case of The promotion of education is a focus of Brenntag’s activities in acute emergencies: in the Philippines in all of its regions. A large number of sites cooperate with schools 2014, Brenntag together with a partner and universities in order to encourage young people’s interest provided the victims of typhoon Haiyan in chemistry and our industry, to sensitize them regarding the with a mobile water treatment van. handling of chemicals and to support their education. In view of the company’s broad range of activities, only a few examples In many cases, Brenntag employees get can be provided here. involved personally, collecting money and donations in kind or investing time For many years now, Brenntag North America has sponsored and manpower in support of charitable the national “You Be The Chemist” school competition, orcauses. In North America, for instance, ganized by the National Association of Chemical Distributors. Brenntag has closely cooperated with Through internships and open days, Brenntag Asia Pacific ofthe non-profit organization “Habitat for fers students in countries such as Thailand and Malaysia the Humanity” for many years now: here, chance to gain practical experience; in Chile, Brenntag Latin Brenntag employees help to build seAmerica supports industrial school students’ dual training cure and affordable housing for the programme. Twice a year, the German subsidiary presents the needy. Assistance for families in need “Brenntag-Award”, which is endowed with prize money, to the is also a goal pursued by the “Hogar de best graduate of the “Business Chemistry” course of study at Cristo” association, to which Brenntag’s the Heinrich-Heine-University in Düsseldorf. Brenntag Turkey employees in Ecuador donate part of participates in a special support scheme for women and protheir salary. Brenntag matches the funds vides traineeships for selected female students from universities raised. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 COMMUNITY 39 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 40 ConnectingChemistry REPORT PROFILE ABOUT THIS REPORT The reporting period of this Sustainability Report covers the presentation of this information. We 2013 and 2014 financial years of Brenntag Group (January 1, have prepared this r­ eport­in accordance 2013 to December 31, 2014) and thus follows on from the with the principles of balance, clarity, 2013 Sustainability Report published in August 2013. Any accuracy, timeliness, comparability and deviations in the reporting periods for individual data and reliability. contents are noted separately. From 2015 Brenntag will publish these reports annually. The next sustainability report will The contents and data provided in this thus appear in 2016. report have been determined by means of internal processes. They derive from Brenntag’s 2015 Sustainability Report follows the guidelines Brenntag’s existing management sysof the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). GRI has confirmed that tems and from official company docuthe report was prepared according to the GRI G3 Guidelines, ments and have been obtained from the at Application Level B. This report has not been subject to operational units of Brenntag’s regions any further external confirmation (audit). For details of the as well as the responsible corporate desummarized GRI index, please see pages 41 to 44. partments. The contents of this report have been reviewed by employees with This 2015 Sustainability Report is also an annual progress the relevant specialist expertise. report (Communication on Progress – COP) for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which Brenntag joined in Its contents also reflect the results of October 2014. This report has therefore also been published regular dialogue with our stakeholders. on this organization’s website www.unglobalcompact.org. The data published in this report have As a rule, this Brenntag sustainability report covers all Group been compiled and processed with mecompanies and business units in which Brenntag has a shareticulous care. However, we are unable holding of more than 50%. You will find a list of Brenntag’s to completely rule out the possibility of key shareholdings on pages 225 ff. of Brenntag’s 2014 Annual transmission errors. Report. Any deviations from these coverage parameters are identified in the relevant section of the report. On grounds of legibility, we use the term “employees” throughout this We have limited ourselves to reporting key sustainability ­report. This includes both male and fe­issues and activities for Brenntag and have opted for a brief male employees. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 GRI INDEX﻿ 41 GRI INDEX GRI has confirmed that the report was prepared according to the GRI G3 Guidelines, at Application Level B. UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDICATOR REFERENCE COMMENT PRINCIPLES 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Foreword from the CEO Page 3 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Pages 8, 14, 22, 32; Annual Report p. 128 – 132 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Brenntag AG 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services Inner cover page, Annual Report p. 74, www.brenntag.com/de/pages/ servicesProducts/index.html 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Pages 6 – 7, Annual Report p. 74 – 75, 225 – 233 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Mülheim/Ruhr 2.5 Countries with major operations Pages 6-7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report p. 43, 74 – 75 2.7 Markets served Annual Report p. 74 – 75 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Inner cover page, Annual Report fold out pages, Annual Report p. 144 – 145 2.9 Significant changes regarding structure or ownership Page 40 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Pages 17, 36 3 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Page 40 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Page 40 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle Page 40 Annually 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report inner cover page Imprint 3.5 Process for defining report content Pages 8, 13, 40 3.6 Boundary of the report Page 40 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report Page 40 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc Page 40 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations Page 40 3.10 Explanation of any re-statement of information provided in Page 40 earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement There are no significant changes in the methods methods and content compared to the content published in the 2013 Sustainability Report that needed to be retroactively corrected. 3.12 GRI content index Pages 41 – 44 3.13 External assurance for the report This report has not been subject to any external confirmation (audit). 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure, including responsibility for sustainability Pages 8 – 9, Annual Report 1 – 10 p. 49 – 53, 54 – 55 4.2 Independence of Supervisory Board In accordance with German law, the duties of the 1 – 10 CEO and those of the Supervisory Board are strictly separated from each other. 4.3 Control body or independent members of the highest In accordance with German stock corporation 1 – 10 ­governance body law, Brenntag AG has a dual management system, comprising the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. Fully reported Page references without any other details relate Core indicator Partially reported to this sustainability report. References to the Additional indicator Not reported annual report relate to the 2014 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 42 ConnectingChemistry UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDICATOR REFERENCE COMMENT PRINCIPLES 4.4 Shareholder and employee recommendations to the Page 11, 1 – 10 Executive Board Annual Report p. 43, 46 4.5 Linkage between Executive Board compensation and Annual Report p. 103 – 105 1 – 10 sustainability performance 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interest Pages 9 – 11 1 – 10 4.7 Executive Board members’ expertise on sustainability www.brenntag.com/management 1 – 10 4.8 Mission statement, codes of conduct, and corporate values Pages 6, 9 1 – 10 4.9 Executive Board and Supervisory Board-level processes for Page 8, 1 – 10 overseeing the organization’s risks and opportunities regarding Annual Report p. 123 – 126 sustainability 4.10 Processes for evaluating Executive Board performance The highest management body at Brenntag is ­evaluated according to long-term commercial success. 4.11 Consideration of the precautionary approach Annual Report p. 78, 123 – 126 7 4.12 Participation in external initiatives Pages 3, 9, 12 1 – 10 4.13 Memberships Pages 8, 33, 1 – 10 www.brenntag.com 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Page 13 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders Page 13 4.16 Stakeholder engagement Page 13 4.17 Consideration of stakeholders’ interests Page 13, 33 ECONOMIC INDICATORS Disclosure on management approach Annual Report p. 76 – 78 1, 4, 6 – 7 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual Report fold out pages, Annual Report p. 142, 179 EC2 Financial implications of climate change 7 EC3 Organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report p. 178, 192 EC4 Financial assistance received from the government EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local 1 minimum wage EC6 Policy, practices, and spending on local suppliers EC7 Procedures for local hiring 6 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit EC9 Type and scope of significant indirect economic impacts ENVIRONMENT Disclosure on management approach Pages 22, 32 – 33 7–9 EN1 Weight/volume of the materials used As a chemical distributor, we purchase and sell 8 manufactured products. No production that requires the use of materials takes place in the conventional sense. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials See EN1 8–9 EN3 Direct energy consumption 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption Page 24 8 EN5 Energy saved Pages 24, 25 8–9 EN6 Initiatives to provide products/services with a higher Pages 24, 26, 31 8–9 energy efficiency EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Page 24 8–9 EN8 Total water withdrawal Pages 22 – 24 8 EN9 Sources affected by water withdrawal 8 EN10 Percentage of water recycled and reused Pages 22 – 24 8–9 EN11 Land owned/used in or adjacent to protected and Brenntag’s locations are usually located in 8 ­high-biodiversity areas industrial areas and not in areas of conservation. Conventional motorways, roads and streets are used for transportation. If these pass through areas of c­ onservation, Brenntag adheres to the corresponding­legal requirements (e.g. bans on transporting certain hazardous materials through these areas). Fully reported Page references without any other details relate Core indicator Partially reported to this sustainability report. References to the Additional indicator Not reported annual report relate to the 2014 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 GRI INDEX﻿ 43 UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDICATOR REFERENCE COMMENT PRINCIPLES EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity See EN11 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 8 EN14 Management of impacts on biodiversity 8 EN15 Number of affected species on the IUCN Red List and other lists 8 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Page 24 8 EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Pages 24, 25, 27 – 28 7–9 EN19 Ozone-depleting substances 8 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions 8 EN21 Water discharge 8 EN22 Weight of waste Page 24 8 EN23 Significant spills There were no significant spills during the reporting 8 period. EN24 Waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the 8 Basel ­Convention EN25 Water bodies affected by discharges of water and runoff 8 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Pages 26 – 29 7–9 and services EN27 Percentage of products with reused packaging Pages 24 – 25 8–9 EN28 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with environmental There were no fines payed during the reporting 8 laws and regulations period. EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting products, goods, Pages 265 – 26 8 and employees EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Annual Report p. 190 7–9 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Disclosure on management approach Pages 14 – 16,34 1, 3, 6 LA1 Workforce by employment type, employment contract, Page 35 and region LA2 Employee turnover Page 35 6 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 1, 3 LA5 Notice periods regarding significant operational changes 3 LA6 Workforce representation in health and safety committees 1 LA7 Injury, absenteeism and fatalities Page 19 1 LA8 Training, counseling, and risk-control programmes regarding Pages 18 – 19, 34 – 36, 38 1 serious diseases LA9 Agreements with trade unions on health and safety topics 1 LA10 Hours of training LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning Pages 34 – 37 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews LA13 Diversity of senior management and staff structure Page 35, 1, 6 www.brenntag.com/aufsichtsrat (supervisory board) LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Page 36 1, 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Disclosure on management approach Pages 8 – 11, 32 – 33 1–6 HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights clauses For every company acquisition, aspects such as 1–6 ­compliance and employment agreements are ­examined in addition to commercial factors as part of due diligence. We disclose information about these transactions in the annual report. HR2 Percentage of suppliers and contractors that have undergone To date, we have not screened our suppliers for 1–6 screening compliance with human rights. We will initiate a screening process in August 2015. HR3 Hours of employee training on human rights aspects 1–6 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken Pages 11 – 12 1 – 2, 6 Fully reported Page references without any other details relate Core indicator Partially reported to this sustainability report. References to the Additional indicator Not reported annual report relate to the 2014 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 44 ConnectingChemistry UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDICATOR REFERENCE COMMENT PRINCIPLES HR5 Operations at risk and actions to support freedom of association By signing up to the UNGC, we initiated a global 1–3 investigation within the Group. We did not identify any business units where freedom of association is restricted. HR6 Operations at risk and measures to eliminate child labour By signing up to the UNGC, we initiated a global in1 – 2, 5 vestigation within the Group. We did not identify any business units where there was a risk of child labour. HR7 Operations at risk and measures to eliminate forced By signing up to the UNGC, we initiated a global 1 – 2, 4 and compulsory labour investigation within the Group. We did not identify any business units where there was a risk of forced labour. HR8 Security personnel trained in aspects of human rights 1–2 HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigineous people 1–2 SOCIETY Disclosure on management approach Pages 8 – 11 10 SO1 Management of impacts on local communities Pages 13, 38 SO2 Percentage/number of business units analyzed for risks related Pages 9 – 11 10 to corruption SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures Page 11 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Pages 11 – 12 10 SO5 Public policy positions, participation in public policy develop1 – 10 ment, and lobbying SO6 Contributions to politicians, and political parties 10 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior Annual Report p. 131 SO8 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Annual Report p. 131 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Disclosure on management approach Pages 15 – 18 1, 8 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products 1 are assessed PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with health and safety regulations There were no incidents during the reporting period. 1 PR3 Product labeling/product information Pages 3, 8, 16 – 18, 32 8 PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with product labeling regulations There were no incidents during the reporting period. 8 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws and voluntary codes related As a company that operates exclusively in the B2B to marketing communications area, we are not in direct contact with end customers. We therefore only use advertising measures to a very limited extent. This is done in compliance with existing laws and agreements. PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with marketing communications There were no incidents during the reporting period. regulations PR8 Number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of There were no complaints during the reporting period. 1 customer privacy PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws concerning the use of Annual Report p. 131 products and services Fully reported Page references without any other details relate Core indicator Partially reported to this sustainability report. References to the Additional indicator Not reported annual report relate to the 2014 Annual Report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 IMPRINT Issuer Concept and text Brenntag AG Verena Blaschke, Stinnes-Platz 1 Corporate Communications, Brenntag AG and 45472 Mülheim an der Ruhr, Germany Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Phone: +49 (0) 208 7828 0 Fax: +49 (0) 208 7828 698 Design and layout Email: info@brenntag.de Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Website: www.brenntag.com Translation Contact EnglishBusiness AG, Hamburg, Germany Brenntag AG Corporate Development Print Dirk Eckert WOESTE DRUCK + VERLAG GmbH & Co KG, Essen, Phone: +49 (0) 208 7828 7710 Germany Fax: +49 (0) 208 7828 7734 Email: sustainability@brenntag.de Productionsmanagement Labude. corporate products, Essen, Germany Project management/editor-in-chief Dirk Eckert, Corporate Development, Picture credits Brenntag AG Page 13: © Evonik for “Together for Sustainability”; Verena Blaschke, Corporate Communications, Page 17: © VCI NRW/Sylvia Galasche; Brenntag AG Page 39: © HHU/Ellen Barbara Reitz; Page 39: © Juan Pedro Donaire; other pictures: Brenntag and iStock This Sustainability Report is a translation of the original German version. In case of any differences only the German version is binding. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015 BRENNTAG AG Stinnes-Platz 1 45472 Mülheim an der Ruhr Germany www.brenntag.com
