Our Commitment to UN Global Compact “Communication on Progress” November, 2015 Trent House G Block Plot No. C-60, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra East, Mumbai 400 051 India Tel 91 22 6665 2200 10 Fax 91 22 6661 2833 6661 2836 6661 2837 Email tintl@tatainternational.com website www.tatainternational.com Communication on Progress Introduction Tata International Limited has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2002. We are committed to the ten principles of the Compact which foster better corporate responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Communication on Progress provides an insight into our recent activities in support of the Global Compact’s objectives. Statement of Continued Support As a member of the Tata group we follow the principles of corporate governance and a code of ethics (called the Tata Code of Conduct) very similar to the Global Compact. This Code of conduct is signed by all our employees and has been shared with our suppliers and customers. It is also translated into local Indian languages as relevant as well as in Mandarin Chinese and Portuguese in the relevant geographies. The Group has refreshed the Code in July, 2015. The refreshed Code lays special emphasis on Anti-Bribery AntiCorruption, Prohibition of Child Labour and Forced Labour and Environmental Sustainability. The triple bottom line – economic, environmental and social is today a prerequisite with stakeholders across the globe. Fortunately, Tata International, being a part of the Tata Group, whose values since the 1860s have mandated that no achievement in financial terms is worthwhile unless it improves the quality of life of the people and meets national aspirations, have always believed in it. In order to meet the national objective of earning foreign exchange, Tata International was incorporated as a trading house in 1962. Today, as an international trading and distribution company dealing in metals, minerals, distribution, agro and leather products it serves this same purpose in countries as wide apart as Cambodia and Ivory Coast, by contributing to their foreign exchange earnings. Similarly, in response to a government request to develop the then backward areas of the country our leather manufacturing facility was set up in Dewas, in Madhya Pradesh, today it is the global hub for our leather business, and Tata International is India’s largest exporter of leather and leather products. We are pleased that we continue to receive encouraging external feedback on our environment initiatives for leather manufacturing facility at Dewas which is recognized by the Ministry of Environment & Forest, Government of India with the ‘National Award for Prevention of Pollution’ and ‘Rajiv Gandhi Environmental Award for Clean Technology’, by the Council of Leather Exports. TIL, Dewas is Quality Management System and Environment Management System certified by TUV Nord, also received TERI award for Corporate Environment Excellence. The Leather tannery is awarded “GOLD” rating by Leather Working Group. The Leather product at Dewas has been awarded Eco-Labelling License by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS). Our In-house R&D developed patented technology for gainful utilization of solid waste through bio-methanation is recognized by the leather fraternity. Our efforts for Bio-fertilizer from waste and reactive filler for zero chrome leather production and recycled chrome utilization from solid wastes are well accepted in the industry. The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) (now termed as Corporate Sustainability CS) programs we undertake address the Human Development Goals and we measure our CSR process using the Tata Index for Sustainable Human Development, which has been developed by the Tata Council for Community Initiatives, Tata Quality Management Services and the UNDP. We are also signatories to the India Business Alliance to Stop TB catalyzed by the Global Health Initiative of the World Economic Forum. We have undertaken an initiative in 2006 to create women self help groups in the Kancheepuram district who will cater to our leather products factories. During 2007, we as a part of the TATA Group initiative have supported Affirmative Action to support the economically disadvantaged sections of society. Since 2007, we have commenced a new initiative for training economically disadvantaged women from Dewas village (near our Leather Manufacturing Unit) in the footwear manufacturing skills and also provided then employment opportunities in our Ladies Footwear Plant. Today we have over 1000 women working in our state of the art ladies footwear plant. Some promising women have been sponsored by the Company for higher learning and training at Taiwan during April/May,2009. Effective , 1st April,2010 , the Leather Footwear and Leather Garments businesses of the Company located at Dewas and Chennai have received SA 8000 accreditation from TUV Nord. Initiated regular health camps, safe drinking water, toilets and provision for electricity and fans for schools in Amona and Binjana around production facility at TIL, Dewas. Also committed to driving ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’ (Clean India Campaign) for public UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress – November, 2015 hygiene and sanitation, a new initiative of the Government of India, launched in August, 2014. We are committed to drive this in the villages around our manufacturing units in India. The Company has put in place a Social Accountability Policy and Affirmative Action Policy and practices positive discrimination. The Company has trained rural artisans under the Government of India’s ‘Support the Artisan’ initiatives. The Company has facilitated setting up about women self-help groups with emphasis on supporting women artisans in shoe making. We also initiated a process to adhere to ISO 26000 and during the year we have received recognition from the ISO Committee, UK. Also renewed focus on ‘Diversity and Inclusiveness’ across all the locations / levels in the Company. In 2014-15 we have initiated Rubella vaccination and Haemoglobin check-up camp under the “Swasth Kanya Swasth Bharat Abhiyan’ (Healthy Girl Child / Healthy India Campaign). In 2014-15 also initiated Health check-up camp for school children under the ‘Swasth Bachhe Swasth Bhavisya/ Heathy Children /Healthy Future mission. Our strategy recognizes sustainable development as a means for achieving long term growth, while keeping in mind that we hold our business in trust for our stakeholders and this planet in trust for future generations. We also recognize that we still have a long way to go and we invite any individual or organization to share their views with us. So that, in so doing we can learn from each other. Ajay M. Ponkshe Head – Finance & Accounts and Legal & Secretarial UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress – November, 2015 UN Global Compact – “Communication on Progress” November, 2015 Principles Company’s Policy Specific actions taken during the current financial year & Direction (GRI indicators (Approach / (Outcomes with Key Results & Measurements) correlated Process / with) Deployment) Human Rights Principle 1 We follow the 1. Employee concerns are aired and reviewed regularly through Businesses International Dialogues, Town Halls (Communication Meetings) at all the should support Declaration of Company locations conducted on separate occasions throughout and respect the Human Rights. Our the year by 1) the Managing Director, 2) the HR Head 3) protection of HR policies and Business Heads / Senior Managers. internationally procedures reflect, 2. At our manufacturing facilities at Dewas in Madhya Pradesh and proclaimed pursue and review Chennai, Tamil Nadu, we adhere to working hours as laid down in human rights these on an annual the Factory Rules 1962. basis. 3. Ascertain that all our units as well as Supply Chain Units and the (HR 1,2,3,4) personnel employed through contractors do not employ child labour since we are a SA 8000 compliant company 4. To reinforce the ‘Tata Code of Conduct’ a printed version is shared in English, Hindi and Tamil (for the benefit of workforce in Dewas and Chennai who are Hindi and Tamil speaking) with all our employees, including workers, and suppliers. The Chinese version of the TCoC has been circulated to our staff in Hong Kong/ China offices. 5. The Company has ‘Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy’ applicable to its workplace. An external lady domain expert from the social sector has been co-opted on the Internal Complaints Committee. Similar external lady experts have been co-opted in all locational POSH Committees. 6. The Company conducts periodic ‘sensitization sessions’ at its major manufacturing locations for ensuring that we are a ‘gender friendly’ organization. In these sessions, we also invite representatives of Government and Civil Society. Principle 2 Our HR / IR 1. Care is taken by the Company to ensure that it does business with Make sure they processes by way suppliers, contractors and service providers who comply with the are not complicit of consultative relevant standards under the Universal Declaration and the in human rights committees are at Fundamental Human Rights Conventions of the ILO and also meet abuses all times constantly the statutory requirements like registration for Provident Fund for its and proactively personnel and refraining from using child labour. (HR 2, 3) addressing issues 2. The Joint Management Council comprising of members from the in possible areas of Management and the Union, meets regularly and addresses the conflict with the areas of conflict. Management walks the talk. Unions. 3. Besides, there is the Safety Committee. Mock drills are conducted regularly. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress – November, 2015 Labour Standards Principle 3 1. As stipulated in 1. The Company’s Senior Management interacts with the collective Businesses the various bargaining group (workers / staff / associates) in this regard. Every 3 should uphold Laws in India years a Wage Negotiation takes place wherein the demands of the the freedom of and as per our workers are discussed, bargained and concluded in the form of an association and company policy Agreement. The Agreement addresses issues of employee welfare the effective we have a and well being. The Company has not experienced industrial unrest recognition of process of since its inception. During 2013, a revised wage agreement was the right to ‘collective signed. collective bargaining’ 2. There is no forced and compulsory labour in Tata International bargaining through Limited pursuant to SA 8000 guidelines followed by the Company employee and the Tata Code of Conduct. We also ensure that this practice is &4 Unions and followed by our supply chain in Dewas and Chennai. The elimination periodic of all forms of negotiations forced and are in place compulsory since the labour inception of the company. (HR 5, 7 LA 3, 2. Forced and 4) compulsory labour is banned by the Government of India. Principle 5 All suppliers are 1. The Company’s Recruitment Policy ensures that only adults over 18 The effective told that the years of age are employed by the Company. abolition of child Company shall take 2. The Company checks that its suppliers, supply chain unit, service labour serious note if the providers and contractors also employ adults over 18 years of age contactor in any and do not resort to child labour in their operations. (HR 6) way employs child 3. The monitoring is by way of periodic review of suppliers/ contractors. labour, directly or We have conveyed to all suppliers the seriousness of the issue. indirectly. Since 2010 , the Company has started conducting Vendor audits on SA 8000 compliance especially in the area of child labour. Principle 6 The company’s 1. The Company has a systematic recruitment process, which ensures Eliminate policy on selection, that there is no discrimination on account of age, sex, nationality or discrimination in recruitment and religion. The Company is an equal opportunity employer. respect of confirmation of 2. The Company gives employment or contract work opportunities to employment and employment physically challenged people wherever possible, including the occupation includes an explicit grading of leather by the visually challenged and housekeeping by understanding that the physically challenged. (HR 4, LA we are equal 3. The Company practices Affirmative Action and Positive 10,11) opportunity Discrimination. The Company has subjected itself to Affirmative employers as per Action Audit during February, 2015, which is conducted by the Tata the Tata Code of Group Conduct (Clause (The women empowerment programme by creating ‘Self-help 4). With respect to groups of women workers’ was identified by the Tata Group as a disability, the ‘promising practice’ for the second year in succession.) incumbent shall get the job if she or he fulfils the basic requirements. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress – November, 2015 Environmental Protection Principle 7 The company is traditionally Precautionary approaches to environmental challenges Businesses should pro-environment and Towards Sustainable Development support a specific policies and  Aligned to Corporate Sustainability policy, Strong commitment to precautionary guidelines exist to set Environment Management. approach to direction that addresses  Best-In-Class Environment Management Practices including environmental these Principles and Waste Management in Leather industry  Gold rated Company audited by British Leather Council against challenges beyond. The company has Leather Working Group standards an Environmental Policy.  ISO-14001 Unit (HR 3.13)  Eco-labelling of leather and leather products (Eco Mark) Environment related data  Recycling of solid and liquid wastes Principle 8 and target parameters are  Waste reduction approaches at source. Undertake enclosed separately  Rain water harvesting. initiatives to  Stop use of banned items promote greater  Technical support to suppliers not to use banned chemicals environmental  Maintaining norms of treated effluent water  Recycling of Effluent Treatment Plant treated water using Reverse responsibility Osmosis technology  Patenting of new R&D technologies (EN. 1 to 16)  Biomethanation of different solid wastes  Biotech mode of leather manufacturing &9  Cost reduction by substitution of cheaper and eco-friendly Encourage the chemicals. development and  Developed environment friendly chemicals for cleaner leather diffusion of production environmentally  Developed low carbon leather for reducing greenhouse gas emission friendly  Use of clean fuel for boiler to protect environment technologies  Installed energy efficient utilities for production  Installed sea water RO for RO reject. (EN-17 for Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9)  Recycling of waste water  Recycling of all type of solid wastes/ hazardous waste  Biotechnology for leather manufacturing.  Microbes produced colour.  Energy generation form solid wastes and resource recovery from hazardous waste  Ground and Roof water harvesting  Greenery by design. More than 250,000 trees planted all around the complex.  Utilization of solar energy for boiler feed water  Biogas from leather waste (project funded jointly by the Company and UNDP/Ministry of non-conventional energy sources, Government of India.  Carbon foot print reduction strategies made  Using recyclable packing materials  Protein filler from leather solid waste  Bio-fertilizer from solid waste of leather industry  Helping tanneries for sustainable leather processing and for getting BLC certification  Resource recycling of chrome as fixing agent for tanning process  EM technology based sewage treatment plant  DG sets with acoustic enclosure  Started solidification and stabilization technique for waste recycling.  Installed multiple effect evaporator for RO reject.  Installed sludge separators before ETP.  Vermi-composting for solid waste. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress – November, 2015 Development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies  Eco-friendly chrome leather  Formaldehyde free leather  Leather totally free from PCP and Azo dyes  Reactive filler from leather solid waste – A totally new approach for leather processing recognized as award winning project for Tata Innovista 2015 (a Tata Group in-house innovation recognition process). 1. The company has initiated various environmental care programmes including recycling of energy, water and hazardous waste under the umbrella of ISO-14001 & Ecolabelling of our products. 2. Specific areas in which R&D carried out by the company Biotechnology: (i) Lime free effluent treatment process is established with Upflow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket (UASB) for biological decomposition of organic waste to biogas. Reduction in organic load achieved is about 70 in UASB. Recycling of wastewater avg. 170 cu.M/day is achieved through reverse osmosis system. (ii) An innovative process developed for better utilization of buffing dust and drum sludge to generate biogas. (iii) The leather manufacturing unit at Dewas in Madhya Pradesh, India has won many prestigious awards like Rajiv Gandhi award for best environmental practices, TERI Corporate Environmental award for Environmental excellence. State level environmental award from the Govt. of Madhya Pradesh, BLC Gold rated Company, Eco Certification from Bureau of Indian Standards etc. 3. These environmental care efforts help in GHG emission reduction. 4. Benefits derived as a result of above efforts : (i) Proteinous leather solid waste generated in production process has been successfully recycled into various products such as leather chemicals, fertilizers and adhesives. This has provided an indirect saving on disposal of solid waste as well. (ii) Environmental clearance obtained from pollution control board through our sustainable efforts on liquid & solid waste management. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress – November, 2015 Anti-Corruption and prevention of Bribery Principle 10 As a Tata company there is an 1. Every employee has to sign the Tata Code of Businesses should elaborate system and process for Conduct (TCOC). Every year, every new employee work against the ‘management of business signs the Tata Code of Conduct. corruption in all its ethics’. The Managing Director of 2. Hotline: a dedicated e-mail id has been in use since forms, including the Company is the Principal 2005 to ease the reportage of ethical concerns by extortion and Ethics Officer, a Senior Manager is employees and suppliers and partners. bribery the Chief Ethics Counsellor and 3. Awareness Programmes on TCOC are conducted each Location has an Ethics regularly across the Organisation, in English and Counsellor responsible. There are regional languages. 2 Lady Ethics Counsellors to cater 4. Visual display of posters on Ethical behaviour is to the sensitivities of women displayed in prominent locations in factory premises/ workers/ employees. offices. The posters are in multi-languages. 5. Awareness Programmes on TCoC are conducted for All employees sign the Tata Code key Suppliers/Partners of the Company. of Conduct. 6. The Company is organizing ‘Ethics Week’ in November 2015 across its offices in India and The Tata Code of Conduct is sent overseas geographies. to key stakeholders with the contract, for their perusal in respect of relevant clauses. Clauses 5, 6 and 7 address these issues. The Tata Code of Conduct is also adhered to by the Company’s various wholly-owned subsidiaries in Hong Kong, UAE, in Africa, Mauritius, Singapore and Cambodia. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress – November, 2015 Saving Environment: Process Water Recycling UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress – November, 2015 Saving Environment; Solid Waste Recycling UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress – November, 2015 Capital Investments Made for Pollution Control Measures UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress – November, 2015
