innovesting ANNUAL REPORT 22 A clear business vision… index Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S.A.B. de C.V. (Vesta) is a publicly-traded corporation listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange. We are engaged in 40 ...inspired by a “Vest in Class” 62 culture …focused on sustainability the development and administration of industrial parks, industrial buildings and 82 distribution centers for leasing in Mexico. … and with excellent returns for our shareholders. Forward-Looking Statements This report may contain certain forward-looking statements and information relating to the Company that reflects the current views and/or expectations of the Company and its management with respect to its performance, business and future events. Forward looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may 114 Appendix contain words like “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “envisages,” “will likely result,” or any other words or phrases of similar meaning. Such statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. We caution you that a number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in this presentation and in oral statements made by authorized officers of the Company. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. VESTA 2014 Annual Report innovesting /2 Why Innovesting? industry 3/ Innovation is our top priority. We innovate by creating a “Vest in Class” corporate culture. integration We continually invest to inspiration ensure the sustainability of our Vision developments. To develop sustainable industrial Mission real estate for the To achieve excellence enhancement of in industrial real estate human wellbeing. development through an entrepreneurial team that generates efficient and sustainable real estate solutions. GRI: 4.8 VESTA 2014 Annual Report Our tenants are world-class multinational companies industry /4 102 CLIENTS 50% OF OUR PORTFOLIO GROWTH COMES FROM THE EXPANSION OF OUR CLIENTS’ OPERATIONS We integrate supply chains in our Park-to-Suit® developments integration OUR PRODUCTS: • PARK-TO-SUIT® • BUILD-TO-SUIT BUILDINGS 109 • MULTI-TENANT BUILDINGS PROPERTIES We are a “Vest in Class” company focused on building long-term relationships inspiration 36 EMPLOYEES 36% OF OUR EMPLOYEES ARE WOMEN VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report 1,343,434 m 2 LAND BANK PRESENCE IN 1,560,021 m 2 12 STATES OF MEXICO information GROSS LEASABLE AREA TIJUANA CD. JUÁREZ /10 11/ NORTH: Surface area M2: 246,883 Portfolio share: 15.8% Number of buildings: 28 LOS MOCHIS Number of clients: 22 Land bank M2: 440,364 CENTER: AGUASCALIENTES Surface area M2: 447,518 SAN LUIS POTOSÍ Portfolio share: 28.7% CANCÚN Number of buildings: 23 GUANAJUATO Number of clients: 27 QUERÉTARO LAGOS DE Land bank M2: 149,056 MORENO TLAXCALA PUEBLA BAJÍO: TOLUCA Surface area M2: 865,620 GRI: 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, DMA EC Portfolio share: 55.5% Number of buildings: 58 Number of clients: 53 Land bank M2: 754,014 VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer VESTA’S PERFORMANCE IN 2014 WAS EXTRAORDINARY. A STRONGER INDUSTRIAL REAL ESTATE MARKET, A SUBSTANTIAL EXPANSION OF THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY AND THE RECOVERY OF THE U.S. ECONOMY ALL CONTRIBUTED TO THESE RESULTS. During the year, we developed a strategic plan called Vesta Vision 20/20, in which we set Another outstanding achievement of the year was our entry into the Mexican Stock four key objectives for the year 2020: i) doubling the company’s market capitalization; ii) Exchange’s Sustainable Index, confirming us as one of the most sustainable companies in doubling the size of our property portfolio; iii) increasing corporate responsibility and risk the country. Aware that our operations affect the climate in which we operate, we management actions; and iv) increasing our investment in our most important asset: our developed a social and environmental policy that includes stronger ties to communities, human capital. primarily through educational programs that are also supported by our stakeholders. With this plan, we will take Vesta to the next level through actions such as these: Also, as part of our commitment to reducing our environmental footprint, we obtained LEED certifications of certain buildings, built new structures under eco-efficient principles /12 13/ Collaborative talent: Convinced that we have a talented and entrepreneurial team, we and invested more in renewable energy than in previous years. As part of our role as want to strengthen our philosophy of cooperation in order to take advantage of the promoters of change, we adhere to the United Nations Global Compact. qualities of each of our executives and improve the company’s overall performance. We also designed a results-based long-term incentive plan that ensures that the interests of our We know there are many investment options on the market, so we are deeply grateful to team are aligned with those of our shareholders. our investors for the time they have spent getting to know our company, our developments and various members of our executive team. This trust is vital to our ability Organizational differentiation: We have developed business capabilities that have to continue attracting investment and supporting our ambitious growth plan. We are enabled us to remain successful in volatile times: i) a lean operating management; ii) clearly aware that our role is to continue managing the company transparently and functional, flexible and versatile corporate governance bodies; iii) a fundamental strategy focusing on results that exceed expectations. focused on the client; iv) great regional experience and management; and v) a solid financial position. One example of this was shareholder approval for a follow-on public I’d like to extend a special recognition to all of my coworkers for their tremendous offering in January 2015, in which we issued new shares for approximately US$230 million dedication and effort, because only through the committed work of all of us can we build on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV). an extraordinary company. “Vest in Class” Governance: another unique quality of our company is our Board of Today, Mexico has an advantage over other countries, primarily because of its superior labor Directors, the majority of which are independent members (80%), diverse in terms of productivity, its macroeconomic stability, its position as a great manufacturing country and experience, culture and gender. The board is in turn supported by six committees (Audit, its trade openness to the world. We intend to continue seizing the opportunities this Corporate Practices and Nominating, Investment, Debt and Equity, Ethics and Social and situation offers. Environmental Responsibility), all of which are chaired over by board members, and in most cases by independent board members, which accelerates the decision-making We have entitled this report Innovesting, because we are a young, enthusiastic company, process, allows us to adapt quickly to the market and rapidly execute projects according with the capacity to innovate and take on new challenges, and a dedicated ambition to to the various levels. contribute to Mexico’s greatness. Over the year we increased our gross leasable area (GLA) by 16.5%, to 1.6 million square meters, with a vacancy rate (same store terms) of 7.8%, compared to 8.9% the year before. Net leasing revenues grew 18.5%, compared to a projected growth of 14.0%. Operating and EBITDA margins were also better than we expected, ending the year at 90.0% and 82.8%, respectively. We have a wide range of clients in fast-growing industries that are transforming their businesses and redesigning the way we live, through innovative productive schemes and Lorenzo Berho C. GRI: 1.1, 1.2 cutting-edge technology. At Vesta we understand this trend and make it our job to know about their operations in order to help them generate efficiency by designing world-class Chairman of the Board Of Directors and industrial parks and buildings. Chief Executive Officer VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Our History million m2 1.6 2.00 million m2 1.50 1.00 /14 23.7%↑ 0.50 15/ CAGR (GLA) 98 99 00 04 05 06 07 08 12 13 14 15 Incorporation of Vesta First loan from GE Capital Investment by Ned Spieker (founder Investment Investment Acquisition of La Mesa Industrial Park in Tijuana Acquisition of the Los Bravos portfolio in Acquisition of the Lintel portfolio in Initial Public Offering (IPO) Nissan Park-tosuit® BRP Park-tosuit® Follow-on 0 of Spieker Ciudad Juárez Bajío Properties) Leverage buy out Acquisition Joint venture Follow-on Included in of buildings with GE Capital: the BMV Aerospace Park Sustainable IPC index Investment Investment Investment Strategic planning Vesta Vision 20/20 VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report INDUSTRIAL REAL ESTATE Geographic distribution: Solutions MULTINATIONAL CLIENTS Platform Vesta is a company engaged in developing, leasing and managing industrial parks, industrial buildings and distribution centers in Mexico. Our products include Parks-to-Suit®, Build-to-Suit and multi-tenant buildings managed by an industrial real estate experienced team. This extensive supply of buildings is located in the fastest-growing industrial areas in Mexico, giving us a strategic position to benefit from the expansion of manufacturing and logistics in Mexico. US$1.10 BILLION DOLLARS IN TOTAL ASSET MANAGEMENT [2013: US$951.9] 87.3% /16 17/ OCCUPANCY RATE [2013: 91.1%] Automotive Food and beverages 39.9% 15.8% 109 PROPERTIES portfolio Aerospace 11.7% [2013: 102] by industry Others 11.3% 11.2% 102 Logistics % GLA Medical devices 3.7% Plastics 3.5% CLIENTS Recreational vehicles 2.9% [2013: 91] OUR MAIN CLIENTS: % of GLA* 10.7% 4.2% 3.9% 3.8% 2.7% 2.5% 2.2% 2.2% 1.9% 1.9% 10 1 6 7 5 2 5 1 1 1 GRI: 2.2 Years with Vesta * GLA Gross Leasable Area VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Performance in facts and figures FINANCIAL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE US$1,101.4 MILLION IN TOTAL ASSET MANAGEMENT TEN SIX BOARD MEMBERS COMMITTEES (8 INDEPENDENT) ALL CHAIRED BY BOARD MEMBERS US$69.3 US$66.6 MILLION IN TOTAL REVENUES MILLION IN NET OPERATING Social and INCOME (NOI) Investment Environmental Audit Committee Responsibility Committee Revenues Committee /18 2011 2012 50.2 51.9 US$57.4 MILLION EBITDA 19/ 2013 58.5 Corporate 2014 69.3 Debt and Ethics Practices and Equity Committee Nominating Committee Net operating income Committee Occupancy rate (NOI) 83% 2011 87.3% 2011 44.4 2012 91.1% 2012 48.4 OF OUR COMMITTEES ARE 2013 89.1% 2013 56.0 CHAIRED BY AN INDEPENDENT 2014 87.3% 2014 66.6 BOARD MEMBER LEASE GRI: 2.8, EC1 5.5 YEARS AVERAGE LEASE TERM 86% FLOAT GRI: 4.1 VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Performance in facts and figures ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL US$791,767 IN ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT 36 4.8% 40% OF GROSS LEASABLE AREA WITH LEED OF OUR OFFICES HAVE LEED CERTIFICATION TOTAL EMPLOYEES US$304,599.4 INVESTED IN EMPLOYEE HEALTH BENEFITS CERTIFICATION /20 21/ US$142,172 INVESTED IN SOCIAL PROJECTS US$50,000 127.4 INVESTED IN TRAINING MID-LEVEL EMPLOYEES kWp OF PHOTOVOLTAIC CAPACITY INSTALLED 36% OF OUR EMPLOYEES ARE WOMEN GRI: 2.8, DMA EC, EN3, EN16, EC1 GRI: EC1, LA1, LA2, LA10, LA13 VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report A clear business vision… OUR GOAL IS TO DOUBLE THE COMPANY’S SIZE BY 2020 /22 23/ VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report VESTA VISION 20/20 2014 Annual Report At Vesta, we focus on maximizing value for our shareholders and other stakeholders through sustainable growth. We intend to double our market capitalization and portfolio in the next six years. To achieve these goals, we have defined actions that include transforming our decision-making process to have a fully institutional governance, focusing on the fastest growing markets and geographies of the country, and continuing to grow our portfolio of Class A buildings under inventory building, build-to-suit and park-to-suit schemes, strengthening our value offering through sustainable projects and value-added services. WE ARE TRANSFORMING OURSELVES FOR THE FUTURE, DOUBLING THE SIZE OF OUR COMPANY IN A SUSTAINABLE WAY Our strategy has been based on the accumulation of competitive advantages, /24 25/ such as the quality of our portfolio, the soundness of our corporate governance, the agility of our industrial processes, the regional presence we have established through local offices, and our ability to recruit and retain talent, one of our most important assets. Growth 2.0X 1.6M m2 2014 2020E VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report WE DESIGNED A NEW Corporate ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE TO SUPPORT Structure* OUR GROWTH CHIEF EXECUTIVE STRATEGY OFFICER INTERNAL AUDITOR CHIEF CHIEF CHIEF CHIEF CHIEF CHIEF LEGAL INVESTMENT COMMUNICATIONS OPERATING DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL COUNSEL OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER PLANNING DEVELOPMENT NORTH, CENTRAL Organizational AND BAJÍO architecture PRICING PROJECT This year we focused on developing the We conducted an in-depth review of our COMMUNICATIONS MANAGEMENT Vesta Vision 20/20 plan, reviewing key organizational architecture, including our aspects of the company and setting structure, processes and systems, and the ACCOUNTING /26 27/ MARKETING ambitious but at the same time feasible company’s philosophy, and decided as a targets. Among these goals is to double our result to adjust some functions and chains of leasable area to 3.4 million m2. command to maximize the potential of the QUALITY TREASURY goals we set. In the coming years, we will focus on INVESTOR SUSTAINABILITY strengthening our businesses in the fastestThe structural changes include: RELATIONS growing regions of Mexico, where we already have a substantial presence, in ·· Restructuring and strengthening key NEW BUSINESSES NORTH, CENTRAL HUMAN addition to attracting leading global areas (Investment, Legal, AND BAJÍO RESOURCES players in the most dynamic industries. We Communications) and the creation of an have also placed a priority on maintaining Internal Audit area. INFORMATION long-term relationships with our current ·· Designing a functional structure for the FACILITY TECHNOLOGIES clients by renewing contracts and taking operative business areas (Operations and ASSET MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT advantage of their expansion in Mexico. Development), with the support of the MAINTENANCE Administration and Finance area. In pursuit of this strategy, we have ·· Strengthen the Operations area, to identified two main actions: include the Sales and Asset Management areas. The latter was created in order to ·· Actively investing in land banks in key attend to the current portfolio, with a regions, as a source of sustained growth. focus on property maintenance, as well ·· Overhauling the company’s as creating and following up on Shareholders 85.6% organizational architecture to ensure our relationships with tenants. capacity for execution and control. Broadreach 5.0% shareholder Lorenzo Berho and family 7.9% structure** Directors 1.5% * Corporate structure as of March 2015 GRI: 2.3, 2.9 ** Shareholder structure as of March 2015 VESTA SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Outsourcing construction VESTA services and other related 2014 Annual Report STRATEGY services 2014 Annual Report At Vesta, we are convinced that quality is a SUSTAINABILITY Because Vesta is a development company, We also promote competition between good investment. We have a business concept different from the rest of the IS AN INTRINSIC construction of its buildings is outsourced to contractors, which translates into lower costs, contractors, which are selected through greater value proposition, greater innovation, market because we know that having best VALUE IN OUR transparent competitive bidding, part of our very high quality buildings and the ability to practices makes us a sustainable company, strengthening our permanence and our COMPANY system of quality management for assigning offer competitive options to current and projects. We also developed a set of future clients. Since this company was ability to grow. Sustainability Requirements for Suppliers, a founded, and because of our strong focus on document that communicates our client service, we have never experienced a Our buildings are designed for multienvironmental and social commitment and significant delay or cost overrun in building functional companies and multinational ensures that our suppliers’ processes and the properties we have developed. firms seeking the highest standards, design construction activities are consistent with and functionality, focused primarily on the our sustainability policies and international We choose our contractors based on specific export market. commitments, including the principles of the criteria: extensive experience and solid Global Compact. It also guarantees that reputation in executing construction projects Our developments also incorporate contractors and suppliers are of the highest similar to those that we require, proven concepts of sustainability, like the Phase 1 quality, and mitigates the risks inherent in financial capacity, good relationship with Environmental Risk Assessments, before construction. Furthermore, since we suppliers, use of advanced construction and buying land and after building the structure; promote best practices and working engineering techniques, a high level of incorporating treatment plants, concrete conditions in all of our projects and facilities, technical consistency, quality and timeliness in paving, LED lighting, solar panels for energy encouraging prevention through order and the delivery of developments and, in certain supply for common areas and building cleanliness, we avoid incidents with our cases, certifications, for example LEED. exteriors, sustainable construction methods stakeholders such as a breach of legal codes and high-quality materials, among other and regulations regarding product health The contracts we sign with these characteristics. Furthermore, the density of and safety. construction, design and engineering our buildings has a maximum range of 50% firms are in keeping with market terms constructed area to 50% open area, giving Although we do not control the activities or and conditions, and fees are established us larger gardens and yards for loading and consumption of water, electrical energy and as a predetermined percentage of the vehicle maneuvering. All of our buildings raw materials by our tenants, we consider it total cost of the work or service. To are located in established industrial zones, part of our commitment to promote and guarantee a transparent selection process, so we have experienced no social conflicts inform them about the benefits of ecoour internal engineering and management of any kind. efficiency. Accordingly, in building our teams prepare and organize a competitive industrial bays we try to use materials and bidding process based on price, estimated /28 29/ technologies that offer our clients versatile, time of completion and technical capacity. creative, affordable and high-quality solutions. We supervise the entire construction process We also require that all of our suppliers to systematize production, maximize and clients comply with the legal productivity, minimize waste and guarantee obligations applicable to them, including the quality of the structures. the provisions of the Federal Labor Law. Through project managers, external firms that report directly to the company, Vesta ensures compliance with these obligations. GRI: EN24, HR1, PR2, DMA SO GRI: PR5, SO10, CRE7 VESTA Monitoring the construction VESTA 2014 Annual Report process 2014 Annual Report The process of building the industrial bays WE MONITOR THE and distribution centers that we develop is monitored internally by our engineers, whose DEVELOPMENT job it is to anticipate any problem in the PROCESS process in order to reduce rebuilding costs and guarantee that the development is ACCORDING TO completed on time. External project OUR SUSTAINABLE managers, which serve as auditors, are hired CONSTRUCTION to control costs, terms and the technical quality of construction in our industrial bays. 100% HANDBOOK We also focus on continual process of our improvement, enabling us to manage our operations are portfolio with increasing efficiency. We have ISO 9001-2008 certification in 100% ISO 9001-2008 of our operations, which is subject to certified annual audits. 4.8% We also have LEED certification in 4.8% of our gross leasable surface area and 40% of our offices. We have an internal standard called Eco-Efficient, which we developed of Gross together with DEG and an independent Leasable third party, with which all of our new inventory buildings must comply. We have Area is LEED a Sustainable Construction Manual that certified must be followed by all of our contractors. In 2015, we want to become the first company in Mexico certified with the WELL 40% Building Standard® for our new corporate of our offices offices. This standard rates the well-being are LEED of people through the physical spaces that certified /30 31/ make up the workplace, identifying specific architectural and design conditions that favor employee efficiency, wellness and health. Furthermore, in 2013 we began developing a program to systematize our processes on both the commercial and administrative areas (CRM and SADI). A specialized company provided support for developing this internal program to Vesta´s specific needs. GRI: CRE8 VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report CUSTOM-FIT PRODUCTS WE DESIGN FLEXIBLE Our products include Parks-to-Suit®, Build-to-Suit and Multi-Tenant buildings, all of them PRODUCTS THAT built with sustainable criteria and located in the fastest-growing areas of development in SUPPORT OUR Mexico. Most of the properties in our current portfolio are Class A buildings, meaning they meet the highest market quality standards. CLIENTS´GROWTH REQUIREMENTS Park-to-Suit® CUSTOM-DESIGNED AND BUILT INDUSTRIAL PARKS THAT MEET THE SPECIFIC NEEDS OF OUR CLIENTS. Douki Seisan Park, Aguascalientes /32 Build-to-Suit BUILDINGS DESIGNED AND BUILT 33/ TO MEET THE SPECIFIC NEEDS OF OUR CLIENTS. Durr Plant., Querétaro Multi-tenant Buildings THESE BUILDINGS CONFORM TO STANDARD INDUSTRY SPECIFICATIONS AND ARE DESIGNED TO BE ADAPTED FOR TWO OR MORE TENANTS. Querétaron Industrial Park, Querétaro GRI: 2.2 VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report 85.2% Over the years, we have created a network Additionally, more than 50% of the of long-term relationships with our company’s growth comes from our existing OUR DEVELOPMENT extensive client base, characterized by a client base, and our ability to offer them PROCESS IS high rate of tenant retention. 85.2% of solutions for expanding the properties they our total GLA has been renewed by the currently occupy or moving into new tenant retention rate FOCUSED ON original tenant. This retention rate is the regions. These factors have earned Vesta a MAKING OUR clear result of the personalized service and reputation synonymous with quality and comprehensive attention we offer through service in the industrial real-estate market. CLIENTS our regional directors, who have a deep OPERATIONS MORE knowledge of the industrial real-estate business in their region. EFFICIENT 02. Prospecting 01. Land search and acquisition 03. Development Value Chain /34 04. Leasing 35/ 05. Design Core competencies Third parties • With commercial intelligence and • Design is the responsibility of a strategic foresight based on analysis prestigious international architectural and key relations, Vesta identifies firm, which guarantees the best design reserves of land and industrial for each building. developments appropriate for • Selected construction firms bid on Vesta attracting new clients. projects and are supervised for • One of the main sources of Vesta’s compliance with quality, cost and time growth is the renewal, expansion and specifications, an important competitive recommendation of current clients, a tool. sign of our ability to strengthen ties 08. Maintenance 06. Construction • Legal procedures and permits are with our tenants by meeting their handled by local specialists. needs. • Maintenance of the facilities is provided by various contractors. • The flexibility of Vesta’s model enables it to select the most innovative, functional and profitable designs for responding to GRI: PR1 07. Property management our clients’ preferences and needs. VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report OUR CRM PROGRAM IS DESIGNED TO MANAGE AND STRENGTHEN CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Client satisfaction Another key aspect of our performance is In 2014 we developed a Customer knowing how satisfied our clients are. Relationship Management (CRM) program Because of this, we have designed an through which we will be able to manage and organizational structure with a regional improve communications with our clients, focus that enables us to offer personalized better serve their needs and attend promptly service through our regional directors. We to new prospects. Because of the continuing /36 +50% 37/ also conduct satisfaction surveys annually to importance of fostering long-term obtain information on the quality, design relationships with our current clients and and performance of the leased properties, guaranteeing that our products and services as well as the service and response capacity exceed their needs at every phase of the of our employees. This means we can find process—which we believe translates into OF OUR GROWTH out which of our products and services higher retention rates—we intend to continue meet their expectations and identify designing our strategy based on their needs COMES FROM THE opportunities to improve our service and and the trends we see in the market. EXPANSION OF OUR processes, in order to optimize building functions and maintenance and our Our customer satisfaction survey has been CLIENTS’ communication with all of them. It also gives us information for participating applied for eight years in a row, and in this time it has helped us improve our OPERATIONS together in social and environmental performance levels. The responsibility for responsibility projects. conducting the survey lies with the commercial director, and the actions identified as a result of our clients’ answers are the responsibility of the regional directors. The 2014 survey yielded the following results: 88% 76% 71% rate the attitude and are fully satisfied with the believe the effectiveness availability of our service Vesta provides. with which we solve GRI: PR5, PR7 administrative, commercial their problems was good/ and operating personnel as excellent. good/excellent. VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Case study WELLNESS: New corporate headquarters Vesta will be moving into new corporate emanating from Vesta, creating an focuses on human wellness within the built OUR NEW OFFICES headquarters in 2015. Our new space will atmosphere consistent with a wellenvironment. It identifies specific conditions, fit our current image: a dynamic, visionary motivated team: airy, with a comfortable that when holistically integrated into WILL PROMOTE THE and fast-growing firm. temperature and natural light, open spaces, building architecture and design, enhance PHYSICAL good acoustics, and an avant-garde the health and well-being of the occupants. WELLBEING OF OUR Our new surroundings will express our industrial appeal. EMPLOYEES brand and corporate values: to be an As an expression of our brand, these new excellent company with the best team of One basic element of the new offices will be offices will be aligned with our business employees, contributing to a corporate state-of-the-art technology to facilitate and our mission. This means not just using spirit of efficiency and quality, in a climate communication and make it easier to share our logo and corporate colors, but of fellowship and teamwork. And by information; technology integrated incorporating design elements that foster transmitting these values, we will also throughout the space so that our team at an attitude consistent with our corporate communicate and inspire our clients with headquarters as well as in regional offices values and strategies among employees our business vision. can share the achievements and progress of and visitors. This space will therefore reflect our projects in real time. As a complement, a our brand, grounded in quality, high We know that a well-lit, comfortable and latest-generation videoconferencing system service standards, contemporary aesthetics, Vesta takes care of its functional workplace promotes physical will enable us not only to save time but to and dedication to excellence. and mental wellness. That’s why our new establish a global presence and transmit the employee´s wellbeing offices will combine spaces for working image we want our clients to perceive: that This new environment will be a symbol of alone and in a team, with a flexible mix of of a cutting-edge, innovative company. our identity, translating our values of open and private spaces, as well as areas credibility and reliability, positioning us as for taking a break. Aligning the design of Besides having LEED certification, our new a pioneer in our market, passionate our spaces with our business objectives offices aim to be the first in Mexico certified about sustainability and product quality. means building the ideal place for by Delos with the WELL Building efficiency and productivity, encouraging a Standard®, which takes into account seven relationship between employees and fundamental aspects: Air, Water, clients. By design, the space will be Nourishment, Light, Fitness, Comfort and /38 39/ nourished with the energetic spirit Mind. It is the first protocol of its kind that Some of the indicators AIR WATER NOURISHMENT LIGHT FITNESS COMFORT MIND measured for certification ··Air quality standards ··Water quality and quantity ··Fruits and vegetables ··Visual lighting design ··Programs to encourage activity ··Handicapped-accessible design ··Health and wellness awareness of our new headquarters ··Smoke-free area ··Detection of non-organic ··Hand washing ··Circadian lighting design ··Structured conditioning standards ··Inclusive design ··Excellent ventilation contaminants ··Nutritional information ··Controlled light intensity ··Spaces for physical activity ··Virtual and physical ergonomics ··Beauty and design include: ··Air filters ··Detection of organic contaminants ··Menus ··Design of work stations without glare ··Support for active transport ··Shielded from intrusive outside noise ··Adaptable spaces ··Cleaning protocol ··Fresh water additives ··Safe ingredients for food preparation ··Color quality ··Exercise equipment ··Moderation of inside noise ··Healthy sleep policy ··Air filtering management ··Regular water quality testing ··Portion size ··Surface design ··Thermicity ··Business travel ··Controlled humidity ··Water treatment ··Special diets ··Controls to reduce glare and light ··Odor control ··Workplace health policy ··Air quality monitoring ··Pantry intensity ··Reverberation time ··Family support ··Advanced air purification system ··Conscious eating ··Daylight modeling ··Sound reducing surfaces ··Self monitoring ··Cleaning equipment ··Sound barriers ··Fair organization VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report …inspired by a “Vest in Class” culture WE ARE COMMITTED TO MAINTAIN WORLD-CLASS STANDARDS /40 41/ VESTA WE HAVE AN VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report EXPERIENCED AND MULTI-CULTURAL “VEST IN CLASS” BOARD OF DIRECTORS 9 10 5 4 3 1 8 2 7 6 “VEST IN CLASS” CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We have focused on keeping our corporate Furthermore, and to ensure that the Board governance practices in line with the highest has all the information it needs to make compliance standards. This ensures that the best decisions on the company’s Board Member Alternate Vesta remains an institutional, orderly and operation, every session includes a brief AttenAttentransparent company, grounded in integrity talk updating members on key current Age Since dance Country Age Since dance Country and ethics. events, such as the macroeconomic Lorenzo situation in Mexico, the financial markets, Lorenzo Dominique The Board of Directors is one of Vesta’s performance of the automotive market or Manuel Berho Berho 1 Corona** 55 2001 100% Mexico Carranza 32 2001 0% Mexico most important governance bodies, and its supply chain dynamics, among others. /42 43/ purpose is to execute and oversee that These talks may be accompanied by a visit Stephen B. Michael 2 Williams* 64 2001 100% USA Peckham* 56 2014 0% USA shareholders’ decisions are taken into to some project, industrial bay or company José action, and to decide on general of interest. Board members consider this Javier Humberto administration policies for the company. practice to be highly valuable for their Fernández López optimum performance. 3 Guerra* 58 2001 100% Mexico Niederer* 54 2011 0% Mexico The Board is made up of ten members, Marlene Karl Heinz eight of which are independent members as 4 Carvajal* 36 2012 40% Germany Kloecker* 60 2009 60% Germany the term is defined by the Mexican Enrique Carlos Securities Market Law. Each member has his Lorente or her respective alternate. Lorenzo Manuel 5 Ludlow* 42 2007 100% Mexico Stefan Blum* 57 2014 0% Germany Berho Corona, who is Chairman of the Craig Board, is also the company’s Chief Executive John Andrew Gladstone 6 Foster 54 2011 100% USA Vought 52 2012 0% USA Officer. All Board members are selected on the basis of their experience, professional Wilfrido Castillo José Antonio background and character, and are Sánchez Pujals approved by the shareholders. Board 7 Mejorada* 73 2014 100% Mexico Fuentes* 76 2006 0% Mexico member nominations are ratified each year. Óscar Francisco Daniela Berho 8 Cazares Elías* 55 2014 60% Mexico Carranza 30 2014 40% Mexico Jorge Alberto de Jesús Francisco Delgado 9 Uranga* 51 2011 60% Mexico Herrera* 68 2011 20% Mexico Javier Luis De la Calle Mancera * Article 26.Independent Board Members and, when such is the case, their respective alternates, must be selected on the basis of their experience, capacity and professional reputation, and must also be able to execute their duties free of any conflicts of interest and without 10 Pardo* 55 2011 80% Mexico Arrigunaga* 55 2011 20% Mexico regard to their personal, equity or economic interests. **Chairman The general shareholders’ meeting in which members of the Board are appointed or ratified or, when such is the case, that in which those *Independent Member appointments or ratifications are announced, shall qualify Board members’ status as independent. With due regard to the foregoing, a director cannot be considered independent if such director is: I. An employee or officer of the company or of another company that is a member of the same corporate group as the company, or their statutory auditor. Vesta considers a Board Member as For more information about our Board of II. A person that, without being an employee or officer of the company, has influence or authority over the company or its officers, or over GRI: 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.7 another company that is a member of the same corporate group as the company. independent when he or she meets the Directors, or to contact one of its members, III. A shareholder that is a part of the control group of the company. qualifications listed in Article 26 of the please write to our Chief Legal Counsel at IV. An important client, supplier, debtor or creditor (or a partner, director or employee thereof). V. A client or supplier is considered important if its sales to or purchases from the company represent more than ten percent of its total sales or Securities Market Law.* 80% of our Board the following e-mail: etica@vesta.com.mx purchases within the prior year. consists of regular independent members. VI. a family member, spouse or concubine of any of the persons mentioned in I through IV, above. VESTA Diversity in the Board of Directors VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Vesta’s Board of Directors is made up of 10 regular members, one of whom is a woman and eight are Committee meeting dates and attendance independent according to the definition of the Securities Market Law. One of our regular Board Members is German, two are from the United States, and the rest are Mexican. Date Attendance Audit Committee February 24 100% Sustainability issues dealt with by the Board of Directors April 22 66% July 22 66% ·· Long-term incentive and compensation plan for executives October 21 100% ·· Corporate governance ·· Compensation for board members and committee members Corporate Practices and Nominating January 17 100% Committee ·· Strategic planning for social responsibility activities January 24 100% ·· Creation of Debt and Equity Committee July 16 100% ·· Process Management System (Legosoft) September 5 100% ·· Mexican Stock Exchange Sustainability Index October 1 100% Board of Directors: Meeting dates and attendance October 20 100% December 22 100% Dates Attendance Investment Committee January 14 100% 2014 Board of Directors January 30 100% January 16 100% February 26 80% March 31 100% April 24 100% April 16 100% July 14 100% June 26 100% October 23 100% September 4 100% September 30 100% November 5 100% Board of Directors Supporting Committees November 14 100% December 2 100% Vesta’s Board of Directors has six committees supporting it in its duties, in various areas of specialization. Ethics Committee November 19 100% Each of these committees, which reports directly to the Board, has at least one Board member on it. Social and Environmental Responsibility February 20 100% Committee July 1 100% Audit committee Corporate Practices Investment Ethics Committee Social and Debt and Equity Debt and Equity Committee October 20 100% and Nominating Committee Environmental Committee December 23 100% Committee Responsibility Committee /44 Karl Heinz Kloecker (Independent Javier Mancera (Independent member) John A. Foster (Corporate member) Chairman José A. Pujals (Independent member) Jorge A. Delgado (Independent Javier Fernández (Independent member) 100% 45/ member) member) of our Board of Directors’ supporting committees Members are chaired by a Stephen B. José A. Pujals Lorenzo Berho Alejandro Daniela Berho John A. Foster Board Member Williams (Independent (Chairman of the Pucheu (Corporate (Corporate (Independent member) Board) (Chief Legal member) member) member) Counsel) José López Stephen B. Stephen B. Elías Laniado Roque Trujillo Stephen B. Niederer (Independent member) Williams (Independent) member) Williams (Independent member) (Regional Director) (Chief Development Williams Officer) (Independent member) 83% of our supporting Diego Berho Lorenzo Berho committees are chaired (Development (Chairman of the Manager) Board) by an independent Board Member Wilfrido Castillo (Independent 100% member) of the members of our Audit and Corporate Practices and Nominating committees are made up of independent Board Members GRI: 4.3, 4.9 VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report Material issues addressed by each of the Committees 2014 Annual Report Audit Committee Financial External auditor Accounting statements practices SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Corporate Long and shortEvaluation of key Remuneration of Addressing and Practices and term incentive executives executives in special resolving, when At Vesta, we manage sustainability from the board of directors, which follows up on initiatives through the Nominating plans for cases; definition of necessary, conflicts Ethics and Social and Environmental Responsibility Committees, both of which are chaired by a member of Committee executives those cases of interest the Board, who is in charge of reporting back to the Board on follow-up and the agreements obtained. Investment Project analysis Approving Approving projects Committee investments with a person from the sustainability department Ethics Committee Follow up on Code of Ethics requests or complaints received through the whistleblowers’ hotline Social and Approval of Participation in Corporate energy International Environmental budget and goals regional social strategy indicators and Responsibility projects evaluations Committee Debt and Equity Market analysis General strategy Financial growth Recommendations BOARD OF Committee and financing policies on capital and debt strategy DIRECTORS As the table above indicates, the The Social and Environmental Responsibility Corporate Practices and Nominating Committee is in charge of preparing and Committee is responsible for addressing applying the company’s environmental and /46 47/ and resolving conflicts of interest that may social policies and presents an annual report CORPORATE SOCIAL AND arise in the company, except those which to the Board of Directors, in which, among PRACTICES AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEBT AND by nature must be resolved directly by the other matters, it summarizes the activities AUDIT NOMINATING INVESTMENT ETHICS RESPONSIBILITY EQUITY Board of Directors. and degree of compliance of projects COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE relating to the company’s social and Emoluments to members of the Board of environmental responsibility policies. The Directors and committees are approved by independent board member Jorge Delgado, shareholders, based on the recommendations chairman of that Committee, is in charge of of the Corporate Practices and Nominating overseeing matters relating to stakeholders. Committee. Compensation to key executives is based on the degree of responsibility of In addition, since 2014, a member of the each and an evaluation of their goals and Social and Environmental Responsibility objectives. This compensation is reviewed and Committee attends meetings of the voted on by the Corporate Practices and Investment Committee in order to ensure Nominating Committee and the Board of that the environmental policy is applied and Directors, when required. social impacts and risks—environmental, social and corporate governance—are If any shareholder or employee wishes to assessed in all new investments. send some communication, we have a section on the webpage at vesta.com.mx. This communication will be evaluated by INDEPENDENT MEMBER the Ethics Committee (etica@vesta.com.mx) and, if appropriate, CORPORATE MEMBER channeled to the Board of Directors. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Stakeholders also have access to the investors’ relations office through the e-mail CHIEF LEGAL COUNSEL address investor.relations@vesta.com.mx REGIONAL DIRECTOR GRI: 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.8, 4.10 DEVELOPMENT MANAGER CHIEF DEVELOPMENT OFFICER VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Code of Ethics Business conduct Social and Environmental Responsibility Committee Ethics Committee and whistleblowers’ hotline The Social and Environmental Responsibility Committee is a standing committee responsible for strategy, Mission of the Ethics Committee Our Ethical Commitment, published on the inspection and evaluation of the company’s social responsibility performance and environmental impact. company’s website, expresses Vesta’s To encourage and sustain an exercise in intent, and that of its people, in this The committee is made up of experts in this field and includes at least one member of the Board of moral reflection which makes every case a regard. Because we are aware that ethical Directors. It consists of a Independent Board Member (Chair), Chief Development Officer, Corporate learning opportunity for the organization, decisions are what shapes the character of Board Member and the Development Manager. constantly enriching the ethical conscience, people and institutions, we direct our trust and character of all of the company’s actions unceasingly to the pursuit of this At Vesta, we take into account our environmental and social commitment in every investment decision employees. value, which we consider to be vital in our we make. Projects that are presented to the Investment Committee for approval must also be signed off organization. on by the Sustainability Manager, which guarantees that the company’s environmental policy is followed Objectives of the Ethics Committee and helps identify possible social or environmental risks. This document is the product of reflection, 1. Encourage compliance with the work and dialogue by representatives of company’s code of ethics, including the various stakeholders that make up our knowledge of the code, understanding organization: clients, shareholders, and assimilation throughout the suppliers, employees, our partners in the organization. real estate industry, society and 2. Deciding on a system of consequences government, the environment and, aimed at reinforcing compliance with through our employees, their families. the code. 3. Processing ideas, suggestions, concerns, Our code aspires to be a tool that is used SHAREHOLDERS complaints and moral feedback, every day as a guide when faced with drafting recommendations to the decisions about concrete ethical topics. organization that are consistent with Every moment in the history of an the system of consequences. organization presents specific challenges, 4. Identifying issus where ethical standards sometimes completely unprecedented, in BOARD (or the system of consequences) are areas of moral conduct. This code offers OF DIRECTORS insufficient or nonexistent and, when orientation for such situations, and necessary, establishing them. although it cannot cover every hypothetical 5. Strengthening ethical culture in the situation our consciences may have to face, /48 49/ organization. it does deal with many critical situations the organization may encounter. It should The Ethics Committee is in charge of therefore be conceived as an open receiving and processing any type of document, which may be enriched in the complaint or report relating to application future by the contribution of all of the code of ethics, or any departure stakeholders represented in it, as well as by from its rules by the organization or the experience of applying the code itself. stakeholders. It is also responsible for making changes to ensure the code of CORPORATE SOCIAL AND ethics is complete and up-to-date. PRACTICES AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEBT AND AUDIT NOMINATING INVESTMENT ETHICS RESPONSIBILITY EQUITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The Committee is made up of experts in this field and includes at least one member of the Board of Directors. The committee members are Independent Board Member (Chair), Chief Legal Counsel and Regional Director. DIVIDEND POLICY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY For any idea, question, suggestion, comment, complaint or congratulation, write to the Ethics Committee at: etica@vesta.com.mx ETHICS / CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE STAKEHOLDERS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GRI: 4.8 VESTA WE BELIEVE IN VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report INTEGRITY AS A FUNDAMENTAL BUSINESS PRINCIPLE Any breach of this code may result in We value our clients’ trust and privacy, and sanctions and consequences such as a we therefore take the measures necessary warning, termination of the labor to protect their personal data and the theft relationship and legal action. of their information, like including confidentiality clauses in all of our contracts. At Vesta, all our business and stakeholder Additionally most of the information we relationships are based on the principle of receive from our clients is public. As for integrity. We believe this ethical approach third parties, our marketing programs do is what makes us competitive and different not involve advertising that is subject to /50 51/ in Mexico’s real-estate industry, and we standards or codes. Accordingly, we have guarantee it through our good corporate had no incidents or fines in this regard. governance, transparency and the implementation of anti-corruption policies. All of our stakeholders are advised to write As a result, we have never had a to etica@vesta.com.mx to report any corruption-related incident. We also have a violation of the above codes and policies. policy of not contributing to political Every report is analyzed and followed up parties or conducting transactions with formally by the Ethics Committee. related parties. We comply fully with all the applicable provisions, including the Law on Prevention and Identification of Transactions with Illegal Resources. As a result of this ethical and transparent approach, Vesta has not had to pay any significant fines for violating the law, nor GRI: 4.8, SO2, SO3, SO4, SO6, SO7, SO8, DMA SO, PR3, PR6, PR7, PR8, DMA PR, have there been any complaints regarding incidents of corruption, discrimination, child labor, monopolistic practices, forced labor, violation of human rights or indigenous rights—actions that are clearly unacceptable according to our Code of Ethics. Any violation of this type may be reported in writing or anonymously through our webpage at (vesta.com.mx) or by sending HR2, HR4, HR9, HR10, HR11, SO4, DMA HR an e-mail to the Ethics Committee (etica@ vesta.com.mx), These channels are open to all of our stakeholders. VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Sustainability Department Among the primary duties of the Sustainability Department are ensuring that the company follows a sustainable strategic path. It reports directly to the Social and Environmental Responsibility Committee and the company’s Chief Executive Officer. The Integrated Annual Report is reviewed VESTA IS A MEMBER by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief OF THE MEXICAN Financial Officer, Chief Legal Counsel, Commercial Director, Investor Relations STOCK EXCHANGE Department, Chief Development Officer SUSTAINABILITY INDEX and the Sustainability Department. After their review, the report is published and made available to all of our stakeholders. In 2014, Vesta participated in the selection process to become a member of the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) SustainableIndex, which takes into account international standards in the areas of environmental and social performance, corporate governance, stakeholders, supply chain and products, among others. The participating companies are evaluated by two independent firms that are experts in sustainability issues. Vesta was chosen as one of the 34 most sustainable Mexican Risks companies listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange. Our inclusion in this index gives Business risks us an even greater commitment to ·· Economic situation of other countries investing, monitoring and reporting on ·· Socio-political and environmental /52 53/ non-financial performance related to our factors affecting prospective or financial performance. The index gives us ongoing businesses greater visibility with new domestic and ·· Financial market volatility international investors. ·· Compliance with contractual obligations The Sustainability Department welcomes ·· Slowdown in our clients’ industries ideas, questions, comments and ·· Financing availability suggestions from all our stakeholders at ·· Natural phenomena sustentabilidad@vesta.com.mx ·· Legal, environmental and safety provisions The company received the support of the ·· Succession of key executives German Development Bank (Deutsche ·· Competition Investitions und Entwicklungsgesellschaft ·· Climate Change mbH, or DEG, a past Vesta investor) in developing the Vesta Sustainable Mexico’s risks Construction Handbook. ·· Economic conditions in Mexico ·· Socio-political risks As part of our sustainable business ·· Macroeconomic situation management, we know that Vesta is ·· Exchange rate, inflation, interest rates, exposed to three main types of risk, related etc. to our business, to Mexico and to our ·· Changes in legislation shares and main shareholders. Before approving any investment, the Investment Risks related to our shares and our Committee identifies and quantifies these shareholders risks and incorporates them into the ·· Market price of our shares decision making process. The evaluation of ·· Main shareholders influence over these risks yields information that helps us operations GRI: 4.9, 4.11, EC4, DMA EN to identify business opportunities that have ·· Dividend payments become a competitive advantage. ·· Massive stock selloff VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report OUR “VEST IN CLASS” CULTURE IS SUPPORTED BY AN ENTREPRENEURIAL OPERATIONAL TEAM LEADING TEAM Our team is Vesta’s most important asset, of forced or compulsory labor and, as we and that is why retaining and developing mentioned above, we have a channel for talent is crucial. The dedication and making anonymous reports to the Ethics professionalism of our people have enriched Committee through our webpage our work and created the best industrial real at www.vesta.com.mx. /54 55/ estate development team in Mexico. Most of our board members and executives have Vesta hires all its employees directly through worked in the same team for more than 10 its subsidiary Vesta Management, S. de R.L. years and have a specialized knowledge of de C.V., which assembles a file on each of the Mexican industrial real-estate market. them, including proof of address, taxpayer Lorenzo Manuel Berho Corona, our founder, ID, population registry code and other data, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive depending on the position to be filled. Officer, has 35 years of experience in the realThrough this process we guarantee that all estate industry. 28% of our team has been employees are of legal age to work. In any with Vesta since its inception case, we make the e-mail address of our Ethics Committee available to all our All of our employees work at Vesta out of stakeholders in the event they wish to file their own conviction, and all have a labor some complaint or express a concern. contract. Employees are hired through the same formal procedure and, in accordance with our Code of Ethics, we offer equal opportunities without regard to race, ethnic group, gender, beliefs, religion, age, physical disability or sexual preference. We have therefore never been involved in any incident GRI: EC7, HR4, HR7, HR6, DMA HR VESTA 100% of our employees are full-time employees, and 0% have temporary contracts. We had 36 employees in 2014. All our personnel enjoy the same benefits according to the law: To ensure that we conform to best employment practices, we have a ATTRACTING, VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report annual bonus, vacation bonus, disability and social security. Furthermore, since all workers Corporate Practices and Nominating DEVELOPING AND are hired under individual labor contracts and are, due to their functions cataloged “trusted employees”. None are (quitar is) represented under a collective bargaining agreement, and Committee which, among other activities, oversees the actions of the Chief Executive RETAINING TALENT IS therefore there is no need to give prior notice of organizational changes in those Officer, approves compensation for senior KEY FOR OUR GROWTH agreements nor are we at risk of violating the freedom of association. executives and is committed to providing a workplace environment suitable for the STRATEGY optimum performance of our employees. 64% 2013 2014 The Committee is headed by an Number of employees independent Board Member and a Men 19 23 member that sits on the Ethics Committee. Women 11 13 Men Total 30 36 The chairman of this committee is in charge of analyzing personnel-related 36% Average age 43 41 issues. Senior executive women 0 0 Managerial level women 4 4 Compensation plans Women Staff level women 7 9 Employees by age <25 3 0 At Vesta, we have a compensation plan All Vesta employees have short-term range consistent with the characteristics of the incentive mechanisms. We also have a 26-30 7 9 job each employee is assigned. The Chief long-term incentive plan for senior executives 31-35 3 6 Executive Officer and Chief Financial and some key executives structured on the 36-40 4 7 Officer are in charge of reviewing basis of a dual component. Besides the base >41 13 14 compensation mechanisms and have salary, this compensation includes: (i) a Employees by Senior executives 11 11 prepared compensation tables consistent short-term incentive scheme (STI) paid in category Managers 11 13 with the company’s objectives. Besides cash and linked to operating terms, Staff 8 12 being aligned with the company’s individual metrics and return on equity economic results, compensation takes into during the current year; and (ii) a long-term Employee breakdown by region account the individual goals defined for incentive scheme (LT) with a three year each position and agreed upon previously. vesting schedule in company stock and linked to the return on Vesta shares in 2013 2014 We conducted a strategic planning exercise proportion to the return on the shares of our Men Women Total Men Women Total in 2014, one of the strategic pillars is competitors (Total Relative Return). Headquarters 10 7 17 13 8 21 human capital: employee retention North 1 3 4 2 3 5 strategies, career plans and compensation Our strategic recruitment and retention Ciudad Juárez 1 0 1 1 0 1 plans. In order to compare the base of plan includes the physical move of our /56 57/ Bajío 6 1 7 5 1 6 wages, salaries and benefits for 100% of corporate headquarters, which will create people against national and international a better workplace, improve employee Central 1 0 1 2 1 3 practice in our industry, we regularly have productivity and enhance communication 19 11 30 23 13 36 an independent firm conducting between various regions and stakeholders. comparative studies of compensation. Age range of our employees by category As a result of this analysis, we are taking Level Age range Men Women Total steps toward making the necessary < 30 0 0 0 adjustments. The analysis showed that our Senior executives 30-40 4 0 4 lowest salary level is six times higher than 41-50 2 0 2 the minimum wage, the difference > 50 5 0 5 between the lowest and highest wage is 19 times, and the average salary is 46 Total 11 0 11 times higher than the minimum wage. < 30 2 1 3 Managers 30-40 5 1 6 41-50 1 0 1 GRI: 2.6, 2.8, EC3, DMA EN, LA3, LA4, LA5, LA13, DMA LA, HR5, DMA HR > 50 1 2 3 Total 9 4 13 < 30 1 5 6 Staff 30-40 1 0 1 41-50 0 2 2 > 50 1 2 3 Total 3 9 12 GRI: 4.5, EC3, EC5, LA3, LA14, DMA LA VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report “Vest in class” employee development Health and safety Part of our enterprising spirit is the advancement of our employees. We have a training All employees have private medical insurance and, depending on their level, this benefit program within the company that provided 150 work hours of training during the year, extends to employees and their economic dependents (spouse and children under 25). focused on managerial positions, averaging 4.2 work hours per employee. Insurance Investment in 2014 In addition to institutional training, we have adopted criteria of respecting each employee’s needs as regards his or her personal development. This includes personalized training Medical insurance, employees US$23,238 US$304,599 courses consistent with their job description and personal interests. All of our employees are Medical insurance, senior executives US$264,145 invested in given the flexibility to attend courses or master’s degree programs or teaching. employee insurance Life insurance, employees US$17,215 Senior executives receive an objective measurement of their pay; their compensation is Total invested in employee health US$304,599 closely linked to the added value we offer to all our stakeholders. 100% of our senior executives receive a professional performance review, and the performance bonus of 18% In addition to the above, all company employees have a life insurance policy. And as part of them is closely related to meeting our Sustainability objectives. of our health care measures, every two years our senior executives, or 30% of our employees, are entitled to a medical checkup at healthcare institutions in Mexico. As the Vesta carries out long-term human resource planning which includes the following: table above shows, we invested a total of US$304,599 in our employees’ health. Our maternity and paternity policy exceeds the regulatory minimum and includes flex time for adjusting back to working life after a child is born, encouraging a balance between work and family life. Although there were no maternity or paternity leaves in 2014, in previous years we had a retention rate of 100% after these leaves. This policy also applies to adoptions. For Vesta, employee safety is a priority. We have a civil protection committee that represents all our employees and is responsible for coordinating personnel in Mexico City in the event of earthquake, fire, flooding and/or social risks. Nevertheless, because we do not, again, have any unionized personnel, there are no agreements of this type in the areas of health and safety as might be included in collective bargaining agreements. 01 Recruitment policy and guidelines Given the nature of our business, 100% of our employees work in offices, which reduces the risk of occupational accidents. Out of a 81,648 total work hours during the year, we 11 recorded no fatalities or days lost in connection with occupational health and safety issues. KPIs 02 Definition of a /58 59/ career plan at all levels 2011 2012 2013 2014 Fatalities at Vesta 0 0 0 0 Contractor fatalities 0 0 1 0 10 03 Hours worked 67,000 81,648 Organizational Hiring and culture and evaluation criteria Frequency Index 0 0 0 0 corporate social responsibility Total Work Days Lost Rate 0 0 0 0 Absence rate 0 0 0 0 09 Policy and process 04 for hiring family Compensation members and incentive systems 08 Retirement plan 05 and contract Insurance policies termination policy 07 06 Training programs Promotion criteria GRI: DMA LA, LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9, LA15 GRI: LA10, LA11, LA12, DMA LA We recognize the importance of health and safety systems, and we comply with all legal VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report requirements in 100% of our offices and parks. Because the company does not build 2014 Annual Report directly, but rather hires outside contractors for construction, we do not require Case certifications relating to that activity. study During the year we received two fines for late payment of taxes and construction licenses, totaling US$43,542. We have taken the necessary measures to avoid this happening again INTERNSHIPS AT VESTA: in the future. A strategic investment Because of our labor practices, personnel turnover is low, but it has risen proportionately The purpose of the internship program held The second component was practical, and as the number of employees has grown. Between 2013 and 2014, we had a turnover rate from May 30 to June 19, 2014 was to give included introductions to our stakeholders of 16.7% although the number of employees increased from 30 to 36, by 20%, with the and more than ten visits to various Vesta THE PURPOSE OF young participants a vision of Vesta within hiring of six employees. the context of Mexico’s industrial real estate properties—automotive plants, projects THE PROGRAM sector, its trends and opportunities. under development, the Querétaro WAS TO GIVE Aerospace Park, general offices of some YOUNG The program was designed to give seven of our clients, industrial buildings for Number of employees / Turnover young people from three countries a e-commerce, and others, in Mexico City, PARTICIPANTS A broad-based perspective on the tremendous Toluca, Querétaro and Ciudad Juárez, and WIDE PERSPECTIVE 36 / 16.7% possibilities this industry has for Mexico. By the installation of solar panels for two OF THE linking them to Vesta’s management team and days to benefit the communities where shareholders through meetings and visits to we operate, as part of our social OPPORTUNITIES IN 30 / 10% our developments, we were able to give responsibility program. THE INDUSTRIAL participants a deeper knowledge of the REAL ESTATE 26 / 8% company’s operating and management model. Each of the participants prepared a SECTOR IN MEXICO research project on new business 24 / 8% The internship experience had two opportunities for Vesta in Mexico, and the components. The first was theoretic, and program concluded with an individual included an overview of Vesta, its history presentation about Vesta at the Mexican and its commercial and industrial Stock Exchange. development models, its growth strategy, its role as a responsible company, corporate This was clearly a memorable and governance and ethics, project evaluation, enriching experience for all these young 2011 2012 2013 2014 people, and we are confident it will have sustainable construction standards and LEED certifications. It also included the legal a positive influence on their choice of and financial aspects of operating a career. Programs such as this confirm our This turnover index reflects that Vesta prizes stability and talent retention, as evident in publicly-traded real-estate company, commitment to sustainability and /60 61/ the average length of employment with the company, which is 5.8 years. investor relations, and the presentation of investing in education, which, in the annual reports. words of our CEO, “is part of our legacy for future generations.” GRI: DMA LA, CRE6, PR9, LA2 GRI: LA11 VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report …focused on sustainability “VEST IN CLASS” IS MINIMIZING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OUR DEVELOPMENTS /62 63/ VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report WE INTEGRATE OUR Components of our 20/20 STAKEHOLDERS IN OUR SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable Vision STRATEGY Focus on Mexico’s COMMITMENT TO fastest-growing STAKEHOLDERS markets and geographies Return on For Vesta, acting sustainably means We also carried out a strategic planning Institutional investment building our business with a long-term exercise that combines the vision of all of governance Growth vision and strengthening relationships with the company’s areas through 2020, which our stakeholders. We conducted an can be summed up as shown in the table Net operating internal review to identify some parameters below: income of best practices in the company’s performance, the current global sustainability context in the real-estate Job security BUSINESS industry, and material topics to our Talent attraction and stakeholders: clients, shareholders, retention suppliers, employees, real-estate industry Training and partners, society and government. development INVESTORS EMPLOYEES /64 65/ INDUSTRY PARTNERS/ BROKERS 1.6 MILLION DE M2 SUPPLIERS/ GROSS LEASABLE AREA CONTRACTORS Key commercial channel Business ENTREPRENEURIAL TEAM continuity Solid relationships VESTA TODAY Business partner SOLID CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CLIENTS/ LOCAL CONSUMERS AUTHORITIES Attract global players in PRODUCT key industries Solid relationships 3.4 MILLION DE M2 Capture growth of Long-term GROSS LEASABLE AREA current clients relationships Long-term relationships Economic and Class A buildings CORPORATE social development BEST IN INDUSTRY THROUGH INSTITUTIONAL CITIZENSHIP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND A Stricter ecoLocal development PROFESSIONAL TEAM efficiency standards VESTA Certified buildings Risk management VISION 20/20 CULTURE OF CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP AND Transparency RISK MANAGEMENT Environment Community Reputation Human rights VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report From this strategic planning exercise, developed with independent experts in the field of We also carried out an internal materiality exercise, which will be updated on a regular basis planning, with information from Vesta employees and other stakeholders, and taking into taking four main factors into account, as follows: account macroeconomic and corporate prospects, we identified risks and opportunities and their implications. Best practice parameters in STRATEGIC our industry worldwide GROWTH PLAN External consultants hired by Vesta EXTERNAL Financial and sustainability FACTORS metrics and indicators Audit of non-financial information BUSINESS STRATEGY 2020 Goals Strategic business planning Growth planning toward 2020 Business risks DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT 1.8 MILLION DE M2 3.4 MILLION DE M2 1.3x the current pace of 2.2x the management capacity development of our current portfolio /66 67/ Current key Key capacities to STAKEHOLDERS capabilities empower NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Culture and leadership Value creation for our stakeholders One-on-one meetings with employees and Talent investors Culture and leadership Surveys and feedback Structure from clients, suppliers Talent and contractors Regional projects Systems and processes Open channels of Structure communication Social and environmental initiatives with our various stakeholders Systems and processes Environmental, social, economic and corporate governance risk management GRI: EC2 VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Based on this mix of factors, we identified the priority issues for sustainability. The next Once the most important issues for our stakeholders are defined, we are committed to keeping them step is to follow up and prioritize them based on the level of risk they pose for the informed in a transparent, responsible and timely manner, depending on the specific information needed business and for stakeholders. by each group. To do so, we have various channels of communication and feedback. 01 Type of communication Frequency Vesta value proposition Clients Client satisfaction survey Ongoing group and individual meetings Offer Class-A buildings Attract global Building maintenance and contract renewal program and industrial parks in clients in key Participation in industry events and forums in the various regions the best locations industries Offer the highest quality Tenant Appreciation Day Ongoing engineering and Participation in joint local social responsibility projects architecture Media presence High degree of customer Research articles in specialized journals service and execution Official openings capacity 03 Web page 09 Shareholders Shareholders’ meetings Quarterly call creating a forum for Q&A with management Economic growth Integrated annual report and market Environmental Annual report to the BMV and CNBV Value generation management Ongoing presence Investor relationships office Modern portfolio One-on-one meetings with shareholders, investors, financial analysts and banks High rates of return 02 Visits to properties and industrial parks Web page 05 Suppliers Open interaction in calling for competitive bids from contractors Closer Work meetings and calls Credibility relationships Ongoing Sending of a weekly report during the construction process Payment with primary Talent Supplier development through Vesta’s sustainable construction handnbook stakeholders attraction and Employees retention Quarterly management review Participation in events and conferences Provide the best place to Training programs work 04 Performance review Work environment that /68 69/ encourages learning Whistleblowers’ hotline Ongoing Professional and personal Monthly internal newsletter development Web page Fair and responsible Long-term Open door policy with senior executives compensation growth with E-newsletter clients Real-estate industry partners Active participation in industry associations Participation as speakers and sponsors of industry events Ongoing meetings with brokers Long-term relationships 06 Visits to buildings and industrial parks Ongoing Response capacity Media interviews Research articles in industry journals Mentions in magazines dealing with foreign investment and sustainable issues Society Local economic HIGH IMPORTANT MORE IMPORTANT impact Participation in local projects with the community where we operate Open communication before and during development of our industrial parks Whistleblowers’ hotline Advertorials in newspapers circulating in regions where we are present Long-term relationships Credibility Research articles in industry magazines Ongoing Direct and indirect Press invitations to openings and cornerstone-laying events at our economic impacts 07 developments Mentions in magazines dealing with foreign investment and sustainable issues IMPACT ON Web page Government Risk Active participation in forums and events focused on attracting foreign STAKEHOLDERS management investment Meetings and calls Closer relationships for 08 Ongoing developing and Research articles in specialized journals capitalizing key projects Mentions in magazines dealing with foreign investment and sustainable issues GRI: 4.14, 4.15, 4.16 Value relationships LOW LESS IMPORTANT IMPORTANT with suppliers and contractors LOW IMPACT ON BUSINESS HIGH VESTA COMUNICATION VESTA 2014 Annual Report WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE 2014 Annual Report WE ARE COMMITTED Besides keeping our stakeholders We are aware of the impact our operations ·· Joint projects with our clients and other TO A CULTURE OF informed through these actions, we have on social and industrial development stakeholders TRANSPARENCY respond to their key concerns and issues in Mexico. Our projects have clear benefits for the communities where we operate: ·· Projects in the communities where we operate through various communication channels. The main channel is our webpage, they create jobs for qualified employees, ·· Projects that include our employees through the following e-mail address: transfer knowledge and create an info@vesta.com.mx. We receive mostly economic flow in educational and Together with our stakeholders, we service offerings, employment environmental actions or initiatives. invested more than 842 work hours in applications, offerings of land or social projects. industrial buildings, and information We have been consistent in our investment requests about our business. policy for social impact actions, investing Furthermore, in keeping with our US$0.01 for every square foot rented each organizational culture, we consider it Investors can request information at year. We have also involved our stakeholders crucial to be actively involved in non-profit investor.relations@vesta.com.mx, where in social initiatives, which we are convinced institutions, associations and organizations they are attended directly by the investor has a multiplying effect on the communities related to the company’s objectives, in relationships area. where we operate. In 2014, we invested order to influence the debate and US$142,172 in social impact initiatives, development of laws and public policies These communications are analyzed and benefiting society and our stakeholders. that affect our industry. forwarded to the correct area, which will make the appropriate recommendations or In 80% of the regions where we are located We also participate in industry associations at close the matter, as the case may be. All we have been implementing development the local and regional levels, in order to communications are handled with the programs with local communities and, in positively influence decisions that improve utmost confidentiality. keeping with our commitment to social sustainability to the industry. In the past year responsibility, we focus on three main areas: we were involved in various such activities. /70 71/ Lorenzo Berho, Vesta’s Chief Executive Officer Regional Chair Latin America of Real Estate Network YPO-WPO, the purpose of which is to share best practices in the real estate business and increase the professionalism of companies by educating their leaders. Chairman of the Bilateral Mexico-Germany Committee of the Mexican Foreign Trade Council, in charge of strengthening the strategic alliance between these two countries through investment, trade, technology transfer and personal training. Rodolfo Balmaceda, Vesta’s Chief Communications Officer Since December 2013, Rodolfo has been President of the Mexican Industrial Parks Association (AMPIP), in charge of improving industrial infrastructure standards in Mexico and thus make the country more competitive, to the benefit of manufacturing and logistics users, to help raise awareness on the importance of sustainable development, and job creation. Elías Laniado Laborín, VP New Businesses and Juan Carlos Talavera, VP New Businesses Active participation in independent organizations to promote the specific vocation of their states (Baja California and Chihuahua) in various disciplines, to attract investment and encourage transparency and efficiency in the industry. GRI: 4.12, 4.13, SO1, SO5, SO9, EC9, DMA HR Juan Carlos Talavera, VP New Businesses Chairman of the Ciudad Juárez chapter of the Business Coordinating Council helping to address and develop solutions to pressing issues, particularly reducing crime problems in the region. Francisco Estrada, VP New Businesses Chairman of the Bajío Industrial Parks Association, helping increase the competitiveness, promotion and development of the Bajío region. Through its developments, Vesta creates direct and indirect jobs. These are qualified positions, relating to high GRI: 4.17 value-added manufacturing, which in turn propel specialized professional education for Mexican workers. VESTA SOCIAL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Social performance and priorities ADOPT A SCHOOL: Past Present Future a sign of our social commitment 2013 2014 Status Medium term Long term At Vesta, we are proud of the community ·· Sustainable IPC rating by ·· We were included for the ·· Remain in the ·· Be the sustainability Thanks to the joint work with suppliers, evaluator: Universidad first time in the Mexican Sustainability IPC Index leader in the industry impact we have in the regions where we today this school is a pioneer in renewable Anáhuac: 3.80/10 Stock Exchange’s Stock operate. One example of this is our “Adopt EIRIS: 15/60 Exchange Sustainability energy in Mexico, one of the few public Index. a School” social responsibility program, primary schools in the country with solar ·· Sustainable IPC rating by which we launched in 2014, and whose panels for didactic use and for generating evaluator aim was to adopt a school near our Universidad Anáhuac: renewable energy. Students can have the 7.27/10 industrial parks and support studies for first-hand experience of seeing photovoltaic EIRIS: 28/60 students in the community, with the panels in operation, and it also reduces the ·· Bloomberg ESG ·· Bloomberg ESG ·· Improve our ·· To be an industry support of our employees, suppliers, civil school’s electricity bill. More than 60 work Disclosure total score: Disclosure total score: Bloomberg ESG rating benchmark for Case society, teachers and the local government. hours of training were given to students, teachers and parents on the subject of 21.9 32.6 information transparency Study “Adopt a School” is a strategic initiative renewable energy. ·· Qualify for inclusion in international indexes ·· Included for the first time in the Green Real Estate ·· Continue being part of ·· Attract investment international industry through presence in that helps us act as corporate citizens in Sustainability Benchmark: indexes performance indexes areas where we have presence. This is not The impact of this initiative keeps on growing. 32/100 mere philanthropy; it is turning community We directly benefited 49 children and 35 ·· Social initiatives in 50% ·· Social initiatives in 75% of ·· Implement initiatives ·· Participate in 100% of challenges into an opportunity to become families, and five of the mothers work in of the regions where we the regions where we aligned with our social the regions where we allies with our local stakeholders. Vesta’s industrial buildings. It has also built operate operate under social investment strategy operate ·· We have social action action guidelines ·· Increase our closer relationships with community leaders, guidelines participation in regions Our first project was the Faustino Arciniega teachers, students, parents and authorities, where we operate Morales Primary School in San Blas, creating an exemplary company-community·· 50% of employees ·· Benefiting 193 people ·· Maintain mechanisms ·· Establish KPIs that are municipality of Toluca, a few blocks from the government relationship where everyone has participated in volunteer ·· 842 work hours invested for measuring social integrated into our Vesta Park Toluca II industrial park. After a fundamental role to play. work in social initiatives impact strategy talking with school administrators and ·· US$142,172 invested in social impact initiatives teachers and conducting a poll among Today, more than ever, we know that our ·· Donated US$10,345 to community leaders, we began the work of Baja California´s CRIT license to operate must be endorsed by the renovating the school with the help of eight communities neighboring our facilities, and ·· Created the Social and ·· The Social and ·· Strengthen relationship ·· Establish a strategy for contractors and 14 workers. These works that programs like Vesta’s “Adopt a Environmental Environmental with stakeholders verifying performance Responsibility Committee Responsibility Committee through joint projects of social investment included installing photovoltaic panels, water School” strengthen our relationship with which reports directly to held two meetings and and electrical infrastructure, remodeling suppliers and clients, forge closer the Board of Directors one work session, attended /72 73/ classrooms and renovating common areas by 100% of its members community ties and send a strong strategic and sports facilities. A total of 780 work message to local authorities. ·· Ethics workshop provided ·· All employees have a ·· Establish strategic ·· Establish a Career Plan hours were invested in this project. to employees short-term incentive human resources for all our employees ·· 30% of employees program objectives ·· Provide an annual received a performance ·· 30% of workers have a ·· Introduce an employee performance review for review long-term incentive engagement survey all employees program ·· Monitor, report and publish ·· Published our second ·· Expand coverage of ·· Audit our non-financial information in integrated annual report performance indicators performance our integrated report and under GRI guidelines, ·· Continue indicators every year web page which was downloaded communicating with 3,699 times in 21 stakeholders countries ·· Non-financial public information was audited by an independent firm at the request of a tenant ·· Created a newsletter for ·· Expand the ·· Involve stakeholders in Vesta’s employees newsletter’s coverage the newsletter’s to other stakeholders content ·· Participate actively in two ·· Attract potential ·· Explore different international conferences responsible investment mechanisms of of responsible investors to the company long-term financing with sustainability guidelines On going Complete GRI: EC8, DMA SO VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE Materials management Vesta is engaged exclusively in developing Our strategy at Vesta is to develop Regional, recycled and green materials will be incorporated in the project to reduce the building industrial properties for rental, and in most multi-tenant (inventory) buildings as well environmental impact, and to contribute to the economic development of the place. Storage for contracts, tenants are responsible for paying as build-to-suit and park-to-suit recyclables will be included in the project to incentivize recycling among employees and visitors. for what they consume. The industries in developments. To provide efficient which these tenants work range from products, in 2012 we developed a distribution centers to manufacturing. For Sustainable Construction Handbook Product Unit Amount this reason, energy intensity depends on the together with DEG, in order to help tenants’ own processes, over which Vesta Concrete m 3 74,989 incorporate sustainability principles into has no control, although when we bid on the company’s industrial properties and Structural steel tons 4,745 developing a project, we always include thus strengthen our commitment to the Metal plate tons 1,268 recommendations on eco-technologies, environment and society. *Includes all buildings completed in 2014 214,096 m2 eco-efficiencies and certifications. The strategies suggested by this manual Energy management In areas where we do have an influence, focus on developing best practices, from however, we try to offer the most efficient the selection and development of the land, Vesta is consistent with its products as well as its operations. At the moment, 40% of the company´s products. For example, all the buildings we acquisition and management of materials offices are LEED certified (Ciudad Juárez and Querétaro) and our goal is to also certify our corporate developed over the past year had energyand resources, through development of an headquarters. Our international certifications have inspired some of our clients in these regions to obtain saving external lighting. We also took on the optimum plan for monitoring, in order to certifications for the properties they rent as well, an example of how we promote more efficient task of installing renewable energy systems ensure that energy and water facilities are operations. This year, the Querétaro office, the Bombardier MA-2 building and the Bombardier in our tenants’ industrial buildings in order to functioning properly. Other examples of Recreational Products (BRP) building obtained LEED certifications. offset the effects of consuming energy from what the manual includes are: non-renewable sources. The tables below show our direct and indirect energy consumption as well as the energy intensity of our buildings in 2013 and 2014. Independently of the fact that all our developments are only in industrial Direct and indirect consumption of energy broken down by primary sources designated areas, before beginning construction we conduct an environmental 2013 2014 impact analysis, to be sure our operations do not affect protected natural areas or kWh GJ kWh GJ zones with a high biodiversity value. We Energy consumption in existing locations 116,427 419.13 243,620* 877.03 therefore have no impact on natural /74 75/ Energy consumption in new locations 10,972 39.49 139,603 502.57 habitats or endangered species. Total 127,399 458.63 383,223 1,379.60 Investment US$26,297.2 US$99,967.3 *Includes locations that were not monitored in 2013 Installed photovoltaic capacity 2013 2014 2015 Target* kWp 34.30 93.14 89.55 Accumulated 34.30 127.44 216.99 Growth 272% 70% *Subject to expected portfolio growth Building energy intensity GRI: EN 6, EN 7, EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14, EN15, EN 26, CRE5, DMA EN, DMA HR Energy and Materials and Indoor Environmental Sustainable sites: Water efficiency: atmosphere: resources: Quality: 2013 2014 Measures to reduce Water saving fixtures The insulation of Regional, recycled Special attention will be pollution and control are to be installed on current shells will be kWh per employee 4,246.6 9,942.8 and green materials given to finishes, site disturbance, such buildings and improved to increase will be incorporated reducing the amount kWh per m2 .1 .2 as the implementation gardens. Additionally thermal comfort in the project to of volatile organic of erosion and native or adaptive within the buildings, sedimentation plan, plants will be selected and to reduce HVAC reduce the building compounds that affects the use of permeable for landscape design systems energy environmental the employees’ health paving, and other to minimize water requirements. impact, and to and productivity. sustainable materials requirements. Additionally, exterior contribute to the Accessibility to daylight GRI: EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN5, DMA EN, CRE1 on exteriors, are to be Wastewater will be lighting will be economic and natural views will implemented on treated on site to upgraded to LED development of the be procured to VESTA’s new reduce potable water luminaries reducing place. Storage for generate healthier developments; use. the shell’s operation recyclables will be environments. protecting habitats, Rainwater will be cost. Photovoltaic existing site resources harvested for reuse, panels are also included in the Increased insulation and contributing to and to minimize recommended to project will be installed for the reduce the heat island pollution of nearby achieve further to incentivize envelope to increase effect. rivers and water energy savings and recycling among thermal comfort of bodies. reduce dependency employees and occupants. Measures on fossil fuels. visitors. to reduce exposure to tobacco smoke will be taken to improve air quality of buildings. VESTA Water management VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report In order to monitor our water consumption, in 2013 we hired an independent firm to conduct a measurement exercise, which involved analyzing water bills and meter readings from 2012 to 2014 and Because our activities involve only the development of industrial parks, we do not OUR ECO-EFFICIENT cross-checking the information. Since the exercise yielded mixed results, we chose to install latestgenerate NOx, SOx, or other types of ACTIONS REDUCE generation water meters in our industrial parks so we can measure our water intake with more precision. Since we have the most influence in the parks we operate, and this is also where consumption may be emissions. ENVIRONMENTAL higher, we will be focusing on monitoring them. Vesta has taken significant initiatives to help IMPACT reduce emissions and create a modern Water consumption in the Vesta Park I and El Coecillo parks: portfolio of properties which includes buildings with LEED certification, as well as our internal Eco-Efficient building Park 2014 certification. As we only develop industrial Vesta Park I 7,213 m3 properties, through independent project El Coecillo 8,636.3 m3 managers we ensure that our contractors meet all the sustainable construction The scope of these measurements will increase every year. requirements, which include the use of environmentally-friendly refrigerants to We have introduced initiatives in our parks to capture water, treat and reuse it for watering, which reduce impact in the event of a spill, and significantly reduces the use of fresh water. Capturing water in Vesta’s operations has had no impact on PCB-free transformers. any water source. 30 to 50 All our waste is generated by the service In 2014, the amount of environmental fines Emissions and waste management areas, according to the required paid by Vesta totaled US$4,398, in relation specifications. We are also constantly to the delay in construction of regional Due to the nature of our business, Vesta’s main emissions have to do with electrical energy use. Carbon monitoring water quality. The most impact. The necessary prevention, mitigation years is the emissions relating to electricity are as follows: significant waste is mud from the and remediation measures have been taken. approximate useful wastewater treatment plants and life of our buildings 2013 2014 maintenance of parks and offices, which Treated wastewater from Vesta parks has are handled by a company certified in the permitted quality for discharge into 64* ton CO2e 179* ton CO2e waste management. No significant spills national rivers. We have a system for *Scope: emissions resulting from direct consumption of electricity have been reported, nor do we transport reviewing and monitoring the quality of hazardous waste. treated water and no impact on our Impact of operations on GHG emissions activities has been reported. 2013 2014 Furthermore, because all of Vesta’s Ton CO2 per employee 2.1 5 buildings have a useful life of /76 77/ approximately 30 to 50 years, none has Kg CO2 per m2 .05 .1 reached the end of its useful life. *Scope: Direct consumption of electricity Also, and because we only administer the developments, we do not have workers who The following are the figures on GHG emissions intensity: commute to the worksite—this corresponds to the contractors who carry out the 2013 2014 construction, and the companies that 1.1 ton of CO2 per sales 2.6 ton of CO2 per sales operate in our buildings. *Scope: Direct consumption of electrical energy GRI: EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21, EN22, EN23, EN25, EN24, GRI: EN8, EN9, EN10, EN 16, DMA EN, CRE3, CRE 4 The following shows the total amount of environmental expenses and investments: Investment in USD 2014 Photovoltaic energy 276,753 Switch to LED lighting 54,112 EN27, EN28, EN29, EN30, DMA EN, DMA HR *External LED lighting in multi-tenant buildings 460,902 Total 791,767 *Based on inventory Buildings 90,267m2 VESTA SUMMARY OF OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Environmental performance and priorities Case Past Present Future Study 2013 ·· We created the Social 2014 ·· The Social and Status Medium term ·· Regular meetings Long term ·· Follow up on and Environmental Environmental ·· Socialize the organizational initiatives Responsibility Responsibility environmental policy of and objectives Committee, which Committee met for two the entire organization ·· Check compliance with reports directly to the meetings and one work environmental policy Board of Directors session, attended by 100% of its members SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGY ·· We have environmental ·· We participated in the ·· Participate in ·· Extend the indicators and objectives Global Real Estate international environmental With a vision of the future Sustainability benchmarks and management system to Benchmark (GRESB) for indexes all our operations Solar photovoltaic energy is one of the The installed systems generate energy the first time ·· Have an environmental management system most viable clean energy sources for the savings equivalent to the consumption of future, because it produces emission-free the common areas, and through installed ·· Non-financial ·· The 2013 sustainability ·· Expand the coverage of ·· Audit our sustainability information is information was our performance indicators renewable electricity. With this in mind, at monitor screens we can determine the real monitored, reported checked/audited by an indicators Vesta we have decided to use this amount of energy being generated. and published in our independent firm, at the ·· Monitor consumption integrated report and request of a tenant. technology as much as possible, and have web page already included it in various of our The table below shows the solar industrial parks. photovoltaic equipment we have installed ·· We certified LEED our ·· 3 of our buildings are ·· Increase the percentage ·· LEED Certification on first industrial building LEED certified of square meters with 5% of the portfolio in various regions of the company. We (17,064 m2) (56,448m2) LEED certification in Furthermore, because we target multihave the capacity to generate 200 MWh of ·· 20% of our offices are ·· 40% of our offices are Build-to-Suit properties LEED certified LEED certified ·· Certify corporate national firms—international companies that energy per year, avoiding the emission of headquarters with LEED share our business principles—this action almost 100 metric tons of C02. and WELL Building translates into a valuable asset that brings Standard® not only economic benefits for our tenants, but a commitment to the environment in ·· We apply eco·· We apply Eco-Efficient ·· Develop 100% of ·· Implement the efficiencies based on guidelines in 100% of multi-tenant buildings Sustainable office the regions where we operate. internally developed our multi-tenant under Eco-Efficient program developed by standards buildings standards, based on Vesta ·· Eco-Efficient Vesta’s Sustainable Construction Handbook ·· We provide ·· We provided 60 work ·· Implement ·· Extend training environmental training hours energy training environmental training programs to our /78 79/ to Vesta’s management program together with programs and initiatives stakeholders team, with a focus on suppliers and the for our employees and LEED certification community suppliers ·· We train employees to manage resources and energy ·· Study of water metering ·· Ensure water ·· Expand the scope of and monitoring measurement and meter installation to all ·· Consumption of water monitoring by installing our developments in our parks: high-tech meters ·· Vesta Park I: 7,213 m2 ·· El Coecillo: 8,636.3 m3 ·· Energy consumption: ·· Energy consumption: ·· Increase accumulated ·· Ensure growth of 127,399kWh 383,223 kWh installed capacity of installed energy ·· Installed capacity of ·· Installed capacity of renewable energy by capacity in line with renewable energy (FV): renewable energy (FV): 70% (to 217 kWp) Vesta’s growth plan 34.3 kWp accumulated 127.44 kWp accumulated ·· GHG emissions from ·· GHG emissions from ·· Expand scope of CO2 ·· Be a carbon-neutral energy use: 64 mton energy use: 179 mton measurement company CO2 CO2 ·· Prepare an ·· Environmental ·· Maintain investment in ·· Grow investment in the environmental policy investment: environmental environment aligned and social investment US$791,767 eco-efficiencies in with the growth plan policy material areas for the company On going Complete Capacity CO2 reduction (Installed as of Annual generation (estimated for 2015) Region December 31, 2014) (estimated for 2015) tons Querétaro 31.4 kWp 50,176 kWh 25 GRI: EN5, EN17, EN18 Aguascalientes 24.5 kWp 39,635 kWh 19.8 Silao 19.8 kWh 31,680 kWh 15.8 Toluca 41 kWh 61,500 kWh 30.8 San Luis Potosí 10.7 kWh 17,032 kWh 8.5 Total 127.4 kWh 200 MWh 99.9 ton VESTA ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED AND DISTRIBUTED REGIONAL IMPACT VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report We made a variety of investments in infrastructure, like working on public roads— Having an industrial portfolio in high-potential For example, in February 2015, the Fiat paving or building streets or access roads—electrical infrastructure, lighting, sidewalks, cities has always been a strategic advantage Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) distribution signage, accessibility for handicapped people, access to public transportation and speed for us. Our success is in part due to our center was opened at the Vesta Park Toluca bumps. These improvements in areas neighboring our developments benefit foresight at investing in regions that are II, with 45,000 square meters of leasable communities and contribute to local connectivity and their local economies. today showing remarkable growth, and area. This property will enable the company enable us to offer current and potential to store and distribute the more than 65,000 clients options in regions that are right for service parts offered to clients of FCA 2014 2013 their projects, such as: qualified labor, Mexico. The park will have a total of seven connectivity, legal and government openness buildings and a leasable surface area of Total revenues 100% $ 69,332,889 100% $ 58,522,064 to facilitate their investments. approximately 140,000 square meters, ideal Leasing revenues 97% $ 67,628,637 97% $ 56,919,326 for manufacturing and logistics. Another In order to be prepared to sustain this development in this region is Vesta Park Cost breakdown by input growth, we acquired land reserves in the Tlaxcala I, in Huamantla, just 20 km from the state of Guanajuato, adding to the land new Audi plant and where the first 2014 2013 bank we already own in the cities of companies to set up shop were spanish Querétaro, San Luis Potosí, State of based, Grupo Antolín and the U.S.-based Property operating expenses $ 3,508,009 $ 3,325,883.17 Mexico, Tijuana and Ciudad Juárez. We Lear Corporation. Electricity $ 290,362 $ 229,193.69 acquired 47.3 hectares within Guanajuato Water $ 140,213 $ 173,828.00 Puerto Interior, where 217,000 square Vesta has completed other significant Safety $ 481,042 $ 400,013.40 meters will be developed in ten buildings. negotiations over the past 12 months, like US$22.2 We also acquired an additional 5 hectares the Bombardier Recreational Products (BRP) Maintenance $ 166,229 $ 150,667.02 in the San Miguel de Allende Business project in Ciudad Juárez, with an Materials $ 47,891 $ 86,263.88 Polygon, to develop a Build-to-Suit approximate investment of US$22.2 million Waste collection $ 2,233 $ 3,181.23 property for Stant Corporation, an and a constructed surface area of 46,500 million invested in automotive industry supplier. Vesta has had square meters. This manufacturing center BRP´s project Gas $ 10,822 $ 8,735.46 a significant presence in Bajío for many will be the most advanced in the world for years and its new investments will enable this Canadian company, producing Real-estate tax $ 1,151,056 $ 1,097,582.6 us to better serve growing demand in this all-terrain vehicles, among other products. Insurance $ 359,989 $ 346,207.6 industry, along with other important In August of last year we announced the industries like aerospace and logistics. opening of the Vesta Park Tijuana III, which Maintenance $ 527,728 $ 438,583.4 has 12 hectares of land and in which Membership in industrial parks $ 268,698 $ 304,184.5 Another strategic region for Vesta’s growth US$13 million were invested as part of a Legal expenses $ 61,746 $ 87,442.4 is central Mexico, which includes the states US$64 million total investment plan in that Administrative expenses $ 1,822,903 $ 1,748,611.4 of Mexico, Puebla and Tlaxcala, already a city in the next three years. The park is /80 81/ booming industrial corridor. The parks located in El Florido, together with the Leasing $ 141,033 $ 99,450.4 located in this region will provide a level of Samsung and Hyundai manufacturing Communications $ 136,427 $ 119,792.3 connectivity that ensures safe and rapid plants, an area with a greater Consultancy and technical support $ 128,876 $ 38,051 communication between the country’s concentration of available labor and main points of consumption, as well as strategically positioned for logistics and Other current expenses $ 483,657 $ 495,229.3 important seaports like Veracruz, Tuxpan, transportation of merchandise. Its Marketing $ 862,734 $ 746,481 Lázaro Cárdenas and Manzanillo. proximity to the border at Otay Mesa and Non deductible $ 70,176 $ 119,209.5 the presence of many companies that Clean Park $ 0 $ 13,062.7 manufacture medical devices and *AMOUNTS IN USD electronic components make this park an excelent option for companies operating in these industries. GRI: EC1, EC8, DMA EC, DMA LA VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report ...and with excellent returns for our shareholders. FINANCIAL AND MARKET ANALYSIS AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS /82 83/ VESTA MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS In addition, property operating costs of investment properties which have not been leased VESTA 2014 Annual Report and which did not generate rental income increased by US$0.07 million. This increase was 2014 Annual Report the result of: Revenues ·· An increase of US$0.05million in other expenses related to the properties which are Rental income generated from the fees paid to industrial parks where we maintain land reserves; ·· An increase of US$0.02 million in real estate property taxes for our properties which did Rental income for the year ended December 31, 2014 was US$69.33 million compared to not generate income; and US$58.52 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, which represents an increase of ·· Maintenance costs of US$0.01 million with respect to investment properties that did not US$10.81 million, or 18.3%. This increase was primarily attributable to: generate income. ·· An increase of 17.6%, in rental income from new leases in new space or in space that was Administration expenses vacant during 2013 and that is currently leased since 2014; and ·· An increase of 1.8%, in rental income resulting from rent adjustments due to inflation Administration expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 were US$8.30 million protection provisions in our lease agreements. Most of our lease agreements include a compared to US$6.80 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, which represents an provision whereby rents are automatically adjusted on a year to year basis to reflect the change increase of US$1.50 million, or 22.1%. in US Consumer Price Index if the rental payments under the lease agreement are denominated in US dollars or the INPC if the rental payments are denominated in pesos; and This increase is primarily due to the following expenses as a result of the incorporation of ·· An increase of 0.3% related to the reimbursement of expenses that we paid on behalf of management to the Company. During 2014, there was: our customers that later were reimbursed by such customers and that were accounted for under rental income. ·· An increase of US$1.29 million, or 22.9%, compared to 2013, due to salary and administration expenses from the personnel who were incorporated to the Company These increases were partly offset by: from DV as a result of our initial public offering; ·· An increase of US$0.15 million, or 22.9%, in legal and audit expenses; ·· A decrease of US$1.96 million, or 3.4%, in rental income from leases that expired during ·· Expenses indirectly related to our initial public offering, which totaled US$0.24 million in 2013 and which were not renewed in 2014; 2014 and US$0.19 million in 2013 as a result of equity trading related expenses; and ·· A decrease of US$0.22 million, or 0.4%, from lower rents in leases that expired during 2013 ·· An increase of US$0.02 million in commissions on property acquisitions. and 2012 and which were renewed at lower rental rates; and ·· A decrease of 0.9% due to currency translation effects with respect to rents These increase were partially offset by a reduction of US$ 0.01 million, or 20.7%, in denominated in pesos. marketing expense. Property Operating Costs Depreciation Our property operating costs for the year ended December 31, 2014 were US$3.60 Depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2014 was US$0.04 million compared to million compared to US$3.45 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, which US$0.08 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. represented an increase of US$0.15 million, or 4.3%. /84 85/ Other income and expenses Of this increase, US$0.22 million is attributable to the direct operating costs of leased investment properties which generated rental income. During 2014 and 2013, these costs Other income and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 was a loss of US$6.25 amounted to US$2.76 million and US$2.54 million, respectively. million compared to income of US$79.69 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. This decrease was attributable to lower (i) gain resulting for the revaluation of investment This increase is principally attributable to: properties conducted as of December 31, 2014, which reflects the real estate market conditions as of that date and (ii) income from interest derived from the investments made ·· An increase of US$0.10 million, or 26.5%, in maintenance costs, which were US$0.48 with the proceeds of the initial public offering and the 2013 follow-on offering. Interest million and US$0.38 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively; expense decreased as a result of lower average principal amount of outstanding senior ·· An increase of US$0.07 million, or 8.7%, in property taxes which were US$0.88 million secured debt during 2014 compared to 2013. and US$0.81 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Real estate property taxes are paid in pesos. Real estate property taxes paid in 2014 and 2013 were Ps.$15.31 million and The 2014 appraisal resulted in a revaluation gain of US$29.95 million compared to Ps.$14.01 million, respectively, resulting in an increase of Ps.$1.30 million, or 9.3%. The US$95.05 million in 2013. The appraisal was delivered to us at the end of December 2014 value of the peso against the dollar increased from Ps.$12.7681 pesos per US$1.00 in and reflects the condition of the real estate market observed at the end of 2014. 2013 to Ps.$13.2996 per US$1.00 in 2014; ·· Other property related expenses (such as lighting services on our properties, security services in the industrial parks we manage and on our vacant properties) increased from Year ended December 31 US$1.05 million in the year ended December 31, 2013 to US$1.08 million for the year 2014 2013 ended December 31, 2014; and (thousands of dollars) ·· An increase of US$0.01 million, or 3.4%, in insurance costs for investment properties. In Other income and expenses 2014 and 2013, such costs amounted to US$0.31 million and US$0.30 million, respectively. Interest income 5,712.08 6,951.57 Other (expenses) income (290.06) (62.37) Interest expense (22,186.99) (23,441.30) Exchange loss (gain) (19,433.70) 1,187.01 Gains on revaluation of investment properties 29,955.24 95,054.25 Total other (expenses) income (6,243.43) 79,689.16 Interest income decreased by US$1.24 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report to US$5.71 million from US$6.95million in the corresponding period in 2013. This Cash Flow From Operating Activities 2014 Annual Report decrease is due to the interest generated by investments in short-term government securities made with the proceeds of our initial public offering and our 2013 follow-on The most significant factors in the generation of our cash flow from operating activities offering. The decrease in interest generated is due to a lower investment balance as we are revenues from the rents collected from our tenant base. continue to invest in our properties. Cash flow generated by operating activities in 2014 was US$32.85 million compared to Exchange loss for the year ended December 31, 2014 was US$19.43 million compared to US$32.52 million in 2013. Cash flow generated by operating activities was affected an exchange gain of US$0.22 million during the year ended December 31, 2013. This loss primarily by increases in recoverable taxes totaling US$13.97 in 2014 and US$10.65 is primarily explained by the effect of the movement in the exchange rates between the million in 2013. U.S. dollar and the Mexican peso with respect to the debt of WTN as well as investments we hold in pesos. Cash Flow From Investing Activities Interest expense decreased by US$1.25 million, or 5.4%, during the year ended December Cash flow used in investing activities was US$29.76 million and US$208.82 million during 31, 2014 as compared to 2013. This decrease is a result of a lower average principal the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. amount of outstanding senior secured debt during the year ended December 31, 2014, as compared to the corresponding period in 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2014, our investing activities were primarily related to the construction of new buildings in the Bajio and Central regions. The total amount of Gain on revaluation of investment property for the year ended December 31, 2014 investments in 2014 was US$118.51 million, as compared to US$102.94 million in 2013. decreased by US$65.1 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Cash Flow From Financing Activities Profit Before Income Taxes Cash flow generated by financing activities was US$50.42 million for the year ended For the reasons described above, our profit before income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to cash flow generated by financing activities of December 31, 2014 was US$51.14 million compared to a profit before income taxes for US$147.61 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. the year ended December 31, 2013 of US$127.88 million, representing an increase of US$76.74 million. In 2013, we successfully raised US$191.55 million, net of direct equity issuance expenses of the offering, through the issuance of 114.57 million shares in our 2013 follow-on offering. Income Tax Expense Debt Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 was US$26.92 million compared to an expense of US$38.45 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. This As of December 31, 2013, the balance of long term debt reached US$318.03 million, of increase was primarily attributable to the difference between deferred tax expenses which US$8.22 million, or 2.6%, is related to short term liabilities, while US$309.81 between 2013 and 2014. Deferred tax expenses mainly reflect (i) changes in the exchange million, or 97.4%, represents long-term debt. rates as of the end of the year that are used to convert our Mexican peso-denominated asset balances for tax purposes (including our investment property and net tax loss As of December 31, 2014, the balance of long term debt reached US$306.74 million, of /86 87/ carryforwards) to U.S. dollars, (ii) a benefit resulting from the impact of inflation on the which US$8.63 million, or 2.8%, is related to short term liabilities, while US$ 298.11 tax basis of our asset balances (including our investment property and net tax loss million, or 97.2%, represents long-term debt. Both are contracted with General Electric carryforwards), as allowed by Mexican Income Tax Law (Ley del Impuesto Sobre la Renta), (GE Real Estate de México, S. de R. L. de C.V.). The total debt is guaranteed by most of offset by and (iii) the effects of the recognition of fair value on our investment property the Company’s investment properties, as well as the income derived from them. At the for accounting purposes that are not reflected for tax purposes, as the tax value of the close of December 31, 2014, 100% of the debt was denominated in US dollars. asset remains a historical cost and is subsequently depreciated. Relevant events in 2014 Profit for the Year On December 18, 2014, Vesta announced its plan to invest approximately US$170 million For the reasons described above, our profit for the year ended December 31, 2014 was in the State of Guanajuato during the 2015-2018 periods. Vesta acquired 47.3 hectares of US$24.22 million compared to a profit of US$89.43 million for the year ended land reserves within the Guanajuato Inland Port in Silao, Guanajuato, for a total cost of December 31, 2013. US$ 18.2 million. The Company plans to develop approximately 217,000 m2 (2,335,768 ft²) in ten buildings, representing a total investment of up to US$81.8 million, including Total Comprehensive Income for the Year infrastructure costs. Total other comprehensive income includes our profit for the year as described above, plus Vesta has signed a binding LOI to acquire land reserves totaling 30.7 hectares within the other comprehensive income which is the impact of the fluctuation in exchange rates in Poligono Empresarial San Miguel de Allende. The land will be used to develop the capital accounts of WTN, which is our only subsidiary which uses the Mexican peso as approximately 142,600 m2 (1,534,933 ft²) in eleven buildings, representing a total functional currency. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded other investment of up to US$64.9 million. Additionally, Vesta acquired 5 hectares in the same comprehensive gain of US$24.67 million, compared to other comprehensive income of park to develop a 11,305 m2 (121,686 ft²) build to suit project with STANT Corporation, a US$89.35 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. U.S. automotive supplier. The investment will total US$6.2 million and the rental payments will start in April, 2015. The Cap rate is expected to be 11.3%. Cash flow On May 6, Vesta announced that it has signed a binding letter of intent with BRP Mexico, The following table shows the generation and use of cash for the years ended December SA de C.V. (“BRP”), for the construction of a “Build to Suit” building in Ciudad Juarez, 31, 2014 and 2013. State of Chihuahua. The development of this project will involve a total investment from Vesta of approximately US$33.2 million to be invested over the next 9 months. Vesta will Year ended December 31 finance this project with its own resources. This building will have an approximate total 2014 2013 gross leasable area of 500,000 SF (46,000 m2) and the term of the lease will be more than (thousands of dollars) 10 years. The construction will be executed by third party contractors with a proven track record for this type of development. Cash flow generated by operating activities 32,836.65 32,523.94 Cash flow used in investing activities 29,756.53 -208,816.79 Cash flow generated by (used in) financing activities -50,424.09 147,606.05 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash -9,792.13 37.5 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,376.97 -28,649.30 VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report On April 9, Vesta announced the acquisition of land reserves amounting to 11.3 hectares 2014 Annual Report within the Industrial City Xicoténcatl II (“CIX II”) located in Huamantla City, Tlaxcala, in which the Company plans to develop up to 50,000 square meters of gross leasable area in three multi-tenant buildings. The main goal of this industrial park is to meet the demand of suppliers in the automobile sector that need to be in close proximity to the new AUDI plant located in San Jose Chiapa, Puebla, where the Q5 model will be manufactured, starting in 2016. The new development will turn into a world-class industrial park specialized in the automobile industry. The park construction will begin in May of this year, and the first buildings will be completed by the end of the year, so any company that decides to establish onsite can begin operating in 2015. The total investment considering the acquisition of the land, infrastructure and the industrial buildings, will amount to Ps. 290 million. On February 24, Vesta announced that Mr. Alejandro Zarazúa Menchaca has been appointed Director of the Central Region. He will be responsible for the development of the Central Region, as well as for overseeing relationships with current clients, for seeking opportunities for land acquisition and for the commercialization of buildings and parks in the region. On January 14, Vesta announced today that it has signed an agreement to extend Nissan’s Trust contract from 25 years to 40 years. Both companies signed a contract on December 17, 2013 to launch the supplier chain park (Doku Seizan Park) located within the new manufacturing complex Nissan Aguascalientes 2, inaugurated on November 2013. The total gross leasable area of Nissa comples will amount to 153,870 square meters (1,656,237 SF) and the expected investment for the initial phase would be of approximately US$57 million. Analyst Coverage In compliance with the internal regulation of the BMV, article 4.033.01 Frac. VIII, we inform that we have analyst coverage from the following brokers: Casa de Bolsa Credit Suisse S.A. de C.V. Casa de Bolsa Santander S.A. de C.V. HSBC México S.A. de C.V. /88 CORPORACIÓN INMOBILIARIA VESTA, 89/ Barclays Bank Mexico, S.A. Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A J.P. Morgan Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V. S. A. B. DE C. V. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Financial Statements for the Years Ended UBS Casa de Bolsa S.A. December 31, 2014 and 2013, and Independent Auditors’ Report Dated February 16, 2015 Independent Auditors’ Report 90 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 91 Consolidated Statements of Profit and Other Comprehensive Income 92 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity 93 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 94 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 95 VESTA INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries VESTA 2014 Annual Report STOCKHOLDERS OF CORPORACIÓN INMOBILIARIA VESTA, S. A. B. DE C.V. Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 2014 Annual Report As of December 31, 2014 and 2013 (In US dollars) Auditors’ Report of the consolidated financial statements Notes 2014 2013 We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. and subsidiaries (the “Entity”), which comprise the ASSETS consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and Current assets: the consolidated statements of profit and other comprehensive income, consolidated Cash and cash equivalents 4 $ 10,674,770 $ 8,297,797 statements of changes in stockholders’ equity and consolidated statements of cash flows Financial assets held for trading 5 95,025,988 233,052,020 for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, and a summary of significant Recoverable taxes 6 27,712,294 16,546,275 accounting policies and other explanatory information. Operating lease receivables 7 7,505,226 6,706,759 Prepaid expenses 447,152 323,987 Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements Total current assets 141,365,430 264,926,838 Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated Non-current assets: financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as issued Investment property 8 1,101,352,822 951,884,585 by the International Accounting Standards Board, and for such internal control as Office furniture – Net 421,340 344,540 management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Guarantee deposits made 2,883,972 2,967,835 Total non-current assets 1,104,658,134 955,196,960 Auditor’s Responsibility Total assets $ 1,246,023,564 $ 1,220,123,798 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with International Standards on LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and Current liabilities: perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial Current portion of long-term debt 9 $ 8,629,108 $ 8,222,341 statements are free from material misstatement. Accrued interest 3,068,412 3,170,268 Accounts payable 14,222,235 9,484,863 An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and Taxes payable, mainly income taxes 1,274,395 1,145,743 disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the Accrued expenses 1,636,361 1,668,000 auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk Total current liabilities 28,830,511 23,691,215 /90 assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the Entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Entity’s internal control. An audit also includes Non-current liabilities: Long-term debt Guarantee deposits received Deferred income taxes 9 13.3 298,109,960 5,706,109 115,641,120 309,805,405 5,523,169 91,518,603 91/ evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of Total non-current liabilities 419,457,189 406,847,177 accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation Total liabilities 448,287,700 430,538,392 of the consolidated financial statements. Litigation and other contingencies 16 Stockholders’ equity: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Capital stock 10 370,368,712 370,368,712 provide a basis for our audit opinion. Additional paid-in capital 211,869,157 211,869,157 Opinion Retained earnings 211,640,460 204,265,028 In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, Share-based payments reserve 323,764 the financial position of Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. and subsidiaries as Foreign currency translation 3,533,771 3,082,509 of December 31, 2014 and 2013 and their financial performance and their cash flows for Total stockholders’ equity 797,735,864 789,585,406 the years then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 1,246,023,564 $ 1,220,123,798 issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. Galaz, Yamazaki, Ruiz Urquiza, S. C. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited C. P. C. Erick J. Calvillo Rello February 16, 2015 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report Consolidated Statements of Profit and Other Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity 2014 Annual Report For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (In US dollars) (In US dollars) Notes 2014 2013 ShareRevenues: based Foreign Total Additional Retained payments Currency Stockholders’ Rental income $ 69,332,889 $ 58,522,064 Capital Stock Paid-in Capital Earnings reserve Translation Equity Property operating costs: Balances as of January1, 2013 $ 286,868,218 $ 101,900,964 $ 125,299,684 $ $ 3,159,304 $ 517,228,170 Related to properties that generate rental income 12.1 (2,761,265) (2,540,720) Related to properties that did not generate rental income 12.1 (838,684) (910,616) Equity issuance 83,500,494 109,968,193 193,468,687 Gross profit 65,732,940 55,070,728 Dividends declared (10,468,173) (10,468,173) Administration expenses 12.2 (8,302,946) (6,799,948) Comprehensive income (loss) 89,433,517 (76,795) 89,356,722 Depreciation (40,536) (78,485) Other Income and Expenses: Balances as of December 31, 2013 370,368,712 211,869,157 204,265,028 3,082,509 789,585,406 Interest income 5,712,082 6,951,568 Share-based payments 323,764 323,764 Other (expense) income (290,063) (62,365) Interest expense (22,186,990) (23,441,300) Dividends declared (16,846,565) (16,846,565) Exchange (loss) gain (19,433,700) 1,187,010 Comprehensive income 24,221,997 451,262 24,673,259 Gain on revaluation of investment property 29,955,242 95,054,246 Balances as of December 31, 2014 $ 370,368,712 $ 211,869,157 $ 211,640,460 $ 323,764 $ 3,533,771 $ 797,735,864 Total other income and expenses (6,243,429) 79,689,159 Profit before income taxes 51,146,029 127,881,454 Income tax expense 13.1 (26,924,032) (38,447,937) Profit for the year 24,221,997 89,433,517 Other comprehensive income (loss): Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Exchange differences on translating other functional currency operations 451,262 (76,795) Total comprehensive income for the year $ 24,673,259 $ 89,356,722 Basic and diluted earnings per share 11 $ 0.05 $ 0.20 /92 93/ See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A.B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2014 Annual Report For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (In US dollars) (In US dollars) 2014 2013 1. GENERAL INFORMATION Corporación Inmobiliaria Vesta, S. A. B. de C. V. (“Vesta”) is a corporation incorporated in Mexico. The Cash flows from operating activities: address of its registered office and principal place of business is Bosques de Ciruelos 304, 7th floor, Mexico Profit before income taxes $ 51,146,029 $ 127,881,454 City. Adjustments: Depreciation 40,536 78,485 Vesta and subsidiaries (collectively, the “Entity”) are engaged in the development, acquisition and operation of Gain on revaluation of investment property (29,955,242) (95,054,246) industrial buildings and distribution facilities that are rented to corporations in eleven states throughout Mexico. Effect of foreign exchange rates 10,243,391 (114,297) Interest income (5,712,082) (6,951,568) On June 25, 2013, the Entity issued equity through a follow-on public offering of shares in the Mexican stock market for a total number of shares of 114,573,661. Gain on sale of investment properties (731,326) Interest expense 22,186,990 23,441,300 Expense recognized in respect of share-based payments 323,764 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Working capital adjustments: 2.1 Statement of compliance (Increase) decrease in: The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Operating lease receivables – Net (798,467) (2,421,757) Reporting Standards, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). Recoverable taxes (13,967,534) (10,650,158) 2.2 Basis of measurement Prepaid expenses (123,165) (323,987) The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for Guarantee deposits made 83,863 (194,003) investment properties and financial instruments that are measured at fair value at the end of each Increase (decrease) in: reporting period, as explained in the accounting policies below. Accounts payable (180,055) (684,684) Guarantee deposits received 182,940 445,234 i. Historical cost Accrued expenses (31,639) 1,367,482 Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services. Income taxes paid 128,652 (4,295,313) Net cash generated by operating activities 32,836,655 32,523,942 ii. Fair value Cash flows from investing activities: /94 95/ Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an Purchases of investment property (118,513,768) (102,936,169) orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether Acquisition of office furniture (117,336) (125,185) that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating the Financial assets held for trading 138,026,032 (112,706,999) fair value of an asset or a liability, the Entity takes into account the characteristics of the asset or Proceeds from sale of investment property 4,649,526 liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in Interest received 5,712,082 6,951,568 these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a basis, except for share-based Net cash used in investing activities 29,756,536 (208,816,785) payment transactions that are within the scope of International Financial Reporting Standards Cash flows from financing activities: (IFRSs) 2 Share-based payments. Proceeds from equity issuance 191,551,233 Interest paid (22,288,846) (23,642,514) In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorized into Level 1, 2 or 3 Repayments of borrowings (11,288,678) (9,834,501) based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the Dividends paid (16,846,565) (10,468,173) significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows: Net cash generated by financing activities (50,424,089) 147,606,045 • Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that Effects of exchange rates changes on cash (9,792,129) 37,501 the entity can access at the measurement date; Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,376,973 (28,649,297) • Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 8,297,797 36,947,094 the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year $ 10,674,770 $ 8,297,797 • Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. 2.3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Vesta and entities (including structured entities) controlled by Vesta and its subsidiaries. Control is achieved when the Entity: • has power over the investee; • is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and • has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. The Entity reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that 2.6.1 Effective interest method on financial assets VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a debt 2014 Annual Report instrument and of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Entity obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows expected to be received (including when the Entity loses control of the subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary all fees and expenses paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the debt and other comprehensive income from the date the Entity gains control until the date when the Entity instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial ceases to control the subsidiary. recognition. When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their Income is recognized on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those accounting policies into line with the Entity’s accounting policies. financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss. All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions 2.6.2 Loans and receivables between members of the Entity are eliminated in full on consolidation. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed payments or payments that may be determined and are not quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables (including operating lease receivables and others) are measured at amortized cost using the Ownership percentage effective interest method, less any impairment. Subsidiary/entity 2014 2013 Activity 2.6.3 Financial assets at fair value through profit of loss (FVTPL) QVC, S. de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL when the financial asset is either held for trading or it QVC II, S. de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties is designated as at FVTPL. WTN Desarrollos Inmobiliarios de México, 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties S. de R.L. de C.V. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: Vesta Baja California, S. de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties Vesta Bajio, S. de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties • it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in the near term; or Vesta Queretaro, S. de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties • on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group Proyectos Aeroespaciales, S. de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or CIV Infraestructura, S. de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties • it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. Vesta DSP, S. de R. L. de C.V. 99.99% 99.99% Holds investment properties Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on Vesta Management, S.de R.L. de C.V. 99.99% 99.99% Provides administrative services to the Entity remeasurement recognized in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognized in profit or loss includes any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the ‘interest income’ line item. Financial assets at FVTPL consist mainly of holdings in investment funds. 2.4 Foreign currencies The Entity has not designated any asset as at FVTPL. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency of Vesta and all of its subsidiaries except for WTN Desarrollos Inmobiliarios de México, S. de R. L. de C. V. (“WTN”), which considers the Mexican peso to be its 2.6.4 Derecognition of financial assets functional currency and is considered to be a “foreign operation” under IFRS. However, Vesta and its The Entity derecognizes a financial asset only when the contract granting the Entity the right to subsidiaries keep their accounting records in Mexican pesos. In preparing the financial statements of receive cash flows from the asset expires, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all /96 97/ each individual entity, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign the risks and rewards of ownership to another entity. If the Entity neither transfers nor retains currencies) are recognized at the exchange rates in effect on the dates of each transaction. At the end substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the the Entity recognizes its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may exchange rates in effect at that date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated have to pay. If the Entity retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates in effect on the date when the fair value financial asset, the Entity continues to recognize the financial asset and also recognizes a was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign collateralized borrowing for the proceeds received. currency are not retranslated. 2.7 Investment property Exchange differences on monetary items are recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they Investment properties are properties held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation (including arise. property under construction for such purposes). Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are measured at For the purposes of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of WTN are fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment properties are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rates in effect on the last business day of each reporting included in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. period. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates in effect on An investment property is derecognized upon sale or when the investment property is permanently the dates of the transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recorded in other withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected to be received from such comprehensive income. investment property. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the property (calculated as the difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in profit 2.5 Cash and cash equivalents or loss in the period in which the property is derecognized. Cash and cash equivalents consist mainly of bank deposits in checking accounts and short-term investments, highly liquid and easily convertible into cash, maturing within three months as of their acquisition date, which are subject to immaterial value change risks. Cash is carried at nominal value and cash equivalents are valued at fair value; any fluctuations in value are recognized in interest income of the period. Cash equivalents are represented mainly by investments in treasury certificates (CETES) and money market funds. 2.6 Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized when Vesta or its subsidiaries become a party to the contract governing such financial instruments. Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognized immediately in profit or loss. 2.8 Office furniture The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report Office furniture is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Entity’s estimate of equity instruments that will 2014 Annual Report eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity. At the end of each reporting period, the Entity Depreciation is recognized so as to write off the cost of assets less their residual values over their revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest. The impact of the revision of useful lives, using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and the original estimates, if any, is recognized in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the equity settled employee benefits reserve. in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. An item of office furniture is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the 2.14 Leasing asset. Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of the asset is determined as the Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease agreement transfer difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognized in profit substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as or loss. operating leases. 2.9 Provisions The Entity, as a lessor, retains substantially all of the benefits and risks of ownership of the properties Provisions are recognized when the Entity has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past and accounts for its leases as operating leases. Rental income from operating leases is recognized on event, when it is probable that the Entity will be required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease agreement. estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. As a lessee, the Entity recognizes operating lease payments as an expense on a straight-line basis over The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present the lease term, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties associated with which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. the obligation. When a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows (where the effect of the time value of money is 2.15 Taxation material). Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a 2.15.1 Current tax third party, a receivable is recognized as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received Income tax (“ISR”), and through 2013 the Business Flat Tax (“IETU”), are recorded in the results and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably. of the year they are incurred. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated statement of profit and other comprehensive income because of items of income or expense 2.10 Financial liabilities that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible. The 2.10.1 Financial liabilities Entity’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. (“at FVTPL”) or other financial liabilities. 2.15.2 Deferred tax 2.10.2 Other financial liabilities Deferred taxes are then calculated by applying the tax rate to temporary differences resulting Other financial liabilities (including borrowings) are subsequently measured at amortized cost from comparing the accounting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and including, if any, future using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the benefits from tax loss carryforwards and certain tax credits. Deferred tax liabilities are generally amortized cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. recognized for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are recorded only when there The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments is a high probability of recovery. Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognized if the (including all fees and expenses paid or received that form an integral part of the effective temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business /98 99/ interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit the financial liability, or (where appropriate) a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on nor the accounting profit. initial recognition. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and 2.10.3 Derecognition of financial liabilities reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to The Entity derecognizes financial liabilities only when its obligations are discharged or cancelled allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. or when they expire. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognized and the consideration paid and payable is recognized in profit or loss. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realized, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that 2.11 Direct employee benefits have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement Direct employee benefits are calculated based on the services rendered by employees, considering of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the their most recent salaries. The liability is recognized as it accrues. These benefits include mainly manner in which the Entity expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the statutory employee profit sharing (“PTU”) payable, compensated absences, such as vacation and carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. vacation premiums, and incentives. The Mexican income tax law does not provide different tax bases or tax rates with respect to the use 2.12 Employee benefits for termination of investment properties (i.e. whether investment properties are used to generate rental income or Employee benefits for termination are recorded in the results of the year in which they are incurred. are whether they are held to recover their value through sale). 2.13 Share-based payment arrangements Share-based payment transactions of the Entity Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in Note 16. 2.15.3 Current and deferred tax for the year The application of these amendments did not have a significant impact on the Entity’s consolidated VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report Current and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that financial statements. 2014 Annual Report are recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business The Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle include a number of amendments to various combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination. IFRSs, which are summarized below. 2.16 Impairment of long-lived assets other than goodwill The amendments to IFRS 13 clarify that the scope of the portfolio exception for measuring the fair At the end of each reporting period, the Entity reviews the carrying amounts of its long-lived assets to value of a group of financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis includes all contracts that are determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any within the scope of, and accounted for in accordance with, IAS 39 or IFRS 9, even if those contracts such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the do not meet the definitions of financial assets or financial liabilities within IAS 32. extent of the impairment loss (if any). The amendments to IAS 40 clarify that IAS 40 and IFRS 3 are not mutually exclusive and application of Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in both standards may be required. Consequently, an entity acquiring investment property must use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount determine whether: rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. (a) The property meets the definition of investment property in terms of IAS 40; and (b) The transaction meets the definition of a business combination under IFRS 3. If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognized The application of these amendments did not have a significant impact on the Entity’s consolidated immediately in profit or loss. financial statements. 2.17 Earnings per share 2.19 New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective Basic earnings per common share are calculated by dividing net income of the controlling interest by The Entity has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per yet effective: share are determined by adjusting consolidated net income and common shares on the assumption that the Entity’s commitments to issue or exchange its own shares would be fulfilled. However, as the IFRS 9, Financial Instruments2 Entity does not have any dilutive instruments, basic and diluted earnings per share are the same. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers1 2.18 Application of new and revised IFRSs and interpretations that are mandatorily effective for the 1 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2016, with earlier application permitted. current year 2 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with earlier application permitted. In the current year, the Entity has applied a number of a new and revised IFRSs issued by the IASB that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after January 1, 2014. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 issued in November 2009 introduced new requirements for the classification and measurement Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities of financial assets. IFRS 9 was subsequently amended in October 2010 to include requirements for The Entity has applied the amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities the classification and measurement of financial liabilities and for derecognition and in November for the first time in the current year. The amendments to IAS 32 clarify the requirements relating to 2013 to include the new requirements for general hedge accounting. Another revised version of IFRS the offset of financial assets and financial liabilities. Specifically, the amendments clarify the meaning 9 was issued in July 2014 mainly to include a) impairment requirements for financial assets and b) /100 101/ of ‘currently has a legally enforceable right of set-off’ and ‘simultaneous realization and settlement’. limited amendments to the classification and measurement requirements by introducing a ‘fair value As the Entity does not have any financial assets and financial liabilities that qualify for offset, the through other comprehensive income’ (FVTOCI) measurement category for certain simple debt application of the amendments has had no impact on the disclosures or on the amounts recognized instruments. in the Entity’s consolidated financial statements. Key requirements of IFRS 9: Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle The Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle include a number of amendments to various IFRSs, • All recognized financial assets that are within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: which are summarized below. Recognition and Measurement are required to be subsequently measured at amortized cost or fair value. Specifically, debt investments that are held within a business model whose objective is to The amendments to IFRS 2 (i) change the definitions of ‘vesting condition’ and ‘market condition’; and (ii) collect the contractual cash flows, and that have contractual cash flows that are solely payments of add definitions for ‘performance condition’ and ‘service condition’ which were previously included within principal and interest on the principal outstanding are generally measured at amortized cost at the the definition of ‘vesting condition’. The amendments to IFRS 2 are effective for share-based payment end of subsequent accounting periods. Debt instruments that are held within a business model transactions for which the grant date is on or after July 1, 2014. whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and that have contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely The amendments to the basis for conclusions of IFRS 13 clarify that the issue of IFRS 13 and consequential payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, are measured at FVTOCI. amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 9 did not remove the ability to measure shortterm receivables and All other debt investments and equity investments are measured at their fair value at the end of payables with no stated interest rate at their invoice amounts without discounting, if the effect of subsequent accounting periods. In addition, under IFRS 9, entities may make an irrevocable discounting is immaterial. As the amendments do not contain any effective date, they are considered to be election to present subsequent changes in the fair value of an equity investment (that is not held immediately effective. for trading) in other comprehensive income, with only dividend income generally recognized in net income (loss). The amendments to IAS 24 clarify that a management entity providing key management personnel services to a reporting entity is a related party of the reporting entity. Consequently, the reporting entity should disclose as related party transactions the amounts incurred for the service paid or payable to the management entity for the provision of key management personnel services. However, disclosure of the components of such compensation is not required. • With regard to the measurement of financial liabilities designated as of fair value through profit or The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report loss, IFRS 9 requires that the amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period 2014 Annual Report attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability is presented in other comprehensive or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. income, unless the recognition of the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk in other comprehensive income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. Changes 3.1 Valuation of investment properties in fair value attributable to a financial liability’s credit risk are not subsequently reclassified to profit As described in Note 8, the Entity uses external appraisers in order to determine the fair value of its or loss. Under IAS 39, the entire amount of the change in the fair value of the financial liability investment properties. Such appraisers use several valuation methodologies that include assumptions designated as fair value through profit or loss is presented in profit or loss. that are not directly observable in the market to estimate the fair value of its investment properties. Note 8 provides detailed information about the key assumptions used in the determination of the fair • In relation to the impairment of financial assets, IFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss model, as value of the investment properties. opposed to an incurred credit loss model under IAS 39. The expected credit loss model requires an entity to account for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit losses at each In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Entity uses market-observable data to the reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition. In other words, it is no extent it is available. Where Level 1 inputs are not available, the Entity engages third party qualified longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognized. valuers to perform the valuation. The valuation committee works closely with the qualified external valuers to establish the appropriate valuation techniques and inputs to the model. The Chief Financial • The new general hedge accounting requirements retain the three types of hedge accounting Officer reports the valuation committee’s findings to the board of directors of the Entity every quarter mechanisms currently available in IAS 39. Under IFRS 9, greater flexibility has been introduced to to explain the cause of fluctuations in the fair value of the assets and liabilities. Information about the the types of transactions eligible for hedge accounting, specifically broadening the types of valuation techniques and inputs used in determining the fair value of various assets and liabilities are instruments that qualify for hedging instruments and the types of risk components of non-financial disclosed in Note 8 and 14. items that are eligible for hedge accounting. In addition, the effectiveness test has been overhauled and replaced with the principle of an ‘economic relationship’. Retrospective assessment The Entity’s management believes that the chosen valuation methodologies and assumptions used are of hedge effectiveness is also no longer required. Enhanced disclosure requirements about an appropriate in determining the fair value of the Entity’s investment properties. entity’s risk management activities have also been introduced. 4. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS The Entity’s management anticipates that the application of IFRS 9 in the future may have a material For purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand impact on amounts reported in respect of the Entity’s financial assets and financial liabilities. However, it and in banks, net of outstanding bank overdrafts. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the reporting is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 9 until the Entity undertakes a period as shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows can be reconciled to the related items in the detailed review. consolidated statements of financial position as follows: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 2014 2013 In May 2014, IFRS 15 was issued which establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in Cash and bank balances $ 6,848,378 $ 3,766,015 accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 will supersede the current Restricted cash 3,826,392 4,531,782 revenue recognition guidance including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and the $ 10,674,770 $ 8,297,797 related Interpretations when it becomes effective. Restricted cash represents balances held by the Entity that are only available for use under certain The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of conditions pursuant to the loan agreements entered into by the Entity. Such conditions include payment of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the monthly debt service and compliance with certain covenants set forth in the loan agreement. entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Specifically, the Standard /102 103/ introduces a 5-step approach to revenue recognition: 5. FINANCIAL ASSETS HELD FOR TRADING The portfolio of financial assets that the Entity has classified as held for trading relates to investments used Step 1: Identify the contract(s) with a customer by the Entity to manage its cash surplus. Such financial assets were acquired in active markets and are Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract principally comprised of investment funds with no maturity date and which mainly invest in AAA debt Step 3: Determine the transaction price instruments, such as government bonds. Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation 6. RECOVERABLE TAXES Under IFRS 15, an entity recognizes revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied, i.e. when ‘control’ of the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred 2014 2013 to the customer. Far more prescriptive guidance has been added in IFRS 15 to deal with specific Recoverable value-added tax (“VAT”) $ 22,043,687 $ 14,899,233 scenarios. Furthermore, extensive disclosures are required by IFRS 15. Recoverable income taxes 5,602,192 1,591,518 Other receivables 66,415 55,524 The Entity’s management anticipates that the application of IFRS 15 in the future may have a material $ 27,712,294 $ 16,546,275 impact on the amounts reported and disclosures made in the Entity’s consolidated financial statements. However, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 15 until the Entity performs a detailed review. 7. OPERATING LEASE RECEIVABLES 7.1 The aging profile of operating lease receivables as of the dates indicated below are as follows: 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 2014 2013 In the application of the Entity’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, management is 0-30 days $ 6,392,749 $ 6,580,998 required to make judgments, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are 30-60 days 861,273 103,202 based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may 60-90 days 87,726 22,559 differ from these estimates. Over 90 days 163,478 Total $ 7,505,226 $ 6,706,759 Pursuant to the lease agreements, rental payments should be received within 30 days following their Property Fair value Valuation Significant Value/range Relationship of VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report due date; thereafter the payment is considered past due. As shown in the table above, 85% and hierarchy techniques unobservable unobservable inputs to fair 2014 Annual Report 97% of all operating lease receivables are current at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. inputs value Buildings Level 3 Discounted Discount rate 9.75% The higher the discount rate, All rental payments past due are monitored by the Entity; for receivables outstanding from 30 to 90 and land cash flows the lower the fair value. days efforts are made to collect payment from the respective client. Operating lease receivables Long-term NOI Based on contractual rent and The higher the NOI, the then on market related rents higher the fair value. outstanding for more than 30 days but less than 60 days represent 11% and 1.8% of all operating lease receivables at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Operating lease receivables Inflation rates Mexico: 3.5% The higher the inflation rate, U.S.: 2.3% the higher the fair value. outstanding for more than 60 and less than 90 days represent 1% and 1.4% of all operating lease Absorption From 3 to 9 months The shorter the receivable at December 31, 2014 and 2013. Accounts receivable outstanding greater than 90 days period absorption period, the represent 2% as of December 31, 2014. higher the fair value. Market related Depending on the park/state The higher the market rent 7.2 Movement in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable rents the higher the fair value The Entity individually reviews each of its operating lease receivables and according to the aging Land reserves Level 3 Market value Price per acre Weighted average price per The higher the price, the report determines the need to create an allowance for the recoverability of such receivables. During acre $248,206 higher the fair value. 2014 there were no increases to the allowance for doubtful accounts. The table below sets forth the aggregate values of the Entity’s investment properties for the years indicated: 7.3 Client concentration risk As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, one of the Entity’s client accounts for 74% or $5,646,339 and 2014 2013 89% or $5,991,674, respectively, of the operating lease receivables balance. The same client Buildings and land $ 1,092,424,983 $ 928,935,606 accounted for 17% and 20% of the total rental income of Entity for the years ended December 31, Advances for acquisition of land 395,921 2014 and 2013, respectively. Land reserves 64,740,000 57,990,000 7.4 Leasing agreements 1,157,560,904 986,925,606 Operating leases relate to non-cancellable lease agreements over the investment properties owned by Less: Cost to complete construction in-progress (56,208,082) (35,041,021) the Entity, which generally have terms ranging between 5 to15 years, with options to extend the term Balance at end of year $ 1,101,352,822 $ 951,884,585 up to a total term of 20 years. Rents are customarily payable on a monthly basis, and are adjusted annually according to applicable inflation indices (US and Mexican inflation indices). Security deposits The reconciliation of investment property is as follows: are typically equal to one or two months’ rent. Obtaining property insurance (third party liability) and operating maintenance are obligations of the tenants. All lease agreements include a rescission clause 2014 2013 that entitles the Entity to collect all unpaid rents during the remaining term of the lease agreement in Balance at beginning of year $ 951,884,585 $ 744,761,666 the event that the client defaults in its rental payments, vacates the properties, terminates the lease agreement or enters into bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. All lease agreements are classified as Additions 123,431,195 112,068,673 operating leases and do not include purchase options, except for two lease agreements which contain a Investment properties sold (3,918,200) purchase option at market conditions at the end of the lease term. Gain on revaluation of investment property 29,955,242 95,054,246 Balance at end of year $ 1,101,352,822 $ 951,884,585 7.5 Non-cancellable operating lease receivables Future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating lease agreements are as follows: A total of $14,049,930 additions to investment property related to a land reserved which was acquired /104 105/ from a third party, were not paid as of December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2013, a total of 2014 2013 $9,132,503 additions to investment property, which were acquired from a third party, were not paid; these Not later than 1 year $ 70,629,698 $ 67,282,095 additions were paid during the year ended December 31, 2014. Later than 1 year and not later than 3 years 122,117,261 118,549,785 During 2007, the Entity entered into an agreement to build the Querétaro Aerospace Park, which consists Later than 3 year and not later than 5 years 115,421,411 117,861,367 of a trust created by the Government of the State of Querétaro, as grantor (fideicomitente), Aeropuerto Later than 5 years 118,579,372 120,904,109 Intercontinental de Querétaro, S. A. de C. V., as a participant for the purposes of granting its consent, $ 426,747,742 $ 424,597,356 Bombardier Aerospace México, S.A. de C.V., as beneficiary (fideicomisario), and BBVA Bancomer, S.A., as trustee (fiduciario), to which the Entity, through its subsidiary, Proyectos Aeroespaciales, adhered as grantee and beneficiary. The Government of the State of Queretaro contributed certain rights to the trust, 8. INVESTMENT PROPERTY including rights to use the land and the infrastructure built by the state of Queretaro, allowing Proyectos The Entity uses external appraisers in order to determine the fair value for all of its investment properties. The Aeroespaciales to build and lease buildings for a total period equivalent to the term of the concession independent appraisers, who hold recognized and relevant professional qualifications and have vast granted to the Aerospace Park; the remaining term is approximately 44 year as of December 31, 2014. experience in the types of investment properties, owned by the Entity, use valuation techniques such as the discounted cash flows approach, replacement cost approach and income cap rate approach. The techniques Proyectos Aeroespaciales is the only designated real estate developer and was granted the right to use used include assumptions, the majority of which are not directly observable in the market, to estimate the the land and infrastructure to develop industrial facilities thereon, lease such industrial facilities to fair value of the Entity’s investment property such as discount rates, long-term NOI, inflation rates, absorption companies in the aerospace and related industries and to collect the rents derived from the lease of the periods and market rents. industrial facilities, for a period of time equivalent to the remaining term of the airport concession (approximately 44 years as of December 31, 2014). With respect to such rights, all construction, The values, determined by the external appraisers annually, are recognized as the fair value of the Entity’s addition and improvements made by Proyectos Aeroespaciales to the contributed land (including investment property at the end of each reporting period. The appraisers use a discounted cash flow without limitation, the industrial facilities) will revert in favor of the Government of the State of approach to determine the fair value of land and buildings (using the expected net operating income Queretaro at the end of the term of the trust, for zero consideration. (“NOI”) of the investment property) and a market approach to determine the fair value of land reserves. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values are included in the consolidated statements of profit and other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. The Entity’s investment properties are located in México and they are classified as Level 3 in the IFRS fair value hierarchy. The following table provides information about how the fair values of the investment properties are determined (in particular, the valuation technique(s) and inputs used). During 2013, the Company entered into an agreement with Nissan Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. (“Nissan”) to VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report build and lease to Nissan the Douki Seisan Park (“DSP Park”) located in Aguascalientes, Mexico. The land The credit agreement also entitles GERE to withhold certain amounts deposited by the Entity in a separate 2014 Annual Report where the DSP Park is located is owned by Nissan. On July 5, 2012, Nissan created a trust (trust No. fund as guarantee deposits for the debt service and maintenance of the Entity’s investment properties. F/1704 with Deutsche Bank México, S.A. as trustee) to which the Company (through one of its Such amounts are presented as guarantee deposit assets in the statement of financial position. subsidiaries, Vesta DSP, S. de R.L. de C.V), is beneficiary and was granted the use of the land for a period of 40 years. The infrastructure and all the related improvements were built by and are managed by the Scheduled maturities and periodic amortization of long-term debt are as follows: Company. 2015 $ 8,629,108 2016 298,109,960 As of December, 2014 and 2013, the Entity’s investment properties have a gross leasable area (unaudited) $ 306,739,068 of 16,791,931 square feet (or 1,560,021 square meters) and 14,378,670 square feet (or 1,335,822 square meters), respectively and they were 87% and 91% occupied by tenants, respectively. As of December 31, 10. CAPITAL STOCK 2014 and 2013, investment properties with a gross leasable area of 1,960,548 square feet (or 182,141 10.1 Capital stock as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 is as follows: square meters) and 2,060,958 square feet (or 191,469 square meters), respectively, were under construction, representing an additional 11.68% and 14.33% of the Entity’s total leasable area. 2014 2013 Most of the Entity’s investment properties have been pledged as collateral to secure its long-term debt. Number of shares Amount Number of shares Amount Fixed capital Series A 5,000 $ 3,696 5,000 $ 3,696 9. LONG-TERM DEBT Variable capital Long-term debt is represented by the following notes payable to GE Real Estate de México, S. de R. L. de Series B 507,447,012 370,365,016 507,447,012 370,365,016 C. V. (“GERE”): Total 507,452,012 $ 370,368,712 507,452,012 $ 370,368,712 Original Annual Monthly Stockholders’ equity, except restated paid-in capital and tax retained earnings will be subject to ISR Issue date amount interest rate amortization Maturity 2014 2013 payable by the Entity at the rate in effect upon distribution. Any tax paid on such distribution may be September 2003 7,637,927 7.17% $ 11,736 August 2016 $ 5,134,727 $ 5,268,740 credited against annual and estimated income taxes of the year in which the tax on dividends is paid April 2005 2,000,000 7.17% 3,281 August 2016 1,433,480 1,470,949 and the following two fiscal years. August 2005 6,300,000 7.17% 10,441 August 2016 4,566,048 4,685,269 August 2005 14,500,000 7.17% 24,146 August 2016 10,544,502 10,820,214 On June 25, 2013, the Entity issued a total of 114,573,661 shares through a follow-on public offering November 2005 32,000,000 7.17% 274,440* August 2016 21,807,521 22,336,748 of shares in the Mexican Stock Exchange. The net proceeds of this offering were $193,468,687 (net March 2006 15,000,000 7.17% 25,336 August 2016 8,079,295 11,434,933 of direct issuance costs of $4,474,060, net of tax) consisting of an increase in capital stock of $83,500,494 and an increase in additional paid-in capital of $109,968,193. July 2006 50,000,000 7.17% 99,961 August 2016 48,487,816 49,629,220 July 2006 12,000,000 7.17% 23,991 August 2016 10,905,370 11,179,306 10.2 Fully paid ordinary shares September 2006 10,800,000 7.17% 19,948 August 2016 9,207,363 9,435,138 October 2006 8,300,000 7.17% 15,330 August 2016 7,076,029 7,251,078 Number of shares Amount Additional paid-in November 2006 12,200,000 7.17% 17,717 August 2016 8,224,187 8,591,656 capital /106 107/ November 2006 28,091,497 7.17% 25,234 August 2016 11,653,920 11,942,061 Balance as of January 1, 2013 $ 392,878,351 $ 286,868,218 $ 101,900,964 May 2007 6,540,004 7.17% 12,182 August 2016 5,625,506 5,764,612 Capital stock increase of June 25, 2013 114,573,661 87,974,554 109,968,193 September 2007 8,204,039 7.17% 15,359 August 2016 7,094,132 7,269,509 Direct equity issuance costs (6,391,514) April 2008 32,811,066 6.47% 73,846 August 2016 29,193,227 30,055,305 Income taxes related to direct equity issuance 1,917,454 costs April 2008 867,704 6.47% 3,756 August 2016 1,484,686 1,528,529 Balance as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 $ 507,452,012 $ 370,368,712 $ 211,869,157 April 2008 * 7,339,899 6.62% 183,115* August 2016 12,097,602 12,451,855 August 2008 3,372,467 6.47% 11,936 August 2016 4,719,073 4,858,416 August 2008 6,286,453 6.47% 14,187 August 2016 5,608,491 5,774,105 10.3 Dividend payments April 2009 19,912,680 7.17% 36,436 August 2016 16,615,833 17,031,879 Pursuant to a resolution of the general ordinary stockholders meeting on March 13, 2014, the Entity December 2009 30,000,000 7.17% 56,729 August 2016 24,870,114 25,517,873 declared a dividend of approximately $0.033 per share, for a total dividend of $16,846,565 which July 2012 19,768,365 7.17% 39,521 August 2016 17,264,976 17,716,254 was paid via cash distributions on April 4, 2014. The payment was applied against the Entity’s net tax July 2012 27,960,333 7.17% 55,899 August 2016 25,080,968 25,719,248 income account. July 2012 5,000,000 6.15% 13,145 August 2016 4,526,111 4,678,376 Pursuant to a resolution of the general ordinary stockholders’ meeting on March 19, 2013, the Entity March 2013 5,918,171 5.80% 15,008 August 2016 5,438,091 5,616,473 declared a dividend of $0.027 per share for a total dividend of $10,468,173 which was paid via cash 306,739,068 318,027,746 distributions on April 1, 2013. The payment was applied against the Entity’s net tax income account. Less: Current (8,629,108) (8,222,341) portion $ 298,109,960 $ 309,805,405 * These notes payable have bi-annual amortization. Most of the Entity’s investment properties and rental payments derived from the lease agreements relating to such investment properties have been pledged as collateral to secure the loans under the Entity’s credit agreement with GERE. Additionally, without the written consent of GERE, the Entity may not directly or indirectly, sell, convey, mortgage, pledge or assign all or part of the rights it has on the whole or any part of its existing properties. The GERE credit agreement requires the Entity to maintain certain financial ratios (such as Cash-on-Cash and debt service coverage ratios) and to comply with certain affirmative and negative covenants. The Entity was in compliance with covenants under the GERE credit agreement as of December 31, 2014. 11. EARNINGS PER SHARE 13.1 Income taxes are as follows: VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report The amounts used to determine earnings per share are as follows: 2014 Annual Report 2014 2013 2014 ISR expense: Weighted-average Earnings number of shares Dollars per share Current $ 2,801,516 $ 6,947,623 Profit for the year $ 24,221,997 507,452,012 $ 0.05 Expired ISR credit on dividends 580,701 Deferred 24,122,516 30,919,613 2013 Total income taxes $ 26,924,032 $ 38,447,937 Weighted-average Utilidad number of shares Dollars per share 13.2 The effective ISR rate for fiscal 2014 and 2013 differ from the statutory rate as follows: Profit for the year $ 89,433,517 452,368,521 $ 0.20 12. PROPERTY OPERATING COSTS AND ADMINISTRATION EXPENSES 2014 2013 12.1 Property operating costs consist of the following: Statutory rate 30% 30% 12.1.1Direct property operating costs from investment properties that generate rental income during the year: Effects of exchange rates on tax balances 33% (1)% Effects of inflation (12)% (4)% 2014 2013 Effects of change in ISR rate (2014 Tax Law) 3% Real estate tax $ 881,644 $ 810,893 Other 2% Insurance 312,383 301,997 Effective rate 53% 30% Maintenance 484,080 382,576 13.3 The main items originating the deferred ISR liability are: Other property related expenses 1,083,158 1,045,254 2,761,265 2,540,720 2014 2013 Deferred ISR assets (liabilities): 12.1.2 Direct property operating costs from investment property that did not generate rental income during the year: Investment property $ (124,338,843) $ (107,817,334) Effect of tax loss carryforwards 7,670,338 15,398,333 2014 2013 Other provisions and prepaid expenses 1,027,384 900,398 Real estate tax $ 269,412 $ 286,687 Deferred income taxes – Net $ (115,641,120) $ (91,518,603) Insurance 47,606 44,211 To determine deferred ISR the Entity applied the applicable tax rates to temporary differences based Maintenance 43,648 56,007 on their estimated reversal dates. Other property related expenses 478,018 523,711 838,684 910,616 13.4 The benefits of restated tax loss carryforwards for which the deferred ISR asset has been Total property operating costs $ 3,599,949 $ 3,451,336 recognized can be recovered subject to certain conditions. Restated amounts as of December 31, 2013 and expiration dates are: /108 109/ 12.2 Administration expenses consist of the following: Year of Expiration Tax Loss 2014 2013 Carryforwards Marketing expenses $ 48,676 $ 61,344 2020 $ 2,128,531 2023 11,076,323 Auditing, legal and consulting expenses 873,927 723,108 2024 12,362,941 Property appraisal and other fees 214,986 195,001 $ 25,567,795 Direct employee benefits and other benefits 6,921,734 5,630,566 Indirect equity issuance and trading costs 241,284 187,609 14. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Other 2,339 2,320 14.1 Capital management The Entity manages its capital to ensure that the Entity will be able to continue as a going concern $ 8,302,946 $ 6,799,948 while maximizing the return to partners through the optimization of the debt and equity balance. 13. INCOME TAXES The capital structure of the Entity consists of net debt (total borrowings, including the current The Entity is subject to ISR and through December 31, 2013, to ISR and IETU. Therefore, the income tax portion, as detailed in Note 9 offset by cash and bank balances) and equity of the Entity (comprising payable was the higher between ISR and IETU through 2013. issued capital, additional paid-in capital, retained earnings and other comprehensive income as detailed in Note 10). The Entity is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. ISR -The rate was 30% in 2014 and 2013 and as a result of the new 2014 ISR law (2014Tax Law), the rate will continue at 30% in 2014 and thereafter. 14.2 Leverage ratio The Board reviews the capital structure of the Entity on a regular basis. As part of this review, the IETU – IETU was eliminated as of 2014; therefore, up to December 31, 2013, this tax was incurred both on Board considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. revenues and deductions and certain tax credits based on cash flows from each year. The respective rate was 17.5%. The leverage ratio at end of following reporting periods was as follows Foreign currency sensitivity analysis VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report The following table details the Entity’s sensitivity to a 10% appreciation or depreciation in the US 2014 Annual Report 2014 2013 dollar against the Mexican peso. 10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk Debt $ 306,739,068 $ 318,027,746 internally to key management personnel, and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign Cash and bank balances (10,674,770) (8,297,797) currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% Financial assets held for trading (95,025,988) (233,052,020) change in foreign currency exchange rates. A positive number below indicates an increase in profit or Net debt 201,038,310 76,677,929 equity where the US dollar appreciates 10% against the relevant currency. For a 10% depreciation of Equity 797,735,864 789,585,406 the US dollar against the Mexican peso, there would be a comparable impact on the profit or equity, Net debt to equity ratio 25% 10% and the balances below would be negative. 14.3 Categories of financial instruments 2014 2013 Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, Profit or loss impact the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognized, in respect of each Mexican peso – 10% appreciation – gain $ (9,698,458) $ (23,208,878) class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in Note 2 to the consolidated Mexican peso – 10% depreciation – loss 11,853,671 28,366,407 financial statements. U.S. dollar 10% appreciation – loss 4,381,318 4,061,229 The Entity’s principal financial assets are bank balances, cash equivalents and restricted cash as disclosed U.S. dollar 10% depreciation – gain (4,381,318) (4,061,229) in Note 4, recoverable taxes and operating lease receivables as disclosed in Notes 6 and 7, respectively and financial assets held for trading in Note 5. The Entity’s principal financial liability is long-term debt as 14.7 Interest rate risk management disclosed in Note 9. The Entity minimizes its exposure to interest rate risk by borrowing funds at fixed rates, because investment properties owned by the Entity generate a fixed income in the form of rental income which is 14.4 Financial risk management objectives indexed to inflation. The Entity seeks to minimize the effects of market risk (including fair value interest rate risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk (although currently the Entity only has fixed rate debt 14.8 Credit risk management instruments with varying maturity profiles). No significant interest rate hedges or trading financial Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in instruments were entered into during the period of the accompanying consolidated financial financial loss to the Entity. The Entity has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy statements. counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Entity’s exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are monitored, and the transactions consummated are entered 14.5 Market risk into with approved counterparties. The Entity’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in interest rates (see 14.8 and 14.9 below) and foreign currency exchange rates (see 14.6 and 14.7 below). The Entity may enter The Entity’s clients operate in a variety of industries. Its real estate portfolio is primarily concentrated into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency risk. There has been in the food and beverage, automotive, aerospace, medical, logistics and plastics industries. The no change to the Entity’s exposure to market risks or the manner in which these risks are managed Entity’s exposure to these industries subjects it to the risk of economic downturns in such industrial and measured. sectors to a greater extent than if its properties were more diversified across other industries. 14.6 Foreign currency risk management The Entity currently leases two distribution facilities to a single customer, which represent 10.8% of The Entity is exposed to foreign exchange risk, primarily with respect to the Mexican peso and to the its total portfolio’s gross leasable area (unaudited), and 75% and 89% of its operating lease /110 111/ US dollar in respect of one of its subsidiaries whose functional currency is the Mexican peso. Foreign receivable balance and 17% and 20% its annualized rents as of and for the year ended December exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognized monetary assets and 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. If this customer were to terminate its lease agreements with the liabilities. Entity, the Entity may experience a material loss with respect to future rental income. The carrying amounts of the Entity’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary 14.9 Liquidity risk management liabilities at the end of the reporting period as well as the relevant exchange rates are as follows: If the Entity is unable to raise additional debt or equity, its results of operations could suffer. The Entity closely monitors the maturity of its liabilities and the cash needs of its operations. It prepares and 2014 2013 provides a detailed cash flow analysis on a quarterly basis and presents it to its board of directors. Decisions are made to obtain new financing or limit cash investments in order to maintain a healthy Exchange rates: projected cash balance. Mexican pesos per US dollar at the end of the period 14.7180 13.0765 Mexican pesos per US dollar average during the year 13.2996 12.7681 The maturity of the long-term, its current portion and the accrued interest at December 31, 2014 is as follows: Monetary assets Mexican pesos 1,592,246,030 3,354,707,083 Weighted US dollars $ 229,640 $ 261,858 average Less than 3 months to interest rate 1 month 1-3 months 1 year 1-2 years Total Long-term debt 7.02 $ 625,125 $ 1,708,713 $ 6,295,270 $ 198,109,960 $ 306,739,068 Monetary liabilities Accrued interest 1,807,921 3,599,598 16,000,378 12,206,488 33,614,385 Mexican pesos 22,085,067 16,307,237 $ 2,433,046 $ 5,308,311 $ 22,295,648 $ 210,316,448 $ 340,353,453 US dollars $ 39,820,378 $ 40,874,151 14.10 Fair value of financial instruments Fair value of share awards granted in the year VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 14.10.1 Fair value of financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis The fair value of the share awards granted during the financial year was determined based on a fixed 2014 Annual Report The Entity’s financial assets held for trading are classified as level 1 in the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy amount of cash determined as per the Entity’s plan. It is assumed that executives would exercise the since they are traded in an active market. awards after vesting date. 14.10.2 Fair value of financial instruments carried at amortized cost 17. LITIGATION, OTHER CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS The fair value of long-term debt and its related current portion as of December, 31, 2014 and LITIGATION 2013 is $328,637,868 and $325,471,021, respectively. This measurement is classified as level 2, In the ordinary course of business, the Entity is party to various legal proceedings. The Entity is not involved since management uses an adjusted observable discount rate to determine fair value of debt. in any litigation or arbitration proceeding for which the Entity believes it is not adequately insured or indemnified, or which, if determined adversely, would have a material adverse effect on the Entity or its Management considers that the carrying amounts of financial assets and other financial financial position, results of operations or cash flows. liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair values. COMMITMENTS 15. TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES WITH RELATED PARTIES As mentioned in Note 8, all rights to construction, improvements and infrastructure built by the Entity in the 15.1 Compensation of key management personnel Queretaro Aerospace Park and in the DSP Park automatically revert back to the government of the State of The remuneration of Entity’s management and key executives is determined by the remuneration Queretaro and to Nissan at the end of the concessions, which is approximately in 44 and 38 years, respectively. committee having regard to the performance of individuals and market trends. The remuneration of members of key management personnel during the year was as follows: During November 2014, the Entity entered into letters of intent to acquire land reserves. The amount of the commitment for the purchase of the land totals $10,785,417. 2014 2013 Short-term benefits $ 3,386,779 $ 2,770,884 On December 18, 2014, the Entity entered into a letter of intent to obtain a credit facility with Metropolitan Share-based payments 323,764 Life Insurance Company Real Estate Investments (“Metlife”) for up to $50,000,000. This loan, if obtained by the Entity, will accrue interest at an annual rate of the greater of (a) the sum of (i) the yield on securities $ 3,710,543 $ 2,770,884 having a maturity equal to the “on the run” 7 year U.S. Treasury rate plus (ii) 250 basis points or (b) 4.35%. The loan will have monthly interest only payments for 40 months and thereafter monthly amortizations of 16. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS principal and interest. 16.1 Employee share option plan of the Entity 18. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD Details of the employee share option plan of the Entity In January 28, 2015, the Entity issued a total of 124,274,111 shares, including the overallotment option, The Entity has a restricted stock scheme for certain executives of the Entity. In accordance with the terms through a follow-on public offering of shares in the Mexican Stock Exchange and through a private offering of the plan, as approved by the board of directors at a previous board meeting, based on certain of shares in international markets under the Rule 144A of the United States of America and Regulation S performance metrics, the Entity granted certain executives a long-term incentive plan that will be settled under the Securities Act of 1933. The offering price was 27 Mexican pesos per share and the net proceeds using the Entity’s own shares. Under this plan, eligible executives will receive compensation settled in of this offering were received on February 4, 2015. shares and delivered over a three-year period. Using a cash amount determined based on performance metrics, the Entity will purchase its own shares in the market, place them in a trust, and deliver them in 19. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ISSUANCE AUTHORIZATION three equal settlement dates to the executives after 26, 38 and 50 months from the grant date, provided On February 16, 2015 the issuance of the consolidated financial statements was authorized by Juan Sottil, that the eligible executives remain in the employment of the Entity. the Entity’s Chief Financial Officer; consequently, they do not reflect events occurred after that date. These consolidated financial statements were approved by the General Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, held on /112 113/ The fair value of the awards granted was $954,749. Cumulative compensation expense in respect of March 25, 2015. this plan for the year ended December 31, 2014 is $323,764. Compensation expense related to this plan will continue to be accrued through the periods until the last of the three tranches is settled in February 2018. The following share-based payment arrangements were in existence during the current year: VESTA APPENDIX VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Awards and recognitions In 2014, Vesta and its employees received various recognitions attesting to the effort, commitment and dedication with which we all do our jobs. . Awarding institution Recipient Reason Mexican Stock Exchange Vesta Member of the Sustainability Index US Green Building Council (US GBC) Vesta / Bombardier MA-2 LEED Certification LEED Vesta / BRP Vesta / Querétaro Offices Mexican Federal Environmental Protection Agency Vesta Environmental Quality (PROFEPA) Ecovadis Vesta Sustainability Audit/ Valuation Mexican Center for Philanthropy (CEMEFI) Vesta ESR Distinction Participation in organizations and associations Asociación Mexicana de Parques Industriales (AMPIP) Signatories of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) Mexican-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry (COMCE) US Green Building Council (USGBC) Urban Land Institute (ULI Sustentabilidad para México (SUME) Industriales of the Bajío Region Asociación Mexicana de la Industria Maquiladora y Exportación (AIM) Desarrollo Económico e Industrial of Tijuana (DEITAC) Comité de Promoción Industrial of Cd. Juárez GRI LEVEL Industria Nacional de Autopartes (INA) Consejo de América Latina de Real Estate Network de YPO/WPO Consejo Mexicano de Asuntos Internacionales (COMEXI) /114 115/ US-Mexico Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM) Parameters of this report This is the third integrated annual report that we present to our stakeholders regarding our financial and non-financial performance. It has been prepared in accordance with the indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) version 3.1. The information presented corresponds to the period between January 1 and December 31, 2014, unless otherwise indicated. Reports are presented on an annual basis, and quantitative and qualitative information about Vesta’s sustainability management and performance and the data presented were collected from each of the company’s corporate areas, then consolidated by the sustainability area. Detailed information about our company, its operating and financial performance, and our previous integrated annual reports, and digital version, can be found on our website at www.vesta.com.mx. There were no significant changes in the coverage, scope or valuation methods used in this report compared to 2013 report. The information included covers 100% of Vesta’s operations in Mexico, unless otherwise indicated. There were also no changes in the structure or ownership of the company that would affect the comparability of the periods presented. To prepare this report, we conducted an internal exercise to define the parameters of best GRI: 2.10, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, practices and company performance, the current global context of sustainability in the real estate industry and the matters that are material to our stakeholders. Accordingly, in this report, our stakeholders can find clear, objective and transparent information about the primary progress and achievements in sustainability that we have considered a priority according to our materiality analysis, including numerous case studies that serve to exemplify our commitment in this area. 3.13, 4.13, 4.14 This report has a GRI B Checked Application Level. As it did last year, Vesta will continue requesting external validation of this report from an independent firm, because it recognizes the importance of providing accurate and verifiable information. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPALS 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND INVOLVEMENT WITHSTAKEHOLDERS VESTA VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Corporate Governance HUMAN RIGHTS 4.1 Structure of government of the organization, including committees that establish strategy or supervise the 19, 42 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. organization. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 4.2 State if the president holds an executive position. 42 LABOR 4.3 Number and gender of members of the board, independent or non-executive. 42 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 4.4 Procedures for shareholders and employees to make recommendations to the board. 46 bargaining 4.5 Link between payment of board members, senior executives and directors, and performance of the 46, 57 Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. organization. 4.6 Procedures for preventing conflicts of interests in the board of directors. 46 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. 4.7 Procedure for establishing the composition, training and experience of members of the board and committees, 42 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. including considerations regarding sex and other diversity indicators. ENVIRONMENT 4.8 Declaration of mission, values, code of ethics and main principles. 46, 50 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 4.9 Procedures of the board for supervising, identifying and managing financial, environmental and social 53 performance, including risks and opportunities, and adherence to international standards, codes of conduct Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. and principles. 4.10 Procedure for assessing the performance of the board of directors. 46 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment to external initiatives ANTI-CORRUPTION 4.11 Principle of precaution (risk management in operating planning or development of new products). 53 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4.12 Social, environmental and economic programs and initiatives developed externally. 71 4.13 Associations to which the organization belongs (sector, national and international). 71, 114 Indicator Content GRI 3.1 Stakeholder involvement 4.14 List of stakeholders (the community, customers, employees, local communities, shareholders, suppliers). 114 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Declaration of the most senior person in the organization who makes long-term decisions. 4.15 Base for identifying stakeholders. 69 12 1.2 Main effects, risks and opportunities. 4.16 Ways of including stakeholders: studies, surveys, discussion groups, social experts, Company advisors). 69 12 4.17 Aspects of interest through the involvement of stakeholders and the response of the organization. 70 2. PROFILE OF THE ORGANIZATION 2.1 Name of the organization. 11 Standard Disclosures Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) 2.2 Brands, products and/or services. 11, 17, 32 DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC 2.3 Operating structure: main divisions, entities, affiliates and businesses. Aspects Economic PerformanceCOMM 20 27 2.4 Head office of the organization. Market presence 11 3rd cover 2.5 Countries or states in which the organization operates and conducts major business. Indirect Economic ImpactsCOMM 80 11 /116 117/ 2.6 Nature of property and legal form. 11 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN 2.7 Markets supplied (geographical breakdown, sectors supplied and types of customers/beneficiaries). 11 Aspects Materials 75 2.8 Dimensions of the organization: employees, operations, net sales, total capitalization. 18-21, 56 Energy 77 2.9 Substantial changes during the period covered by size, structure and property of the organization. 27 Water 76 2.10 Awards and recognitions during the year. 114 Biodiversity 74 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Emissions, effluents and waste 76 Report profile Land Degradation, Contamination and Remediation 74 3.1 Period covered. 114 Products and Services 53 3.2 Date of previous report. 114 Compliance 77 3.3 Report presentation cycle 114 Transport 56 3.4 Point of contact for matters concerning the report. 121 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Scope and coverage of report Aspects Employment 58, 60 3.5 Definition of content (materiality, subjects in order of importance and identification of stakeholders and at 114 Labor/management relations 58 whom the report is aimed). Occupational Health and Safety 59 3.6 Coverage (countries, divisions, subsidiaries, suppliers, etc.). 114 Training and Education 59 3.7 Limitations to extent of coverage. 114 Diversity and equal opportunity 59 3.8 Joint investments, affiliates, premises leased and others that may affect comparability between periods and/or 114 organizations. Equal remuneration for women and men 58, 59 3.9 Techniques for measuring data and the basis for making calculations. 114 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR 3.10 Effect of restating information in previous reports. 114 Aspects Investment and procurement practices 55, 80 3.11 Major changes relative to previous periods with regard to extent, coverage or valuation methods. 114 Non-discrimination 50 GRI Index Freedom of association and collective bargaining 56 3.12 Index of basic content. 116 Child labor 50 Audit Prevention of forced and compulsory labor 50 3.13 Current external audit policy and practices. 114 Security Practices 50 Indigenous rights 50 Assessment 77 GRI: 3.12 Remediation 74 VESTA DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO EN20 Other important emissions (nitric oxide or nitrogen monoxide NO and sulfur oxide SO) by type and weight. 77 VESTA 2014 Annual Report 2014 Annual Report Aspects Local communities 72 EN21 Disposal of waste water (type and destination). 77 Corruption 50 EN22 Total weight of waste managed (type and method of treatment). 77 Public policy 50 EN23 Number and volume of accidental spills. 77 Anti-competitive behavior 29 EN24 Weight of hazardous waste transported, imported, exported or treated. 29, 77 Compliance 29 EN25 Water resources affected by the discharge of water and runoff water. 77 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR CRE5 Need to recover land for current use and potential of land, in accordance with the relevant legal framework. 74 Aspects Customer health and safety 50 Products and services Product and service labelling 50 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate the environmental affect of products and services, and achievements. 74 Marketing communications 50 EN27 Percentage of products sold and packing material recovered at the end of their operating life. 77 Customer privacy 50 Compliance with standards Compliance 50 EN28 Non-monetary penalties and fines for failure to observe environmental regulations. 77 5. MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Transport Economic performance EN29 Environmental impact of the transport of products, goods and materials, or transport of employees. 77 EC1 Direct economic value produced and distributed (income, expenditure, employee salaries, donations and other 18, 20, General investment in the community). 21, 80 EN30 Breakdown of environmental expenses and investment. 77 EC2 Economic consequences, risks and opportunities due to climate exchange. 66 Employment practices and working ethics EC3 Coverage of obligations of the organization due to community benefit programs. 56, 57 Employment EC4 Major financial assistance received from government. 53 LA1 Total employees (type, contract, region and gender. 21 Market presence LA2 New employees and turnover (by age, genderand region). 21, 60 EC5 Range between initial standard salary, broken-down by gender, and minimum local salary. 57 LA3 Benefits for full-time employees that are not offered to part-time or temporary employees. 56, 57 EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of expenditure corresponding to local suppliers. NC LA15 Number of people who return to work and retention after maternity or paternity leave, by gender 59 EC7 Procedure for local contracting and proportion of local executives. 55 Company/employee relationship Indirect economic impact LA4 Number of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 56 EC8 Investment in infrastructure and services for the benefit of the public. 72, 80 LA5 Minimum time for advising changes in the organization and if specified in collective bargaining agreements. 56 EC9 Substantial indirect economic impact and its extent. 71 Occupational Health and safety Environmental performance LA6 Total number of workers represented on joint health and safety committees –management – employees. 59 Material LA7 Absenteeism, lost days and fatalities at work, by region and gender 59 EN1 Material used, by weight or volume. 75 Number of employees that are part of a recognized and reliable health and safety management system. /118 119/ CRE6 60 EN2 Proportion of material used that may be recycled. 75 LA8 Education, training, assessment and risk control and prevention programs. 59 Energy LA9 Health and safety matters covered in agreements with unions. 59 EN3 Direct use of energy by primary sources. 20, 75 Education and training EN4 Indirect user of energy by primary sources. 75 LA10 Average number of hours training/year/employee, by gender and category. 21, 58 CRE1 Intensity of energy in buildings. 75 LA11 Skills management and ongoing training programs. 58, 61 EN5 Energy saving due to conservation and improvements in efficiency. 75, 78 LA12 Number of employees whose professional performance and development is assessed regularly, by gender. 58 EN6 Initiatives to provide efficient services and products or those based on renewable sources of energy and 74 reductions achieved. Diversity and equal opportunities EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect consumption of energy and reductions achieved. 74 LA13 Breakdown of board members and employees (gender age, minorities and other diversity indicators). 21, 56 Water Equal opportunities for men and women EN8 Total water consumption by source. 76 LA14 Ratio of the basic wage of men in comparison with women, broken down by professional category. 57 EN9 Sources of water affected by consumption. 76 Human rights EN10 Total percentage and volume of water recycled or reused. 76 Investment and supply chain practices CRE2 Intensity of use of water for buildings. NC HR1 Investment contracts and agreements that include human rights clauses. 29 Biodiversity HR2 Distributors, contractors and business partners analyzed with regard to human rights and measures taken. NC EN11 Location and size of land with high biodiversity value in areas that are not protected areas. 74 HR3 Total number of hours training in human rights policies and procedures, number of employees trained. NC EN12 Impact on biodiversity in protected natural areas or high biodiversity in unprotected areas. 74 No discrimination EN13 Protected or restored habitats. 74 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and measures taken. 50, 55 EN14 Strategies for managing the impact on biodiversity. 74 Freedom of association and collective bargaining agreements EN15 Species and habitats affected. 74 HR5 Operations and suppliers that violate the right to freedom of association, and measures taken. 56 Emission, spills and waste Child exploitation EN16 Direct and indirect GHG emissions. 20, 76 HR6 Operations and suppliers that have a risk of child exploitation and measures taken. 55 EN17 Other indirect and relevant GHG emissions (weight). 78 Forced labor CRE3 Intensity of GHG emissions derived from buildings. 76 HR7 Operations and suppliers identified as being sources of forced labor, and measures taken to prevent it. 55 CRE4 Intensity of GHG emissions derived from new buildings and refurbished buildings. 76 EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG and achievements. 77, 78 EN19 Emission of substances that affect the ozone layer (weight). 77 VESTA Security practices 2014 Annual Report HR8 Number of security staff trained in human rights. NA Rights of indigenous communities HR9 Incidents regarding violation of the rights of indigenous communities, and measures taken. 50 HR10 Operations that have been inspected or assessed with regard to human rights. 50 Contact and Feedback Corrective measures HR11 Number of complaints received regarding human rights and that have been dealt with using formal conciliatory 50 procedures. Performance of the corporation Local communities SO1 Number of operations in which development programs have been implemented and the impact and 71 participation of the local community. SO9 Operations with a negative, significant, possible or actual impact on local communities. 71 SO10 Means of prevention and mitigation implemented in operations that have a negative, possible, significant or 28 actual impact on local communities. For any questions, suggestions CRE7 Number of people voluntarily or involuntary displaced and/or relocated due to developments, broken down by 28 or feedback regarding this report, project. please contact us at the following Corruption e-mail addresses: SO2 Business units analyzed with regard of corruption. 50 contact@vesta.com.mx SO3 Number of employees trained in anti-corruption policy and procedures. 50 sustentabilidad@vesta.com.mx SO4 Measures taken in response to incidents of corruption. 50 investor.relations@vesta.com.mx Public policy etica@vesta.com.mx SO5 Position and participation in public policy and lobbying. 71 SO6 Financial contributions and contributions in kind to political parties or related institutions. 50 HEADQUARTERS Unfair competition Paseo de Tamarindos 90 SO7 Action taken due to anti-monopoly practices and against free competition, and results. 50 Torre 2, piso 28 Compliance with regulations Bosques de las Lomas SO8 Monetary and non-monetary sanctions and fines for failure to observe laws and regulations. 50 Cuajimalpa de Morelos 05120 México D. F. Performance of responsibility for products Tel:+52(55) 5950 0070 Customer health and safety PR1 Assessment of the lifecycle of products in relation to the effect on the health and safety of customers, and 34 TOLUCA /8 number of categories of products and services assessed. Av. De las Partidas s/n PR2 Incidents derived from failure to meet regulations or voluntary codes regarding the effect on health and safety 29 Colonia Villa de Santín during lifecycle. Otzolotepec, Labeling of products and services Estado de México 50070 PR3 Type of information on products and number of products subject to these requirements. NA Tel:+52(722) 2497 283 CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification and classification method for new buildings, administration, use 31 and modernization. CIUDAD JUÁREZ QUERÉTARO PR4 Failure to observe regulations and voluntary codes on information and labeling. NA Av. Paseo de la Victoria 3651-3B Av. De la Montaña 100 Km 28.5 PR5 Customer satisfaction practices and results of studies carried out. 28, 36 Col. Partido Senecú Carretera QRO-SLP Marketing communication 32469 Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua Parque Industrial Querétaro Santa Tel:+52(656) 3780 330 Rosa Jáuregui PR6 Programs for complying with the laws or voluntary codes referred to in marketing communications. 50 Querétaro 76220 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regultations on marketing communications, and results. 36, 50 AGUASCALIENTES Tel:+52(442) 2409 273 Customer privacy Carretera Federal Lagos de Moreno Kilometro 7.5 20290 Aguascalientes, Ags. TIJUANA PR8 Claims regarding lack of privacy and data of customers. 50 Tel:+52(449) 6882 601 Blvd. Agua Caliente 10611-1201 Compliance with regulations Centro Corporativo Centura PR9 Fines for failure to meet standards regarding the supply and use of products and services. 58 SILAO Col. Aviación, Av. Mineral de Valenciana 645-D2 22420 Tijuana, Baja California Col. Puerto Interior Tel:+52(664) 9729 473 www.xdesign.com.mx 36275 Silao de la Victoria, Gto. Tel:+52(472) 1179 120 Design: GRI: 2.4, 3.4 VESTA.COM.MX
