MAIRE TECNIMONT GROUP 2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Maire Tecnimont Group is an integrated entity with two interlocking dimensions existing together. We are a value creator, thanks to our expertise in engineering and managing complex projects. At the same time our Group is also a corporate citizen, entwined in a complex web of relationships, and responsible of the impacts of its business on others. Aware of that, we decided to take a specific commitment by signing the United Nations Global Compact in 2011 and pledging constantly our support to the ten principles behind it. Our Group keeps dedicating its efforts to protect human rights, respect labour and the environment, and fight against corruption. We renew every year this commitment through the Communication on Progress document, which summaries our actions in fulfilling the UN principles in our everyday work at any level and in each of our locations, both permanent as offices or engineering centres, and temporary as construction sites. Also this year Maire Tecnimont Group confirms and renews its responsibility to report on progress on a periodical basis. Attached to this Statement the 2014 Communication on Progress (COP) is included. Pierroberto Folgiero Chief Executive Officer 3 MAIRE TECNIMONT GROUP IN BRIEF Maire Tecnimont is an industrial engineering group of more than 4,200 employees operating worldwide in 30 countries with 45 operative companies, listed in the Milan Stock Exchange since 2007. The complexity of our multinational and multicultural nature drives us every day to actively commit on issues related to human rights respect, environment protection and transparency enhancement. Social accountability system and the HSE Management System keep staying at the base of the everyday business activity along with a structured corporate governance system aimed at ensuring the respect of ethical principles in the conduct of its business. In the first months of 2014 the Group decided to deepen the awareness and to enhance the dissemination of the UN Global Compact ten principles becoming member of Global Compact Network Italy. This, along with the participation in thematic working groups, made possible to enter the debate on UNGC ten principles more in deep, by sharing experiences and finding practical solutions to embed more and more the principles in the everyday business activity. SUSTAINABILITY POLICY Our way of doing business is deeply connected with the corporate values embedded in the DNA of our Group. The actions we implement for our stakeholders and for the environment we work in are the visible expression of those values, and talking about sustainability implies talking about our values. That is why we strive for making sustainability drivers a reality in our everyday work. We work to keep a fair and constant communication with the public and to guarantee a proper governance and management system to safeguard value for all our stakeholders. We are committed to providing a risk management system to reduce volatility and ensure for stakeholders the safety and reliability of all our activities. We made local content dynamization our main way of operating in both established and developing markets, ensuring not only a durable and profitable presence worldwide but also business and personal development opportunities at a local level in the markets in which we operate. Approaching our everyday work in this way is our responsibility and has become the framework on which our business rests. 4 Maire Tecnimont Group, in accordance and compliance with United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, recognizes and promotes among its Principle 1: employees and business partners the respect for the individual, for his Businesses dignity and his values as a fundamental principle of its own identity and of its should support own conduct. So any form of intolerance, violence, harassment and and respect the discrimination (be it based on sex, race, nationality, age, political opinions, protection of religion, sexual orientation, health condition, socio-economic conditions) is internationally proclaimed disowned. human rights. Our Code of Ethics executes this basic principle. It is the main tool to which a greater visibility and knowledge is given in order to make our position towards human rights clear to each of our stakeholders, both internal and external. A copy of our Code of Ethics is provided to the newly hired Principle 2: resources as well as to our suppliers and is always available to the public on make sure that they are not our Corporate website. complicit in As a further commitment in human rights’ recognition and protection in human rights Maire Tecnimont Group a SA8000:2008 standard certification activity started abuses in 2012. As of today the two main subsidiary companies of the Group obtained Assessment, the certification. It resulted in more stringent clauses in the supply chain Policy and contracts, requiring the acceptance of specific obligations to be compliant Goals. with the SA8000:2008 standard. Moreover, at an internal level, ad hoc training and dissemination activities have been carried out and have been developed through the internal Principle 3: communication tools to enhance the awareness of the employees on the Businesses specific issues of the standard. Specific channels to enable the sending of should uphold reports and/or suggestions have been implemented. Alongside the dedicated the freedom of association and mail boxes of the Senior Management and worker representatives, the Group the effective developed more structured ways to access those channels to ensure the recognition anonymity of the senders of reports. In the Corporate website a special of the right to section has been created: collective (http://www.mairetecnimont.com/en/sustainability/standard-sabargaining 8000/notification-compliant-form)to enable both internal and external stakeholders to report notifications about possible deviations from the company’s policies and/or the requirements of SA8000 standard. Maire Tecnimont Group is committed to giving the same job opportunities to Principle 4: all the employees, collaborators as well as those applying to join its ranks the elimination and ensuring a system of personnel selection, management and of all forms of development based solely on the criteria of merit and free from favouritisms, forced and facilitations and discriminations of any kind. compulsory labour In addition Maire Tecnimont Group is committed in promoting the freedom of association to all its employees and in ensuring their right of bargaining 5 supported by worker’s association, in order to assure the abolition of all the Principle 5: form of forced and compulsory labour. the effective abolition of child labour The health of our employees and the safety of their workplace are crucial issues to ensure the performances of our business. In order to keep high level of health and safety, so safeguarding the Group’s most important asset, an HSE Management System is in place at each permanent workplace Principle 6: and each construction site. Aiming at enhance the awareness of its the elimination employees on the HSE issues and a deeper knowledge on the HSE of discrimination Management System, throughout 2014 dedicated training activity on Health in respect of and Safety have been planned and implemented. In order to meet the employment and occupation employees’ time availability and make the activity more accessible to on-site Assessment, workers, an ad hoc on-line platform has been developed, customized for ePolicy and Goals learning and examination activities. The training activities continued during 2015. In addition preventive safety campaign for workers and staff at construction sites are constantly carried out, dedicated in particular to employees involved in working at height and in equipment operations and welding activities (safe use of ladders, scaffolding works, manual handling, lock out/tag out procedure). Principle 7: As tangible results of a widespread safety culture, in the year 2014 important Businesses safety targets in terms of man-hours worked without LTI (Lost Time should support Injury)have been reached: Borouge 3 project site (45 million hours without a precautionary LTI) – NAGRP/AGRP project site (10,120,934 hours without LTI) – approach LLDPE/HDPE Dahej project site (10,131,521 hours without LTI) – Sadara HP to LDPE project site (6,054,409 hours without LTI). environmental challenges At Group level the HSE policy and Management System is the main reference in approaching the environmental issues. It enables the implementation, control and monitoring of the applicable or required preventive and corrective actions, ensuring a cultural sensitivity to the customs and traditions of local participants in the ongoing improvement process. Principle 8: Periodical updates to incorporate the experiences learned through project Undertake development and internal verification are implemented at Group Level. initiatives to Specific initiatives are defined at construction site and offices. promote greater environmental In addition to the already on-going waste recycling performed at the offices responsibility location, in order to further raise the awareness through the personnel about the importance of the environmental impact produced by everyday office activity, tailored communications are sent on a monthly basis to inform each employee about paper consumption and CO2 emission related to the printing activity. In the same communications some hints and suggestions are provided on how to reduce the environmental footprint of each one. In this way 6 the Group aims at making the employees more responsible for the positive effect of small measures on the resizing of the entire Group’s impact in the environment. Moreover the Group promotes the use of public transportation among its employees facilitating the purchasing of season tickets and giving the opportunity to access reduced fares for the local transportation. In such way we aim to reduce indirect effects on the pollution increase by sustaining a less impacting mobility model. Our commitment in environment protection is also aimed at promoting more sustainable technology solutions. In particular as a player in the EPC Principle 9: contracting and Technology & Licensing our Group can provide its clients with Encourage the development lower-energy and lower-emission processes as well as with technologies and capable to recover the sulphur produced and reduce the CO2 emitted during diffusion of the industrial production activity of Oil & Gas plants. Thanks to the long lasting environmentally relationship with research institutes and Universities has been also possible to friendly develop environmentally sustainable technologies in CO2 recovery and in technologies fertilizers. In particular, the CO2-to-Olefins project aims to produce light Assessment, olefins from CO2 by recovering carbon dioxide through catalytic processes Policy and Goals using renewable energy sources. In the last years research agreements have been signed for the developing of environmentally sustainable technologies in the gas treatment and acid gas removal and in fertilizers sectors, being these part of the core business of the Group Maire Tecnimont Group assigns primary importance to the fight against Principle 10: bribery and corruption and to the respect of ethical principles in the conduct Businesses of its business, and has consistently developed and updated the appropriate should work against corporate governance tools (the Code of Ethics and the Organisation, corruption in all Management and Control Model (“Model”) required by the Italian Legislative its forms, Decree 231/2001 which extends to legal persons the responsibility for crimes including committed in Italy and abroad by individuals who work for the company). extortion and bribery The Code of Ethics, issued by the parent company, has been adopted in its entirety by all the Group’s subsidiaries, both in Italy and abroad. On the other hand the Model sets out the corporate activities, of each Italian company which have adopted it, that are potentially susceptible to the crimes defined by the Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001. The Model regulates, through specific Protocols, those activities which are potentially subjected to the commission of crimes governed by Legislative Decree 231/2001. In particular, the Protocols contain a set of controls and mandatory conduct rules and principles deemed suitable to govern and mitigate the identified risk profile of those activities and to ensure compliance with the law. Moreover the Model sets forth specific disciplinary rules to be applied in case of breach of its provisions in order to create a strong deterrent in breaking them. 7 Group’s ethical culture is also defined by its corporate standards and procedures (constantly subject to update), the delineation of different roles and responsibilities, the separation of tasks, and targeted audits. These tools underpin the daily application of the principles expressed in the Code of Ethics and the Model. Group’s Internal Audit and Supervisory Body of each Italian company are the reference points for, respectively, the interpretation of the Code of Ethics and the Model. The update activity of the Code of Ethics as well as of the Model, of each Italian company which have adopted it, is considered of extreme relevance to ensure adequacy and suitability of such document to prevent the commission of crimes specified in the Legislative Decree 231/2001. We have also carried out Group audits, with specific focus on those activities/areas subject to potential bribery or corrupt behaviours, strengthening our compliance program. Those audits have identified, as the case may be, enhancements which should be implemented to improve the existing Internal Control Systems and to supervise the Group company risks which permeates the corporate activities. 8 9 www.mairetecnimont.com 10
