SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 A DRIVER OF VALUE / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 DIGNITY VALUES RETURNS HUMANITY ESG BUSINESS ETHICS PROFIT FAIRNESS EQUITY FAIRNESS INVESTMENT STRATEGY SERVICE POSITIVE PARTNERSHIP CHANGE HEALTH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 Contents About The Abraaj Group Message From the Founder 04 ISTANBUL 04 and Group Chief Executive Arif Naqvi 06 MEXICO CITY DUBAI NAIROBI SINGAPORE Sustainability and Investment Highlights 08 Sustainability as a Business Principle The Role of Business in Society: A Conversation with 12 Jane Nelson and Frederic Sicre 12 Sustainability at The Abraaj Group Our Approach to Sustainability 18 26 Integrating ESG into Our Investments 21 Sustainability in Practice 24 • Fan Milk, Nigeria and Ghana 26 • Integrated Diagnostics Holdings, Egypt 28 • ODG, Indonesia 30 The Power of Partnership 32 Responsibility and Innovation Strengthening Impact Measurement The Abraaj Sustainability Index 2.0 38 46 Investing for Impact in Healthcare 42 Responsible Investing In Growth Markets, by Tom Speechley 46 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 ABOUT THE ABRAAJ GROUP The Abraaj Group (‘Abraaj’ or the ‘Group’) is a global institution with deep local reach and extensive operating capabilities investing in select markets across Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and Turkey for more than a decade. c. $9bn AuM 1 c. $5.1bn realized2 140+ investments2 70+ full and partial exits2 Our local presence in over 25 offices grow. Furthermore, integrating Investment and the United Nations across five regional hubs gives us environmental, social and governance Global Compact, and work with a unmatched expertise, proprietary (ESG) decisions into our investment range of external advisors, thought transactional access and the management process and our leadership platforms and community ability to grow partner businesses partner companies have helped to partners. Through our social investing across borders. manage risks and enhance their program, we support organizations underlying value. Approximately 87% focused on art and innovation, Our Strategy of Abraaj’s returns have come from entrepreneurship, and developing next Abraaj focuses on global growth the underlying business growth of its generation leaders, aiming to have a markets characterized by partner companies3. deep-rooted and sustainable impact consumption-driven economies, in the economies and communities pro-business institutions, rapid Stakeholder Engagement where we operate. urbanization, favorable demographics, We are committed to engaging with and growing middle classes. In these external stakeholders to help us Leadership Commitment markets, Abraaj makes growth capital achieve the highest environmental, The management group of Abraaj private equity investments in midsocial and corporate governance are responsible for our sustainability market companies in a wide range standards. We are a signatory to the performance. In addition, our Partners of consumer-facing sectors including UN-backed Principles for Responsible and the senior executive team are consumer discretionary, consumer encouraged to play active leadership staples, education, financial services, roles in engaging with our external and healthcare. Abraaj also invests in stakeholders. Abraaj’s Founder and energy infrastructure and real estate Group Chief Executive, Arif Naqvi, for which there is growing demand. was invited to join the Board of the Sustainable Value Creation The Group has a dedicated team of operating professionals in our Abraaj c. 87% returns generated United Nations Global Compact by UN Secretary General Ban Kimoon in 2012 and to the Interpol Foundation Board in 2014. In 2013, Performance Acceleration Group from business he was awarded the Oslo Business who work hand-in-hand with our growth3 for Peace Award, one of the highest investment teams to actively drive forms of recognition given to global value creation in partner companies, business leaders for fostering peace helping them institutionalize and and stability. 4 1 Assets under Management (AuM) as of 31 December 2014 based on NAV of private equity funds; real estate funds; undrawn capital; and NAV of co-investments and other investments managed by The Abraaj Group. 2 Information presented here is as of 31 December 2014 for Core Funds, Co-Investments and Arranged Investments. Please refer to performance notes on page 49. 3 Information presented here is as of 30 June 2014 for fully realized investments for Core Funds. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 1 Firm | 5 Regions | 25 Offices | 300+ Employees ISTANBUL DUBAI MEXICO CITY NAIROBI SINGAPORE Target Markets Hubs Offices Africa Middle Asia US$ 2,716mn deployed 9 sectors East US$ 1,008mn deployed 9 sectors US$ 1,314mn deployed 45 partner companies 80 partner companies (ParCo) 6 sectors 26,916 ParCo employees 67,193 ParCo employees 17 partner companies 6 offices: Singapore (hub), Indonesia, 8 offices: Kenya (hub), 10,170 ParCo employees Philippines, Thailand, India, Pakistan Ghana, Nigeria, South Africa, Egypt, 3 offices: Dubai (hub), Palestine, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Saudi Arabia Mauritius Latin Turkey America and US$ 149mn deployed 6 sectors Central Asia 13 partner companies US$ 959mn deployed 7,269 ParCo employees 4 sectors 3 offices: Mexico (hub), Colombia, 6 partner companies Peru 2,401 ParCo employees 2 offices: Turkey (hub), Kazakhstan Note: Unless otherwise stated, information presented here is as of 15 June 2015. All data is for Core Funds and Early J-Curve Funds. 5 Employees referred here only include those employed by Abraaj’s partner companies as of 31 December 2014. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 MESSAGE FROM THE FOUNDER AND GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE ARIF NAQVI The Abraaj Group was established and investor returns are the primary based on a strong belief in the goal, the ability to create longunparalleled opportunity in growth term, sustainable and systemic markets and the strong fundamentals change in the economic and social that underpinned it. More than a landscape of our markets is a critical decade later, this belief has been benchmark as well. In fact, our view borne out as we have seen tens of is that delivering this type of impact millions of people join the middle will enhance our financial returns – class, watch an urbanization story both because of how it informs the unfold where cities in our markets are sectors we invest into and the type of growing four times faster than those in companies we back. developed markets, and engage with a young and aspirational population Trust is today the cornerstone of that seek everything from consumer any business. And trust needs to products to healthcare, education, be maintained at multiple levels and and quality infrastructure. with multiple stakeholders: from regulators to investors to civil society While we as the private sector invest and finally to consumers. Today, in the tremendous opportunity this consumers’ purchasing decisions presents, we believe it is imperative in a supermarket are increasingly not to lose sight of the gaps that being determined, among other remain. For the fundamental fact things, by the social and ethical value remains that society continues of the products they purchase and to face enormous challenges in the manufacturers’ role in making a terms of infrastructure, sustainable positive impact in the community. growth, employment, and human This is why in its simplest form, development outcomes. Business sustainability for a business is not a cannot abdicate its responsibility in nice to do but rather a ‘have-to-do’. working for a more just, equitable and prosperous society for a simple At Abraaj, we see this as an practical reason in addition to the opportunity, a growth driver and at many ethical arguments we could the core of value creation. It is why make: it is a pre-requisite to a we have embraced sustainability in sustainable, vibrant, market-oriented its most holistic sense and integrated private sector. environmental, social and governance considerations into our investment This philosophy has guided our process from the time of due thinking since inception as we diligence to operational management see our role as going beyond only and through to exit, leaving a legacy delivering strong risk-adjusted returns imprint on all the companies that we to our investors. Rather, we have have invested in. consciously and deliberately worked towards pioneering a private equity Our 2014/2015 Sustainability model where, although shareholder Report shares this thinking with 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 you. It highlights our approach to Global Compact, the UN-backed sustainability but, more importantly, Principles for Responsible Investment demonstrates how sustainability and the Global Impact Investing works in action across our partner Network where we, along with our companies. It illustrates how our peers, have encouraged the adoption relentless focus on instilling good of greater transparency around corporate governance in our partner ESG and promoted the role of the companies enabled a leading private sector in achieving long-term Egyptian diagnostics business to sustainable solutions that our planet successfully list on the London and communities need. In this vein, I Stock Exchange in an initial public would like to draw attention to the 10 offering that was more than 11 times principles of the United Nations Global oversubscribed; it validates the strong Compact and Abraaj’s progress health and safety practices that our in achieving them in our business. Indonesian partner company, ODG, Further details on our support of the developed among its staff which saw UNGC principles can be found at the it achieve more than 3 million accident end of this report. free work hours; and it reinforces how As investors, partners a rise in female employment across More than 40 years ago, one of the and agents of change, our partner companies strengthened leading thinkers and economists of the diversity and working culture of his time proclaimed that the one and we are committed to those businesses. only social responsibility of business investing responsibly, acting was to increase profits for itself and collaboratively, and aligning We live and work in a constantly its shareholders. Things have moved our long-term success evolving environment and one that is on since then and as investors, with the interests of the increasingly shaped by collaboration partners and agents of change, it is and partnership. Successful clear to me that business’s role in communities, shareholders engagement with our stakeholders society has to be one that requires and stakeholders we serve. across multiple geographies, sectors us to invest responsibly, to act and interests will be critical in ensuring collaboratively, and to align our longArif Naqvi that society and business flourish term success with the interests of in parallel. It is the reason we have the communities, shareholders and developed longstanding partnerships stakeholders we serve. around entrepreneurship, youth, art and innovation and helped foster We would like to thank our investors, entrepreneurial eco-systems across partner companies, employees, our markets. external advisors and our thought leadership and community partners We have likewise sought to build who have contributed to our efforts valuable partnerships with our in sustainability and stakeholder industry peers to promote the engagement. We look forward to your relevance and importance of ongoing support in this journey. responsible investing. We are active members of the United Nations 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 2014 SUSTAINABILITY AND INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS FROM AROUND THE GROUP, AROUND THE WORLD Abraaj Partner Companies PROMOTING JOB CREATION 113,949 Total Number of Employees 20,466 Total Number of Female Employees 4,639 Number of New Jobs Created 1,682 Number of New Jobs Filled by Women SUPPORTING PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT c.$5.9million $418.5million c.$11billion Annual Expenditure on Training (US$) Taxes Paid (US$) Revenue (US$) DEVELOPING LOCAL ECONOMIES AND COMMUNITIES 52 Number of New Cities Reached 8 Note: Information presented here is as of 31 December 2014 for Core Funds and Early J-Curve Funds. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Astrid y Gaston Astrid y Gaston, part of the Acurio Restaurantes 47 Group, is ranked 14th in the World’s 50 Best Restaurant Awards K Electric K Electric won the FT/IFC Transformational Number of Awards Won Business Award for the category of Achievement in Project Finance – Energy ODG ODG won the East Kalimantan Government Award for achieving 3.99 million hours of zero accident from July 1999 to December 2014. The Abraaj Group Recent Activity Fund closing: 10 13 Investments4 Exits4 $990mn Abraaj Africa Fund III 4 Information presented here is from 1 July 2014 to 15 June 2015 for Core Funds and Early J-Curve Funds. 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 10 Sustainability as a Business Principle 12 The Role of Business in Society: A Conversation with Jane Nelson and Frederic Sicre SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 SUSTAINABILITY AS A BUSINESS PRINCIPLE Jane Nelson Frederic Sicre Jane Nelson is Director of the Corporate Social Frederic Sicre has over 20 years of experience in Responsibility Initiative at the Kennedy School of engaging the private sector on global issues, regional Government, Harvard University, and a non-resident development agendas, and community building. He is senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. a Managing Director at The Abraaj Group and leads global stakeholder engagement, working with leaders Ms. Nelson currently serves on the boards of from all fields, including governments, private sector, Newmont, FSG and the Niger Delta Partnership media and culture. Initiative and on Advisory Councils for the IFC, ExxonMobil, GE, Abbott, Bank of America, Merck Prior to joining the Group, Mr. Sicre spent 16 years as Vaccines, Initiative for Global Development, Center for Managing Director and Member of the Executive Board Global Development, and the Rockefeller Foundation’s at the World Economic Forum. Bellagio Center. Mr. Sicre is the Chairman of the Mustaqbali Foundation Ms. Nelson has co-authored five books, more than 80 and is on the board of Dubai Cares, Education for reports and articles on corporate responsibility and Employment and Junior Achievement’s MENA Board. sustainability, and five of the World Economic Forum’s He is also a member of the United Nations Global Global Corporate Citizenship reports. Compact Business for Peace Steering Committee. In conversation Abraaj Board Member Jane Nelson and Managing Director Frederic Sicre explain why sustainability principles must be put into practice 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 I n two decades, sustainability in 1.Why does sustainability matter in public trust in private enterprise. business has moved from being business? a “nice to have” to being integral 2.How have attitudes towards to success. More than at any Jane Nelson: Embedding sustainability changed among other time in the history of private sustainability principles into business investors? enterprise, embedding ESG strategies and operations enhances practices into core operations is the rigor and quality of management, Frederic Sicre: There is a crucial to businesses because it strengthens and diversifies market transformational shift happening is the competitive thing to do, not intelligence, and improves business today among the allocators of capital. only because it is the responsible planning and execution. It has Investors are increasingly looking to thing to do. become essential for successfully collaborate with General Partners that identifying and managing both risks have strong ethical and sustainability Some might still see the business and opportunities. practices within their investment of business as maximizing profit for processes and management. shareholders alone. But while ignoring Combined with sound metrics, sustainability and other stakeholders incentives, and independent JN: There is growing understanding might not undermine short-term evaluation, sustainability can also among the investment community that performance, it will almost certainly be vital to building credibility and ESG issues present material risks as weaken long-term resilience and accountability with stakeholders. well as strategic opportunities for their lessen the likelihood of sustained investments. business success. Trust is the foundation on which sustained competitive advantage This includes, but is no longer and business success are built. By restricted to, “socially responsible” implementing sustainable business investment and negative screening practices, companies can help to build strategies. It is becoming a more  13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 SUSTAINABILITY AS A BUSINESS PRINCIPLE  important part of the broader risk-management and value-creation theses of most major institutional investors. 3.How is new talent in the industry driving this change? FS: Being responsible investors is no longer optional for the private equity industry – especially as a Millennial generation takes on positions of influence in terms of investment decisions and communicates via nontraditional channels. The next generation is calling for a better world. By making the right investment decisions, the private equity industry can have an enormous impact through the development of hard and soft infrastructure, the prevention of corruption through 4.How can sustainability be integrated sustainability into our strong governance, the creation of integrated effectively into the business. We have been measuring jobs, and the strengthening of noninvestment process? it for many years through our bespoke governmental organizations through Abraaj Sustainability Index, which partnerships that are founded on JN: The implementation of effective integrates over 70 indicators that volunteering, strategic guidance, and sustainability policies, standards, are each aligned to creating philanthropy. targets, and metrics can help to sustainable businesses. protect existing value, create new JN: In an increasingly competitive value, and demonstrate leadership. It is important to highlight that environment, private equity firms need financial performance is one of to be able to attract and retain the Take the investment cycle. those metrics, but equally we can best global talent, especially among Robust ESG strategies, tools, and measure many other aspects, such the Millennial generation. accountability help to improve the as environmental impact, labor rigor and quality of deal identification, standards, and the role of diversity in Demonstrating a commitment screening, due diligence, legal our partner companies. By doing this, to sustainability and a strong documentation and disbursement, we can see where value is created, values-based culture, alongside and the important process of postand how value can be enhanced opportunities for personal growth, acquisition value acceleration and across the investment spectrum. development, and financial success, governance. They can also help to is increasingly important for recruiting enhance the quality and value of exits, 5.Why should private equity firms and managing world-class talent. and overall to increase returns to operate by a set of values? Without such talent, it will not be investors and keep loss ratios low. possible for private equity firms to FS: Being a responsible investor create value for their investors. FS: And at Abraaj we haven’t just cannot come only from rules, 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 Abraaj’s commitment to sustainability and responsible investing plays an important part in attracting world-class young talent Being a responsible regulations, and procedure manuals. Responsibility comes from your DNA: investor cannot it emanates from your values. come only from JN: Values matter. They determine the rules, regulations, behavior and attitudes of individuals, the integrity and respect with which and procedure they interact with others, and the collective culture and norms of people, manuals. including businesses. Responsibility Beyond serving as the basis to “do comes from your no harm,” ethical values help to drive a sense of shared purpose, mutual DNA: it emanates respect, and effective collaboration from your values within a company. They enable us to be the best we can be – both individually and collectively. 6.And how can businesses ensure that their core values are put into practice? JN: Values have to be lived and demonstrated day in and day out. All of the top-level policies and standards in the world won’t lead to a positive corporate culture if operational incentives and behaviors are inconsistent with them. Leadership and role models at all levels of a firm are absolutely essential to instilling good values. Leaders who “walk the talk” on values, and who demand that their teams do the same, inspire integrity and mutual accountability, which underpin a positive corporate culture, trusted relationships with stakeholders, and sustained success. At the end of the day, good values are fundamentally synonymous with good business. 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 16 Sustainability at The Abraaj Group 18 Our Approach to Sustainability 21 Integrating ESG into Our Investments 24 Sustainability in Practice 32 The Power of Partnership SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE ABRAAJ GROUP Our approach to sustainability has always been governed by a simple principle the integration of environmental, social, and governance considerations into our investment management process. It is simply the right thing to do. Our Approach to Sustainability B ased on over ten years of Our approach to sustainability is professionals have the necessary experience across our 140 aimed at improving investment capabilities to integrate ESG criteria investments, we recognize results, building for the longinto deal identification, screening, that effectively addressing term, strengthening stakeholder due diligence, post acquisition issues of sustainability engagement and enhancing value acceleration and governance, will both protect value measurement and transparency. and exit. The management group and enhance long-term returns for of Abraaj are responsible for our our shareholders, investors, partner Improving Investment Results sustainability performance. companies and other stakeholders. We have developed a set of guiding Business Principles, policies and Building for the Long-Term Against this backdrop, we are management processes to ensure that As private equity investors making of the view that unlocking the environmental, social and governance growth capital investments in mid-size value of businesses in growth (ESG) criteria are considered at each businesses, we are ideally placed to markets will play a central role in stage of our investment cycle. We drive the integration of sustainability promoting development across believe this improves our ability to into our partner companies. We invest the entrepreneurial ecosystem. identify and manage risks and to in well-managed businesses where For more than a decade now, the work with our partner companies to we have the clear ability and mandate Group has made this belief one of enhance their performance and create to influence corporate governance the cornerstones of its investment value. The Group’s guiding Business and drive the growth agenda. One of strategy. We recognize that resilient, Principles also provide a clear the critical elements of that growth long-term financial value – which is statement of our shared values and a agenda is a shared focus on value what we, along with our investors framework for responsible business creation, which commences at the and partner company management, practices that all our employees are time of pre-investment and continues seek to achieve – can be attained required to adhere to. through to the time of exit. not only through good governance, effective corporate strategies and As detailed in the next chapter of Due to the nature of the private strong business performance but the report, our internal policies equity asset class, we are able to also through reduced environmental and processes are aligned with take a long-term view and focus on impact, positive social change and relevant international standards. tangible improvements spread over inclusive business models that are Ongoing assessments and training a number of years as opposed to adaptive to the operating context are undertaken to ensure that our quarters thereby ensuring that we around them. investment teams and operating are considered and focused on the 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 Unlocking the value of businesses in growth markets will play a central role in promoting development across the entrepreneurial ecosystem value that we bring to our partner A key element of this engagement where our Founder and Group Chief companies. has been to work in collaboration with Executive, Arif Naqvi, is the only a wide range of industry partners, representative of the private equity We believe that the private equity external advisors, bilateral and industry; to strategic partnerships like model, which is focused on preserving multilateral institutions, governments, the World Economic Forum, where and building value, is therefore well academics, and thought leaders our colleagues are represented on aligned with the integration of ESG to further promote the relevance Global Agenda Councils focusing on practices into partner companies. of sustainability in business and sustainable development, the future of As such, we view our approach investment, and in the private equity the healthcare sector, and the rise of to sustainability as one of the key sector more specifically. new growth models. levers of value creation because it communicates to our investors, This engagement started as early as In 2013 and 2014, we also benefited partner companies, employees, 2009 when we were one of the first from engagement with an external management, and stakeholder private equity firms in growth markets Sustainability Council, composed community that we are as committed to join the UN-backed Principles of experts in a range of social, to achieving a strong impact as we are for Responsible Investment (PRI). environmental and development to delivering high economic returns. Since then, we have worked closely issues. The Council members, who with the PRI around the core issue included Jane Nelson, Jose Maria Strengthening Stakeholder Engagement of integrating ESG considerations Figueres, Helene Gayle, Professor Since inception, we have always into our investment process and are Ian Goldin, Dr. Nathalie von Siemens, considered it vital to learn from active members of the PRI Private Dr. Joseph B. Wanjui, Wahid Hamid external perspectives and be a part Equity Committee. and Frederic Sicre, encouraged us of the broader ecosystem in which to establish a more comprehensive we operate. Simply put, that has Our engagement with the industry has sustainability strategy for the Group. meant engaging with industry peers been further strengthened through The members provided valuable and stakeholders to enhance our our membership and participation input to our work on updating the own performance and to advance in forums such as the Global Impact Abraaj Sustainability Index and the causes that we jointly believe are Investing Network’s Investors’ other management tools, and gave critical to the maturation of the private Council; the United Nations Global guidance on a range of Group-wide equity industry in growth markets. Compact and the Interpol Foundation, issues from gender diversity to stakeholder engagement. 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 SUSTAINABILITY AT SOCIE T Y THE ABRAAJ GROUP Going forward, we will continue to benchmarking against their previous draw on external expertise in key performance and second, against aspects of sustainability, taking a BU their sector peers. SIN ES S more targeted approach focused on specific sectors, geographies and = MUTUAL GOOD This has been a unique approach in challenges. To this end, we have our industry where there has typically recently established an external been a robust practice of rigorous Health Impact Committee, which financial valuation but not much will help us to enhance and monitor by way of measuring sustainability the impact of our future health impact. It is an approach that we investments focusing on criteria seek to further enhance and improve, such as accessibility, affordability and quality. Our approach to We seek to make and our work to update the Abraaj Sustainability Index is outlined in a healthcare is described in a later our voice heard on later chapter in the report. chapter of the report. the broader need for The results of the Abraaj Sustainability Additionally, we have sought to make our voice heard on the broader businesses to play Index are important: for example, data that we collected tells us that between need for businesses to play a more a more active role 2008 and 2014 our partner companies active role in society and to be effective agents of change. Through in society and to be organically created more than 10,000 jobs, and that the number of female our participation in forums such as the Oslo Business for Peace effective agents of employees over the same period increased by 16%. Roundtable, held in partnership with change the United Nations Development The Abraaj Sustainability Index Program and the Oslo Business for data further revealed that Peace in 2014 and 2015, we were cumulative expenditure on training able to convene the private, public, complexity of measuring sustainability and workforce development for and non-profit sectors around impact and, indeed, it is an issue that employees in our partner companies important themes of responsible others in our industry, including the amounted to US$ 39 million from investing, the role of sustainability in investor community, have voiced. 2008 to 2014. Not only do such business, and the need for corporate We sought to address this issue early activities create accretive value for leadership around sustainability. in 2008 through the development the business and its shareholders, of the Abraaj Sustainability Index, but they also create value for the Over the course of the past 12 a proprietary development index employees, for the community and months, our team has participated that was the first of its kind in the for the broader economy in which the in more than 15 different speaking industry and seeks to track and company operates. engagements and roundtables capture the sustainability progress to highlight the importance of of our partner companies. Our focus on sustainability as risk sustainable investing to stakeholders mitigating and value generating has in cities as diverse as New York, Through the Abraaj Sustainability been a guiding framework for the Dubai, Oslo, Geneva, Cape Town, Index, we have been able to measure Group since inception. We continue Singapore, Los Angeles, Chicago, the performance of our partner to identify, develop, and measure London, Addis Ababa, Istanbul, and companies across 79 quantitative quantifiable ESG risks and valueWashington, DC. and qualitative indicators that focus added opportunities in each of the on segments such as financial companies and sectors we invest Enhancing Measurement and performance, socio-economic in to ensure that we realize the Transparency impact, economic linkages, private mutual and inextricably linked goals Our approach to sustainability is sector development and health, of being commercially successful marked by an ongoing commitment safety and environment. The Abraaj and sustainable. to improve our ability to measure Sustainability Index has given us the performance and enhance discipline to manage our engagement transparency. We recognize the with our partner companies; first, by 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 Savvy investors demand ESG as an integral part of the investment process from investment identification, screening, operational management and through to exit. Integrating ESG into our Investments L imited Partners and General How We Do It further supported by the Group’s ESG Partners alike understand Creating sustainable value is at the policies which includes compliance the potential of ESG core of our investment philosophy, with the UN Declaration of Human considerations in reducing and ESG considerations are an Rights and the World Bank Group operational and reputational important element of every partner Environmental, Health and Safety risk. However, embedding company’s value creation plan. Guidelines. This framework enables us ESG in the investment process goes Early in the investment cycle our to ensure alignment between Abraaj beyond value protection. At Abraaj, investment teams, along with our and the management of our partner we have always considered ESG portfolio management arm, the Abraaj companies. When this alignment to be a value-creation opportunity Performance Acceleration Group is not possible, our values and the that ultimately builds stronger, more (APAG), actively consider ESG matters framework enable us to walk away sustainable, and profitable businesses. in the development of the value from an investment. ESG is, therefore, a fundamental creation plan and 100-day plans. value driver that is included alongside During the due-diligence stage, our financial, commercial, and strategic As part of the investment cycle, investment teams verify if potential considerations. Abraaj’s ESG evaluation framework partner companies meet national requires investments to be screened regulations at a minimum. After For us, this is not a new concept. for ESG issues and opportunities investment, they work with these Our investment professionals are at every stage prior to investment. businesses to achieve international aware that financial returns are merely Corrective or improvement action standards. Where relevant, one part of a bigger value-creation plans are generated to address our investment professionals story. This stems from our belief gaps and add value – with critical also encourage the adoption of that to create long-term sustainable matters included in the 100-day international certifications such as the businesses and a thriving ecosystem, plan. The framework is informed ISO 14001 or OHSAS 180015. we need to look beyond the shortby the Group’s guiding Business term. This thinking is particularly Principles, which leverages the IFC For example, as part of the value relevant in the markets in which we Performance Standards, ILO Core creation plan, our investment teams invest and operate. Labor Standards and ILO Basic terms in Egypt and Tunisia are currently and Conditions of Employment. This is working with a third party expert 5 ISO 14001: An internationally recognized framework for the development of an environmental management system (EMS) to reduce the impact 21 of operations; OHSAS 18001: An internationally applied British standard for occupational health and safety management systems. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE ABRAAJ GROUP and four partner companies within To augment our ESG capacity, Abraaj protecting and driving value within our North Africa Hospital Holdings has integrated ESG capabilities into our partner companies. Abraaj has Group to develop and implement each of the investment teams. The developed a series of bespoke a best-in-class environmental and teams are provided with both external corporate governance tools based social management system (ESMS). and internal ESG and sustainabilityon the South African King III Code Once implemented, the ESMS will related training annually. In the past of Corporate Governance to assist enable our partner companies to year, investment teams have received investment teams a code which is manage ESG-related operational training on governance, risk, and highly relevant for building sustainable risk and regulatory obligations compliance delivered by PwC; a private sector businesses within effectively to continually enhance refresher on Abraaj’s ESG processes growth markets. the environmental and social and procedures; and training sessions performance of the company. on ESG strategy and Board Director Abraaj’s corporate governance duties delivered by APAG. diagnostic tool enables investment Post-investment, our rigorous teams to assess the maturity and application of ESG deepens through Along with the in-house-developed complexity of corporate governance execution of the value creation plan; tools and processes, this bespoke structures within partner companies the reassessment of environmental, training enhances internal capabilities across four levels and seven key social, health and safety, and and empowers investment teams to areas which include Commitment governance risks; development of new be rigorous in their due diligence. to Corporate Governance, Structure corrective and improvement action and Functioning of the Board, plans; tracking of ESG impact; and Establishing Robust Corporate Transparency and Disclosure, and annual ESG reporting. Governance Rights of Minority Shareholders. Good corporate governance and This is run during the due-diligence board representation is critical in stage and then once a year after ESG is Systemically Embedded in Our Investment Cycle 2. Screening 3. Due Diligence • High level review of ESG factors • In-depth review of ESG factors in the context of overall due diligence • Formal consideration of ESG factors as part of the holistic 1. Deal investment decision 4. Legal Identification Documentation and Disbursement • Early engagement by investment teams on ESG • A lignment between matters Abraaj and the partner company on the Group’s Business Principles 6. Exit 5. Post Acquisition • Reviewing ESG Value Acceleration improvements and impact and Governance • O ngoing monitoring and ESG risk management • ESG value creation 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 La Mar by Gastón Acurio ESG considerations are an important element of every partner company’s value creation plan investment, and is leveraged by investment teams to raise corporate governance standards and practices ENHANCING BUSINESSES THROUGH ESG PRACTICES AND POLICIES within partner companies. The opportunities for ESG to the achievement of long-term In addition, Abraaj has developed enhance the investment value of strategic goals. The Abraaj Guide to Good Corporate partner companies are numerous Governance to support Abraaj board within our portfolio. Peru-based As a strong supporter of the local representatives with their duties Acurio Restaurantes (Acurio), an economy with an emphasis on the and responsibilities based on the international restaurant group built environment, Acurio has forged King III Code and our longstanding on a multi-brand concept promoting a strategic alliance named ‘Chefexperience on boards. The guide Peruvian cuisine, is one such Fisher, Chef-Farmer’ to help raise also provides direction on the example. The restaurant group the profile and distribution base development of processes and was founded by Chef Gastón of farmers by enabling them to supporting committees to enhance Acurio, who is widely acknowledged promote their native, high-quality corporate governance within our as a pioneer in the revival of products across Peru. Acurio partner companies. Peruvian cuisine. is seen as a leader in promoting sustainable fishing by implementing Working with our partner companies As part of our value creation plan, good practices in its procurement to augment their governance we helped Acurio to identify growth process through strict compliance structures and policies through drivers which included a focus with closed seasons, minimum sizes formalized board meetings, on strengthening its corporate and engaging with stakeholders to appointments of independent board governance. Measures included the promote the consumption of less directors, and creation of tailored appointment of two independent pressured species. committees to accelerate the directors with expertise in the growth of a company, increases the sector, the establishment of Acurio is focused on expanding confidence of institutional investors. a management and opening internationally and sharing its committee, and a detailed review of unique cuisine in other markets. This enhancement in our partner business practices to align with the As a result, Acurio has not only companies’ governance has enabled growing needs of the business. seen its revenues grow 1.49x, but us to raise additional financial its footprint has expanded from resources amounting to 5.6 times Abraaj further augmented Acurio’s 31 to 45 restaurants in local and our investment in Latin America, management capacity by sourcing international markets, including and resulted in one of our North and hiring a new Chief Financial new openings in Chicago, Miami African partner companies being Officer and creating the position and Buenos Aires. In 2015, oversubscribed by 11.2 times when it of Chief Operating Officer. Astrid & Gaston, part of the listed on the London Stock Exchange Reporting standards were Acurio Restaurantes Group, earlier this year. subsequently raised, allowing for was ranked 14th in the World’s accurate financial analysis and 50 Best Restaurants. better decision-making towards 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 Sustainability in Practice 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 Doing business in a holistic way creates value for both the companies we invest in and for society as a whole. When shareholder profits and societal benefits are in sync, long-term sustainable growth is achieved, adding value for all stakeholders. 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE ABRAAJ GROUP Fan Milk Established in 1960, Fan Milk International is West Africa’s leading manufacturer and distributor of frozen dairy and non-dairy products. W ith a presence Adopting world-class standards for energy studies are scheduled for in six West health and safety, environmental Nigeria and Togo for August 2015. African countries, standards, and management the company processes has improved business Fan Milk employs approximately complements a performance and efficiency, enabled 1,600 people and engages with over unique outdoor staff to up-skill their technical 23,000 vendors and agents. It actively on-the-go vending business model knowledge, and reinforced the brand’s empowers members of its value with organized indoor retail sales. The reputation for product quality in the chain through the Fan Academy’s Abraaj Group invested in Fan Milk, markets in which it operates. capacity-building sessions, which through its Funds, alongside Danone promote entrepreneurship, health in November 2013, to capitalize on Value Creation and safety. Since the beginning of growth opportunities in the local West As part of our investment process, 2014, approximately 6,700 vendors, African dairy and beverage markets. all four of Fan Milk’s operating agents, and shop assistants have companies were comprehensively been trained in Ghana and Nigeria. Sustainability Credentials assessed against Abraaj’s ESG An additional 7,000 are expected to Abraaj invested in a company with standards. Following this, countrybe trained in 2015. strong sustainability credentials. level action plans were established Fan Milk has been a member of the to create value by enhancing Our initiatives in ESG form part of a UN Global Compact since 2010 environment, health, and safety larger set of value-creation initiatives and has achieved commendable processes within the company and which include optimizing Route-toprogress over the past four years. boosting external social impact. Market in Ghana and Nigeria and The company communicates its product portfolio expansions across commitment to the Global Compact A key focus in 2014 for the company the market, which will drive marketacross its value chain, from suppliers was on improving energy efficiency. share growth and improve profitability. to street vendors and tests for Fan Milk Nigeria commissioned an conformance; it conducted five independent power plant in 2014. It As Fan Milk expands its footprint and external sustainability audits of its is powered by natural gas which is a product portfolio, we expect that suppliers in 2014 with no adverse cleaner and less expensive alternative continuously setting and delivering findings. Local quality-assurance to diesel and is an effective and world-class standards across its teams in the different markets also sustainable solution due to reduced value chain will deliver sustainable conduct spot checks of agent and stoppage during production. value for all its stakeholders the retailer premises against company community will benefit from safer food, ESG and Global Compact standards. An energy-efficiency study was reduced environmental impact of our completed in Ghana in August 2014 operations, and an improved health Fan Milk’s production facilities have with recommended changes to and safety culture for employees and received several ISO certifications over the heating and cooling systems related parties. Fan Milk is committed the years, including ISO 9001:2008 scheduled to be implemented in 2015. to delivering societal value, while (Togo and Ghana), ISO 22000:2005 The study estimates a reduction in sustainably increasing market share (Nigeria and Ghana), ISO 14001:2004 energy usage by up to 15%, with a and profitability. and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Ghana). 10% savings in energy costs. Similar 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 Fan Milk has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2010 and has achieved commendable progress over the past four years In Focus 1,600 employees 23,000+ vendors and agents 6,700 vendors and agents trained Fan Milk expects to train 7,000 new vendors, agents and shop assistants in Ghana and Nigeria over the course of 2015 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE ABRAAJ GROUP Integrated Diagnostics Holdings (IDH) Established in 2012 through the merger of Al Borg and Al Mokhtabar Laboratories, IDH is the largest fully integrated private-sector diagnostics services provider in Egypt. T he Abraaj Group invested direction and value-creation plans. bribery and corruption regulations. in Al Borg Laboratories in Board committees with dedicated To focus on best-in-class quality 2008 via its Funds. IDH is mandates were created including standards, IDH developed a doctor the largest fully integrated an audit committee, a nomination consultancy program in Egypt private-sector diagnostics committee and a remuneration and Sudan for referrals to labs by services provider, committee to oversee progress physicians, becoming a market leader including pathology and molecular on specific initiatives and ensure with this system and encouraging diagnostics, genetics testing, and key issues in the company were the adoption of similar programs by basic radiology, in Egypt. In 2013, the addressed objectively and effectively. peers. Moreover, through a feedback company had a private chain market system for continual improvement, share in Egypt by revenue of 55%. Abraaj’s sustained support to IDH has this program allowed the local In 2014, the company operated six been instrumental in the company’s medical community, and specifically different brands with 288 laboratories regional expansion, institutionalization physicians, to become more engaged and performed 22.3 million tests for and strategic monetization discussions with IDH and improve the service more than five million patients. leading to the successful sale of a standards of relevant laboratories, 21% stake to Actis in December enhance the patients’ experience, and In May 2015, Abraaj exited 80% of its 2014 and the subsequent IPO on improve the quality of the test results. stake in IDH through an initial public the LSE. Over the course of its offering (IPO) on the London Stock investment, Abraaj enabled a strong IDH is a strong example of the Exchange (LSE). IDH’s debut on the local brand to grow into a regional positive benefits that enhanced LSE marked the first ever primary leader, encouraged the introduction of sustainability management can listing of an Egyptian healthcare the highest accreditation standards, bring to growth businesses. By business in London. augmented the talent pool of the working alongside a highly skilled company by recruiting experienced management team led by Chief Value Creation senior management, and significantly Executive Officer Dr Hend El Sherbini, In order to prepare IDH for the LSE improved IDH’s environmental, social, Abraaj was able to develop two listing, Abraaj focused its efforts on and governance initiatives. leading Egyptian diagnostics service improving the company’s governance providers into a fast-growing regional framework. An independent nonIn addition, IDH developed an leader providing critical, world-class executive board was convened, Employee Code of Conduct Manual, medical diagnostics as well as a more composed of industry-specific and Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy, diverse range of new service offerings financial experts with the capacity and a Whistleblowing Policy to in line with market demand. to support the company’s strategic comply with stringent global anti28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 IDH’s debut on the LSE marked the first ever primary listing of an Egyptian healthcare business in London In Focus 22.3mn laboratory tests conducted 5mn+ patients served IDH is the largest fully integrated private-sector diagnostics services provider in Egypt 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE ABRAAJ GROUP ODG Established in 1990, ODG is a leading mechanical, electrical and fire-equipment design and installation provider to the Indonesian mining and construction sectors. I n 2011, Abraaj backed ODG’s The sessions feed into and form an Value Creation executive team in a management integral component of ODG’s safety In partnership with Abraaj, ODG has buyout and acquired a majority documentation, which has been refocused attention on its corporate stake in the company. ODG, meticulously collated and updated governance and board functions. It headquartered in Jakarta, is since the company’s inception. In the has established an Audit Committee present in seven locations weekly “safety toolbox” presentations, and quarterly board meetings in throughout Indonesia and Papua the team comes together for a which business strategy, expansion New Guinea. detailed discussion of and knowledge plans, ESG-related issues, and site sharing about a pertinent topic of accidents/incidences are discussed. Sustainability Credentials worker safety. Pre-investment analysis indicated that Due to its strong focus on health ODG could realize significant growth ODG places importance on staff and safety, ODG has an enviable opportunities with the right partner. retention and employee development. track record of having zero fatalities ODG’s management, after learning It has a clear career path for all throughout its existence. It also about Abraaj’s uncompromising employees, allowing for continuous maintains a converted zero accident focus on ESG, felt confident that upward mobility and is committed to rate for many of its projects. As a Abraaj would not only support but an annual salary assessment where testament to its track record, ODG also enhance ODG’s strong ESG staff receive increases based on has been awarded many public and standards and processes inherited merit. This has resulted in a very low private sector awards, including from its parent company. staff turnover rate (3% per year since an award for achieving 3.99 million 2011) and retention of experienced hours of zero accident from July 1999 ODG’s key competitive advantage staff who are critical for delivering to December 2014 from the East lies in its high health and safety high-quality work. Kalimantan Government; an award standards and its relentless focus on for achieving 3.4 million hours of zero quality. Core to its health and safety ODG has also established highly accident from July 1999 to December system are two initiatives: daily on-site effective project management 2012 from the Ministry of Manpower morning training sessions and weekly processes, which have enabled the and Transmigration of Indonesia; and, “safety toolbox” presentations. In the Group to deliver projects in a timely from its clients, a Silver Award for Best morning training “kick-off” sessions, fashion. This focus on quality, people, Contractor for its Sanggata Project all staff run through and discuss the and project management has enabled and one for Best HSE Contractor for required tasks for the day and the ODG to build its brand equity in its Kaltim Prima Coal Project. associated Job Work Plans. These the market and to be viewed as a Job Work Plans describe in detail preferred supplier to blue chip clients. each job task, the associated risks and hazards, and the risk-mitigating factors to be taken to ensure the tasks’ successful completion. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 As a testament to its track record, ODG has been awarded many public and private sector awards In Focus 3.99mn hours of zero accident from July 1999 to December 2014 ODG’s commitment to effective project management and to its people have made it a preferred supplier to blue chip clients 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE ABRAAJ GROUP Our hub-and-spoke model gives us a unique vantage point, allowing us to simultaneously source local knowledge from growth markets and use global best practices to create shared value. The Power of Partnership T his model enables us focus has revolved around three core Our partnership with Junior to develop a nuanced areas: entrepreneurship, the next Achievement allows us to approach to our markets generation, and art and innovation. encourage entrepreneurs early in which, though rich in We have driven the creation of an their development. Several senior opportunities, are equally entrepreneurship ecosystem and representatives of the Group advise in need of investment in invested in emerging sector leaders the organization at a global level while critical areas if they are to reach their through distinct platforms, and regional staff help implement initiatives full potential. Through our extensive our impact has been significant on the ground. This year, we aim to network we aim to partner with in creating the conditions for have empowered 3,000 students in institutions whose goals are aligned entrepreneurs, young leaders, and Kenya and Nigeria through Junior with ours, tackle critical challenges, artists to grow and thrive. Achievement’s bespoke programs. create long-term value, and be a true catalyst for deep-rooted change and Empowering Next Generation We are also actively involved with the sustainable positive impact. Entrepreneurs Global Shapers Community, a network Given the essential role of more than 5,000 young changeOur efforts in building ecosystems entrepreneurship plays in growth makers under the age of 30 who always consist of a combination of markets, we believe enabling are on the ground in more than 400 human and financial commitments, tomorrow’s leaders to fulfill their cities. To date, we have personally met and aspire to drive sustainable potential will ultimately ensure hundreds of them and led knowledgegrowth in the markets in which we sustainable growth. Our staff-led sharing sessions in over 20 cities operate. As of 2014, Abraaj has initiatives and global partnerships worldwide6. This global network’s invested 10,000 hours of volunteering allow us to support these individuals at dynamism has inspired us to establish time and over US$ 100 million in different stages of the entrepreneurial the Abraaj Growth Markets Grant, an support of more than 100 initiatives journey so that they can be positive initiative dedicated to addressing key and organizations worldwide. Our contributors in their communities. challenges across our regions through 32 6 Information here represents the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2015. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 HELP FOR NEPAL Recently, US$ 100,000 was raised across the Group and its partner companies to support emergency relief operations in Nepal following the devastating earthquake in April 2015. The funds were channeled through the Himalayan Trust, a UKregistered charity established in 1989 by Sir Edmund Hillary, which is well equipped to coordinate efforts on the ground, especially in mountainous areas. We decided our funds would be best put to use in rebuilding critical and sustainable infrastructure to ensure continued education for the younger generation in the Khumbu and Pharak regions of Nepal. The Trust ran a field assessment and identified key areas that needed interventions, which include rebuilding schools and longer-term educational goals such as increasing participation, training teachers, monitoring performance, and reducing drop-out rates. The Abraaj Growth concrete and actionable solutions led by Global Shapers, who are familiar Africa (Lagos in Nigeria and Nairobi in Kenya), two from South Asia (Indore Markets Grant with the challenges and opportunities that shape the cities they call home. and Kolkata in India), two from Latin America (Puebla in Mexico and Lima is dedicated to The Grant is funded in its entirety by in Peru), one from Turkey (Ankara), employee bonuses, as part of the one from South East Asia (Phnom addressing key Group’s stakeholder engagement Penh in Cambodia), and one from the challenges across model that allocates five percent of the Group’s gross management fees, Middle East and North Africa (Rabat in Morocco). These projects address a our regions and is five percent of employees’ annual bonus on a voluntary basis and range of issues such as empowering youth and women in Phnom Penh, funded entirety by five volunteering days per year per Ankara, and Rabat; developing employee bonuses employee towards community impact. myoelectric prosthetic limbs for disabled women and children living in Internal regional selection committees rural areas of Kolkata; tracking crime comprising designated Abraaj teams patterns for a safer culture in Puebla; worked in close collaboration with the and generating electricity through World Economic Forum to select the solar power in Nairobi. winners. More than 170 submissions were judged on quality, efficiency, Encouraging Art and Innovation sustainability, scale of impact, Abraaj is committed to fostering consistency of measurement, and artistic expression, cutting-edge replicability: the nine winning projects creativity and innovation globally to included two from Sub-Saharan give a voice to regional champions, through a variety of initiatives. 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE ABRAAJ GROUP Abraaj RCA Innovation Scholarship 1. China by Raed Naqvi, Founder and To further our mission of empowering Yassin: Abraaj Group Group Chief Executive, artists’ potential, we launched this Art Prize recipient 2012 The Abraaj Group groundbreaking scholarship, in 2. Abraaj RCA 3. Led by the World partnership with the Royal College Innovation Scholars Economic Forum of Art (RCA) in London, in 2014. (2014 cohort) with Rt Global Shapers Each year, Abraaj supports five Hon Sajid Javid MP, UK Community, the Abraaj Secretary of State for Growth Markets outstanding scholars from 23 eligible Business, Innovation Grant addresses key countries in their quest to study in and Skills, and Arif challenges the RCA Master’s program. The RCA is one of the world’s most influential postgraduate university institutions format, or subject matter and, in art and design, and this scholarship therefore, exemplify contemporary art is the largest of its kind in the from across the region. The winning creative sector. artist’s work is unveiled every year to an audience of leading figures from The Abraaj scholars are named each the art and design communities, and year by a world-class selection panel financial, political, and philanthropic including Tim Brown, CEO of IDEO; 1. arenas. The aim of the prize is Dame Marjorie Scardino, former CEO to give often under-represented of Pearson; Paola Antonelli, Senior contemporary artists the resources to Curator, Department of Architecture further develop their talent. The prize and Design, Museum of Modern Art; is awarded at Art Dubai, a leading Dale Harrow, Dean of the School fair that we have supported for the of Design, RCA; Hilde Schwab, last nine years. Art Dubai is today Chairperson and Co-Founder of considered one of the most globalized the Schwab Foundation for Social art gatherings in the world with 92 Entrepreneurship; Juan Cruz, Dean galleries from 40 countries and more of the School of Fine Art, RCA; Savita than 500 artists exhibiting in the 2015 Apte, former Chair of the Abraaj edition. Group Art Prize; and artist Yinka 2. Shonibare, MBE. The selection committee for AGAP is chaired by Dana Farouki and The current scholars are from Turkey, composed of leading experts in the Kazakhstan, India, Mexico, Colombia, field of visual arts. To date, AGAP has the Philippines, and Thailand, and rewarded 30 artists and 11 curators their expertise ranges from textiles from across the MENASA region. The to ceramics, all the way to industrial winning works are regularly exhibited design and sculpture. These in major international biennials and creative leaders will, in turn, use their leading museums – such as the innovations and learnings to positively Victoria and Albert Museum (London), impact the life and culture of their 3. Singapore Art Museum (Singapore) home countries. and the Smithsonian Museum of Asian Art (Washington, DC). Abraaj Group Art Prize Established in 2008, the Abraaj Championing Inclusive Growth through Group Art Prize (AGAP) annually Global Platforms rewards artists from across the As a representative of the private Middle East, North Africa, and South sector, we actively participate in the Asia (MENASA) region on the basis dialogue around sustainability both of proposals rather than completed regionally and globally. This is because works of art. AGAP submissions are we recognize business’s central role not confined to a specific media, in addressing critical global issues. 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 4. Arif Naqvi, Founder the SDGs, and was invited to share its and Group Chief perspectives at a high-level gathering Executive of The convened by Bank of America Abraaj Group, and Erna Merrill Lynch and PRI, as well as Solberg, Prime Minister several UN hearings on Financing of Norway, at the Oslo Business for Peace for Development. Our innovative Summit, May 6, 2015 models of blended finance were also recognized at the 2015 World Economic Forum event in Davos, where we shared our strategy for delivering high-quality, affordable healthcare to the lowand middleincome populations in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. 4. Modeling Best Practice The Group also adheres to the highest levels of accountability and transparency, through our commitment to various initiatives in the markets where we operate, as one of the 100 signatory companies to the WEF’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative, and as members of the PRI and the Global Impact Investing Network. Most recently, the Pacific Pension 5. Institute in Los Angeles invited us to share best practices in terms of responsible investing and its impact 5. Frederic Sicre, Compact) and Dominic Barton (Global on value creation. This represented Managing Director at Managing Director, McKinsey) on an important opportunity for us to The Abraaj Group, on sustainability as a business imperative. share strong case studies from our leveraging markets and partner companies that have achieved private sector ingenuity as a key component of We actively participate and speak measurable impact across a range poverty alleviation, at at leading gatherings such as the of financial and non-financial metrics, the Global Philanthropy Global Philanthropy and Shared Value which we have tracked through the Forum 2014 Forums, to share our insights on Abraaj Sustainability Index. global trends affecting growth markets from a sustainability perspective, the In the context of the private equity In the last year, we convened highevolving role of philanthropy, and the industry, we know our stakeholder level roundtable discussions at the growing need for a multi-stakeholder engagement model to be unique. Business for Peace Summit in Oslo, approach in solving some of the It goes to the heart of our original which brings together leaders to world’s most pressing issues. ambitions to be different and to create focus on the role of the private sector our own path for the development of in achieving the UN Sustainable This year is a critical period in the our global operations. Embedding Development Goals (SDGs). On this transition from the UN Millennium holistic engagement into business occasion, Arif Naqvi, our Founder Development Goals to the SDGs. models will increasingly be the norm and Group Chief Executive, spoke Abraaj has taken an active part in for any firm operating in developed or on a panel alongside Erna Solberg articulating the role of the private growth markets and we take pride in (Prime Minister of Norway), Sir Mark sector, and the financial services having paved the way in the industry. Moody-Stuart (Chairman, UN Global industry more specifically, in meeting 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 36 Responsibility and Innovation 38 Strengthening Impact Measurement The Abraaj Sustainability Index 2.0 42 Investing for Impact in Healthcare 46 Responsible Investing In Growth Markets, by Tom Speechley SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 RESPONSIBILITY AND INNOVATION We hold a strong conviction that the relationship between business and society should be mutually beneficial and value accretive. Ultimately, it is a performance story backed by values. Strengthening Impact Measurement The Abraaj Sustainability Index 2.0 E mpirical evidence shows of the Abraaj Sustainability Index is that a sustainable investing to improve the index score (which is approach can lead to calculated as a percentage annually) better risk adjusted for each of our partner companies financial returns. However, year-on-year. while Limited and General Partners alike are converging on the Developing the Next Generation understanding that ESG integration of the Abraaj Sustainability Index in investment practices is the new In the course of the last year, we normal, the need to have greater have updated the Abraaj Sustainability accountability and reporting is Index through a process of restronger than ever. designing the scenarios on which the index is based. The index is The Abraaj Sustainability Index, a now based on four key pillars, bespoke index which measures the reflecting the risks and opportunities developmental impact of Abraaj’s of the next decade: global investments, was developed in 2008 as the first sustainability index Financial Performance Critical suitable for private equity investing in for business success, focused global growth markets. In developing on measures of growth this index, Abraaj incorporated global best practice standards following Private Sector Development rigorous research and analysis. The and Governance Recognition Abraaj Sustainability Index enables the of development impact, Group’s partner companies to chart investing in entrepreneurship and monitor their own performance and governance through an online system. The aim 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 Condor Travel, Peru’s leading inbound tourism operator, now offers packages that come with carbon credits THE BENEFITS The Abraaj Sustainability Index has consistently sought to look beyond solely financial metrics and focus on critical elements such as good governance, employee engagement, health and safety, benefit to the community and social responsibility. This holistic focus provides the Group with the ability to identify specific areas for improvement, gain valuable insight into the relationship between financial performance and ‘intangibles’, and develop a robust framework for engaging with partner companies on nonfinancial issues. 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 RESPONSIBILITY AND INNOVATION Environmental Impact  Impact over time to be able to Relevance for business in address current concerns and to an increasingly resource foresee future issues. constrained world The framework underpinning the The aim of the Human Development Focus Abraaj Sustainability Index has been Abraaj Sustainability on job creation, occupational safety and staff development based on the consideration of the trends driving sustainability and our Index is to improve In a rapidly changing world, the markets globally. Based on scenarios with assumptions of the expansion the index score for meaning of impact and sustainability and contraction of our markets, each of our partner can be challenging to elucidate. We took a lateral approach to defining and the variable levels of human development occurring as a result, companies year impact by utilizing a scenario planning approach. The scenarios ascertained: we ascertained the key themes of sustainable development that are on year relevant for investing in growing  T he key global political, companies in these markets. economic, social, technological, and environmental levers and The development of the scenarios how they affect various groups provided the fundamental basis of of markets. the sustainability lens against which any company should hold itself  T he two extremes in the accountable. The critical building scenarios relevant to investing blocks established within the four sustainably in global growth pillars address matters like profitability, markets. waste, resources, employment, skills, 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 The Abraaj Sustainability Index Financial Financial is a bespoke index Performance Performance which measures the developmental impact of Abraaj’s global investments Human Private Private Sector Sector Human Development Development Development Development &&Corporate Corporate Governance Governance Environmental Environmental Impact Impact development, economic linkages and and analyze their impact. described with innovations such inclusive business. They can represent the outcomes as the Abraaj Sustainability Index to their stakeholders in an as it simultaneously illustrates Smart Data integrated manner, showing the wide ranging positive impact A key innovation of the system has the socio-economic value of of investments made while been the technology overlay, an online growing companies. also providing a mechanism system which partner companies, of deep accountability on the Abraaj employees and Limited  F or General Partners, the tool sustainability agenda. Partners can access easily to view represents a step change in the the results of the data reported. We consistent measuring of impact The next generation of the Abraaj have built a bespoke analysis engine across portfolios. Given some Sustainability Index will be launched linked to the World Bank Database concerns about the positive later this year. We look forward of indicators which will allow for contribution of private equity to reporting on the progress of geographic and sector analysis. investing to society and the our partner companies and the crisis of market trust, the Abraaj enhanced benefit of the index to our The output of this process is a system Sustainability Index is unique in stakeholders in the following year. which is customized for both growth capturing the holistic impact of market companies and investors in this asset class. these companies to understand and monitor the broad developmental  F or Limited Partners, the positive impact of the private sector in growth externality impact of the capital markets. The benefits are tremendous: being deployed has thus far been mostly captured as a narrative  F  or partner companies, the with limited data points. The system provides a new way in value of investment is better which they can directly record 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 RESPONSIBILITY AND INNOVATION Healthcare in growth markets is witnessing an increase in investor interest as a result of substantial demand. Investing for Impact in Healthcare H istoric underinvestment, complemented by a Many of these illnesses can have a profound effect on patients and their Sustainability will be growing middle class families. It is estimated that every at the very core of and urbanization in year nearly one million Kenyans growth markets, is fall below the poverty line because Abraaj’s healthcare driving a need for infrastructure and innovation that of healthcare-related expenditure. Factors limiting improvements in strategy, given its can deliver quality healthcare that is accessible and affordable. As Abraaj healthcare delivery across growth markets range from inadequate health focus on impact continues to expand its healthcare system reform, to a lack of financial measurement and portfolio, a focus on ESG remains paramount: a sustainability-driven protection from the catastrophic health expenses that can force people innovation approach with an emphasis on longinto poverty. term impact is fundamental to our healthcare strategy. Today, we find ourselves at an inflection point where there is a Challenges and Opportunities fundamental opportunity to advance The recent Ebola crisis illustrated healthcare systems in growth markets. the urgent need for the continued The numbers speak for themselves. strengthening of health systems, not Between 1995 and 2012, growth just in West Africa but also in other markets’ healthcare expenditure grew growth markets where fragmented 5.9 times, from US$ 0.2 trillion to health systems are strained. These US$ 1.3 trillion. By 2022, healthcare challenges are not just restricted to expenditure in growth markets will infectious diseases. The additional be growing over 10% annually, disease burden of non-communicable around three times faster than in diseases (NCDs) such as diabetes developed markets, driven by growing and heart disease are of particular populations, rising income levels, concern in growth markets, given their urbanization, and changing lifestyles. dramatic rise. By 2030, the population in our core healthcare operating markets in South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 Abraaj continues to expand its investment in its healthcare portfolio, which includes Nairobi Women’s Hospital, a leading private healthcare provider for women and their families 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 RESPONSIBILITY AND INNOVATION Healthcare ecosystem in growth markets (illustrative example) Spoke Hospitals Education and Training Facilities Ambulance & Emergency Services Catalytic Hub Hospital Polyclinics Integrated Diagnostics Network Pharmacy Network Patients is estimated to increase by more than needs of the underserved population fields will have the potential to address 480 million people7. In parallel, the segments; and an ability to contribute capital efficiency and the availability of middle-income segment is growing to overall system capacity, capability, medical expertise. rapidly in these markets, comprising and quality. both new entrants and those moving Partnership and Sustainability up the pyramid. In order to meet these challenges, The integration of environmental, Abraaj will establish affordable social and governance considerations Abraaj’s Strategy high-quality health systems for into our private equity investments The implications of this demographic lowand middle-income groups is a critical success driver. Likewise, shift are profound. The public sector, predominantly in Africa and South sustainability will be at the very which was traditionally seen as the Asia, while creating maximum impact. core of Abraaj’s healthcare natural provider of healthcare in most Our focus will be on major urban strategy, given its focus on impact growth markets, has typically been environments, creating city-based measurement and innovation. resource-constrained and more often multispecialty “hub and spoke” than not has struggled to deliver healthcare ecosystems and superOur healthcare strategy envisages a results, even when adequate funds are specialty networks that provide a close partnership with governments available. In order to create genuine co-ordinated set of healthcare facilities and NGOs to ensure opportunities and long-term impact, we believe that and capabilities. We believe that in for clinical skill development can the private sector, governments, and order to achieve sustained impact, be shared across the platform for NGOs must work closely together in a it will be critical to implement an doctors, nurses, and allied health “new compact,” complementing each innovative approach to diagnostics, providers. Through dedicated other to deliver effective healthcare clinical delivery and therapy, clinical partnerships in our target cities, we systems. This can only be achieved via and workforce training, logistics and will deliver healthcare at an affordable a realignment with broader government operational knowledge. Innovation cost without compromising quality health strategy; a focus on the priority and best-in-class practice in these and establish strategic relationships 44 7 Abraaj healthcare “core operating markets” in South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa include: India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Zambia, and Ethiopia. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 A pioneering combination of clinical and health systems impact measurement, supplemented by impact creation represents the core of our unique value proposition By 2030 with key stakeholders in the healthcare value chain to develop cost medical devices and strategic partnerships that simultaneously The population in our core healthcare world-class businesses. encourage both quality and operating markets in South Asia and Subeconomies of scale. Embedding and Saharan Africa is estimated to increase by In order to achieve this, we will empowering our health workers with more than 480 million people invest in scalable and sustainable the right tools and framework will healthcare services models in significantly improve health outcomes. 3x growth growth economies that provide measurable improvements. We will Furthermore, it is our hope that these ecosystems will provide a sustainable By 2022, healthcare expenditure in focus on creating impact along three platform for skills and career growth markets will be growing over 10% dimensions: accessibility, affordability, progression that can be used within annually, around three times faster, than in and quality. A pioneering combination public, private or non-governmental developed markets of diligence and monitoring organizations. mechanisms in these markets will allow clinical and health-systems The underlying premise of the “new impact measurement, supplemented compact” is about getting the by impact creation for the underserved government, NGOs, and private sector population. This represents the core of to work together to broaden access our unique value proposition. to those who have low financial resources. In conclusion, we believe Long-term value creation will be there is a fundamental need for a achieved through capacity building partnership-driven approach among and training of health workers. This all the different stakeholders in order will be combined with innovative ways to ensure the successful delivery of of health care delivery, use of low this ambitious strategy. 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 RESPONSIBILITY AND INNOVATION Tom Speechley, Partner, The Abraaj Group Tom Speechley is a Partner at The Abraaj Group and Head of Global Markets, responsible for stakeholder engagement, fundraising and investor relations. He is a member of the Group’s Management Executive Committee and is the Chief Executive Officer of Abraaj North America, LLC. The Final Word Responsible Investing In Growth Markets, It’s Common Sense T o judge from recent Partners and General Partners alike, reduce risk and liabilities to embracing surveys, private equity applying the policies and procedures it as an opportunity to increase funds and Limited that companies and investors in business performance and strengthen Partners increasingly their home markets take for granted valuations. agree that environmental, not only protects against reputational social and governance and financial risk, but also creates We see this at play across several of considerations are a crucial value. And, in the absence of codified our partner companies. Take Southey component of their investment governance, labor and environmental Holdings, a partner company that process and practices. To borrow standards in many of these markets, we successfully exited through a from the title of a recent PwC study, private equity becomes an important management buyout in 2014. It is one however, fund managers and investors driver of positive change in businesses of the largest privately owned groups have yet to “bridge the gap” in that are as a result both profitable in South Africa where we, along with understanding how to achieve their and sustainable. Success with a the management team, insisted that responsible investment objectives. social purpose. “service with safety” was to be at the Amid a confusion of acronyms and core of the company’s ship and oil rig divergent definitions, PwC found that We have learned through more repair business. Through enhanced expectations and approaches have yet than 140 investments since 2002 staff training, equipment upgrades and to align. that to deliver robust returns, ESG rigorous monitoring, Southey was able must be an integral element of the to further improve its accident record In the growth markets we operate in, investment process, from screening and win significant assignments from seeing eye-to-eye on defining “impact” and due diligence, to operational oil majors that had shied away from matters a lot less than the simple management and oversight, through local contractors because of safety truth that responsible investing boils to exit. Our experience has taken concerns. Health and safety or good down to common sense. For Limited us from regarding ESG as a tool to business practice? 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 South Africa’s Southey Holdings won significant new business as it improved its accident record exceptionally low staff turnover rate of of portfolio companies across 79 3% per year since 2011. The high rate indicators of financial performance; of retention of experienced staff has socio-economic impact; economic helped to enhance brand equity in linkages; private sector development; Responsible the market and make ODG management and governance; and investing is not just a preferred supplier to blue chip clients. Worker protections or health, safety and environment. It shows, for example, that as of 2014, the right thing to superior client service? the number of female employees at our partner companies increased do, it’s the sensible Taken from this perspective, by 16% during our holding period. business choice responsible investing is not a trade-off, as in “the cost of doing business.” It The revenue growth of our partner companies during the same period is a long-term investment imperative was over 100%. Such data allows us At Condor Travel, Peru’s leading that time and again creates healthier to measure sustainability across our inbound tourism operator, businesses and healthier societies. investments, across the world. As the business provides market importantly, individual companies can opportunities for a large number of While the anecdotal benefits improve their own index score through local micro-enterprises that would of infusing ESG principles into specific actions. not otherwise be able to reach investments are clear, Limited Partners customers and promote their understandably seek proof in data. Will there be uniform benchmarks and services. It also now offers U.S. This remains a “frontier market” for shared approaches to responsible and European eco-tourists travel the private equity industry, where investing across private equity? ESG packages that come with carbon measuring the impact of responsible factors are crucial to business now credits to mitigate deforestation in the investing practices is a complex and more than at any time in the history of Tambopata National Reserve in the far from uniform undertaking. private enterprise – and all indications Amazon Basin. Saving the planet or point to a move towards a common smart marketing? There are, as yet, no agreed standards understanding of the reasons why for data needs, reporting requirements ESG protects and enhances value. And at ODG which is referenced or quantifiable measures of the value Until that time comes, let’s agree on earlier in this report, the executive that ESG creates. So, in 2008 we two things. Responsible investing is team has built a clear career path for invented our own approach and not just the right thing to do, it’s the all employees. The firm’s commitment have continued to improve it over sensible business choice. to upward mobility and merit-based time. The Abraaj Sustainability Index salary raises has resulted in an measures the development impact 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 ABRAAJ IS COMMITTED TO MEETING THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) The table below directs readers to relevant sections of the Abraaj Sustainability Report 2014/15. Principle Definition Chapter Page 01. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 02. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our Approach to 18-20 Sustainability 03. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Integrating ESG into Our 21-23 bargaining; Investments 04. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 05. the effective abolition of child labour; and 06. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Sustainability and 08-09 and occupation. Investment Highlights Our Approach to 18-20 Sustainability Strengthening Impact 38-41 Measurement The Abraaj Sustainability Index 2.0 07. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Integrating ESG into Our 21-23 Investments 08. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Sustainability in Practice 30-31 (ODG) 09. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its The Role of Business in 12-15 forms, including extortion and bribery. Society: A Conversation with Jane Nelson and Frederic Sicre Integrating ESG into Our 21-23 Investments The Power of Partnership 32-35 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 PERFORMANCE NOTE AND DISCLAIMER Performance Note Disclaimer any information obtained from this Core Funds: The Core Funds The information contained in this Brochure before making use of it. include The Abraaj Buyout Fund Abraaj Group Brochure (“Brochure”) I, The Abraaj Buyout Fund II, The is given, to the fullest extent Unless otherwise indicated, Infrastructure & Growth Capital permitted by law, without any liability references to “EBITDA” in this Fund, Aureos West Africa Fund, whatsoever to Abraaj Holdings, any document represent revenues and Aureos East Africa Fund, Aureos of its subsidiaries, affiliates or related earnings before interest, taxes, Southern Africa Fund, Aureos entities or any of their respective depreciation and amortization Africa Fund, Aureos South East members, directors, officers or adjusted for one-time expenses and Asia Fund, Aureos South Asia employees (collectively the “Abraaj other adjustments where deemed Fund, Kantara and Aureos Latin Group”) for any direct or indirect appropriate to better approximate America Fund I (including such losses, damages (including special business earnings growth. funds’ parallel and alternative or consequential damages), or other investment vehicles, if any). Core costs or expenses whatsoever This Brochure includes descriptions Funds exclude investments made arising from any use of, or reliance of selected Abraaj Group by The Abraaj Group private equity placed upon, this Brochure or its investments, including details on funds which (i) have an investment contents or otherwise. the transaction, investment thesis strategy substantially different and events post-acquisition. The from the investment strategy of No representation or warranty, selected investments are intended the Core Funds (such as risk/ express or implied, is made or only to be illustrative of the types return parameters and/or which are given by the Abraaj Group as of investments made by the thematic in nature), (ii) have invested to the accuracy, completeness Abraaj Group. In considering capital of less than US$ 25 million or fairness of the information or any performance data contained and/or (iii) have invested 75% or opinions contained in this Brochure. herein, each recipient of this more of their total invested capital in In particular, no representation or Brochure should bear in mind that the last 36 months. warranty is made that any projection, past performance is not indicative forecast, calculation, forwardof future results, and there can be Co-Investments: Co-Investments looking statement, assumption or no assurance that any future refers to co-investments made and estimate contained in this Brochure investment made by the Abraaj managed by The Abraaj Group should or will be achieved. There Group will achieve comparable and co-investment capital made is a substantial likelihood that at results. Nothing contained herein available by Abraaj Holdings, which least some, if not all, of the forwardshould be deemed to be a prediction is the ultimate parent company of looking statements included in this or projection of future performance the general partners managing the Brochure will prove to be inaccurate, of any investment made by the various funds, alongside The Abraaj possibly to a significant degree. Abraaj Group. Buyout Fund I, The Abraaj Buyout Fund II and The Infrastructure & The information and opinions The information contained in this Growth Capital Fund. contained in this Brochure are Brochure does not constitute provided by the Abraaj Group for investment, legal, tax or accounting Arranged Investments: Arranged personal use and for information advice. Recipients of this Brochure Investments refers to other standpurposes only. Each recipient of should conduct their own due alone private equity investments this Brochure is solely liable for any diligence and other enquiries in arranged by The Abraaj Group but use it makes of this information relation to such information and that were not made through a Core and the Abraaj Group disclaims consult with their own professional Fund or a Co-Investment. any responsibility for any errors advisors as to the accuracy and or omissions in such information, application of the information Early J-Curve Funds: Early J-Curve including any financial calculations, contained in this Brochure and for Funds includes funds which are still projections and forecasts contained advice relating to any legal, tax in their deployment phase and have in this Brochure. The information or accounting issues relating to a invested 75% or more of their total is inherently subject to change potential investment in the regions invested capital in the last 36 months. without notice and may become described. This Brochure does not outdated. You should therefore verify constitute a recommendation to 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 PERFORMANCE NOTE AND DISCLAIMER invest in the regions described in and any decision to purchase or this Brochure or in securities of any subscribe for such investments, vehicle investing in such regions and securities, investment advisory recipients should not rely on any services or other transactions should information or opinions contained be made solely on the basis of herein in making an investment or the information contained in such other decision. independent offering document. Certain information contained in This Brochure is being made this Brochure concerning economic available on a confidential basis and trends and performance is based on is intended for discussion purposes or derived from information provided only and is solely for your information by independent third party sources. and may not be reproduced or The Abraaj Group cannot guarantee further distributed to any other the accuracy of such information person or published, in whole or in and has not independently verified part, for any other purpose. If you the assumptions on which such were provided with a copy of this information is based. The Abraaj Brochure by a person other than the Group disclaims any responsibility Abraaj Group, it is not intended to be for any errors or omissions in such read by you and you should destroy information, including the financial the copy. calculations, projections and forecasts in such information. By reading this Brochure you agree to be bound by the foregoing This Brochure does not constitute limitations and restrictions and, or form part of, and should not in particular, will be taken to be construed as, or relied upon have represented, warranted and in respect of, any offer for sale or undertaken that: (i) you have read subscription of, or solicitation of and agreed to comply with the any offer to purchase or subscribe contents of this notice including, for any interests in any of the without limitation, the obligation funds managed or sponsored by to keep this Brochure and its the Abraaj Group. Any such offer, contents confidential; and (ii) you subscription or solicitation by the will not subscribe for or purchase Abraaj Group will be made by any interests in any fund managed means of an independent offering or sponsored by the Abraaj Group document to be issued by the Abraaj except on the basis of information in Group in connection with any such the private placement memorandum offering, subscription or solicitation, for such fund. 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/15 @abraajgroup The Abraaj Group abraaj.com 52
