2015 OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2015 2/7 In accordance with our investigation perimeter and our international development, we have analysed all the principles and we have concluded that we can justify of future actions for 6 principles. The 4 others are, for the moment, out of our perimeter of intervention (cf. Table under). OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2015 3/7 HUMAN RIGHTS Principles Actions Status/Deadline Encourage our partners that have not already signed the UNGC but have already undertaken others similar July 2015 commitments regarding principle 1, to Principle 1 become signatory of the UNGC. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Insert this principle in our Company Jan. 2016 Terms & Conditions. Principle 2 In our current perimeter of intervention, Make sure that they are not complicit in / we are not concerned by this principle. human rights abuses. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2015 4/7 LABOUR Principles Actions Status/ Deadline Check which commercial partners Principle 3 Dec. 2014 comply with staff representation. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Organize new election of staff Dec. 2015 representatives. Principle 4 In our current perimeter of intervention, The elimination of all forms of forced and / we are not concerned by this principle. compulsory labour Principle 5 In our current perimeter of intervention, / The effective abolition of child labour we are not concerned by this principle. Encourage partners (clients and Principle 6 suppliers) that have not already signed The elimination of discrimination in respect UNGC but have undertaken similar July 2015 of employment and occupation. commitments regarding principle 6, to become signatory of UNGC. Principle 6 Update our career website, by writing The elimination of discrimination in respect our commitment relative to this Sept. 2015 of employment and occupation. principle. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2015 5/7 ENVIRONMENT Principles Actions Status/Deadline Organize brain storming, to bring out ideas about applicability of principle 7 in Au. 2015 our company Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Set up an internal warning system to approach to environmental challenges report any witnessed potentially Au. 2016 dangerous behaviour for Environment during worktime. Install an insects housing in the terrace of our downtown headquarter (in order Sept 2015 to facilitate flowers reproduction and Principle 8 bee species preservation) Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Inform about COP 21 and the linked Oct 2015 challenges for our energy sector. Principle 9 In our current perimeter of intervention, Encourage the development and diffusion / we are not concerned by this principle. of environmentally friendly technologies. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2015 6/7 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption Write a charter. Dec 2015 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2015 7/7
