Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress May 2015 Human Rights Labour Rights Environment Anti-Corruption 1 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress May 2015 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Dear All, I am pleased to confirm that Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd (TGS) continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Moving forward, we are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. We hope this document goes some way to demonstrate our progress with respect to the UN Global Compact’s guiding principles. As a company, we are constantly striving to achieve an exceptional level in all areas of our operations. We recently achieved the Investor in People Gold Award which is awarded to organizations demonstrating best practice in people management and development. TGS has also recently been awarded the prestigious ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System award. The ISO (International Organization of Standardization) award reflects the commitment that TGS gives to providing quality products and quality service to our clients. On behalf of TGS’s 120 employees, I reaffirm our commitment to compliance with the10 Principles of the Global Compact. Yours sincerely Kevin Jones Chief Executive Officer 2 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress May 2015 CORPORATE VALUES: The following are the Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) Ltd Corporate Values that provide the foundation for the organisation’s business principles: Integrity: Above all, we are committed to integrity in all that we do. Leaders: To be leaders in quality of service and client satisfaction is our main objective. To attain this we must all be committed, from the bottom to the top of the organisation. Teamwork: This remains the essence of our ability to succeed as a trusted preferred supplier to our clients. Our overriding loyalty is to the good of the whole organisation. We learn from each other and share our skills and resources across organisational boundaries for our clients' benefit and our own. We support the development of teams which in turn enhances our corporate image. Respect: We respect every individual not only our clients but the public in general, our own personnel and the environment. We draw strength from equal opportunity and diversity, at the same time supporting personal growth and development. We value and benefit from the entrepreneurial spirit of each individual. Professionalism: We are committed to the highest standards of professionalism, we are dynamic, we pursue innovation, we are open to new ideas and we act decisively and consistently. We are determined to deliver outstanding quality so that our relationships with our clients will be long lasting and close. 3 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress May 2015 Principle 1 and 2 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) Ltd is committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and demonstrating that we value the diversity of our workforce. The aim of our employment policy (detailed in last year’s COP) is to do our best not to unfairly discriminate against any job applicant or employee, when recruiting or at any time during employment, and in all cases only to consider factors which are relevant to someone’s ability to perform the job well. It is also the company’s responsibility to prevent anyone being treated unfairly, victimised or being harassed for any reason during employment, and the Company will take appropriate action when necessary to ensure all employee abide by this policy at all times. It’s our goal to create and maintain a fair company that gives everyone an equal chance to learn, work and live free from discrimination, harassment, bullying and prejudice Implementation All employees, and in particular Supervisors, Managers etc., have responsibilities to ensure the continuing success of the implementation of the Procedures by:• Refraining from harassment and discrimination • Bringing to the attention of Management any suspected practices in breach of this procedure • Ensuring that selection for promotion, training, work allocation etc., is carried out in a non-discriminatory manner • Working together to promote a harmonious working environment and eliminating discrimination and harassment. Results/Outcomes Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd has not been subject to any incidents, investigations or legal cases relating to Human Right abuses. We as a company are very committed to developing and investing in our people and this is reflected by our successful retention of the Investors in People (IiP) Gold award and Champion status in 2014/2015. A more realistic benchmark we can use to demonstrate how significant this achievement has been is: •Of the 25,000 organizations accredited by IiP, only 205 (0.8%) have achieved the Gold award to date and only 48 Companies have achieved Champion status in UK. •There are only six Investors in People Champions outside of the UK which includes TGS and we are the first Gibraltar company to attain this prestigious award. 4 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress May 2015 Principles 3-6 Labour Rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) Ltd supports and abides by ILO’s International Labour Standards, as such we refrain from doing business with any organization which is involved with forced or child labour. In every aspect of our business we follow the principles of Labour Rights and our strict Labour Policy covers the following: • Promoting a reputation for honesty, trust and excellence with employees, clients, contractors and suppliers. • Providing good employment and working conditions for all staff members. • Respecting the rights and dignity of every employee and treat them fairly and without discrimination. • Encouraging team working and the sharing of knowledge throughout the organisation.• • We give Health and Safety the highest priority. • Helping and supporting the communities where we are involved become better places to live and work. Implementation • We now have structured development programmes for employees at all levels of the company; these are reviewed on a quarterly basis by line managers. • We promote a healthy work/life balance, during summer 2014 we implemented summer hours for all staff, we also implemented flexible lunch breaks which allow staff to attend gym classes, the company also promotes gym membership and holds a corporate rate with a local gym, fees are deducted from salaries. • All of our Labour and Health and Safety Policies are updated yearly with the latest practices, we have also employed full time in-house Health and Safety Officer. • During the last 12 months the company has sent different staff on 38 job related courses, aimed at increasing their performance and future prospects. • We have recently launched our Talent Management Programme which encourages members of staff to come up with proposals for company improvements which are in line with our corporate values and guiding principles, the best proposals are implemented by the company. Results/Outcomes • Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) Ltd has not been involved with any investigation or legal cases relating to the contravention of UNGC Labour Rights principles. • The average staff members at TGS has been working at the company for over 10 Years, this is an exceptionally high number and demonstrates all of the above. 5 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress May 2015 Principles 7-9 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) Ltd recognises that virtually all the activities of an organisation or an individual have some impact on the environment. Our aim is to reduce the impact of our own organisation through a programme of continuous improvement. All departments follow closely the Group’s environmental policy which covers all aspects and operations of the group, the effectiveness of which is monitored closely by the company. The company’s goal is to reduce our CO2 emissions considerably during the next five years, through methods which I will detail below. One of our main goals is to obtain the ISO 14001 for all our Gibraltar companies and operations. We are well underway with this and are hoping to have all systems in place by October this year to obtain actual certification shortly thereafter. Implementation We have set up an Environmental Innovation team which consists of 8 members of staff who on a part-time basis are dedicated to designing and implementing new ideas which will reduce our Environmental impact, so far the following is being worked on:  All offices have changed to LED lighting; these should result in a notable reduction in electricity consumption which in turn reduces CO2.  We are looking into purchasing a cardboard and paper baler to facilitate recycling for example.  Donate our old but still operational I.T. machines to local schools to aid them in their learning.  Collection of tins and cardboards and disposing them in recycling bins.  Working to obtain a “Paperless office” where possible. Results/Outcomes With our LED lightbulb initiative we have reached a yearly saving of 40MT of CO2, an impressive amount. TGS continues to operate environmentally, including our workshops who correctly dispose of hazardous materials, and pass all tests in 2015. 6 Toyota Gibraltar Stockholdings Ltd Communication on Progress May 2015 Principle 10 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Toyota Gibraltar (Stockholdings) follows its Ethical Procurement policy which covers several key aspects including Corruption. We are compliant with the latest Bribary Act and refrain from participating in any corruption, bribery or extortion. We support the United Nations Convention against Corruption, and abide by all of its principles no matter which country we are operating in. Implementation As part of our Ethical Procurement policy, we follow the below guidelines:  Not to abuse position of authority for personal gain.  Declare any personal interest which may affect, or be seen by other to affect, impartiality or decision making.  Not to accept inducements or gifts other than items of small value, such as business diaries and calendars.  To always declare the offer or acceptance of hospitality and never allow hospitality to influence a business decision.  To ensure that the information given is accurate.  To respect the confidentiality of information received and not to use it for personal gain.  To strive for genuine, fair and transparent competition.  To remain impartial in all business dealings and not to be influenced by those with vested interests. Results/Outcomes Despite 20 years of selling vehicles to over 100 countries, TGS has never been involved in a single case relating to bribery or corruption, moving forward we expect and hope to keep it this way. 7
