Corporate Responsibility 2014 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility 2 Communication on Progress 2014 • Penguin Greens • Ausbau This is Bertelsmann aktivität • Penguin Marken www.p • Gruner Werbev • In Frank Advideu • G+J De Ausbau www.g • Arvato Dienstl TV and radio open up even the smallest room to the whole Books turn people into explorers. More books await readwide world. Turn on your set, and you will quickly come ers at Penguin Random House than anywhere else. With• Arvato across RTL Group. Europe's biggest broadcaster operates more than 15,000 new releases and over 700 million pub• Ausbau channels and stations in 13 countries and is leading conlications sold per year, Random House is the world's largtent producer. est trade book publisher. Türkei, www.a • Bevorst vergröß • Produkt schaft. Gruner + Jahr is the home of fascinating media brands Services are the key to success for many businesses. Every • Verabsc and is represented in more than 20 countries with over day Arvato, with its over 66,000 employees in more than 500 offers (magazines, websites, and digital media). In Ger35 countries, works on custom solutions for business cliKosten many, its range includes Stern, Brigitte, Geo, Capital, Gala ents from all over the world. and Schöner Wohnen. www.b • BMG s Talpa M • Ausbau für zwe • Digitala Printed products play a major role in many companies' At Group level, Bertelsmann operates the music company und Dir communications – whether as a magazine, catalog or BMG and, increasingly, education businesses. Funds that advertising brochure or with digital offerings. Be Printers invest in digital companies especially in the U.S., China, www.b covers the entire spectrum of the modern printing industry. India and Brazil, as well as the remaining book clubs, are also part of the Corporate division. in Mio. € 5) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Umsatz 1.174 1.199 – – – Operating EBIT 60 72 – – – Mitarbeiter (Anzahl) 6.380 7.068 – – – Bertelsmann Halbjahresfinanzbericht Januar– Juni 201 Communication on Progress 2014 3 Dear Reader, Bertelsmann is a global media and services company with the engagement of our working program in achieving the an increasing presence in the education market. Employdemands. This fiscal year we are focusing on the strateing more than 110,000 people in over 50 countries, we gic development of our corporate responsibility manageare aware of our particular responsibility to society. For ment, particularly regarding those issues most important decades, our Bertelsmann Essentials have included to our businesses and stakeholders. An overview of the social responsibility as a goal and fundamental value for latest corporate responsibility facts & figures, as well as our company's employees, executives and shareholders. news about sustainability projects and initiatives we're takWe act responsibly and with integrity in the content we ing internationally is updated daily and can be found on provide and as entrepreneurs – toward our employees, our website. I invite you to have a look on www.bertelspartners, society and the environment. mann.com/responsibility or contact us directly if you have any questions. As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact, Bertelsmann has been reporting on its implementation of Thank you for your interest and I'm looking forward to the Compact's ten principles since 2008. We are commityour comments! ted to working with our employees, customers and suppliers around the world in using sustainable approaches Yours sincerely, in the areas of labor standards, human rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Our companies' efforts are as diverse and international Dr. Thomas Rabe as Bertelsmann itself. This progress report documents Chairman and CEO of Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA 4 Communication on Progress 2014 Bertelsmann Essentials The Bertelsmann Essentials convey the goals and basic values of our company's employees, executives and shareholders and build on the Corporate Constitution. It is the responsibility of our executives to spread and epitomize these values and to serve as role models. The Bertelsmann Essentials reflect the common understanding of our corporate culture and are subject to constant review, revision and improvement. Our Mission Bertelsmann is an international media corporation. We provide information, entertainment and media services to inspire people's daily lives. We aspire to make a valuable contribution to society. We strive to be leaders in our markets and achieve returns on capital employed that guarantee growth and continuity of our corporation. Our joint efforts focus on creative content and customer relations. We seek to provide working conditions that are equitable and motivating for our employees. We commit ourselves to ensuring the continuity and ongoing progress of our corporation. Communication on Progress 2014 5 Our Core Values Partnership Creativity Our corporate culture is based on a mutually-benefiWe provide a home for artists, authors and creative talcial partnership between our employees and the coments in all of our fields of business, promoting their crepany. Motivated individuals who identify with the comative development and commercial success. We strive pany and its values are the driving force behind quality, for the protection of intellectual property on a worldefficiency, innovation, and growth within our corporation. wide basis. We promote artistic freedom and freedom of The hallmarks of our participatory leadership approach are thought, the protection of democracy and human rights mutual trust and respect as well as the principle of deleand the respect of traditions and cultural values. Congation of responsibilities. Our employees enjoy autonomy sequently, the content we provide reflects a wide range to the greatest extent possible. They receive comprehenof viewpoints and opinions. Continuous innovation and sive information and participate in decision making and improvement, guided by customer needs and interests, our financial success. We are committed to the profesare the cornerstones of our success. sional development of our employees and seek to provide longterm employment. Entrepreneurship Citizenship The principle of decentralization is at the heart of BertelsThe continuity and development of Bertelsmann as an mann's management philosophy. It enables our employindependent entity is ensured by the Bertelsmann Verees to act with flexibility, responsibility, efficiency, and waltungsgesellschaft's (Bertelsmann Management Comentrepreneurial freedom. Our operating businesses are pany) control of the majority of voting rights. In the view run by managers who act as entrepreneurs: They enjoy of our shareholders, the possession of property creates considerable independence and bear full responsibility an obligation to the community. They believe that, in a for the performance of their companies. Our executives market economy, a corporation derives its legitimacy act not only in the best interests of their individual busifrom making a valuable contribution to society. The work nesses, but are also committed to the interests of the of the Bertelsmann Stiftung – to which the majority of group as a whole. Bertelsmann shares has been contributed – is also guided by this principle. Our businesses are managed in accordance with the spirit and the letter of the law. They maintain high standards of ethical conduct and act responsibly toward society and the environment. Our Commitment We expect everyone at Bertelsmann to adhere to this mission and these core values. 6 Communication on Progress 2014 Corporate Responsibility 2014 – Highlights Strategic Development In 2014, the Bertelsmann Group Management Committee dealt with the topic of Corporate Responsibility twice. An internal stakeholder dialog jointly carried out with the divisions provided important input for this. Among other issues, education, freedom of the press, the protection of media users and customers, and ecological resource efficiency shaped the debate. In addition, the expansion of CR governance at Bertelsmann was advanced with the appointment of senior CR contacts in the Bertelsmann divisions. Transparency Bertelsmann's corporate website creates transparency regarding the responsible conduct of Bertelsmann and its companies. Since 2014, an interactive index in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has supported systematic navigation through the Group's profile and the company's social and environmental performance indicators. Beyond this, in the past business year alone, more than 200 corporate responsibility projects, initiatives and awards were communicated online. The information available online is supplemented by publications such as the annual Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact and the many different CR communication channels in the divisions. Communication on Progress 2014 7 The Challenge of Demographic Change Demographic change presents Bertelsmann with great challenges as well, especially in Germany. Against this background, the focus of diversity management in 2014 was to develop strategic measures such as age structure analyses. Pilots were initially run at the Bertelsmann Corporate Center in Gütersloh. The results are used to study the implications of demographic trends for HR policy, training, leadership, job design and health promotion. Ethics & Compliance Bertelsmann's Ethics & Compliance program is the logical continuation of a form of corporate governance that has grown and proven its worth over decades, and that gives great priority to matters of legal compliance and corporate responsibility. In particular, this program is based on a compliance organization, the monitoring of compliance risks, a code of conduct as a binding guideline for law-abiding behavior, training and communication measures building on this, and mechanisms for monitoring compliance with these standards. 8 Communication on Progress 2014 Our Corporate Responsibility Program CR Strategy and Management Goals Realized Measures (2014) Planned Measures (2015) Continued development ■ Bertelsmann Group Management ■ Develop management approaches of Bertelsmann's CR strategy Committee intensively addressed for material CR topics at Bertelsthe latest CR developments and mann based on a cross-divisional decided on next strategic steps inventory ■ Implemented a cross-divisional, ■ Have the Bertelsmann Group quantitative stakeholder survey as Management Committee adopt a component of Bertelsmann's goals and measures for material in-house CR materiality analysis CR topics ■ Developed division-specific CR materiality matrixes Expand Bertelsmann's CR governance ■ Nominated high-level CR contacts ■ Continue an interdisciplinary, in the divisions cross-divisional exchange on the ■ Expanded human resources (staff) Bertelsmann CR Council for Bertelsmann's environmental ■ Establish and expand crossmanagement divisional working groups to strategically develop and work on specific areas of action Expand CR reporting and ■ Published an interactive Bertels■ Update the interactive Bertelsmann communication mann online index in accordance online index in accordance with with the guidelines of the Global the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines ■ Continued to promote a cross■ Develop concept for and begin divisional understanding and implementation of the Bertelsmann awareness of CR using manageCR Report 2016 ment communications ■ Expand internal CR communications Communication on Progress 2014 9 Employee Responsibility Goals Realized Measures (2014) Planned Measures (2015) Promote the corporate culture of ■ Continued the online dialog for ■ Host a Corporate Works Council partnership / Promote participation direct communication between conference on 'Managing change – of staff in operations employees and CEO / CFO Shaping transformation together' ■ Hosted labor law training sessions ■ Provide basic training on employfor workers' representatives and ment law and advanced courses HR staff for workers' representatives as well ■ Initiatives to extend flexible as HR department staff working time models ■ Roll out lifetime working time accounts as a way for employees to have more flexible working hours Promote employee diversity ■ Organized a joint conference ■ Carry out pilot projects to analyze between top management and age structure in the divisions Corporate Works Councils on ■ Launch employee networks 'Demographic Change' ■ Launch the Bertelsmann Exchange ■ Carried out pilot projects to analyze Initiative for global employee the age structure at the Corporate exchange Center ■ Establish a mentoring program ■ Carried out the 'Sponsorship Project' to promote top young talent ■ Continued developing employee networks and an internal Bertelsmann Exchange Initiative ■ Introduced home office solutions at the Corporate Center Promote the integration of people ■ Employed a high number of ■ Host a conference for representawith disabilities persons with severe disabilities tives of persons with disabilities in Germany ■ Expand the Group Integration ■ Ongoing awareness-building Agreement adopted in 2012 among managers and staff in ■ Run a project in cooperation with handling people with disabilities the German Chamber of Crafts to promote vocational training for people with disabilities Promote employee participation and ■ Identified measures based on the ■ Follow up on measures taken after improve working conditions Employee Survey at divisional and the Employee Survey 2013 Group level, in accordance with the ■ Prepare the next international measures defined at company level Employee Survey in 2016 ■ Implemented Employee Surveydriven measures at all levels 10 Communication on Progress 2014 Employee Responsibility Goals Realized Measures (2014) Planned Measures (2015) Internal knowledge-building for ■ Promoted cross-divisional ■ Host an HR Summit in 2015 HR managers exchange between HR managers ■ Host regular HR Country Coordiin Germany, France, U.K., Spain, nation meetings and HR Circles to North America and Asia (HR promote cross-divisional exchange Country Coordination Meetings) within the HR community ■ Regular meetings of the divisions' ■ Promote Bertelsmann's staff Management Development staff development community ■ Prepared the concept for an ■ Run Ambassador trainings for the HR Summit in 2015 Learning Management System ■ Continued the Bertelsmann ■ Continue Bertelsmann Academy Academy's activities and expanded activities and expand the training the qualification program program Expand Group-wide health manage■ Continued working on selected ■ Host two cross-divisional Bertelsment activities health issues in five Group-wide mann Health Management workworking groups in Germany: shops in spring and fall 2015 1. Health as an issue for the ■ Further expand the management Executive Board, the Essentials of long-term health measures and management approaches ■ Further develop selected health 2. Minimum standards issues in five Group-wide working 3. Checklist on workplace safety groups in Germany 4. Evaluation ■ Launch a Germany-wide online 5. Information and communication health platform ■ Hosted two cross-divisional ■ Run a pilot project on health Bertelsmann Health Management management at another Group workshops in spring and fall 2014 company with a specified focus ■ Expanded the management of long-term health measures ■ Expanded Company Social Services' offerings to all German companies in the Group ■ Pilot project on health management at a Group company with selected focus ■ Pilot management training Communication on Progress 2014 11 Employee Responsibility Goals Realized Measures (2014) Planned Measures (2015) Training of young people ■ Ongoing offer of apprenticeships at ■ Clear commitment by Bertelsmann German companies in the Group to the dual-training ■ Increased the provision of dualprinciple by constantly providing degree programs at German apprenticeships at the German companies in the Group Group companies ■ Ongoing offer of dual-training ■ Constant supply and possibly program in Spain increased provision of dual-degree ■ Ongoing support of the Spanish programs at the German Group government's strategy to combat companies youth unemployment, by the ■ Continue the program You are Fundación Bertelsmann your future – a qualification program for young people who have tried in vain to secure an apprenticeship in the German training market ■ Ongoing offer of dual-training program in Spain ■ Support schools and vocational training centers in Spain in implementing a dual career guidance, with a guideline authored by Fundación Bertelsmann and a group of experts Improve access to opportunities ■ Continued the step-by-step, Group■ Complete the Germany-wide for continued training and promote wide introduction of the Learning rollout of the Learning Manageknowledge sharing Management System ment System ■ Promoted social learning and ■ Continue the international rollout of topic-driven collaboration by introthe Learning Management System ducing a Social Collaboration Tool ■ Contine promoting and using Social Learning and Social Collaboration Tools 12 Communication on Progress 2014 Compliance & Anti-Corruption Goals Realized Measures (2014) Planned Measures (2015) Promote awareness of key ■ Provided online and in-person ■ Continue online and in-person standards of business conduct training on Bertelsmann Code of training on the Code of Conduct at Conduct Group companies around the world ■ Followed up on results from the ■ Translate Code of Conduct tutorial employee survey on the Code of into additional languages Conduct Promote awareness of ■ Continued anti-corruption training ■ Continue anti-corruption training at anti-corruption standards for an extended group of employees Group companies around the world ■ Made available an Intranet-based and translate into additional Anti-Corruption Resource Center languages with information and tools to prevent corruption Effective compliance risk ■ Carried out annual Group-wide ■ Carry out the annual Group-wide management compliance risk analysis compliance risk analysis ■ Intensified integration of compliance risks with the Group's risk management process Effective incident handling ■ Updated policies and procedures ■ Roll-out, communication and for incident handling and conducttraining on the updated guidelines ing investigations and process descriptions for ■ Assessed and processed reported processing incidents and conductincidents ing investigations ■ Initiated corrective measures as ■ Ongoing analysis and processing required of reported incidents and initiation ■ Developed a case management of necessary corrective measures system for recording and process■ Put the updated Case Management ing incidents System into operation Communication on Progress 2014 13 Environmental Protection Goals Realized Measures (2014) Planned Measures (2015) Expand Group-wide reporting on ■ Reviewed and systematized the ■ Put the processes for Group-wide environmental and climate protection processes for Group-wide environmental data collection environmental data collection revised in 2014 into practice during current calculation of the carbon footprint Promote environmental awareness ■ Carried out incentive programs ■ Hold the 5th international and environmental knowledge (e.g. to encourage employees to “be green Day” in June 2015 of the staff bike to work) ■ Intensify cooperation between ■ Hosted a discussion evening on Bertelsmann's international sustainability as part of the “Green “be green” experts Sofa” series ■ Expand “be green” communications in various sections of the Bertelsmann Intranet and on the CR pages of the Bertelsmann homepage Increase energy and resource ■ Derived decentralized measures at ■ Develop a Group-wide working efficiency the sites based on the results of program for protecting the the carbon footprint environment and the climate ■ Adopted an action plan for the ■ Continue the Green Corporate Green Corporate Center project Center project and carry out in Gütersloh and started putting specific measures in the areas of measures into action employee mobility and employee communication Reduce CO2 emissions ■ CO2 limits on company cars in ■ Develop a climate strategy Germany (except G+J and RTL ■ Systematize and gradually expand Group) achieved average CO2 score carbon-offsetting measures of all new orders below 130g / km ■ Reduce average CO2 reference ■ Offset CO2 emissions from staff value below 120g / km for new travel with company cars, and air company cars ordered in Germany travel at the Corporate Center and (except G+J and RTL Group) other companies in Germany 14 Communication on Progress 2014 Corporate Responsibility online For more detailed information about how Bertelsmann meets its Corporate Responsibility, please visit our website at www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility In addition to current CR projects and initiatives from across the Bertelsmann world, you will find an interactive online index in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, containing key processes and indicators of our corporate responsibility efforts. Communication on Progress 2014 15 Contact and further information Corporate Responsibility Dr. Katharina Kerl Manager Corporate Responsibility responsibility@bertelsmann.com Further information Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA Carl-Bertelsmann-Straße 270 33311 Gütersloh, Germany Phone +49 (0) 52 41-80-0 Fax +49 (0) 52 41-80-623 21 www.bertelsmann.com info@bertelsmann.com
