SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 Our purpose We bring refreshment and sociability, improve livelihoods and help build local communities. We are in the beer and soft drinks We want: business. We bring refreshment and sociability to millions of people all over A thriving world where the world who enjoy our drinks. We incomes and quality of life do business in a way that improves are growing. livelihoods and helps build communities. A sociable world where our We are passionate about brewing and beers are developed, marketed, have a long tradition of craftsmanship, sold and consumed responsibly. making superb beer from high quality natural ingredients. We have more A resilient world where businesses, communities and than 200 local beers, from which we ecosystems share uninterrupted have carefully selected and nurtured access to safe, clean water. a range of special regional and global brands. A clean world where nothing goes to waste and emissions are We know that many of the communities dramatically lower. where we work face big challenges in their environments and societies, which A productive world where we share with them. We know that land is used responsibly; food when they prosper, so do we. supply is secure; biodiversity protected and crops can be That’s why we aim to create long-term accessed at reasonable prices. mutual benefit wherever we go. And why we’ve called our sustainable development ambition Prosper. Further information Contents For more detailed information about SABMiller 2015 performance highlights 2 please refer to our website Joint statement by the chairman of CARAC www.sabmiller.com and the Chief Executive 4 Our five shared imperatives 6 Key to further reading: A thriving world 8 Read more online A sociable world 12 A resilient world 16 Read more in the referenced report A clean world 20 A productive world 24 Valuing and empowering our people 28 SABMiller plc Our Approach to Tax 2015 Embedding Prosper across our business 32 PwC assurance statement 34 Boundary and scope of this report 36 Further reports and contacts Back cover SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 1 2015 performance highlights Visit our Sustainability US$6,367m Assessment Matrix (SAM) portal for further performance data, including detailed EBITA (20141: US$6,460m) information by country at US$26,288m www.sabmiller.com/sam Group net producer revenue2 (2014: US$26,719m) US$117m Annual savings through water and energy efficiency initiatives compared with 20103 63.8%ˆ Volume produced in breweries that have completed intensive water risk assessments (46ˆ breweries across 21 countries) 9.4ˆ kgCO2e/hl lager (2014: 10.3 kgCO2e/hl) 1 Restated. 2 Group net producer revenue (NPR) includes the attributable shares of associates’ and joint ventures’ net producer revenue of US$9,754 million (2014: US$10,015 million). 2 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 69,000 3.3ˆ 72% employees across more than 80 countries hl water/hl lager (2014: 3.5hl/hl) The proportion of group EBITA from developing markets 324m Hectolitres (hl) volume4 29.6%ˆ 89.6% 53.4% Reused or recycled Volume sold in returnable brewery waste bottles or kegs Female managers and executives 35% Absolute reduction in carbon emissions from on-site energy use between 2008 More than 100 tailored programmes to tackle locally and 2015 alcohol-related harm worldwide 3 Reflects cost savings on an annual basis, based on savings ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2015 has been actions initiated in 2010, and calculated using 2015 volumes, subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. exchange rates and energy prices. For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on pages 34 and 35. 4 Sales volumes include our equity accounted share of associates’ and joint ventures’ lager volumes. The lager production volume in the year for the operations included in this report is 179 million hectolitres. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 3 Joint statement by the chairman of CARAC and the Chief Executive Our progress and performance are overseen by the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee (CARAC) of the SABMiller board. drafting of the SDGs and we are committed to playing an active role in helping to achieve them. We welcome the focus on a broader sustainable development agenda within the new goals, particularly on the role of micro and small businesses in delivering sustained, inclusive growth and job creation. Read more at sustainabledevelopment.un.org Tackling shared risk to Dambisa Moyo Alan Clark unlock shared opportunity Chairman of CARAC Chief Executive Our new sustainable development strategy, Prosper, is aligned with many of the SDG themes. At SABMiller, our purpose is to bring refreshment Through five shared imperatives (pages 6 and 7) and sociability, improve livelihoods and help build we aim to tackle the issues that are most material local communities. for our business at a local and international level. We have a proud beer heritage. Our brewmasters We do not face these challenges alone, which is make beers our consumers love by truly why we call them shared imperatives. Prosper is understanding local tastes. That’s why we believe embedded in our business strategy and broadens the value in beer for us and our communities is our focus beyond the direct impact of our own local. We know that by helping the businesses in business to how we can drive change across our our value chains – and their local communities – value chain and beyond. We have set ambitious to grow, our business will grow too. targets and are committed to learn, listen and collaborate to shape, deliver and scale When they prosper, so do we. local solutions. Society faces many challenges to growth and Enabling small business to thrive prosperity that cross national borders, including Small businesses are critical to economies, climate change, water scarcity and access to to communities and to large businesses like good quality jobs. Business – with its global reach SABMiller. Across the world, we have direct and resources, links across the value chain, and buying or selling relationships with approximately its relationship with consumers – can and must 1.5 million small enterprises. Our long-term play its part in tackling these complex issues. growth is dependent on the ability of retailers, distributors, suppliers and farmers to survive, Later this year, the international community will grow and prosper with us. Through programmes define a new set of sustainable development goals such as 4e Path to Progress, run across six (SDGs) which, for the first time, will recognise the countries in Latin America, and Go Farming role of the private sector in addressing global in Africa, we are helping retailers and farmers challenges. SABMiller, alongside other progressive to thrive by facilitating access to skills, financial businesses, has sought to contribute to the services and technology. 4 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 Promoting moderate and Our soft drinks business is also critical in delivering responsible consumption Prosper: last year Azunosa, our sugarcane farming We will continue to play our part in addressing operation in Honduras, became the first producer the harmful effects of irresponsible drinking on in Central America to achieve certification from individuals, families, and society in all the countries Bonsucro®, the global organisation that promotes in which we operate. We believe our policies sustainable sugarcane. on employee behaviour, product innovation and marketing practices are among the most Aligning Prosper with comprehensive in the industry, and we aim to core commercial strategy reach all of our beer consumers with effective We believe strongly that if we are successful communication campaigns and partnerships to in putting Prosper at the heart of our business, encourage moderate and responsible consumption. we can secure our long-term success and make a sustainable and measurable difference to the Driving resource efficiency communities and ecosystems in which we operate. across our value chain Water is a vital ingredient in brewing. This year That is why all of our businesses have a role to we used an average of 3.3ˆ hectolitres (hl) of water play, from Australia to Zambia, and from supply to produce 1 hl of lager, surpassing our target to chain to sales, to deliver Prosper. This report reach 3.5 hl/hl by 2015. But we also act outside sets out our approach to tackling each of our five our breweries to tackle shared water risk: working shared imperatives, and how Prosper is integrated at scale in partnership with local stakeholders to into our business strategies at a global, regional secure shared water supplies. In absolute terms and local level. we reduced carbon emissions from on-site energy use by 35% between 2008 and 2015. Strengthening safety governance We are improving our safety governance and processes with new standards and monitoring. Our water and energy efficiency Everyone should be able to return home from initiatives generated savings work safely and we deeply regret that there of US$117m compared with 20101. were 29 fatalities in the year, the majority of which were caused by road traffic accidents. We are determined that we should take further action to Innovation in our agriculture crops tackle this as a top priority. For more information, The projected rise in the middle class from two see page 28. billion to five billion by 2030 – largely driven by developing markets – will put further pressure on natural resources2. We are driving innovation on barley varieties and farming practices. In Africa, we have pioneered the use of traditional crops, such as sorghum and cassava, in beer, creating 1 Reflects cost savings on an annual basis, based on savings new markets for small-scale subsistence farmers actions initiated in 2010, and calculated using 2015 volumes, who can now sell surplus crops, boosting their exchange rates and energy prices. income and food security. Through a new 2 Middle class is defined as having daily per capita spending of US$10 to US$100 in The emerging middle class in developing exchange programme, in partnership with the countries, Homi Kharas, OECD Development Centre Working Royal Society in London, we hope to identify, Paper No. 285, January 2010. nurture and grow local African scientific expertise ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2015 has been subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. to drive the next innovations in agriculture, For further details of the assurance provided see the renewable energy, water security and sanitation. independent assurance report on pages 34 and 35. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 5 Our five shared imperatives Our shared imperatives tackle the most material issues for our business. A thriving world A sociable world Shared opportunity We want a thriving world We want a sociable world where incomes and quality where our beers are developed, of life are growing marketed, sold and consumed responsibly Shared imperative We will accelerate growth We will endeavour to make and social development beer the natural choice through our value chains for the moderate and responsible drinker By 2020 our target is to • Directly support more than • Aim to reach all of our beer half a million small enterprises consumers with effective to enhance their business communication campaigns, growth and family livelihoods and partnerships to • Work with partners to measure encourage moderate and overall numbers of enterprises responsible beer consumption supported, income, job quality • Support responsible retail and employability, with a specific practices through industry-leading focus on women levels of retailer training and • Increase women’s representation engagement, targeting 340,000 within SABMiller at executive level small retailers in our value chain worldwide • Encourage and support the establishment and enforcement of clear standards for beer retail in the onand off-trade • Support programmes focused on road safety awareness and enforcement, including around drinking and driving, and reduce underage drinking • Build sustainable development messages into the brand activations of three brands in each market1 Read more See page 8 See page 12 1 Where we have a market share of 15% or more. 2 Against a 2010 base. 6 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 They give us global focus and alignment, while allowing local markets to respond to local needs. These imperatives are ‘shared’ because we can only tackle joint risks in partnership with those who also face them. By working together with local communities, suppliers, governments, consumers and beyond, we can develop shared opportunities to the benefit of all. A resilient world A clean world A productive world We want a resilient world We want a clean world where We want a productive world where our business, local nothing goes to waste and where land is used responsibly, communities and ecosystems emissions are dramatically lower food supply is secure, share uninterrupted access biodiversity is protected and to safe, clean water brewing crops can be accessed at reasonable prices We will secure shared water We will create value We will support responsible, resources for our business through reducing waste sustainable use of land for and local communities and carbon emissions brewing crops • Secure the water supplies we • Reduce the carbon footprint • Ensure the sourcing of our share with local communities per hectolitre of beer across crops measurably improves through partnerships to tackle our value chain by 25%2; both food security and shared water risks including a reduction by 50% resource productivity • Further reduce water use to 3.0 within our breweries, by 25% • Improve the amount of malting hectolitres of water per hectolitre across our packaging and by barley grown per hectare, while of beer and 1.8 hectolitres of 25% across our refrigeration reducing inputs such as water, water per hectolitre of soft drink carbon footprint energy and fertiliser, in key • Have programmes in place to • Source no new HFC-powered growing areas mitigate shared water risks for fridges • Improve productivity of other our key crop origins at risk • Focus on reducing emissions key brewing crops where we across our agricultural value have influence chain and distribution network • Improve food security for • Continue to divert a very high small-scale farmers who supply proportion of brewery waste us in developing markets by from landfill and create new helping them increase their value from waste incomes and food production • Achieve local sustainable sugarcane standards for all of our sugarcane See page 16 See page 20 See page 24 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 7 A thriving world We want a thriving world Businesses are an engine of job creation, market development and economic growth. where incomes and quality Yet in many communities we are part of, people of life are growing. – especially women – face the challenges of unemployment, lack of access to markets and sometimes basic services. The decisions we make can help shape their futures positively. We share with society the opportunity to build a thriving world where incomes and quality of life are growing. Therefore, we have a shared imperative to accelerate growth and social development through our value chains. Our businesses throughout the world provide direct and indirect employment, pay taxes, and help to sustain and develop local economies. In the year we generated US$24,299 million of economic value through our business activities, most of which was distributed to employees, shareholders, governments and local communities. Read more about the economic value of our business activities at www.sabmiller.com/economicvalue 8 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 Small business – big impact Small businesses are critical to the growth of economies, to the prosperity of communities and to the success of large businesses like SABMiller. According to the International Labour Organization, smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) account for two-thirds of all jobs worldwide1. In high-income countries, SMEs account for more than 60% of both employment and GDP. In low-income countries, while SMEs account for nearly 90% of employment they contribute less than 20% of GDP2. We have direct buying or selling relationships with more than 1.5 million small enterprises. The majority are family owned, with many run by Collaboration helps revive small pubs women. They include farmers growing ingredients in the Czech Republic for our beer, suppliers of other materials and To tackle declining beer sales as small pubs services, and distributors, wholesalers and struggle to compete, our Czech business, retailers who get our products to consumers. Plzen̆ský Prazdroj, developed an advice Small businesses play this key role despite and training package rolled-out across significant challenges that can include limited more than 550 employees in 200 pubs access to training, business advice, financial that has boosted food and beer purchases services and markets, and unsupportive per consumer by more than 10%. policies and regulations. We are committed to acting responsibly towards our small business partners, local communities and other people who work in our value chains, for example, by promoting and managing alcohol responsibility, human rights and labour and environmental standards. The jobs, incomes and tax revenues generated by these small businesses stimulate growth, reduce poverty and enable communities to access better healthcare, education and livelihoods. They play Bringing banking and financial know-how a critical role in bringing communities together to more than 5,000 small retailers and are an important source of local leadership. By using its scale and influence to introduce basic banking in rural Peruvian communities, our business, Backus, has transformed the way small retailers handle money – and increased sales and customer loyalty in the process. 1 International Labour Organization, International Labour Read more at Conference, 2015. www.sabmiller.com/beerandbanking 2 International Finance Corporation, IFC Jobs Study, 2013. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 9 A thriving world continued When these small businesses prosper, so do we. Across these initiatives there are three That is why we have committed to support more common themes: than half a million small businesses in our value chain to grow and improve their livelihoods by 1. aligning with our commercial strategy: 2020. Each of our operations is driving initiatives by making support for small businesses along its value chain to deliver against this target. integral to the way our local commercial Examples include: teams – such as sales and procurement – work, we can be more responsive to • India: our Saanjhi Unnati (Path to Progress) their needs; programme supports over 9,500 smallholder farmers to grow malting barley and access 2. understanding the small businesses in a new market, to increase yields and incomes our value chains, and facilitating access and improve environmental sustainability. to essentials for their success: by enabling It now provides 65% of SABMiller India’s access to training, advice, financial services barley supply; and technology, as well as new markets, so small businesses can improve their • Latin America: since its launch two years operations and financial skills as they grow ago, our 4e Path to Progress programme (see commentary, right); and has provided over 7,600 small retailers – tenderos – with business and leadership 3. collaborating with others: by joining forces training, in partnership with the Inter-American with organisations that share our goals, we can Development Bank (IADB) and FUNDES. deliver support more efficiently and at greater The programme is now being scaled up scale. For example, we have expanded our and broadened to include access to partnership with the IADB in Latin America to micro-finance and technology; focus on business and community leadership in six markets, and on measuring impact. • South Africa: about 70% of our beer and We are also working with CARE International soft drinks deliveries are carried out by owner to develop metrics to measure the impact drivers, many of whom have gone on to own of our programmes. more than one vehicle, through our Owner Driver programme; and • USA: MillerCoors actively engages with womanand minority-owned businesses as Programmes like 4e Path to well as 513 verified small businesses (as defined Progress are ground-breaking by the US Small Business Administration). Since 2008, cumulative spending with in terms of public-private diverse suppliers has totalled more than partnerships, impact and US$2,900 million. scalability. I hope to see it grow and many more like it.” Miguel Aldaz Lead Specialist, Office of Partnerships, Inter-American Development Bank 10 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 We need to take a regional approach in order to achieve scale and impact in a cost-effective way. We’ve carried out research in Poland, the Czech Republic, Italy and Romania to understand the real needs of small traders – the things that keep them awake at night, the pressures they are under, and how they think we can help. We’re now developing our response. We know that S mall businesses play a critically important role in economic growth and development. Across SABMiller’s top 13 markets, which span all five of small retailers are looking to us to help them with marketing and are open to better ways of attracting consumers into their premises. Above all, they our regions, there are about 40 million smalland want to know how to develop and improve their medium-sized enterprises that make up more than businesses. Working with retailers to improve their 90% of all businesses and employ upwards of capabilities will also build trust and strengthen 50% of the labour force. our relationship with them. We’re also looking at partnering with institutions, non-governmental In Europe, where economic recovery has been organisations and other companies involved sluggish, supporting small business is vital for driving in supporting small enterprises. economic growth. This is a top priority for SABMiller, particularly in the hospitality sector which employs If we are successful in putting the long-term 16.6 million people – one in 13 of all workers – and is success of small businesses at the heart of how where many young people find their first employment. we operate, we can create lasting value for them, and the lives of their families and communities, We have some exciting programmes under way. that goes far beyond beer. In the Czech Republic, for example, our business Plzen̆ský Prazdroj is helping small, on-trade retailers Sue Clark to improve their business capabilities (see case Managing Director, study, page 9). SABMiller Europe Our approach to taxation Our third Our Approach to Tax report is published US$1,273 million (2014: US$1,173 million), and alongside this report, sharing information on our our effective tax rate was 26.0% (2014: 26.0%). tax payments and principles. We were delighted that last year’s report was recognised in the 2014 Find out more about our tax payments and PwC Building Public Trust Awards as winner of principles in Our Approach to Tax report. the ‘Tax Reporting in the FTSE 100’ category. The total taxes borne and collected by SABMiller plc and its subsidiaries and our share of taxes paid by our US joint venture this year amounted to US$10,639 million (2014: US$10,750 million). These include excise, corporate and transactional taxes, and taxes borne by employees. Of this total, 71% was paid in developing countries. The corporate tax charge for the year was SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 11 A sociable world We want a sociable world Our six core principles about alcohol help to guide every decision we make. They are: where our beers are developed, marketed, sold 1. O ur beer adds to the enjoyment of life for the overwhelming majority of our consumers. and consumed responsibly. 2. W e care about the harmful effects of irresponsible Beer brings people together. It plays a part in alcohol consumption. celebrating memorable moments and is enjoyed 3. W e engage stakeholders and work collectively in different ways by an amazing diversity of with them to address irresponsible consumption. communities all around the world. 4. W e believe that alcohol consumption is for However, the harmful consumption of alcohol adults and is a matter of individual judgement remains an issue of significant concern – to and accountability. governments, society and SABMiller. The World 5. Information provided to consumers about alcohol Health Organization (WHO) has set a target consumption should be accurate and balanced. to reduce the harmful consumption of alcohol by 10% by 2025. We are committed to playing 6. W e expect our own employees to aspire to high our part in addressing the problem in all the levels of conduct in relation to alcohol consumption. countries in which we operate. 12 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 A robust system of governance We maintain a comprehensive set of policies – publicly available – to help our employees and partners to meet our demanding standards on producing and marketing our products in a way that encourages responsible consumption. Our Policy on Commercial Communication (POCC) governs how and where our brands are marketed. It was updated this year to include comprehensive digital guidelines to ensure leading standards for Beer, Wine and Spirits both our digital and traditional marketing practices. Producers’ Commitments The POCC incorporates the Beer, Wine and SABMiller is a signatory to the Beer, Wine Spirits Producers’ Commitments (left) and states and Spirits Producers’ Commitments. that we will not direct our marketing – including These align 13 global alcohol companies social media marketing – to those under the legal behind 10 commitments covering: drinking age, nor feature paid models below the responsible product innovation; age of 25 in any commercial communication. consumer information and marketing practices; enlisting retailers’ support to All our companies have a sales and marketing reduce harmful drinking; and reducing compliance committee (SMCC), which ensures underage drinking and drink-driving that any proposed marketing materials comply through partnerships. with the POCC, and with local laws and national self-regulatory requirements. The SMCC has This year, to improve the enforcement of the power to reject, or demand modifications to, legal drinking age regulations, SABMiller any materials that fail to comply. As at 31 March undertook over 10,000 stakeholder 2015 the SMCCs of more than half (57%) of our engagements with governments, law businesses involved non-industry participation, enforcement and health professionals. including independent chairs, or independent We also featured responsibility messaging audits on how the respective SMCC works. and a link to give consumers access to further information, such as Our Product Portfolio Policy sets out the www.talkingalcohol.com, on the minimum standards that all our products, packaging of over 70% of our brands. including acquired and new ones, must meet. It demonstrates our desire to lead the industry in Read the latest progress report at responsible product innovation by, for example, www.producerscommitments.org forbidding the addition of stimulants, such as caffeine, to any alcoholic beverages. As at 31 March 2015, 66% of our employees worldwide had participated in alcohol responsibility training within the past three years and local marketing agencies had joined training on responsible marketing practices at most of our local businesses (90%). SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 13 A sociable world continued Talkingalcohol.com gives consumers ingredient and nutrition information for each of our brands along with videos and fact sheets on responsible consumption and the effects of alcohol on the body. Now available in nine different languages, including a new site in Chinese, more than 580,000 people visited the site in the year, with over 1.4 million page views. YouDecide YouDecide encourages young South Africans Tackling the harmful to make positive choices and avoid drinking consumption of alcohol underage. Since it was introduced, the campaign We believe that sound principles for alcohol has reached more than 1,000 schools and more responsibility must be backed by action on than half a million students. Through its reality the ground. In the year we ran more than 100 TV series, Future Leaders, it showcases ordinary locally-tailored responsibility programmes across teenagers who are role models for others our business focused on important social issues struggling to do the right thing. such as road safety, responsible retail practices and preventing underage consumption of alcohol (see case studies). We collaborate with local partners – governments, NGOs, civil society groups, and public bodies such as the police – as we believe that responsibility programmes run in partnership with other organisations are more robust and credible, can engage more people, and are more likely to achieve the desired change. Prosper through our brands We believe that our brands should be a force for good. They can play a unique role in creating Respeta la Vía, Respeta la Vida consumer willingness to change and, by engaging In Panama, our business Cervecería Nacional with consumers around shared issues, our brands supports a road safety programme that aims can help to deliver social benefits. In the year to take a holistic approach to tackle all aspects we introduced a new target to build sustainable of driver behaviour. The Respeta la Vía, Respeta development messages into the activations of la Vida programme deals with topics such as three brands in each market. texting while driving, speeding, road infrastructure and vehicle safety, and drinking and driving. Working with brand teams in Colombia, It was created with, and endorsed by, the El Salvador, India, Poland and South Africa we Ministry of Transport, as part of the Ministry of developed a simple approach to help brand teams Health and WHO-endorsed Decade of Action find the right sustainable development theme for Road Safety 2011–2020. for their brand and its consumers. We tested the approach in Europe where we trained brand Read more about our alcohol responsibility teams across five markets on how to develop programmes at www.sabmiller.com/ and use a sustainable development theme. responsibilityprogrammes 14 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 In Australia – where research shows that 18 to 24-year-olds often feel under social pressure to drink to excess – the hard-hitting DrinkWise social media campaign, How to Drink Properly, speaks directly to this age group through a ‘classy’, relevant campaign to influence them to drink responsibly. The campaign aims to resonate with its target audience to make moderation the desirable choice. T he root causes of the harmful consumption of alcohol are complex and vary across countries and cultures. There is no simple solution. In the coming year, our corporate affairs community will focus on how we can engage consumers – through our brands, across the But we believe that by working in partnership industry and with our customers – to promote with others we can make a difference. We take moderate and responsible consumption as an evidence-based approach, building our an aspirational, positive choice. understanding of the issues market-by-market in order to take targeted action. We will endeavour to ensure beer is recognised for its positive contribution, bringing refreshment Across Latin America, for example, a study by and sociability to millions of consumers worldwide. FLACSO found that alcohol consumption is By taking an integrated approach to tackling typically skewed towards low frequency but high irresponsible consumption, working with intensity occasions. In response, we actively customers to promote responsible retailing, promote more moderate drinking occasions, offering innovative new products such as Aguila for example by pairing beer with food. This year, Cero, and partnering with government, the wider our Colombia business launched our first industry, academics and NGOs, we aim to Latin American non-alcoholic beer, Aguila Cero, address and help reduce harmful consumption. which offers consumers a refreshing, great-tasting non-alcoholic alternative to beer. It’s been well John Davidson received and is helping us tap into new occasions General Counsel and – at home with meals, in sports stadia that restrict Corporate Affairs Director, alcohol and out-of-home with meals. SABMiller plc Non-alcoholic beers The Czech Republic has the highest beer consumption per capita in the world. Our local non-alcoholic beer (NAB), Birell, offers consumers an alternative to alcoholic beer. Enjoyed on a variety of occasions and with a taste that appeals to beer lovers, Birell is the number one NAB in the Czech Republic, and is supported by the Czech police and Ministry of Transport, which actively promote NABs as a safe alternative for drivers. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 15 A resilient world We want a resilient world Water stress – that is, when demand for water outstrips supply or when water quality restricts where our business, local use – is holding back prosperity and growth. communities and ecosystems Tackling water stress can release untapped prosperity at every level, from rural and urban share uninterrupted access livelihoods through to the growth of businesses to safe, clean water. and of entire national economies. Water is key to prosperity and economic growth The supply of readily available fresh water is finite and in many watersheds quality is declining. Economic growth, driven largely by the middle class, combined with changing climatic conditions, will mean the number of people living in river basins under severe water stress will more than double between 2000 and 2050 and reach 3.9 billion people, or 43% of the global population1. If left unmanaged, water risks can negatively impact livelihoods and value chains, generating significant missed opportunities. Water risks are shared by us all and we need to play our part to ensure a reliable, clean supply of water, that is managed and used as efficiently as possible. 16 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 SABMiller has set two 2020 water targets: the first is to improve water efficiency in our own operations to reduce water use to 3.0 hectolitres (hl) of water per hl lager and 1.8 hl water per hl soft drink. The second is to look beyond our own operations to secure the water supplies we share with local communities through partnerships to tackle shared water risks. Using less water in our breweries and bottling plants In 2008 we set our breweries the target of reducing Less water, better beer, big savings water use by 25% by 2015. We surpassed this With breweries in diverse locations – from target this year, achieving an average water jungles to deserts to cities – improving efficiency ratio of 3.3 hl/hlˆ. In absolute terms, water efficiency by 25% between 2008 we used 592 million hlˆ of water to produce our and 2015 was a significant challenge. lager (2014: 621 million hl). We met this target a year early, largely by focusing on improving operational processes, and developing a ‘user pays’ principle that put a true dollar value on the water used by each part of the brewery. 3.3 hlˆ water to produce 1 hl lager, beating our target of 3.5 hl/hl Last year alone, we used 23 billion litres by 2015. less water than we would have at 2008 efficiencies, equivalent to saving enough water to fill Wembley stadium to the roof The more water efficient we are as we brew and 22 times. package beer, the less liquid we have to source and alternately heat, cool and treat – which Improving water efficiency has delivered means we need less energy. We will continue additional energy, chemical and effluent to reduce our water use and already 18 of our cost savings. The less water we use, breweries, across all five of our regions, meet or the less we have to pump, treat, heat, exceed our 2020 target, with our Yatala brewery cool and discharge. in Australia leading the group at 2.5 hl/hl. Water to lager ratio hl water/hl lager 4.3 4.2 4.0 3.7 3.5 3.3ˆ 1 OECD, Global Environmental Outlook to 2050. ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2015 has been subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on pages 34 and 35. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 17 A resilient world continued Understanding water risk SABMiller’s bespoke water risk assessment process (illustrated below) helps us to better understand the nature and extent of local water risk. 63.8%ˆ 46 breweries across 21 countries have completed intensive water risk assessments, covering AquaFunds 63.8% of our lager volumes. SABMiller and The Nature Conservancy (TNC) are working together in three countries across Latin America to build AquaFunds. These financial It gives us a detailed, watershed-level, site-by-site tools gather investments from water users and picture of our water exposure. The process is direct the funding towards conserving ecosystems now complete in 46 breweries across 21 countries, that filter and regulate water supply while providing covering 63.8%ˆ of lager production volumes. an effective model of payment for ecosystem services. In Colombia, the Bogota AquaFund Using this data our breweries are able to identify has funded 65 projects to date – eight of which and prioritise risks and develop and implement have been directly funded by our Bavaria business mitigation action plans. At a global level, the tool – resulting in 7,800 hectares being set aside gives us a stronger platform for further developing for conservation and protection; 1,255 hectares our successful partnerships with key local of intensive cattle ranching land being converted stakeholders. to environmentally friendly practices, and 554 springs being isolated and protected. We are now exploring opportunities to apply the model in Africa. Find out more about the AquaFunds in Colombia ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2015 has been at www.sabmiller.com/aquafunds subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on pages 34 and 35. An in-depth Baseline Annual risk assessment bespoke water and action planning risk assessment 1 2 approach Watershed assessment Water risk assessment • Detailed hydrological • Bespoke tool to analyse the probability mapping and severity of: • Overview of key − physical water risks stakeholders − quality risks − reputation risks relating to water resources − regulatory risks relating to water resources 18 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 Given the success of this approach in South Africa, we have funded a WRG partnership in Tanzania and are a leading WRG partner in India. But true partnerships are difficult to establish and hard to make work. Within our business, we need to encourage our A cross Africa, some of our breweries already face water supply challenges, from availability to quality. But water is more than an operational managers to look beyond tackling water stress solely within our operations to more collaborative external efforts. or even an environmental issue. Water scarcity limits prosperity and growth for thousands of Beyond SABMiller, we need to engage and communities worldwide. incentivise more effectively the many small businesses which operate alongside us, to Tackling the root causes of water stress will require encourage them to step up to the challenge and all sectors of society to work collaboratively and recognise that, although their individual impact at scale. is small, collectively they can make a material difference. And we need to work with others SABMiller has been investing in partnerships to ensure that the many initiatives in a given to secure water for our business growth and for watershed are joined up and working in a the water users around us. For example, in South cohesive manner. Africa we have taken a lead role in the ambitious public-private Strategic Water Partners Network, We are committed to ensuring that we achieve which is part of the Water Resources Group (WRG). solutions that benefit not only our own operations In collaboration with other partners, we have created but the community at large. We hope you will a platform for the government and the private sector join us. to work together to address a number of pressing water resource challenges. These include taking Mark Bowman practical action to tackle water use efficiency Managing Director, and infrastructure challenges. SABMiller Africa Putting plans into action 3 4 5 6 Stakeholder analysis Mitigation action plan Brewery efficiency Partnerships to • Identification and • Developed for each programmes mitigate water risk prioritisation of key prioritised risk • Initiatives in breweries • Collaboration to mitigate stakeholders in the • Signed off and to meet 3.0 hl/hl water shared water risks watershed to aid targeted resourced by facility efficiency target by 2020 engagement in mitigation management action plan development Over time, action plans reduce water risk SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 19 A clean world We want a clean world Climate change is a threat to local communities and to our business. Our brewery emissions and where nothing goes to the packaging and trade refrigeration of our beer waste and emissions all have a significant carbon footprint. Business practice and local economies need to move are dramatically lower. from one-way consumption to a more circular economic model based on reusing, recycling and eliminating waste. Brewing is a natural champion of this approach. Saving our planet, lifting people Reducing emissions out of poverty, advancing economic We are on track to achieve a 50% reduction in growth… these are one and the on-site greenhouse gas emissions from energy same fight. We must connect the use per hectolitre of lager from our breweries dots between climate change, water by 2020. This has been driven by clear and stretching targets at a brewery level, which scarcity, energy shortages, global have been benchmarked globally each month. health, food security and women’s Technology and innovation have played their part empowerment. Solutions to one but, without doubt, the most important factor problem must be solutions for all.” in improving resource efficiency has been our people, starting with our leaders, who have Ban Ki-moon created a culture of learning and improvement UN Secretary-General and driven exceptional operational standards. 20 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 Total energy consumption PJ ‘A list’ performer in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Carbon 24.0 24.4 23.1 22.9 Performance Leaders Index. 21.0 20.1 In the year ended 31 March 2015 fossil fuel emissions per hl of lager produced fell by 9%, with total CO2e emissions of 1.7 million tonnesˆ (2014: 1.8 million tonnes), of which 0.8 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 million tonnes were generated from our direct use of fuels such as natural gas, coal and oil (scope one) and 0.9 million tonnes were generated indirectly from the production of electricity and steam Total CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy we purchase (scope two). used on site million tonnes 2.4 2.4 2.2 2.0 35% 1.8 1.7ˆ Absolute reduction in carbon emissions from on-site energy use between 2008 and 2015. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Eliminating waste from the brewing process CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy used Moving towards a circular economy, based on on site kgCO2e/hl lager reusing, recycling and cutting waste, is key to 14.2 13.8 future economic growth, in the context of climate 12.4 11.1 change and resource constraints. Businesses – 10.3 9.4ˆ and economies – need to design out waste from manufacturing processes, reuse materials and switch to renewable energy. In designing a more circular value chain, we already 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 have a strong track record. About 99% of spent grain from our breweries is reused by farmers for animal feed or for renewable energy, creating value as well as preventing waste from being diverted to landfill. This year our breweries reused or recycled 89.6% of their general waste1. 1 During the year we changed the way we measure organic waste to measure dry-matter equivalent, which enables us to understand the actual mass of waste material that could otherwise be hidden by the moisture it absorbs during the brewing process. On a like-for-like basis, 96.0% of waste was reused or recycled (2014: 95.6%). ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2015 has been subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on pages 34 and 35. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 21 A clean world continued The value of Prosper – two supplier perspectives Packaging “As a leading global beverage can maker, Rexam Returnable bottles and kegs are much more has collaborated with SABMiller on measuring carbonand resource-efficient throughout their and disclosing greenhouse gas emissions lifecycle than cans, PET bottles or non-returnable since 2010. SABMiller’s new Prosper strategy glass bottles. offers further opportunities for us to work together, and we have matched its new 25% total carbon footprint reduction target with our own 2020 target to reduce direct and indirect carbon emissions per unit of production by 25% (against a 2010 baseline). 53.4% of our beer is sold in returnable “We can go further still, partnering on shared bottles or kegs. issues. We are exploring opportunities to work with SABMiller to tackle the informal waste sector in parts of Latin America where we have But modern consumers value the convenience mutual interests by supporting entrepreneurs of using disposable one-use containers and who collect and recycle aluminium. Like SABMiller, some retailers do not want the inconvenience of we operate in geographies that face water supporting a returnable system. In Europe, where scarcity, and we are keen to collaborate to better returnable bottles are in long-term decline in some understand and address shared water risks.” markets, SABMiller Europe is devising packaging solutions that meet changing consumer needs Graham Chipchase while reducing our environmental impact. A great Chief Executive, Rexam example is the delivery of tank beer to selected outlets, which as well as reducing energy and waste, delivers a unique product to consumers. Value chain carbon footprint % Agriculture 7% Malting and processing 9% Beer and soft drink 20% “As a leading glass supplier, we have been production inspired by the commitment of The South African Packaging materials 25% Breweries (Pty) Ltd to sustainability over many Distribution 19% years, partnering closely with us to maximise Trade refrigeration 18% the benefits of returnable beer bottles, including End of life 1% light-weighting the glass required to manufacture Other 1% new bottles. In addition, SAB is a key shareholder in The Glass Recycling Company, working with glass manufacturers and consumer goods companies to increase the recycled content of new beer bottles to more than 40%.” Michael Arnold Group Managing Director Consol Limited South Africa 22 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 Reducing brewery emissions is the first step, but production accounts for just a fifth of the total value chain carbon footprint of our beers. We must also partner with others to reduce carbon emissions. That’s why we’ve set a new 2020 target to reduce our total carbon footprint T he impacts of climate change are complex and far-reaching, from food security, energy constraints and water risk to human health. per hectolitre of beer across our value chain by 25% (against a 2010 baseline). Working with suppliers and retailers – sharing knowledge, Tackling climate change is increasingly recognised expertise and best practice across the entire as one of the most important challenges facing value chain – will yield major environmental the world today, and is critical for economic growth benefits for local communities, our business, and social development. and the value chain. We have a long track record of tackling our own Such collaboration also brings significant carbon emissions, and in the year we were listed cost and carbon savings. In the year we saved as an ‘A list’ performer in the Carbon Disclosure US$10 million1 by lightweighting material and Project’s Carbon Performance Leaders Index. reducing its associated embedded emissions from our packaging. Since 2010, our carbon In absolute terms, we reduced carbon emissions reduction efforts have reduced our packaging from on-site energy use by 35% between 2008 and materials carbon footprint by 11.5%. 2015. This has generated significant benefits for the environment and our business. Within our cost Tony van Kralingen savings programmes, we saved US$117 million Group Director of Integrated Supply in the year compared with 2010 from water & Human Resources, SABMiller plc and energy related initiatives1. Refrigeration Our consumers enjoy the refreshment of a cold reducing the energy consumption of older beer. But refrigeration can have harmful impacts fridges by up to 40%. This year we set a target on the environment, both through energy use – to purchase 100% HFC-free fridges by 2020 and typically 90% of the lifetime carbon footprint introduced a new policy that all new fridges must of a fridge – and the HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) be equipped with EMDs and LED lights, where used to cool them. HFCs are greenhouse gases available. In Europe, where regulation is driving with a global warming potential 1,400 times change, 75% of purchased fridges are HFC-free. greater than carbon dioxide. However, in Latin America and Africa, infrastructure and cost challenges mean this figure is close to Energy management devices (EMDs) and LED zero. We aim to learn from Europe to help scale lighting can substantially lower environmental HFC-free fridges in other regions in order to impact and energy use. We have been investing make them viable. In Latin America, for example, in these technologies in a number of markets, sales staff and trade customers receive training on how to create a ‘cold culture’. 1 Reflects cost savings on an annual basis, based on savings actions initiated in 2010, and calculated using 2015 volumes, exchange rates and energy prices. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 23 A productive world We want a productive Today, around a billion people already go hungry, and demand for food is growing. Our business world where land is used depends on the same, increasingly scarce land responsibly, food supply and water resources that local communities use for food crops. To ensure there remains enough to is secure, biodiversity is go around, we are developing secure, sustainable protected and brewing supplies of malting barley, our most important brewing crop, while fostering alternatives such crops can be accessed as sorghum and cassava in markets where at reasonable prices. small-scale farmers grow a surplus. Our efforts are helping farmers in developing and developed markets increase productivity and profitability while reducing environmental impact. This is a complex task. SABMiller sources from a very wide variety of suppliers. These include industrial-scale agri-processors with whom we have strategic sourcing agreements, large-scale commercial farms, and small-scale subsistence farmers with no prior experience of commercial markets and whose daily priority is to feed their family. We source locally where practical, though crops such as malting barley are niche and can be difficult to grow, making imports necessary in some markets. 24 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 Improving barley production Malting barley is the key ingredient at the heart of beer, and quality is fundamental. Growing barley locally rather than importing it can reduce costs, create local jobs and increase incomes. For farmers, it is a niche crop within crop rotation systems, providing a supplementary income between other harvests. To effectively support improvements in barley, we need to look beyond our own needs to the wider farming system that malting barley forms part of, to identify the Better Barley, Better Beer associated risks and opportunities. This helps In South Africa, The South African us understand the role we can play in enabling Breweries (Pty) Ltd’s agronomists farmers to reduce inputs such as nitrogen-based joined forces with WWF-SA to develop fertilisers, as well as outputs such as greenhouse guidelines for sustainable barley gas emissions. Water management is critical production, tackling issues from where barley is irrigated in water-stressed areas. productivity and biodiversity to risks, including bushfires and water scarcity. Find out more about how we are tackling water Three years on, the partnership is security on pages 16 to 19. now running a two-year pilot, working closely with 27 farmers to implement We are developing key performance indicators the guidelines and measure results (KPIs) for measuring progress, and starting to in more depth. The aim is to strengthen use the measurement process to engage farmers farmers’ businesses while protecting to improve quality, productivity and profit while the landscape. Buyers of the farmers’ limiting environmental impact. other crops, such as canola, are also involved, meaning farmers can work Improving other key brewing crops to a single standard. While malting barley remains our largest crop, cassava, maize, rice and sorghum are increasingly Find out more at important for producing affordable beers that www.sabmiller.com/betterbarley maximise opportunities for local farmers. In Africa, Our aim is that, by 2020, the way we source for example, few commercial markets exist for measurably improves both food security and cassava and sorghum, so most farmers grow resource productivity for all the crops we buy. them to feed their families. Creating markets for What we are trying to achieve sits outside our these crops by using them as brewing materials direct control, and requires close collaboration gives small-scale subsistence farmers an incentive with farmers and other partners. It can be hard to increase production, so they can sell the surplus to convince small-scale farmers to invest in the and boost their income and food security. Buying long term when they need to survive today. locally also enables us to save costs and support Even the larger farms we source from are often local farmers in regions unsuitable for growing still run as family businesses, and we must work malting barley. hard to understand their needs to ensure our initiatives succeed. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 25 A productive world continued Resource-efficient farming Through our sourcing relationships with farmers, we are in a privileged position to influence their use of land, water and energy to be more efficient. We help farmers who irrigate their fields do so more efficiently. We work with large-scale commercial farmers to improve the resource efficiency of their operations, and support smallholder farmers to improve cultivation practices so that they can increase yields Zambia replaces imported malt while adapting to changes in climate. with locally sourced crops In Zambia, within a few years of trialling barley Contributing to food security as a rotation crop with local commercial Alongside food production, incomes are key wheat farmers, our business has moved from to food security and nutrition, enabling people importing all its malting barley to sourcing it to buy more varied foodstuffs. Farming provides wholly from Zambia. And by making affordable, vital incomes for millions of people around the local beer, Eagle, from popular subsistence world. Where we support new cash markets crops such as sorghum, we are supporting for subsistence crops, such as sorghum and around 2,000 small-scale farmers. Through cassava, we work with smallholder farmers the use of cassava, we now plan to reach to improve both their yields and their incomes, up to 480 more farmers who currently have which in turn increases food security and nutrition no commercial market for their crop. for farmers, their families and communities. Watch to find out more about the role Progressing together with maize suppliers of brewing crops in food security at www.sabmiller.com/futureoffarming In Peru, our inclusive business model has brought together more than 400 small-scale farmers into two associations that trade Respecting land rights directly with our Peruvian business, Backus. As a business operating in much of the developing This newfound scale gives farmers access to world, access to land is highly significant. The UN credit. Teaching the farmers agricultural best Development Programme estimates that as much practice has improved productivity: yields as 90% of land in sub-Saharan Africa is untitled. are now 10% higher than for imported maize, making pricing competitive and increasing farmers’ net income per hectare by as much ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2015 has been subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. as 45% in 2014. For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on pages 34 and 35. 26 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 practical knowledge of sugarcane farming practices, placing us in a strong position to engage more effectively with other suppliers. We now need to set new expectations for our suppliers, revise our procurement policies, enter into long-term contracts and coinvest with value chain partners – as we have with A zunosa, our sugarcane farming operation in Honduras, makes us a supplier of sugar, as well as a customer. In November 2014 it became The Coca-Cola Company in Honduras – to improve the environmental and social impact of sugar production. We see Bonsucro® and the first producer in Central America to achieve other certifications as recognition of continuous certification from Bonsucro®, recognising the improvement in social, environmental and company’s efforts to improve its environmental economic standards rather than an end in itself. and social practices against challenging standards In South Africa, we are supporting the locally that include: water use, prevention of child labour developed SusFarms initiative to evolve it into and financial inclusion of smallholder farmers. a full system for verifying good practice. This is the first step towards our target to source To achieve real progress, and have an 100% of our sugar from sustainable sugarcane impact on the greater global challenges of sources by 2020 worldwide. During the year, 5.1%ˆ sustainable sugar production, engagement of our global sugar supply came from sustainable with all stakeholders is vital. Together, we sources. We expect this figure to rise to 14% in must be committed to making a difference the coming year. that not only minimises the environmental impact, but brings economic and social value It also represents a significant step towards for the communities to which we belong. sector transformation. Our experience at Azunosa demonstrates that sustainable practices Karl Lippert are viable for relatively smaller sugar operations President, in developing countries. It also provides us with SABMiller Latin America This lack of legal ownership leaves small-scale farmers at risk of having land sold from under them and reduces their ability to invest in their farms. As of October 2014, our supplier code of conduct requires suppliers to respect the land rights of people and communities in their supply chain and operations. We are building our understanding of how we can best support farmers to obtain legal land tenure. This can prevent future disputes and related supply disruptions, and encourage them to invest in more sustainable crops. Read more about sustainable sugar production in this Harvard Kennedy School and Business Fights Poverty report at www.sabmiller.com/bonsucro SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 27 Valuing and empowering our people Our success is driven by each of the 69,000 people we employ around the world. Taking action on health and safety Our aim is to reduce or eliminate risks of harm to our employees, contractors, visitors, customers, consumers and any others affected by our business. In 2014, we launched a new system of governance for groupwide health and safety. This enabled us to standardise reporting across the group, share best practice and target improvements. In 2015 we rolled out a new global health and safety programme, Safety Around Beverages, which sets out minimum standards to which all Road safety businesses should adhere. Middle-income countries have just half of the world’s vehicles but 80% of its road traffic It is with deep regret, however, that we report deaths1. With many of our employees on the 29 employee and contractor fatalities in the year road in these countries, we aim to minimise (2014: 15)2. Six of these resulted from accidents this risk. involving on-site maintenance or repairs, 15 followed motor vehicle accidents, and eight As challenges vary by country, we have resulted from robberies or assaults on our staff developed driver safety training programmes while on sales or trade visits. We have further tailored to specific local risks. In Africa, a new tightened reporting procedures to ensure that Respect the Road driver safety campaign trained all levels of management are aware of each of sales and distribution employees over five weeks these incidents. In each case we undertook an in such themes as vehicle inspection, pedestrian investigation and, where applicable, implemented awareness and driver attitude. It gave practical measures to reduce the likelihood of such an tips, from how to drive on gravel roads and incident recurring. understanding and managing blind spots to safe long-distance and bad weather driving. During the year we recorded 13,028 days lost through injury and 490 major injuries3. Road traffic Road safety is not an issue we can solve on accidents accounted for the majority of major our own. In Colombia, El Salvador, Panama injuries and fatalities, and road safety was identified and Peru we are part of Por un Buen Camino as a top priority worldwide (see case study, left). (For a safe journey) alliances, partnering with NGOs, government, and other businesses 1 WHO Global status report on road safety 2013. to improve road safety data and knowledge, 2 Includes one fatality in each of our Argentinian and Nigerian and promote behaviour changes and effective operations, which are not otherwise included in this report. law enforcement. 3 In the year we implemented new reporting guidelines including new standards for reporting major injuries, aligned with the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations (RIDDOR) guidelines. 28 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 Valuing diversity and equality Women represent 20.6% of our global workforce We believe that better business decisions come (2014: 19.7%) and 29.6%ˆ of our executives and from groups of competent, high-calibre individuals managers (2014: 28.4%). The executive committee with a mix of skills, experience and backgrounds. of nine people includes one woman. 20% of We have clear policies and processes in place SABMiller’s plc board are female – below the to ensure that we recruit and treat people fairly FTSE 100 average of 23.6%4 – although women and on merit, regardless of age, gender, sexual hold three of our eight independent non-executive orientation, religion, disability or ethnic origin. director posts (37.5%). SABMiller is a signatory of the UN Global Compact Trends vary by region. For example, our South and has an established approach to managing African business has the highest ratio of women human rights risks, taking account of the UN’s in leadership roles, while Europe has the highest Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Guiding business-wide gender representation but the Principles on Business and Human Rights. This biggest gulf between the percentage of female approach helps our local businesses to identify managers and that of female executives. We and mitigate any significant risks within their are therefore taking a regional approach to operations and value chains. strengthening gender diversity. We continue to support South Africa’s Broad-Based Developing and retaining talent Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) initiatives The global workforce is predicted to change aimed at growing the economy by including and dramatically over the next 20 years. The empowering previously disadvantaged citizens. consultancy McKinsey identifies two challenges More than three-quarters of The South African facing global organisations – a geographical Breweries (Pty) Ltd (SAB) workforce is drawn mismatch of skilled workers and job creation; from previously disadvantaged groups and 66% and a growing pool of underused talent, driven of its employees are black. SAB achieved 79.24 by an ageing workforce, women not accessing (2014: 75.25) in the last annual BBBEE verification, the labour market and high youth unemployment5. making it a level 3 contributor to BBBEE. We are responding in four ways: In an industry traditionally perceived as male dominated we are committed to improving gender • we continue to enhance our career support diversity, particularly among our leadership. Not for employees, including a focus on identifying only are women a vital source of talent in an the competencies and experiences required increasingly pressured talent pool, they are also to perform and grow in role, so it is easier to critical in ensuring our business reflects and align employee and business needs. We aim understands the needs of female consumers to offer appropriate and continuous career – a key growth segment. development opportunities to all our employees, whether in their current role or to prepare them for a new one. Everyone is encouraged to take ownership of their own development, supported by their manager; 4 Professional Boards Forum, BoardWatch, 2015. 5 McKinsey & Company, Help Wanted: The future of work in advanced economies, March 2012. ˆ Information for the year ended 31 March 2015 has been subject to limited assurance by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. For further details of the assurance provided see the independent assurance report on pages 34 and 35. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 29 Valuing and empowering our people continued • through our functional academies we offer consistent training worldwide to help employees develop the specialist skills they need to do their jobs. In the year ended 31 March 2015, we provided an average of 4.6 training days for every employee (2014: 3.9 days), using a variety of techniques, from virtual, digital LAGER learning to sessions facilitated by leading People perform better when they can be themselves educational institutions; at work. That’s why, in 2015, we launched LAGER (Lesbian and Gay + Everyone Respected), our UK • in 2014 we introduced a new framework to network for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender develop leaders across all levels and regions. employees and their allies. SABMiller is a Stonewall This aims to ensure that the talent needed to Global Diversity Champion and a corporate member provide tomorrow’s leaders is identified early of OUTstanding, the leading UK not-for-profit and properly nurtured. More than 50 graduate group focused on advancing LGBT rights trainees from finance, manufacturing, in the workplace. commercial and operations completed a year-long development programme aimed at Find out more at building foundation leadership skills. We also www.sabmiller.com/lgbt held our first managing director (MD) forum, bringing together all our MDs to discuss strategic challenges; and • we systematically manage the roles most critical to delivering our business strategy, and have a global succession pool – monitored by the group’s executive committee – in place for these roles, with candidates from all regions. In the year we filled 80% of these critical roles with internal candidates. Meaningful jobs in Latin America Across Latin America, our Meaningful Jobs Delivering business success initiative aims to ensure all our employees and through high performance contractors feel that they and their work matters. We recognise and reward strong performance. The initiative tracks – and, where necessary, Our performance management system provides takes follow-up action on – eight criteria, a framework for employees to set themselves ranging from understanding expectations and stretching individual goals. These goals are the suitability of tools and facilities to regular linked to business objectives. Bonus payments feedback and opportunities to learn and advance. and salary increases are linked to performance A complementary Meaningful Conversations against these goals, and calculated against programme has coached 3,500 leaders, at all a combination of individual achievement and levels, in effective communication. The region overall company performance. achieved a 91% ‘high engagement’ score in our first global employee opinion survey, outperforming fast-moving consumer goods companies and Latin America norms. 30 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 Listening and engaging with employees Our employees play a crucial role in our success. We respect the right to union representation and 42.8% of employees are union members (2014: 40.9%). Many of our businesses have developed productive partnerships with trade unions on collective bargaining and other issues. We regularly solicit employees’ views and listen to their ideas and this year we held our first global employee opinion survey. O ur suppliers are vitally important, both for our success and the development of the communities where we operate. SABMiller Procurement has committed to work only with suppliers that share our values. This commitment and our minimum requirements are explained 40,000+ colleagues took part in our first in our supplier code of conduct, which applies to all our suppliers. global employee opinion survey1. We are members of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX), and AIM-PROGRESS, a forum of leading consumer goods companies About 80% of respondents said they believe that aims to enable and promote responsible strongly in our strategic direction, are proud sourcing practices and sustainable supply chains. to work at SABMiller, and are willing to go the A total of 976 suppliers are now registered with extra mile to help the company succeed. Almost SEDEX, a 32% year-on-year increase. We lead 90% of respondents believe that they ‘clearly the AIM-PROGRESS Mutual Recognition understand the goals of their job’ and that they workstream, which seeks to reduce duplication ‘collaborate well within their teams’. However, in supplier assessments. In the year we collected only 64% of employees believe they ‘receive 276 ethical audits on our key suppliers and appropriate recognition for a job well done’. We directly commissioned 118 audits. By working with are implementing initiatives across the business our suppliers to reduce areas of non-compliance, to improve how we show appreciation for the we have helped 131 of them to improve hard work of our people. working conditions on their sites and to meet our standards. Under our supplier accreditation programme, key global suppliers have also signed up to the key provisions of our anti-bribery policy and provided insights into their efforts to eliminate bribery and corruption from their supply chains. Katharina Stenholm CEO, SABMiller Procurement 1 Joint venture companies, such as MillerCoors, did not take part in the survey, nor did the ABI soft drinks business in South Africa or our business in Vietnam. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 31 Embedding Prosper across our business By focusing on what matters locally alongside our global Prosper targets we are integrating sustainable development into our strategic thinking and business planning. Engaging and collaborating leaders from each function, such as marketing with stakeholders and sales, supply chain, human resources and At the launch of our new sustainable development legal. Through the forum we ensure resources (SD) strategy, Prosper, in July 2014, SABMiller’s and capabilities are in place to deliver our Prosper executive committee met with around 80 senior targets, approve policies, lead co-ordinated civil society, government and business activities, and manage potential trade-offs. representatives, who shared ideas on how best to put the strategy into practice. They challenged For a full list of Prosper Forum members go online at www.sabmiller.com/prosperforum SABMiller to be more visible in public policy debates where we have relevant experience and valuable local knowledge. We have since The Sustainable Development Way is at the heart contributed to high-level events on livelihoods, of our approach to SD, providing a consistent climate change and the link between water framework and focusing all of our operations’ security and prosperity – from delivering a keynote efforts and resource priorities. It is supported by speech at the The Economist World Water Summit a suite of policies and position papers, as well as and hosting an event on resilience at the UN guidelines, training and tools for building capability Climate Conference in Lima, to giving evidence and sharing best practice globally. Individual on implementing the new global sustainable operations are ultimately held accountable for development goals at a UN experts group. their own performance, which often forms part of our senior managers’ performance objectives Aligning sustainable development and remuneration. with business strategy This year, we focused on embedding Prosper Our businesses assess their own SD performance in the business; bringing it to life and making using a bespoke monitoring system, the it relevant for all our employees. Our country Sustainability Assessment Matrix (SAM). SAM managing directors used town hall meetings KPIs are based on measurable outputs – such as to launch Prosper in 29 markets, with external water efficiency, carbon emissions or employee stakeholder events in 18. Regular webinars and diversity – to assess performance towards our Yammer events have maintained momentum 2020 targets. This gives our local operations throughout the year. However, there is more to the data they need to inform their strategic do: in the coming year we will focus on instilling conversations and the reassurance that they Prosper in core business processes and ensure are tackling their most material SD issues. each market has a robust strategy to deliver our targets. SAM also assesses operations against global core standards for each of our five shared SD All parts of the business are responsible for imperatives. In certain areas new core standards Prosper. That is why we have introduced a new represent a recalibration of our expectations Prosper Forum, which meets four times a year. in terms of overall SD performance. All our It is chaired by SABMiller’s General Counsel and businesses are required to meet these standards Corporate Affairs Director and is attended by which, in many countries, far exceed local our regional corporate affairs directors and senior regulatory requirements. 32 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 Robust and transparent governance We have also reviewed our whistleblowing facilities Our SD performance is overseen by the over the course of the year, which provide all group corporate accountability and risk employees the opportunity to make confidential assurance committee (CARAC), a committee disclosures about suspected impropriety of the SABMiller plc board. The CARAC or wrongdoing. is chaired by Dambisa Moyo, one of our non-executive directors. Read more about our anti-corruption framework at www.sabmiller.com/anti-corruption For a full list of CARAC members see pages 52 and 53 of our Annual Report 2015 Each region has its own CARAC, chaired by the regional managing director, which meets twice a year to review local SD performance and discuss emerging issues. A typical agenda includes health and safety, an update on performance measured through SAM, a spotlight on a particular shared Sustainability Assessment Matrix (SAM) imperative, and detailed discussion on one or Our bespoke management system, the Sustainability more topical issues. Assessment Matrix (SAM) was updated this year to reflect Prosper, with every user receiving face-to-face Regional CARACs are attended by the regional training on the system and its new standards. corporate affairs director, as well as representatives from SABMiller plc including the General Counsel Visit our SAM portal for more detailed information on sustainability performance by country at and Corporate Affairs Director, the Sustainable www.sabmiller.com/sam Development Director, and the Policy, Public and Industry Affairs Director. The group CARAC is regularly updated on each region’s progress. Transparency and ethics We believe that high standards of ethical behaviour are fundamental to our long-term Mackay Awards future. We adopt a zero tolerance approach to The Mackay Awards, launched this year to honour bribery and corruption and we are a signatory our late chairman Graham Mackay, celebrate and to the UN Global Compact, committing ourselves share the best Prosper initiatives and innovations to universally accepted principles in the areas across the business. Entries have to demonstrate of human rights, labour, environment and both positive social and business impact. Winners anti-corruption. – to be announced in July – were selected by a judging panel of SABMiller’s Chief Executive, Reflecting the priority we give to transparency, Acting Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel we launched in the year a new webpage providing and Corporate Affairs Director, Chairman additional information about our anti-corruption Designate Jan du Plessis and non-executive framework. This resource includes links to some director Trevor Manuel, as well as Jane Nelson of the key documents setting out our framework, of the Harvard Kennedy School and Matias including our code of business conduct and ethics Bendersky of the Inter-American Development and the anti-bribery policy which supplements it, Bank. Winning programmes will be showcased at and describes our range of supporting policies, a workshop to explore how to replicate and scale procedures and guidance. them across the group and into our value chain. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 33 Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of SABMiller plc The Directors of SABMiller plc engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below and set out in SABMiller’s Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015. Our conclusion How the information is assessed Based on the procedures we have performed (“Reporting Criteria”) and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has We assessed the Selected Information using come to our attention that causes us to believe SABMiller’s SD Reporting Principles (“Reporting the Selected Information for the year ended Criteria”) dated June 2015 as set out at 31 March 2015 has not been prepared in all www.sabmiller.com/sdassurance2015a. material respects with the Reporting Criteria. Professional Standards This conclusion is to be read in the context of and Independence what we say in the remainder of our report. We have performed a limited assurance engagementb in accordance with ISAE 3000 What we are assuring – ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits (“Selected Information”) and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ The scope of our work was limited to assurance and, in respect of the CO2e emissions, ISAE 3410 over the information marked with the symbol ˆ – ‘Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas in the Sustainable Development (SD) Summary Emissions Statements’ issued by the IAASB Report 2015. The Selected Information and and ICAEW Code of Ethicsc. Reporting Criteria against which it was assessed are summarised below. Our assurance does not Understanding the Criteria extend to information in respect of earlier periods The Selected Information needs to be read and or to any other information in the Sustainable understood together with the Reporting Criteria, Development Summary Report 2015. which SABMiller is solely responsible for selecting and applying. The absence of a significant body of Selected Information established practice on which to draw to evaluate • total water consumption in lager production and measure non-financial information allows for (million hl); different, but acceptable, measurement techniques • water use to lager ratio (hl/hl lager); and can affect comparability between entities • total CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy and over time. used on site for the production of lager (million tonnes); Work done • CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy We are required to plan and perform our work in used on site for the production of lager ratio order to consider the risk of material misstatement (kgCO2e/hl lager); of the Selected Information. In doing so, we: • percentage of female managers/executives; • made enquiries of SABMiller’s management, • number of production facilities with completed including the SD team and those with Water Risk Assessments, and percentage responsibility for SD management and group of production volume covered; and SD reporting; • percentage of sugar sourced from sugarcane • evaluated the design of the key structures, meeting sustainable standards. systems, processes and controls for managing, 34 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 recording and reporting the Selected Our responsibilities Information. This included visiting 3 operating We are responsible for: companies out of 29 to perform walkthroughs • planning and performing the engagement on the indicators and obtaining supporting to obtain limited assurance about whether information. For a further 3 operating the Selected Information is free from material companies we performed desktop reviews, misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selected on the basis of their inherent risk and • forming an independent conclusion, based materiality to the group. Interviews were held on the procedures we have performed and supporting evidence was obtained to and the evidence we have obtained; and understand the key processes and controls • reporting our conclusion to the Directors for reporting operating company performance of SABMiller. data to the group SD team; • performed analytical reviews over all This report, including our conclusions, has been 29 operating companies in scope; prepared solely for the Directors of SABMiller as a • performed limited substantive testing on body in accordance with the agreement between a selective basis of the Selected Information us, to assist the Directors in reporting SABMiller’s at corporate head office and at 9 operating SD performance and activities. We permit companies to check that data had been this report to be disclosed in the Sustainable appropriately measured, recorded, collated Development Summary Report 2015 for the year and reported; and ended 31 March 2015, to assist the Directors • considered the disclosure and presentation in responding to their governance responsibilities of the Selected Information. by obtaining an independent assurance report in connection with the Selected Information. To the SABMiller’s responsibilities fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept SABMiller management is responsible for: or assume responsibility to anyone other than the • designing, implementing and maintaining Directors as a body and SABMiller for our work internal controls over information relevant to or this report except where terms are expressly the preparation of the Selected Information agreed between us in writing. that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, • establishing objective Reporting Criteria Chartered Accountants, London for preparing the Selected Information; 9 June 2015 • measuring and reporting the Selected a The maintenance and integrity of SABMiller’s website is the Information based on the Reporting Criteria; responsibility of the SABMiller management; the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, and accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes that • the content of the Sustainable Development may have occurred to the reported Selected Information or Summary Report 2015. Reporting Criteria when presented on SABMiller’s website. b A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to the risk The corporate accountability and risk assurance assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the committee of the board (CARAC) has reviewed assessed risks. the procedures established by management to c Our work is in accordance with the ICAEW Code of Ethics, which includes independence and other requirements founded prepare the Sustainable Development Summary on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional Report 2015, and the Chairman of the CARAC competence and due care, confidentiality and professional has reviewed that report on behalf of the board behaviour. We apply International Standard on Quality Control (UK & Ireland) 1 and accordingly maintain a comprehensive of directors of SABMiller. system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our work was carried out by an independent team with experience in sustainability reporting and assurance. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 35 Boundary and scope of this report This report covers the financial year ended We aim to include new acquisitions or 31 March 2015. Operations are included in market entries within two years. A full list this report on the basis of management control of the operations covered in this report by SABMiller entities. Our US joint venture, is provided below. MillerCoors LLC, is also included. Our economic interest in MillerCoors is reflected Where we hold a minority share in an alliance when reporting quantitative key sustainable or partnership, we engage with our partners development performance indicators. on sustainable development issues. Information on business partners can be found at www.sabmiller.com/managingsd Operating companies included in this report Many of our local operations publicly report their own sustainable development information: Australia CUB (Pty) Ltd Peru Unión de Cervecerías Botswana Kgalagadi Breweries (Pty) Ltd Peruanas Backus y Canary Islands Compañia Cervecera de Johnston SAA Canarias SA Poland Kompania Piwowarska SA Colombia Bavaria SA Romania Ursus Breweries SA Czech Republic Plzen̆ský Prazdroj as Slovakia Pivovary Topvar as Ecuador Cervecería Nacional (CN) SA South Africa The South African Breweries El Salvador Industrias La Constancia SA (Pty) Ltd de CV Swaziland Swaziland Beverages Ltd Ghana Accra Brewery Ltd Tanzania Tanzania Breweries Ltd Honduras Cervecería Hondureña SA The Netherlands Grolsche Bierbrouwerij de CV Nederland BV Hungary Dreher Sörgyárak Zrt Uganda Nile Breweries Ltd India SABMiller India Ltd USA MillerCoors LLC Italy Birra Peroni Srl Vietnam SABMiller Vietnam Lesotho Maluti Mountain Brewery Company Ltd (Pty) Ltd Zambia Zambian Breweries plc Malawi Chibuku Products Ltd Zimbabwe Delta Corporation Ltd Mozambique Cervejas de Moçambique SA Panama Cervecería Nacional SA Regular sustainable development report Information provided online Information on sustainable development in annual report 36 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This report FTSE4Good and Johannesburg Stock is structured using our Prosper commitments. Exchange Socially Responsible Investment To provide a common point of reference we have Index SABMiller is a member of the FTSE4Good also used the GRI 4th generation framework, and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Socially G4, as a secondary index. Responsible Investment Index (reflecting the listing of shares in both the UK and South Africa), Further information is available at as well as other relevant indices used by the www.sabmiller.com/sdreporting investment community. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) CDP SABMiller participates in the CDP Carbon, This document forms our progress report against Water and Supply Chain Disclosure Projects, the 10 principles of the UNGC and the UNGC which provide insight into the risks companies CEO Water Mandate. face in these areas. SABMiller is listed as an ‘A list’ Further information is available at performer in the CDP Carbon Performance www.sabmiller.com/sdreporting Leaders Index. UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Read our CDP reports at We support the MDGs and seek to make a www.cdp.net meaningful contribution to their achievement in the communities in which we operate. Please note This report contains certain forward-looking statements including The paper used in the report contains 75% recycled content, all those that relate to investments in socio-economic programmes, of which is sourced from de-inked post-consumer waste. All of the water management, the implementation of certain reuse and pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine-free process (ECF). recycling measures, local sourcing of agricultural raw materials Printed in the UK by CPI Colour, a CarbonNeutral® company. and expenditure at operational level. Such statements involve a Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the number of uncertainties because they relate to events and depend Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest on circumstances that will or may occur in the future. As a result, Stewardship Council® (FSC®) chain-of-custody certified. actual results may differ from those anticipated in this report depending on a wide range of factors, including, for example, Designed and produced by crop yields, consumer demand, excise duties and taxation policies, worldwide as well as local economic conditions, changes in laws and regulations and the development of new technology. This report deals with activities of group companies around the world. References in this report to ‘SABMiller’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer collectively to the group of operating companies. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015 37 Further reports and contacts The full online SABMiller sustainable development report includes additional information, performance data and case studies for each of our five shared imperatives, and reports on specific issues. 1 2 3 1 Annual Report Registered office For an overview of our markets and operations, SABMiller House and a regional perspective on sustainable Church Street West development issues and performance, Woking, Surrey, England GU21 6HS please refer to our annual report. Telephone +44 1483 264000 www.sabmiller.com/annualreport2015 Head office One Stanhope Gate 2 Our Approach to Tax report London, England W1K 1AF For an overview of our approach to tax, Telephone +44 20 7659 0100 please refer to Our Approach to Tax report. www.sabmiller.com/taxreport2015 Investor relations Telephone +44 20 7659 0100 3 Online investor.relations@sabmiller.com The full sustainable development report, Sustainable development this summary and more information about Telephone +44 1483 264134 our performance through the Sustainability sustainable.development@sabmiller.com Assessment Matrix (SAM) scorecards for our operations can be found online. SABMiller plc www.sabmiller.com/sdreport2015 (Registration No. 3528416)
