UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 About the Danish Agro group Danish Agro was founded in 1901, and is now one of the biggest and most important agriDanish Agro is an international agricultural business groups in Northern Europe. group, with over 3,500 employees in more than 15 countries, mainly in Scandinavia and We are an independent, cooperative comthe Baltic Region. pany, owned by approx. 12,000 Danish farmers. The group mainly operates within the sale of feed mixes, ingredients and vitamin mixes, The group is a member of industry trade fertiliser, crop protection, seeds and energy, organisations DAKOFO, the Danish Grain plus the purchase of crops from farmers. and Feed Trade Association, and the Danish Agriculture and Food Council. The group is also distributor of a number of strong farm machinery brands, and runs an extensive chain of hobby and leisure retail outlets. 2 Focus on sustainable development With regard to the environment, we focus on making as little impact as possible. DevelopWe are convinced that the sustainable develment and changes in the group’s production opment of society is dependent on producsystems plus the way we deal with ingreditive, competitive and efficient business. ents and waste products are always conducted with the environment in mind. Care for the environment and the community shall go hand-in-hand with the financial We also work hard to ensure that our supobjectives of the business. pliers have acceptable levels of care for the environment in their own production proCorporate social responsibility and care for cesses. the environment are therefore integrated into our commercial activities. When it comes to our own business practices, we oppose any form of corruption, Our initiatives within CSR focus on the areas including blackmail and bribery. relevant to the business, and in which we have expertise and know-how. Everyone We conduct our commercial activities in our business, society and the environment accordance with international, national and should benefit from the activities we are local laws and regulations relevant to our involved in. business. We take a proactive approach to social and Our trading on the world market is on the environmental responsibility throughout the basis of free competition and in accordance value chain based on the UN Global Comwith competition laws. Trade restrictions pact’s 10 principles. applied by the UN are always respected. Within social responsibility, we focus on a This is the first Progress Report from Danish personnel policy with the emphasis on safety Agro, and we look forward to continue worat work, training and a healthy working king with the Global Compact principles in environment. the years to come. We want to engage in constructive and innovative dialogue with our suppliers based on the principles of human and labour rights. This includes focus on health and the working environment, and we do not tolerate Christian Junker forced or child labour. CEO, Danish Agro 3 HUMAN RIGHTS The UN principles about social Candidate recommendations from the comresponsibility and sustainability mittee will be sent to members along with notification of the general meeting and regiThe business should onal meetings. The board believes that the above recommendations will bring a healthy 1. Support and respect the protection of element of dynamism to the board’s compoiinternationally-proclaimed human sition in the future. rights, and Danish Agro believes in diversity amongst 2. Make sure that it is not complicit in its employees including gender equality for human rights abuses. the Supervisory Board. We have therefore set a target of increasing the current mix to 15% female representation, equivalent to 1 person, over the next 4 years. This target will require that Danish Agro can Activities and results attract a higher proportion of women to the board than the representation of self-emploThe group’s support and respect for internayed female farmers. tional conventions on human rights are reflected internally, including by our HR policies, Consequently, a policy is being devised to and externally by the collaborative trading draft more women into the group’s manageand activities we engage in internationally. ment team. Danish Agro’s Supervisory Board worked on applying the recommendations of the Committee for Good Corporate Governance, Policies dated 6 May 2013, in 2014. ’Good Corporate Governance’ is a universal term for a number Danish Agro supports and respects internatiof actions and initiatives that form part of onally-recognised human rights throughout good management for large companies. its organisation. The board devised a proposed revision to the That means that we support and respect group’s Articles of Association on the basis international agreements on human rights. of the recommendations concerning the We do not accept forced labour and/or child appointment of freely-elected board memlabour, and respect the right of our emplobers and the setting up of a nominations yees as to choice of trade union and to take committee for screening and recommending part in collective wage bargaining. candidates for board positions at Danish Agro. We also observe relevant standards concerning working hours throughout the group. The objective is that certain competences Finally, we ensure that wages comply with rather than who best represents a given the law and industry standards in those region will be the decisive factor for election countries in which we are active. of such representatives. The nominations committee’s objective will be to identify candidates for the board based on predetermined criteria that meet the need for competences within the board at any given time. 4 LABOUR RIGHTS The UN principles about social Danish Agro created a two-year trainee proresponsibility and sustainability gramme in 2014, aimed at young people with an agricultural qualification interested in The business should selling to the wholesale sector. 3. Uphold the freedom of association and The objective is for 4-6 trainees to undertake the effective recognition of the right a customised course focusing on either pigs, to collective bargaining; cattle or arable farming, in which they get to explore every inch of the agribusiness indu4. Support the elimination of all forms stry. of forced and compulsory labour; The course will involve periods at the aca5. Support the effective abolition of demy and practical experience postings child labour; and with the parent company and subsidiaries, focusing on sales. The trainees will be given 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect an extensive insight into how a multinatiof employment and occupation. onal agribusiness group works, plus strong theoretical know-how to help them in their career. Activities and results Policies Danish Agro and several of the group’s We will provide an exciting, attractive, effeDanish companies are members of the GLS-A ctive and involving workplace for all group employer’s federation. Membership acts as employees. a guarantee for decent conditions for the company’s employees, via collective and local That means that we will provide a multifacewage agreements. ted and inclusive workplace, offering opportunity for everyone. We will provide space for We focused on implementing and integraour employees to progress in their job and ting the group’s overall HR policies througdevelop leaders able to inspire their personhout our subsidiaries in 2014 to ensure connel to achieve their best. sistency. We will persistently strive to ensure efficient During the year, we also focused strongly on working processes throughout the group. We job satisfaction in the workplace, performing offer competitive terms for our employees monthly HR surveys in which employees and focus on creating a safe, healthy working could provide anonymous feedback on their environment. level of job satisfaction via an online questionnaire. The questions they answered primaFinally, we offer working conditions that rily concerned stress, health, mood, creativity comply with the law, relevant guidelines and and efficiency. The surveys were actively used the standards of the UN Global Compact. by the HR team and management in general to promote job satisfaction. Danish Agro has a working environment committee tasked with ensuring the best Up to 400 employees pass through Danish conditions for our employees. The group also Agro’s own Group Academy per year on couhas a collaboration committee in which the rses covering everything from management management and employees are represento sales. The academy’s overall objective is to ted, to support job satisfaction and dialogue boost employee competences. within the group. 5 ENVIRONMENT The UN principles about social In partnership with the Danish Agriculture responsibility and sustainability and Food Council and several other Danish agricultural businesses, Danish Agro is part The business should of an agreement to ensure sustainable soya production in South America and Southeast 7. Support a precautionary approach to Asia. environmental challenges; The agreement lays down guidelines for 8. Undertake initiatives to promote international trading houses on ensuring the greater environmental responsibility; eradication of child labour and that soya proand duction is performed with responsible use of pesticides. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly We have also procured ’certified soya’, i.e. technologies. soya that is guaranteed to fulfil a number of production requirements. Intensive production of soya protein in South America and Southeast Asia can be detrimental to the environment and the local Activities and results population, and Danish Agro wants to help ensure more sustainable production. The Danish Agro group applies consistent focus to its impact on the environment. This is particularly true of the immediate area in which we are located. We focus strongly Policies on having the most efficient logistics setup possible, to reduce unnecessary transport by Danish Agro wants to reduce its impact on road and sea. the environment as much as possible, not least within the areas in which we are locaThe group is focusing generally on the ted. implementation of ISO 14001 Environmental Management Certification. Certification That means that we promote sustainable systematises planning, control and evaluaprocesses within the group, and are in contion of environmental improvements, and stant dialogue with stakeholders on environwill benefit the environment, customers and mental issues. the business. Customers will be guaranteed greater transparency for environmental We focus on saving energy and reducing conaspects of our production processes. sumption of materials by constantly monitoring and optimising the way we operate. Our subsidiary Vilomix, specialising in premix and vitamin production, achieved certiWe comply with all relevant legislation and fication in 2013. The parent company Danish requirements, and take a proactive approach Agro a.m.b.a. expects to achieve certification to the principles of the UN Global Compact. in 2015. 6 ANTI CORRUPTION The UN principles about social Activities and results responsibility and sustainability The Danish Agro group has a fixed set of The business should internal competition rules to be followed by all our employees at all times. 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and They are designed to ensure that our emplobribery. yees abide by the law in Denmark and the corresponding national laws in the countries in which we operate. The objective of such laws is to protect free enterprise in a healthy, competitive economy, which is the basis of Danish Agro a.m.b.a.’s business. Group international sales and delivery terms will be drafted in 2015, which will protect against and distance us from unethical business practices. All our employees are expected to comply with them. Danish Agro will not accept unethical business practices. Policies Integrity is in focus in every aspect of our business. That means that we set high standards of commercial ethics throughout the value chain and the group. We tackle dilemmas according to our values, and strive for transparency in our commercial decisions and practices. We abide by the law and adopt a proactive approach to the principles of sustainability in the UN Global Compact. 7 Danish Agro a.m.b.a. Køgevej • DK-4653 Karise • Denmark • Phone +45 72 15 80 00 mail@danishagro.dk • www.danishagro.dk
