UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 Statement of Continuous Support PT Trakindo Utama (Trakindo) recognizes the ten principles of the global compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Being a corporate citizen, we are fully aware on the importance of sustainable development and always take the commitment at the highest level. In our journey for more than forty years, Trakindo has set the program, implement substantive actions, monitor and evaluate the progress in our daily operational activities in line w ith the principles of global compact. In the areas of human rights and labour, our outstanding Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program have show n significant results and have been recognized nationally and globally. Our human capital or labor policies performs and comply in a manner consistent with expectations of national government and law. In the areas of environment and anti corruption, Trakindo has set the highest standard. Environment as part of Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) have always been of the utmost concern to us at Trakindo. Our standards have been applied to ensure the workplace is healthy, safe and clear from any pollution and environmental damage. Promoting and upholding integrity and accountability to the highest standard is our company’s endeavor without any exception. Trakindo believes that sustainability can be achieved should the four areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption is integrated at the heart of our company in doing business today. Jakarta, 15 July 2015 Bari Hamami President Director of PT Trakindo Utama For more than 40 years, Trakindo has experienced a rew arding journey to grow and become the customer services company w hich provides customers w ith w orld-class Caterpillar solutions and services. Corporate Citizenship Helping Prepare a Better Future for the Indonesian People Compassionate Education Environment Health Relief • Focus on people • Commitment to energy • Consistently maintain • Community development through conservation & pollution the w orkplace safety empow erment for education and good control, w ater and health of our people disaster survivors character building conservation and w aste • Program: HIV/AIDS • Program: in Aceh • Collaboration of management prevention in w orkplace, tsunami, Mentaw ai Trakindo’ s employees • Program: save w ater, blood donation, zero tsunami, Wasior flash and their families, save energy, save paper accident, one million flood, Merapi eruption. students and their campaign w ork-hour w ithout LTI parents and the local communities. • Program: Coop Program and 40 SDN Area 1: Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policies, Goals and Implementation that have been carried out in the area of Human rights: 1. Healthcare and Worker Social Security schemes In accordance w ith President Decree No. 12/2013, as amended by President Decree No. 111/2013, regarding Healthcare Insurance managed by the new ly established Healthcare and Social Security Agency Badan Penyelenggara Jaminan Sosial Kesehatan or “ BPJS Kesehatan” ), Trakindo participate and contribute to this healthcare scheme starting January 1, 2015. Along w ith the scheme, updated employee data began in October 2014. w omen w ork as a technician in 2. Foreign w orkers recruitment plan (Rencana Trakindo Penggunaan Tenaga Kerja Asing – RPTKA) Trakindo’ s foreign w orkers recruitment plan has been endorsed for field Mining industry, construction and trade. Area 1: Human rights 3. CSR in Education • To apply Trakindo mission: To set up an entity that creates w orthw hile and challenging job opportunities to as many Indonesians as possible and to contribute to national education system especially on “ Character Based Educational System” Trakindo conducts 2 main Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program w hich is Coop Program and 40 State Elementary School Program • Coop program aims to improve the competency of the heavy-equipment graduates and the readiness to cope w ith the needs of industry through a combination of classroom based education and practical w ork experience. It also aims to improve teacher technical competency in teaching and learning methodologies and handson skills; in order to create highly qualified heavyequipment graduates through numbers of Students on the job training technical trainings and On-the-Job Trainings • The program w as established in 1996 and has conducted in nine vocational schools and six polytechnics all over Indonesia. Area 1: Human rights 3. CSR in Education • 40 Elementary School Program aims to improve 40 state elementary schools as part of its contribution to help country in enhancement quality of educational in Indonesia. The educational program is spread throughout the Indonesian province of Aceh to Papua. • The Main program is enhancement quality of teachers by providing inservice teacher training, developing better and comprehensive curriculum (a child centered approach (CCA) training), comparative study for teachers and providing assistance in daily teaching and learning process Area 2 : Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policies, Goals and Implementation that have been carried out in the area of Labor by the Division of Human Capital (HC) during 2014, namely: 1. Leadership Development Program; A series of w orkshops conducted through collaboration betw een Learning and Development and users to build a learning roadmap in each function 2. Integrated Talent Management through Talent development programs, Assessment Center (AC),the Feedback Workshop, among others. 3. Core Values Socialization and Internalization through hard talk and forums. Area 2 : Labour Developing Professional Human Resources • Learning & Development • Learning and Development • Training Center In accordance w ith the commitment of Trakindo to develop human resources, Learning & Development at Human Capital Division has conducted various training and development of employees to ensure the development of capability and competence of the employees in order to conform w ith the latest developments of each function. Area 3: Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. POLICY AND ISO SHE policy w as revised in 2014. One point w as adopted from the latest environmental law s No 32 Year 2009. It stated about “ environmental protection” , w hich means that Trakindo show more supports to protect the environment. The Policy stated that PT Trakindo Utama committed to: 1. Comply all government regulations and other applicable requirements. 2. Create and increase SHE aw areness. 3. Implement, maintain and prioritize a high quality SHE System at all w ork areas. 4. Identify all hazards and effectively manage the associated risks. 5. Encourage all employees to take full responsibility for all SHE aspects w ithin their w ork areas. 6. Commit to prevent w ork-related injury and illness. 7. Ensure occupational health of all employees, including but not limited to HIV/AIDS prevention and management and abuse of narcotics and dangerous substances. 8. Effectively manage all environmental aspects and impacts throughout the w ork areas. 9. Ensure environmental protection and management at all w ork areas. 10. Provide coaching and training to all employees to make them support SHE system implementation as stated by the policy. 11, Ensure that the objectives of this policy are socialized to all employees, customers suppliers, visitors and other stakeholders. Area 3: Environment As part of the commitment on the Environmental aspect, Trakindo excelled the ISO 14001:2004 certification from several branches to a Single Entity Certification w hich covers all branches at the end of this year to the beginning of 2015. Environmental Campaign Trakindo supports environmental preservation and conduct some campaigns: Area 3: Environment Environmental Campaign Area 3: Environment Community Responsibility in environment Area 3: Environment Some Trakindo branches have been certified for Environmental Management System ISO 14001, a certification to preserve the environment in its operations. Area 4: Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The governance principles of Trakindo are based on Corporate Values, Indonesia Good Corporate Governance code of conduct (2006) and the practices in Indonesia. The governance in Trakindo is based on the principles of Transparency, Accountability, Responsibility, Independence and Fairness. The Responsibility for the implementation of risk management is attached to the management in each unit. To develop the sustainable and ideal system in an integrated enterprise risk management, the company established Risk Management Team, led by the Head of Internal Audit. This is to help the management in Uphold the highest standard in Good Corporate preparing the company' s risk management framew ork, Governance consolidating and reporting key risks by identification of process management risks, and in developing the competence of managing risk effectively and efficiently in accordance w ith the applicable standards. Thank You
