GRI REPORT 2014 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT suppliers and seek the best solutions to minimize the environmental impact of our activities. Our Shared Services Center, which includes the service divisions CCR Actua, CCR Engelog and CCR EngelogTec, has been essential for the success of our achievements, highlighting our high management capacity of people and engineering as an important competitive advantage. With the creation of the CCR Institute in 2014, which will manage investments in initiatives to promote sustainable development in our communities, and the inclusion of sustainability management in CCR Actua, making the theme pervade all of our concessionaires in a more agile manner, we have strengthened our commitment to the Global Compact, to respect for human rights, decent working conditions, environmental protection and the combat of corruption. After a decade and a half of existence, we are a significantly larger company than the one we created in 1999. In 2013, we made investments of about R$ 1,4 billion. Last year, we nearly doubled that amount and reached almost R$ 3 billion. In 2015, we should attain something close to R$ 4 billion. So we need that our employees to be even Renato Alves Vale, Director President more careful, creative and attentive in the conduct of our business. In 2014 we celebrated the 15th birthday of the Supported by ethical and transparent CCR Group, aware that the management of people management, respecting capital discipline and was, and will continue to be, the foundation of focused on creating value for investors, I am sure our business. To continue expanding and achieve that we will overcome the great challenges for our targets in all of the segments in which we our sector, achieve the ambitious goals we set operate, we must continue investing, primarily, in ourselves and present significant results, like those professionals with different profiles who are then in we have produced in the last 15 years. the right places to make the right decisions. In the coming years, we have the great challenge of implementing all of the new business Good reading, and making investments in the most appropriate way to meet the interests of users, concession Renato Vale authorities and investors. At the same time, we must contribute to the social and environmental Director President of the CCR Group development of the communities influenced by our assets. For this, we rely on our highly qualified teams to seek the best financing, develop engineering projects, evaluate and hire GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 3 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT In line with the best practices of communication The Global Compact principles are: DEFINITION OF MATERIAL MATTERS with the market and its stakeholders, the CCR Group publishes its ninth Annual and Sustainability Report HUMAN RIGHTS along with its financial statements and the disclosure 1. Businesses should support and respect the The definition of relevant matters for the Annual they affect relationships with key stakeholders. The of the 2014 year results. This document aims to deprotection of human rights recognized interand Sustainability Report was made through a objective of this study was to understand how the monstrate how the company performs the strategic nationally; systemic approach, based on the understanding Company relates to each of its publics, considering and integrated management of the economic, social 2. Ensure their non-participation in violations of that the existence of a successful company is the complexity of this dependence and the value and environmental aspects of its business, seeking to these rights. only possible in a successful society. And this, in creation process in its six forms of capital: financial, minimize risks and create value for shareholders and turn, can only develop in favorable and healthy social and relational, natural, manufactured, human society. WORK environmental conditions. As starting points, the and intellectual. 3. Businesses should support freedom of asfour sustainability principles proposed by The Focused on the brevity and assertiveness of the sociation and the effective recognition of the Natural Step were used. After surveying the matters and relationships information provided, the report contents were consright to collective bargaining; of the CCR Group, a consultation was performed tructed based on the definition of the most important Starting from an understanding of the systemic with each mapped relational public: community, 4. Eliminate all forms of forced or compulsory matters for the business of the CCR Group. These conditions of sustainability, the major ills of the suppliers, investors, press and media, user and work; aspects, which we call material matters, were idencurrent global system were mapped, taking into government. This consultation, together with a tified through an extensive process of analysis and 5. The effective abolition of child labor; account the main challenges in evidence that strategic risk analysis, allowed the visualization of consultation with stakeholders (read more in Mate6. Eliminate discrimination in employment. our society faces today, such as climate change, relationships and relevant matters to the business rials Matters Definition). biodiversity loss, a vulnerable economy, among and to stakeholders of the CCR Group. These ENVIRONMENT others. After the analysis of this global system, we matters are listed below: To structure the content of the Report, the CCR 7. Businesses should support a preventive apevaluated the specific system in which the CCR Group has adopted the guidelines of the International proach to environmental challenges; Group is active: the sectors of infrastructure and Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), the Global Re8. Develop initiatives to promote greater environurban mobility. For this work, the matters related to porting Initiative (GRI) and the principles of the Global mental responsibility; the sectors were highlighted, and especially how Compact. 9. Encourage the development and spread of environmentally friendly technologies. This report covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2014, and comprises the following the business units CCR Actua, CCR AutoBAn, CCR AGAINST CORRUPTION Barcas, CCR Corporativo (Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro 10. Businesses should work against corruption in and Brasília Corporate Offices), CCR Engelog, CCR all its forms, including extortion and bribery. EngelogTec, CCR NovaDutra, CCR Ponte, CCR RodoAnel, CCR RodoNorte, SAMM, CCR SPVias, CCR This report follows the guidelines of the GRI, ViaLagos, CCR ViaOeste and ViaQuatro. However, serving the G3.1 version for level A+, assured by third there was no significant change in the reporting proparty and submitted to Application Lever Service, cess and there was also no reformulation of informaand is available in Portuguese, English and Spanish tion from previous reports. in the Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 website. In addition to the online version, compatible with Additionally, where relevant, the index presents tablets and smartphones, the report is also available information on the implementation of commitments in a complete version in PDF for download. made in the Global Compact, of which the CCR Group has been a signatory since 2011. The CCR Group is open to questions, comments and suggestions on the document through its email sustentabilidade@grupoccr.com.br 4 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 5 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT CONSOLIDATION OF RELEVANT MATTERS MATERIAL MATTERS Mobility, Transport and Service CAPITAIS: Reliability and Accessibility Natural Financial Manufactured Intellectual Human Social Urban Mobility (congestion, flowing) Access to capital Mobility; transportation and service Waste (loans / investments) (Congestion) Generation and Disposal Greenhouse Gas Emissions Corporate Responsibility of waste Emission Management Governance (Transparency) Supplier evaluation Climate change (greenhouse gas emissions) Waste Management Emission Compensation Ethical Conduct (Prevention of Corruption and (carbon credits) Conflicts of Interest) Ethical conduct at work Occupation, use and conservation of soils Responsible Investment Practices Energy Management and Consumption Reliability/reputation Responsible investment practices of Energy Efficiency initiatives Water consumption Labor practices Energy consumption Quality of service Health and Safety Water Road Safety (Accidents) Consumption of materials Resettlement and displacement Management and Consumption Occupational Health of Water Governance (Transparency) Corruption and conflict of interest Compensation and benefits for the internal public Efficiency initiatives Exemption from public services Corporate responsibility Lack of supervision Noise Biodiversity management Health and safety Waste management Transparency Corporate governance Internal training and capacity building Aesthetic and visual impact Use of more efficient technologies Infrastructure and resources Real estate valuation Interface with other transport Vibration Interference in public health To prioritize relations and the most important Demand criteria refer to the level of demand matters for the CCR Group, the following filters for each relationship and theme to be considered. were used: value drivers of sustainability; demand Legal requirements were considered as criteria; analysis of the relevance of the matters. formalized by laws and codes; impending legal The sustainability value drivers relate to the value requirements laws and rules that are about creation process in the theme, including risk, to be enacted and, finally, major issues facing reputation and efficiency. The present risk refers to society social license to operate matters that legal compliance, regulations for the organization are relevant today for the environment in which the and the monitoring of such companies. Reputation Company operates. has to do with how stakeholders perceive the value generated by the Company. Meanwhile, However, the relevance analysis considers both efficiency is related to productivity initiatives, the scope, i.e., local, regional and global levels, changes and process optimization and innovation. and impact related to the magnitude of risk to health and life. At the end of the process, priority was given to the following matters considered essential to the value creation process for the CCR Group and its key stakeholders: 6 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 7 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT BUSINESS MODEL CAPITAL: The materiality study allowed the CCR Group to construct a map of relations and values for the six Financial Manufactured Intellectual Human Social Natural forms of capital: financial, manufactured, human, intellectual, social and relational and natural. These capitals are interdependent and the exchange between them is illustrated in the image below. 1 Community 3 Public authority 5 User (of light and heavy vehicles, STAKEHOLDERS: passengers and customers) 2 Investors 4 Press and media MAP OF RELATIONSHIP AND VALUES IN THE SIX CAPITALS 6 Suppliers STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS WITH SHARED VALUE WITH SHARED VALUE 1 Employees 2 Shareholders 1 University partners 2 Investors 1 Researchers STAKEHOLDERS GENERATING 2 Financiers STAKEHOLDERS IMPACTED BY 2 Shareholders 5 Users POSITIVE AND/OR NEGATIVE 2 Investors POSITIVE AND/OR NEGATIVE EXTERNALITIES 2 Financiers EXTERNALITIES 3 Governments 3 Regulatory agencies 4 Public Relations 3 Granting powers 4 Communication agencies 6 Equipment suppliers 6 Suppliers in general 6 Product suppliers 6 Works suppliers 3 Grantors powers 6 Fuel suppliers 3 Governments 1 Neighboring 1 Neighboring 3 Regulatory 5 Users companies communities agencies 1 Local 1 University partners community 1 Researchers 1 University partners 1 Sector certification 1 Consulting firms 1 Employees 4 Media 1 UN 1 Universities institutions 1 Center of Highway Research 2 Financial 2 Financial Market market 3 Governments 1 ABCR (1) 3 Regulatory 3 Governments agencies 1 ONGs 1 Universities 1 Global 1 Competitors/New 3 Ministries community entrants 1 1 University partners University partners New entrants/ 1 substitutes 1 Trainee programs Employees 1 1 Group companies Class Associations 1 Political 1 Parties 4 Media in 1 Recruitment agencies 1 Real estate 1 Consulting firms 1 Business general owners owners 1 Employees 4 Specialized Class Associations media 1 1 University partners 1 University partners 2 Investors 1 BM&FBovespa 3 Government 1 Unions 4 Communication agencies 4 Communication agencies 5 Usuers 4 Public Relations 6 Suppliers in general 6 Social Project providers 1 Employees 1 University partners 3 Regulatory agencies 2 Investors 6 Water suppliers 3 Government 6 Energy suppliers 4 Communication agencies 6 Suppliers of Natural Resources 5 Users 6 Suppliers of environmental projects 6 Suppliers in general (1) Brazilian Association of Highway Concessionaires MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT PROFILE INDICATORS PROFILE INDICATORS GLOBAL COMPACT GLOBAL COMPACT DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED PRINCIPLES DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED PRINCIPLES 1.1 Message from the President Core Fully 2.10 Awards and certifications Core Fully See “Message from the President”, p. 3. In 2014, for the second time in a row, CCR Group was considered the most sustainable company of the infrastructure sector by Guia Exame Sustentabilidade. Additionally, several highways were appointed as the best of the country by CNT Survey (Confederação Nacional do Transporte National Transportation Confederation). For more information, see indicator PR5, p. 26. 1.2 Impacts, risks, and opportunities Core Fully See “Message from the President“, p. 3. and visit “Legal Notes and Risk Factor” at: http://ri.ccr.com.br/grupoccr/web/conteudo_ 3.1 Reporting period Core Fully pt.asp?idioma=0&conta=28&tipo=47180 See “About this Report”, p.4. 2.1 Name of the organization Core Fully CCR Group For more information about the CCR Group, visit: http://www.grupoccr.com.br/grupo/sobre-o-grupo 3.2 Previous report Core Fully The previous report was published in 2013 For more information, visit 2.2 Brands, products, and/or services Core Fully http://www.grupoccr.com.br/ri2013/home/downloads/CCR_SUST_Relatorio_GRI_CCR_2013-pt_br_v2.pdf See Attachment “Map of Shareholders”, p. 28 and “Operations Map”, p. 30 For more information, visit: “Annual and Sustainabilty Report 2014” at: http://www.grupoccr.com.br/ri2014/concessoes.html 3.3 Reporting cycle Core Fully See “About this Report”, p.4. 2.3 Operational structure Core Fully See Attachment “Companies of the CCR Group”, p. 29, “Map of Shareholders”, p. 28, “Operations Map”, p. 30, “Group size”, p. 35 For more 3.4 Contact information Core Fully information, visit “Annual and Sustainabilty Report 201 4” at: http://www.grupoccr.com.br/ri2014/concessoes.html See “About this Report”, p. 4, and “Talk to Us” at: http://www.grupoccr.com.br/contato 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Core Fully 3.5 Process for defining report content Core Fully CCR Group’s corporate headquarters is located in the city of Sao Paulo, SP – Brazil For more information about the CCR Group, visit See “About this Report”, p.4. “Talk to IR”: http://ri.ccr.com.br/grupoccr/web/conteudo_pt.asp?idioma=0&conta=28&tipo=47183 3.6 Boundary of the report Core Fully 2.5 Geographic presence Core Fully See “About this Report”, p.4. CCR Group, in addition to its operations across Brazil, has international operations in four countries: Costa Rica, Curaçao (Dutch Antilles), Ecuador and Netherland. For more information, see attachment: “Operations Map”, p. 30, visit: http://ri.ccr.com.br/grupoccr/web/conteudo_ pt.asp?idioma=0&conta=28&tipo=47147&id=176252. 3.7 Scope of the report Core Fully See “About this Report”, p.4. 2.6 Legal form Core Fully The CCR Group is a publicly traded company. 3.8 Basis for the development of the report Core Fully In 2002, it was the first company to enter Novo Mercado, the most demanding segment of the Sao Paulo Stock Exchange BM&FBovespa. See “About this Report”, p.4. 2.7 Markets served Core Fully 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculation basis Core Fully See Attachment “Companies of the CCR Group”, p. 29, “Operations Map”, p. 30, “Group size”, p. 35. See “About this Report” Data measurement techniques and the calculation basis are described in their respective indicators. 2.8 Scale of the organization Core Fully 3.10 Re-statement of information Core Fully See Attachment “Companies of the CCR Group”, p. 29, “Map of Shareholders”, p. 28, “Operations Map”, p. 30, “Group size”, p. 35, There have been no significant changes over previous reporting periods. Attachment EC1, p. 36 and Attachment LA1, p. 48. 2.9 Changes during the reporting period Core Fully 3.11 Significant changes Core Fully In 2014, there were no changes associated with shareholding structure of the CCR Group. Nevertheless, the size of the Group increased as a There have been no significant changes over previous reporting periods. result of new businesses. For more information about new businesses, visit ‘’Perfil Corporativo e Histórico’’ at http://ri.ccr.com.br/grupoccr/ web/conteudo_pt.asp?idioma=0&conta=28&tipo=47147#2 10 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 11 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT PROFILE INDICATORS PROFILE INDICATORS DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLES 3.12 GRI Summary Core Fully 4.7 Qualifications of board members Core Fully See “GRI Table of Contents” at: http://www.grupoccr.com.br/ri2014/pdf/gri.pdf CCR’s senior management is composed of: • BOARD OF DIRECTORS: It is responsible for defining general strategic policies and, among other attributions, for establishing general policies and guidelines and for electing and overseeing its management. • EXECUTIVE BOARD: It is responsible for the daily administrative routines of the company. Its members are elected by the Board of Directors 3.13 External assurance Core Fully for a two-year term and are eligible for re-election. See “About this Report”, p.4. • SUPERVISORY BOARD: It is responsible for analyzing the processes of the company. It is temporary and is composed of three effective members and their respective alternates. • SIX COMMITTEES: Audit, Strategy and Sustainability, Finance, Governance, New Businesses, and Human Resources. These committees are 4.1 Governance structure Core Fully responsible for assessing the proposals that are submitted by the Executive Board and that depend on the approval of the Board of Directors. The committee teams are composed of a representant of each controlling shareholder, who is also a Board member. The Audit and Finance The CCR Group has an administrative framework in the corporate center and in the business units. In the corporate area, the Board of Directors Committees have an independent Board. To learn more, visit: http://ri.ccr.com.br/grupoccr/web/conteudo_pt.asp?idioma=0&conta=28&ti is responsible for defining general strategic policies and, among other attributions, for establishing policies and guidelines and for electing po=47156 and http://ri.ccr.com.br/grupoccr/web/conteudo_pt.asp?idioma=0&conta=28&tipo=47151 and overseeing the management of the company’s directors. In turn, the Executive Board follows the guidelines established by the Board of Directors in the daily activities of the organization. The main attributions of the Audit, Governance, Strategy and Sustainability, New Business, Finance, and Human Resource committees are the in-depth analysis of matters from their areas and the preparation of expert opinions, to support the decisions of the Board. There is also a temporary Supervisory Board, which is responsible for managing business units and is 4.8 Values, Codes, and external principles Core Fully composed of an executive board and a board of directors, whose members are appointed by shareholders. inspecting the processes of the Beliefs Group. Each of the business units is formed by a board and committees, which report directly to the corporate bodies and are formed t by We believe in the importance of the partnership between the private sector (entrepreneurs, investors, financiers) and the government for the shareholders. The Engelog, EngelogTec, and Actua divisions operate mainly in the provision of services to business units. This model, which development of the country’s infrastructure industry; centralizes services and fosters synergies and the exchange of best practices, is part of CCR Group’s intellectual capital and one of its main We believe in cutting-edge corporate activity based on the boldness of proactivity, on the safety of predictability, on the soundness of simplicity, competitive differentials. See Attachment “CCR Group’s Organizational Chart” p. 31, 32 and 33 For more information, visit: “Departments and on the reliability of information, and on the seriousness of negotiations; Committees” at http://ri.ccr.com.br/grupoccr/web/conteudo_pt.asp?idioma=0&conta=28&tipo=47156 We believe in the legitimate pursuit of economic-financial results; We believe in the provision of high-quality public services to meet the needs of citizens as a basis for business continuity; Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance We believe in social responsibility and in the preservation of life and the environment; 4.2 Core Fully body is also an executive officer We believe in the human ability to create, undertake, and transform, working as a team with a corporate mindset, leading organizations to overThe Chair of the highest governance body is not an executive officer. come challenges and limits; We believe in participative management and in pay for performance, based on the assessment of individual contribution to enable the commitment of people and to add value to the business. 4.3 Independent board members Core Fully Values Altruism the path for the growth of people and of the company. The Board of Directors is composed of 11 effective members, including two independent members: Luiz Alberto Colonna Rosman Integrity the basis for personal and professional relationships and Luiz Carlos Vieira da Silva. To learn more about the Board of Directors, visit: Boldness proactivity, creativity, and persistence to seek challenges and overcome limits http://ri.ccr.com.br/grupoccr/web/conteudo_pt.asp?idioma=0&conta=28&tipo=47156 Respect for others, for life, and for nature Autonomy freedom of action with responsibility Codes of Conduct and Relevant Internal Principles: 4.4 Communication channels with the board Core Fully • Shareholders’ Agreement • Code of Ethics The CCR Group, as a publicly-traded company with shares listed on Commodities and Futures Exchange, is committed to providing all relevant • Social Responsibility Policy information about its performance and strategies to the financial market. To this end, it maintains a calendar of events and communications, visits • Bylaws national and international investors, and constantly updates its Investor Relations website. Through this channel, shareholders can communicate To view these documents, visit: http://ri.ccr.com.br/grupoccr/web/conteudo_pt.asp?idioma=0&conta=28&tipo=47157 with the company’s senior management; this can also be done during the General Shareholder Meeting. 4.9 Performance of the board Core Fully In 2010, pursuant to a decision by the Board of Directors, CCR created the Corporate Sustainability Program, which aims to introduce the sus4.5 Pay for performance in sustainability Core Fully tainability vision in the company’s daily activities in the long term. This program foresees three implementation phases: the identification of CCR’s The Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board receive a fixed remuneration. Among the directors, the focus on business results is promoted level of maturity and of its operations in terms of social and environmental issues; the engagement of the internal audience and the development through the sharing of the profits obtained when goals are met or exceeded, as a complement to their salaries. In 2011, a sustainability criterion of initiatives that seek to handle negative externalities; and the improvement of communications about the topic, generating value for the Group. was included in the variable remuneration of the main directors for the first time: the return of the company to the portfolio of BM&FBovespa’s In the following year, a decisive step was taken when the Strategy Committee changed its name to the Strategy and Sustainability Committee. Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE). In 2013, other criteria related to the subject were incorporated into the variable remuneration goals, such as Thus, this committee became responsible for supporting senior management in the preparation and implementation of sustainability principles the reduction in water and energy consumption and in the number of accidents. and practices. In the corporate sphere, the Executive Sustainability Committee, composed of the president, vice presidents, and other leaders, proposes guidelines based on the strategies defined by the senior management. In turn, business units have sustainability committees that are formed by their presidents and their finance, environmental, and people management directors, in addition to leaders from other departments, 4.6 Conflicts of interest Core Fully such as the Legal Department, Contract Management Department, and Communications Department. These committees are responsible for developing and implementing the action plans that materialize the processes of the company that focus on sustainability. The results are In case of potential conflicts of interest, the company’s Shareholders’ Agreement establishes that the controlling shareholders involved and analyzed at the end of the year by the Executive Sustainability Committee. All these groups hold periodic meetings that aim at the evolution of the members they appointed to the Board of Directors must abstain from voting in Preliminary Meetings. the social and environmental issue in the strategies and decisions made by the Group. Visit “Bodies and Governance” and To learn more, visit: http://mrm.comunique-se.com.br/arq/163/arq_163_39330.pdf?bcsi_scan_7f73a9d1b05f4e20=0&bcsi_scan_ “Governance Model” at: http://ri.ccr.com.br/grupoccr/web/conteudo_pt.asp?idioma=0&conta=28&tipo=47155 filename=arq_163_39330.pdf and Policies, By-laws and Shareholders´ Agreements in http://ri.ccr.com.br/grupoccr/web/conteudo_en.asp?i dioma=1&conta=44&tipo=47204 12 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 13 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT PROFILE INDICATORS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLES 4.10 Self-evaluation of the board Core Fully Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee The Board of Directors, the committees, the CEO, and the Secretary of the Board are assessed annually by the Governance Committee through EC1 compensation, donations and other community Core Fully questionnaires based on the practices established in the statement of operating principles of the Board of Directors. The other directors are assessed annually by the CEO, based on a performance review and on the achievement of goals. investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments See Attachment EC1 | Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations 4.11 Precautionary principle Core Partially 7 and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments, p. 36. CCR is committed to social, economic, and environmental development and uses the precautionary principle; that is, no activity involving severe and/or irreversible risk is initiated until effective measures are adopted to mitigate social, economic, and environmental degradation. The CCR Group seeks qualified businesses based on three principles: address the interests of the Grantor, the satisfaction of end users of the projects, Financial implications and other risks and opportunities EC2 Core Partially 7e8 and the promotion of adequate return to investors, enabling solutions for investments and services in infrastructure and contributing to the for the organization’s activities due to climate change social, economic, and environmental development of the regions where it operates. Although the CCR Group is aware of the impacts of climate change on its businesses and is preparing for these impacts, it has not yet conducted in-depth studies on their financial implications. 4.12 Social charters, principles, and initiatives Core Fully The company remains a signatory to the Brazilian Corporate Council for Sustainable Development CEBDS and is committed to the Global Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan EC3 Core Fully Compact principles. In 2014, the company became part of the “Business Network” group of the International Integrated Reporting Council obligations (IIRC), which is the leader of the Integrated Reporting global movement. CCR Group’s pension plan is a defined contribution plan. The monthly contribution to the benefit is from minimum 1% of participation wage, with a minimum limit of R$34.17 (value adjusted annually through the collective bargaining agreement). The company matches the contribution. Employees can also make voluntary contributions in the amount and frequency they choose; however, these will not be matched by the company. 4.13 Membership in associations Core Fully Joining the complementary pension plan is voluntary; however, a priori, all employees are eligible and the rule governing the participation of the See Attachment “Membership in Associations”, p. 34.CCR Group understands that its participation in these entities is strategic; however, company and of each employee is equal for all.In 2014, CCR Group earmarked R$8,422,148.28 to the private pension plan, which already has the company does not hold positions in the governance body or in specific committees nor does it make substantial payments to any of 3,165 participants. The mathematical reserves of the plan are R$172,025,372.55. these associations. Significant financial assistance received from EC4 Core Fully government 4.14 List of stakerholder groups Core Fully In 2014, the total value arising from tax incentives and allocated to social, economic, and environmental projects was R$20,554,170.66 million. See “Definition of material matters”, p. 5 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on EC6 Core Fully 4.15 Identification of stakeholders Core Fully locally-based suppliers at significant operating units See “Definition of material matters”, p. 5 Given the characteristics of CCR’s business grupo, local purchases are preferred due to cost and logistics issues and aspects related to human rights. For location, the CCR group believes the states of Rio de Janeiro, Paraná and Sao Paulo. Although the is no spcecifc purchasing policy that defines and deals with local suppliers. 4.16 Stakeholder engagement Core Fully The stakeholder engagement process was conducted in 2012 and 2013, and is maintained in 2014. For a description of the process, see “About Procedures for local hiring and ratio of senior this Report”, p. 4. EC7 management hired from the local community at Core Partially 6 significant operating units The CCR Group prioritizes local labor, through uts dealerships, especially to agents and supervisors positions. Much senior management was 4.17 Stakeholder demands Core Fully hired locally in initial positions, and have been throughout their career, skilled and trained in their own organization. See “About this Report”, p.4. 14 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 15 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLES Development and impact of infrastructure investments EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Core Fully 8 EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit through Core Partially commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement See Attachment EN1|Materials used by weight or volume, p.37. “The investments the CCR Group has made in social, cultural, and environmental projects comply with its Corporate Social Responsibility Policy issued in 2006 and are directly associated with the company’s commitment to contribute to the sustainable development of society. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Given the businesses secured in 2013, CCR Group now interacts with over 100 municipalities that surround its operations. Contributing to the EN2 Core Partially 8e9 social and economic development of these communities is part of the company’s mission. Therefore, by maintaining a transparent relationship materials with municipal governments and civil entities, the company seeks to identify the main local needs and to find means to take part in their fulfillment. CCR does not have the means to determine the percentage of products used that are recycled input materials. In 2014, CCR Group invested a total of R$26,245,834.84 million (R$ 20,554,170.66 in fostered projects and R$ 5,691,664.18 for the Estrada para a Cidadania Project ( Road to Citizenship) in 136 cultural, social, or sports actions, which benefitted over 1 million people in 170 municipalities. Of this total, 95% came from tax incentives offered by the Rouanet Law, by the Sports Incentive Law, and by specific funds, while EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Core Fully 8 the remaining came from direct incentive. One of the highlights of CCR Group is the traveling theater “BuZum!”, a bus that took educational plays addressing educational themes over Attachment EN3|Direct energy consumption by primary energy source, p.37. 113 municipalities throughout the year. Additionally, CCR Group supported presentations of the project Teatro nos Parques (In loose translation: “”Theater in Parks””), held in five capitals and the Federal District, as well as Cine Tela (“”Screen Cine””), a traveling 3D cinema which covered 10 municipalities with free presentations of national movies. Other important projects were maintained, such as Estrada para a Cidadania (Road to Citizenship), developed in partnership with Municipal EN4 Indirect energy consumption Core Fully 8 Departments of Education to raise the awareness of children about traffic safety, accident prevention, the environment, and citizenship. In 2014, See Attachment EN4|Indirect energy consumption, p.38. the program reached public municipal schools, approximately 11,662 teachers, 298,125 students, 912 teacher workshops, and 113 cities. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5 Aditional Fully 8e9 improvements See Attachment EN5|Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements, p. 39. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Core Fully 8 See Attachment EN8|Total water withdrawal by source, p.40. Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal EN9 Aditional Fully 8 of water CCR understands that this indicator is not applicable to its type of business, since the CCR Group is not an intensive consumer of water; it does not withdraw water for production processes, and for administrative activities, water is provided by the public water supply or by low-flow artesian wells. In this way, no water source is significantly affected. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Core Partially 8 biodiversity value outside protected areas Some protected areas (national forests, state and municipal parks) are in the vicinity of and/or adjacent to highways under concession; thus, they are not managed by CCR. In the case of environmentally protected areas (APAs), some of the Group’s highways cross municipalities considered APAs, such as APA Jundiaí. See Attachment EN11| Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjecent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, p.41 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, EN12 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas Core Partially 8 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas The construction work required to expand the capacity of existing roads, the implementation of new segments, and even the operation of highways already operational produce immaterial impacts. Along the segment, which is over 2,000 km long, each expansion effort creates an area of direct activity that may affect wildlife and flora. However, the most significant impacts of the operation are shortlived and can be mitigated or offset. See Attachment EN12| Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, p,42. 16 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 17 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLES Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products EN16 Core Fully 8 EN26 Core Partially 8e9 by weight and services, and extent of impact mitigation See Attachment EN16|Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight, p.43. The greatest environmental impacts associated with the activities of the CCR Group are: consumption of water, energy, and materials; generation of waste; and greenhouse gas emissions, which cause climate change. To manage these impacts, in 2012 the company implemented work fronts for each of these topic in all business units. The Sustainability Governance Portal was implemented in 2013, containing Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emission EN17 Core Fully 8 complete information about the environmental issues deemed relevant. With the specific purpose of reducing consumption of water and energy by weight in highway concessionaires, CCR Group started to monitor these indicators and to adopt solutions, such as rainwater harvesting and the use See Attachment EN17|Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight, p.44. of LED lights, in addition to running conscious consumption campaigns. A number of waste prevention initiatives were maintained, such as the use of environmentally friendly asphalt and use of recycled asphalt in new paving operations. CCR Group is also committed to taking part in the global effort to stabilize the volume of GHG in the atmosphere and to migrate to a low-carbon economy, increasing the resilience of the EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Core Fully 8 business and taking advantage of new opportunities. Therefore, the company launched its own Corporate Policy on Climate Change in 2012 and it has maintained an inventory of the emissions associated with its activities since 2011, despite the fact that its operations do not emit or To date, 2.08 tons of HCFC-22 were emitted by the entire CCR Group; the volume of HCFC-22 emissions is equivalent to 3,756.53 tons of use any substances that may bring impacts to the atmosphere. In 2014, CCR Group reviewed its Climate Changes Policy and implemented CO2e per year. There have been significant changes in relation to the emission rates reported in 2013, which were influenced especially by the mitigation and adequation guidelines facing possible impacts that may arise from climate anomalies, ensuring the perpetuity of the business change in the Group’s profile, such as the inclusion of the Barcas Unit, which substantially contributed to increasing GHG emission rates, as well within the operating region and identifying opportunities and increasing competitiveness. Also in 2014, through a partnership with the Platform as new vessels in 2014 to minimize mobility impacts. of Companies for Climate (FGV/SP), CCR Group developed an Adequation Plan to the Climate Changes addressed to business units located in geographic areas prioritizing the action, as CCR Barcas and CCR Vialagos, for subsequent application to the other Group’s units. This Resource Total (ton) Total (tCO2e) initiative ensures the perpetuity of the business facing climate changes impacts in different geographic areas where CCR Group operates. HCFC-22 2.08 3,756.53 To support and be part of this global effort, the company further integrates: BM&FBovespa’s Carbon Efficient Index ICO2, which gathers the shares of the companies listed in the IBrX-50 Index, adopting transparent practices in relation to greenhouse gas emissions (GHG); and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which is a global initiative that aims to communicate initiatives of companies in fighting climate changes. NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and See Attachment EN26 |Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation, p. 47. EN20 Core Fully 8 weight CCR conducts its emissions inventory; however, it has concluded that its operations do not emit or utilize substances that impact the atmosphere. Emissions of particulate matter and NOx and SOx are not significant. Percentage of products sold and their packaging EN27 materials that are reclaimed versus the total amount of Core Fully 8e9 products sold, by category EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Core Fully 8 The CCR Group is a highway service provision, management, and maintenance company; therefore, it understands that this indicator does not CCR understands that this indicator is not applicable to its activities. The Group’s business does not characterize it as an effluent generator, and apply to the type of business of the company. the small amount of domestic sewage is discharged into the public sewer system or into septic tanks, which are cleaned regularly. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Core Fully 8 EN28 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with Core Fully environmental laws and regulations See Attachment EN22|Total weight of waste by type and disposal method, pp. 45 and 46. During 2014, CCR SP Vias, CCR ViaOeste, CCR RodoAnel, CCR RodoNorte, ViaQuatro and Samm were not charged fines or penalties. A total of 7 non-monetary penalties were given to CCR AutoBan, CCR Barcas, CCR ViaLagos and CCR NovaDutra due to non-compliance regarding EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Core Fully 8 environmental laws and legislation. CCR Ponte and CCR NovaDutra were given low-value fines in 2014, with appeal processes in progress. More significantly, CCR AutoBan Fine in 2010, totalling R$ 15,153,870.05, currently under proceduring at São Paulo State Treasury, fifth circuit, In 2014, third party spills occurred in 27 ocasions on highways under CCR Group concession, 8 of them on CCR AutoBan, 5 on CCR pending presentation of evidence. NovaDutra, 3 on CCR RodoAnel, 5 on CCR RodoNorte, 1 on CCR SPVias and other 5 on CCR ViaOeste. No leakings were registered for CCR Barcas, CCR Ponte and CCR ViaLagos. This survey does not consider ViaQuatro, offices and service sites, as for its nature. Mitigation measures are practiced under Operational Action Plan ( OAP ), Risk Management Plan ( RMP ) and Emergency Action Plan ( EAP ) of all service site. Significant environmental impacts of transporting Among all measures, the highlights are: 1) Mapping around points with highest environmental vulnerability and population density; 2) Retainer products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 Aditional Fully 8 Cases for chemicals to specific points. 3) External contact control for chemical emergencies ( Firefighters, Cetesb, SOS Cotec, SAMU, water, organization’s operations, and transporting members of energy and highway concessionaries etc); 4) Team coaching for emergency situations. the workforce CCR does not transport products, goods, or materials used for the organization’s operations that may cause significant environmental impacts. Identification, size, protection status, and biodiversity The transportation of members of the workforce is restricted to a few work sites and air travel, which is considered to have low relevance. The level of water bodies and related habitats significantly emissions arising from workforce transportation are included in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions, which is based on the GHG methEN25 Aditional Fully 8 odology and listed in the annual inventory. affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff CCR’s type of business is not characterized by intensive water consumption or generation of effluents. The company believes, therefore, that it does not significantly impact water bodies or habitats through the discharge of water and runoff. 18 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 19 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT LABOR PRACTICES LABOR PRACTICES DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLES Total workforce by employment type, employment Average hours of training per year per employee by LA1 Core Fully LA10 Core Partially contract, and region, broken down by gender employee category See attachment LA1|Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender, pp. 48 and 49. We consider the operational category to be the employees in the Service Provider Group and the tactical and strategic category to be the employees of the Analysis and Management Group, all of whom are direct employees of the CCR Group. Calculation basis for the Operational category Training: Employee Onboarding GPS 2,127 employees (average 4 hours); Improvement 8,040 employees (average 4 hours); Key Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee LA2 Core Fully 6 Users 118 employees (32 hours); Specific technical courses 1,115 (technical/operational positions) (146 hours); SAP 2,327 employees (6 hours). turnover by age group, gender, and region Total hours 227,040/ 8,041 employees = 28.24. Calculation basis for the Tactical and Strategic category Training: Employee Onboarding GAG See attachment LA2| Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region, pp. 50 and 51. 160 (average 4 hours); PDL 1st cycle (2 groups) = 113 employees (64 hours); PDL 2nd cycle (4 groups) = 158 employees (8 hours); PDL 2nd cycle 1st leadership (1 group) = 31 employees (32 hours). Total hours 10,128/912 employees = 11.11. Employees by gender:Female = 3,854 and Male = 5,098 TOTAL= 8,952* Percentage of employees covered by collective *The total of 11 members of the board of directors and the 3 members of the fiscal council are not included in the calculation of this indicator. LA4 Core Fully 1e3 bargaining agreements The collective bargaining agreement is negotiated annually and covers 98.54% of the company’s total workforce. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of LA13 employees per category according to gender, age group, Core Fully 1e6 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Minimum notice period regarding operational changes, See attachment LA13| Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority LA5 including whether it is specified in collective bargaining Core Fully 3 group membership, and other indicators of diversity, pp. 53, 54, 55 and 56. agreements Communication with unions is based on transparency. The scope of the collective bargaining agreements does not establish a deadline to Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men inform employees of any operational changes. Even though, CCR Group instructs its units to give three week’s notice to selected places for visit. LA14 by employee category and by locations of significant Core Fully 1e6 operation CCR establishes the remuneration of its employees based on employee categories and performance, regardless of their genders. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LA7 absenteeism, and number of word-related fatalities Core Partially Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by by region LA15 Core Fully gender “Lost days” are counted as of the first day of medical certificate. Considering for calculation basis, “calendar days” ignoring if the employee See Attachment LA15| Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender, p. 56. works in shifts. See attachment LA7|Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and gender. p. 52. Education, training, couseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce LA8 Core Partially members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases CCR Group encourages its employees by offering them free educational remote courses through partnerships (example Catho Courses). This culture is also part of union contracts of a few business units. Throughout the year, there were several employee-oriented campaigns: personal finances, healthy feeding, and others. There were actions guiding the users of our concessions, such as breast and prostate cancer and AIDS fighting. Additionally, there were campaigns designed to the internal and external public on road guidelines, use of pedestrian overpasses, truckers assistance (Estrada para Saúde), among others. CCR Group has own or hired teams to carry out these programs and campaigns addressing several aspects of the health of employees and their relatives, such as: medical care, chronical diseases management by distributing medicines, guidelines to bone and muscular diseases, STDs, etc. Started in 2006 and prepared based on a CCR team’s health map, the Qualidade de Vida program spreads a different look on the physical and mental welfare of employees, through educational, assisting, sports and leisure actions and activities. The Qualidade de Vida program has new attributions at the CCR Group in 2014. The area has now a multidisciplinar team with physical education, nursing and occupational health professionals, connected to CCR Actua. This area is responsible for structuring and planning all actions to be developed to the 11,000 employees of the Company. The initiative will create a new way of evaluating employees’ health and welfare. 20 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 21 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLES Percentage and total number of significant investment Operations and suppliers identified as having significant agreements that include clauses incorporating human risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and HR1 Core Partially 1, 2, 4, 5 e 6 HR7 Core Fully 1e4 rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or screening compulsory labor The criterion that allow concluding that an agreement is significant is the approval hierarchy. CCR Group and the companies belonging to the Group have never been questioned about slave labor. Nevertheless, a few of subcontracted CCR Group’s bylaws provides that agreements with third parties exceeding R$ 10,000,000.00 (ten million reais) must be previously approved companies were questioned and CCR Group, immediately after being aware of this question, verified the facts and adopted suitable by the Board of Directors. All significant investment agreements include clauses referring to human rights. In addition, the standard invitation to measures to solve them, always giving priority to the human welfare. The CCR group includes termination clauses in its service agreements tender used in bidding processes requests that the bidders present a proposal letter containing their agreement to abide by the clauses and to provide for cases in which there is evidence of the use of compulsory labor. The company makes no distinction with regard to operations, requirements referring to human rights. since all Business Units present similar characteristics and risks. Prioritization of suppliers in terms of risk management is done based on the amount of the agreement. The contracts are considered significant according to the value and approval hierarchy. CCR has a Principles of Supply or Conduct and clauses in its agreements (associated with the topic) as a way of committing to the responsibility of addressing the Percentage of significant contractors, suppliers, and requirements concerning forced or bonded labor. Nevertheless, the company does not have formal procedures in place to investigate forced HR2 other business partners that have undergone screening Core Partially 1, 2, 4, 5 e 6 or bonded labor within its suppliers. on human rights and actions taken All CCR Group’s agreements contain a clause on protection of human rights. In 2014, CCR Group conducted an assessment involving all Percentage and total number of operations that have significant suppliers. Through such assessment, CCR Group communicated to its significant suppliers the importance it gives to this theme in its HR10 been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact Core Partially entire supply chain. assessments On July 7, 2011, the CCR Group adhered to the principles of the Global Compact, an initiative of the United Nations (UN). Its participation in this comTotal hours of employee training on policies and promitment reflects CCR’s concern about the promotion of management practices that are committed to the respect for human rights. In all its Operating cedures concerning aspects of human rights that are Units, the company develops measures that prevent discriminatory practices and various other practices that do not respect these rights, pursuant to HR3 Core Fully 1, 4 e 5 relevant to operations, including the percentage of the principles of its Code of Ethics, to its Social Responsibility Policy, and to the commitments to which it subscribes. In all its Operating Units, the comemployees trained pany develops measures that prevent discriminatory practices and various other practices that do not respect these rights, pursuant to the principles of its Code of Ethics, to its Social Responsibility Policy, and to the commitments to which it subscribe CCR has a social and environmental questionnaire, The document considered to respond to this indicator was CCR’s Code of Ethics, which considers policies and procedures associated with the Principles of Supplier Conduct and clauses in its agreements (associated with thetopic) as a way of committing to the responsibility of addressing the professional conduct of its employees. Calculation basis: Programs considered: On boarding of new employees. Employees hired in 2014 = requirements concerning human rights. CCR Group does not have a formal procedure to determine the percentage or number of operations subject to 2,287 employees (average of four training hours) = 9,148 hours. human rights revisions or evaluation of impacts. The on boarding program is extended to all employees of the CCR Group. Consequently, all CCR Group employees at some point in time took part in training courses involving the content of policies and procedures associated with professional conduct and the group’s code of ethics. Note: When this material was updated, all employees (regardless of their hiring date) have received the leaflet. Number of grievances related to human rights filed, adHR11 Core Partially dressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms On June 7, 2011, CCR Group adhered to the Global Compact principles, an initiative by the Organization of United Nations (UNO). The Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective participation in this commitment reflects CCR Group’s concern in promoting management practices related to the Human Rights. Within HR4 Core Partially 1e6 its operations, the Company develops measures that avoid discrimination practices and several disrespects to these rights, jointly with the actions taken principles of its Code of Ethics and Social Responsibility Policy, in addition to the commitments the Company signed for. As a result of this In 2014, no cases involving discrimination due to race, color, gender, religion, political opinion, nationality or social order were reported. concern, the discrimination cases in Business Units are monitored and in 2014, no discrimination was recorded. Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 Core Partially 1e3 bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights CCR collaborators can fully participate on the negotiation and there is no risk that could threat freedom of association and collective negotiation. The same conduct is expected from suppliers. In 2014 it wasn’t identified, by the internal communication channels, any supplier in which the right on practicing freedom of association and collective negotiation could be at risk. Operations and suppliers identified as having considered HR6 significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures Core Fully 1e5 taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor All supply agreements considered substantial comprehend the risk assessment. CCR Group is regarded by Social-environmental Questionnaire, supplier’s conduct principles and clauses ( concerning the theme ) as a way to acknowledge our responsibility for following the requirements related to child labour. Formal procedures to evaluate suppliers on child labour are not provided. Nevertheless, the company does not have formal procedures to investigate child labor activities within its suppliers. In 2004, child labor cases were not detected. 22 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 23 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT SOCIETY SOCIETY DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLES Percentage of operations with implemented local Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 Core Fully 10 SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and Core Partially 1 development and lobbying development programs CCR does not engage in lobbying activities. As a company involved in the concession business, it seeks to be associated with the main One hundred percent of CCR’s operations take into account their positive and negative impacts upon local communities. The relevance of its discussions related to public mobility, transportation, and infrastructure policies that drive the development of the country through entities that main externalities is validated by its priority stakeholders, including representatives of local communities. For investments that require licensing bring together the industries in which it operates. CCR is also a utilities company; therefore, it has a duty to work in line with the representatives processes, CCR conducts all the studies required by environmental agencies, taking into account the significant environmental and social asof the grantor, to meet the requirements and the demands of the government, and to improve its services in an environment that respects pects. In relation to development programs, CCR has several initiatives that deal with basic education and health needs, such as “Estrada para agreements and businesses, generating benefits for Brazilian society. In addition to offices in Brasília and Rio de Janeiro, the Group Cidadania” (Road to Citizenship), “Estrada para a Saúde” (Road to Health), and “Projeto Sacolona” (Sacolona Project), among others. In the interacts with the government through its Vice Presidency of Institutional Relations and similar departments in the Business Units. The company planning cycle, each unit develops specific action plans that result in mitigation activities and goals for each of the priority issues identified. believes in the power to influence public policies through examples and best practices, showing the path to be followed. The CCR Group CCR has a direct channel to communicate with its stakeholders through “Contact Us” at: occasionally takes part in public hearings, which are open to the general public and, whenever relevant, it presents its suggestions. http://www.grupoccr.com.br/contato/enviar-mensagem Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for SO8 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws Core Fully SO2 Core Partially 10 risks related to corruption and regulations The CCR Group (holding and affiliated companies) is managed, among other internal rules and policies, by its code of ethics that has been Fines over R$100,000 are considered by CCR to be of significant value. There were no non-monetary breaches in 2014. approved by CCR’s board of directors (original version issued on March 27, 2003, revised on June 29, 2011), which promotes best practices in In 2014, significant fines due to breaches totaled R$ 1,721,873.22, referring to the following units: terms of governance, transparency in communications and corporate security. The code of ethics is intended to guide the CCR Group in its CCR Barcas: R$ 517,544.82 referring to payment in installments of prior-year fines due to breach of concession agreement; objective to become a reliable, profitable and perennial business, consistently adding value, and maintaining a solid and respected public image. CCR ViaOeste: R$1,204,328.40 paid in 2014 due to breach of concession agreement; To this end, the code provides on risks associated with the anticorruption act, and especially in topics that refer to: Relationship with the government, society and community at large (item 2) relationship with shareholders and investors x policy of information (item 3); Operations with adverse material impact on local relationship with competitors (item 4); SO9 Core Partially Professional and personal integrity of employees (item 5); communities commercial transactions and hiring of relatives (item 6). CCR understands that all operations developed in its business generate impacts. To address negative impacts more effectively—that is, their The code also provides on the internal procedures to be adopted for cases of potential conflict of interest, or when suspecting or learning main externalities— General Objectives and Guidelines are defined by the Board of Directors, which in turn are broken down into Action Plans of facts that may be deleterious to the CCR Group, or which are or seem to be contrary to the principles of the said code of conduct (item within the Group’s Business Units. 7) Nevertheless, aiming to achieve continuous improvement in its management processes and control over acts and practices of corruption pursuant to Law No.12,846/13, as instructed by the board of directors, as provided in item 8, the CCR Group is striving to review norms and internal procedures. Therefore, it is safe to say that CCR Group’s business units are undergoing a process of implementation and structuring of Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in risk assessments related to corruption. SO10 operations with potential for adverse material impact on local Core Partially 8 communities CCR Group’s prevention and mitigation measures are addressed according to the main externalities mapped: Waste, Traffic Jams, Road Safety, Consumption of Water and Energy, and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. In the annual strategic planning cycle, each unit develops specific action Percentage of employees trained in the organization’s plans that result in activities and goals for each of the priority topics identified. SO3 Core Partially 10 anti-corruption policies and procedures Law 12,846 demonstrates that both society and the government are concerned about dealing with the anti-corruption topic. To this end, it stimulates companies to implement initiatives and to develop an internal control to fight this issue. CCR does not have specific training on risks associated with corruption, however, this topic is discussed in on boarding training sessions as well as training of company leaders. The CCR Group, in its Code of Ethics, guides the conduct of employees in relation to anticorruption policies and procedures. In addition, it develops specific initiatives about the topic in one of its business units – RodoNorte. Through a collaborative process developed in conjunction with an organization called “Observatório Social” (Social Observatory), the company allows its employees to help with monitoring how public resources are used in municipalities and states. The Social Observatory aims to prevent corruption and to monitor the use of public resources. Through a joint action, the institution and CCR contribute to shared and transparent public management and to the development of a society that is proactive and conscientious about its political issues. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Core Fully 10 The CCR Group did not terminate or punish any employees due to corruption acts in 2014. In addition, the company did not register any lawsuits related to this type of incident nor did it terminate or cancel any agreements due to breaches pertaining to such conduct. 24 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 25 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT DESCRIPTION TYPE REPORTED GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLES Life cycle stages of products and services in which health Programs for adherence to laws,standards, and and safety impacts are assessed for improvement, and PR6 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, Core Fully PR1 Core Fully percentage of products and services subject to such including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. procedures CCR respects copyright laws and intellectual property rights in all its communication and advertising initiatives and in its entire production of 100% of services provided by CCR Group along its concessions include health and safety procedures, assured in associates and supplier content. Advertising actions comply with CCR’s communications policy and with the standards set forth by the National Self-Regulatory Advercontracts. CCR is not health and safety certification at this time. The CCR group understands that ensuring the health and safety of the users of tising Council (CONAR). These practices are continuously assessed during the execution of their activities. its services is its main social responsibility. The process of continuous improvement has been in place since the CCR Group was created, and it is being integrated into the strategic planning cycle. The pavement laboratory continuously develops improvements in health and safety aspects. Furthermore, in the advertising campaigns, the impacts of products and services on health and safety are assessed for improvements. Monetary value of (significant) fines for noncompliance PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and Core Fully use of products and services. Fines over R$100,000 are considered by CCR to be of significant value. Type of product and service information required by In 2014, significant fines due to breaches totaled R$ 1,721,873.22, referring to the following units: PR3 labeling procedures, and percentage of products and Core Fully CCR Barcas: R$ 517,544.82 referring to payment in installments of prior-year fines due to breach of concession agreement; services subject to such requirements. CCR ViaOeste: R$1,204,328.40 paid in 2014 due to breach of concession agreement. Given the nature of CCR’s business, this indicator does not apply. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including PR5 Aditional Fully results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction To celebrate the 15th anniversary of CCR Group, an advertising campaign was broadcast from February 2014. The 30-second commercial showcased the Company evolution in this period, as well as its contribution to improve Brazil’s infrastructure, its concept being “Before and After”, highlighting the transformation of certain products after 15 years. In addition, in June, a large event was organized in Sala Sao Paulo with the presentation of Osesp Choir and Orchestra, which was attended employees and stakeholders. All internal communication and marketing communication has received a commemorative stamp to celebrate the 15th anniversary. In April, during the 10th Annual Meeting, an event that gathered approximately 280 employees of CCR Group, the concept “Proud of Being CCR”, a timeline telling the CCR Group history since its creation, was used highlighting the key events until today. In November, CCRDAY 10 gathered approximately 300 investors and market analysts to follow the future of CCR Group. Highway concessionaires of CCR Group attended the National Traffic Week 2014, with a campaign featuring educational activities intended to prevent accidents, and also preventive maintenance actions for vehicles in general, which stressed the commitment to life as a CCR Group trademark. Among the 16 awards and recognitions that the CCR Group received in 2014, we should mention that the CCR Group Highways are among the 10 best highways in Brazil, according to CNT Confederação Nacional dos Transportes (National Confederation of Transportation) and Guia Quatro Rodas, the main rankings in Brazil. The Datafolha Survey on Image and Satisfaction conducted with several users of our highways has shown that our highways once again received an average satisfaction rating higher than 80%. Below, we present recognition and highlights of the CCR Group in 2014: Company highlights: • Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade – Best infrastructure company (2nd consecutive year); • Anuário Época Negócios 360º Best infrastructure company in Brazil; • Anuário Valor 1000 – Best company of the Transportation and Logistics industry; • Época Green Company Award – Winner in the “Integrated Report” category; • IBEF Sustainability Award 2014/2015 – Seal of Excellence in Sustainability in the Corporate Governance category; • Maiores & Melhores 2014 Transportation ViaQuatro, in the railway category; CCR AutoBAn in the best highway concessionaire category; • 100+Inovadoras, IT Mídia – Best company of the year in the Holding category; • CDP (Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index CDLI) – One of the ten companies most transparent and most engaged in climate change management in Brazil. CNT Ranking (National Confederation of Transportation ): • CCR AutoBAn ranked first and second as the best highways, considering conservation and trafficability conditions; • Renovias, CCR SPVias, CCR ViaOeste ranked in the top 10. 26 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 27 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT PROFILE INDICATORS ATTACHMENT PROFILE INDICATORS ATTACHMENT MAP OF SHAREHOLDERS COMPANIES OF THE CCR GROUP* MTH Netherlands 100% Management Division Actua Division San José International Airport (5) Costa Rica CCR AutoBAn CCR ViaOeste 48,75% Andrade Gutierrez(1) 100% a 100% Curaçao International CCR España 17% Airport (6) Curaçao 79,80% 100% Engelog Division CCR NovaDutra 100% a ViaQuatro 58% CPC Outros (Company of Participations in Concessions) (Novo Mercado BM&F100% Camargo Corrêa(2) Bovespa) CCR ViaLagos Renovias 17% 48.8% 100% b 40% EngelogTec Division CCR SPVias CCR Ponte CCR Barcas 100% 100% b 100% CCR RodoNorte 85,92% CIIS Quito Internacional ATP Soares Penido(3) 100% Airport (4) Equador 99,9% 45,50% 17,2% CCR RodoAnel CCR Metrô Bahia 98,8034% VLT Carioca STP Controlar (9) 100% 24,88% 34,23% 100% SPAC INOVAP5 Private shareholder Confins 100% Parks ViaRio 100% 85,92% 33,33% SAMM 100% BH Airport (8)a Green Airports (7) BVI 51% 100% CCR México SPC SCCV CONCESSÕES 100% 100% b CCR MSVia 100% 100% (4) Through the acquisition of 100% of companies CCR España Empreendimientos S.A., Alba Participations Inc., Alba Concessions Inc. and (a) and (b) Direct and indirect participation through its subsidiaries (a) CPC or (b) CIIS. their subsidiaries and 45.5% of the share acquisition and voting rights of FTZ Development S.A., and indirect control acquisition of Ícaros (1) Includes shares held by Andrade Gutierrez Concessões S.A. and AGC Participações Ltda, companies belonged to the Andrade Gutierrez Development Corporation S.A., Quiport Holdings S.A., Corporación Quiport S.A. and Quito Airport Consortium Inc. (5) Through the acquisition Group. (2) Includes shares held by Camargo Corrêa Investimentos em Infra-Estrutura S.A. and VBC Energia S.A., companies belonged to the of 100% of companies CCR Costa Rica Empreendimientos S.A., and indirect control acquisition of Desarrollos de Aeropuerto AAH Sociedad Camargo Corrêa Group. (3) Includes shares held by Soares Penido Concessões S.A. and Soares Penido Obras, Construções e Investimentos de Responsabilidad Limitada, Grupo de Aeropuertos Internacional AAH Sociedad de Responsabilidad Limitada, Terminal Aerea General AAH S.A., companies belonged to the Soares Penido Group. Sociedad de Responsabilidad Limitada, and Aeris Holding Costa Rica S.A. (6) Through the acquisition of 80% of “Companhia de Participações Aeroportuárias” (formerly denominated A-Port S.A.), resulting in the indirect control acquisition of Curaçao Airport Investment N.V. (CAI), Curaçao Airport Real Estate N.V. (CARE), Curaçao Airport Partners N.V. (CAP) and additional acquisition of 39% CAI’s capital stock. (7) Green Airports Inc holds 50% of Inversiones Bancnat Inc., which, in turn, holds 100% of IBSA Finance (Barbados) Inc.’s capital, connected to San Jose’s International Airport project Costa Rica (8) SPAC’s wholly-owned subsidiary whose company name is “Concessionária do Aeroporto Internacional de Confins S.A”. On March 10, 2014, it was composed of SPAC (51%) and INFRAERO (49%), as per the respective Call Notice. (9) Settlement phase. * To see all of the partnerships in which the Company has direct and/or indirect investments, visit page 95 of the Reference Form 2014. 28 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 29 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT PROFILE INDICATORS ATTACHMENT PROFILE INDICATORS ATTACHMENT OPERATIONS MAP CCR GROUP’S ORGANIZATIONAL CHART Salvador BA Brasília 2 RENATO ALVES VALE 11 Director President 4 since 08/01/1999, within the CCR Group, in other 1 MG units / other positions, since 95 5 “Fifteen years ago our shareholders foresaw the opportunity to create a new company to add value to highway concessions and founded the holding company of the MS 1 CCR Group with its own philosophy and outstanding governance. More than that, they Campo relied on the Board and gave us the freedom to be able to overcome all the challenges. ” Belo Horizonte Grande SP 4 RJ 1 ITALO ROPPA JOSÉ BRAZ CIOFFI 2 Director Vice President of Business Management Director Vice President of Business Management 10 since November 1, 2005, within the CCR Group, in other units / other positions since 1998 since October 1, 2010, within the CCR Group, in other units / other positions since 1995 PR Rio de Janeiro 2 3 4 8 RICARDO ANTÔNIO MELLO CASTANHEIRA ARTHUR PIOTTO FILHO 3 Curitiba 3 Vice President of Institutional Relations Financial and Investor Relations Director since September 20, 2011 since December 12, 2007, within the CCR Group, 3 in other units / other positions since 1999 9 5 1 Curaçao 7 6 1 MARCUS RODRIGO DE SENNA LEONARDO COUTO VIANNA Costa Rica 2 Legal Director Director of New Business 2 since November 28, 2008, within the CCR Group since March 18, 2004, within the CCR Group Equador in other units / other positions since 1999 in other units / other positions since 1995 ANTONIO LINHARES DA CUNHA PAULO YUKIO FUKUZAKI 4 Director of Business Development Director of Planning and Control since March 31, 2005, within the CCR Group since October 1, 2010, within the CCR Group in other units / other positions since 1999 in other units / other positions since 2005 NON-STATUTORY DIRECTORS HIGHWAYS CORPORATE OFFICES RICARDO BISORDI DE OLIVEIRA LIMA FRANCISCO BULHÕES 1 CCR Ponte 7 CCR RodoAnel 1 Sao Paulo 3 Rio de Janeiro Director of Airports Director of Communications, Marketing and Sustainability 2 CCR ViaLagos 8 Renovias 2 Brasília 4 Belo Horizonte since April 1, 2013 since September 1, 2013, within the CCR Group 3 CCR NovaDutra 9 CCR SPVias in other units / other positions since 1999 4 CCR RodoNorte 10 ViaRio AIRPORTS 5 CCR AutoBAn 11 CCR MSVia 6 CCR ViaOeste 1 BH Airport 3 Aeris 2 Curaçao Partners 4 Quiport URBAN MOBILITY SERVICES 1 ViaQuatro 3 VLT Carioca 2 CCR Barcas 4 CCR Metrô Bahia 1 CCR Actua, CCR Engelog e CCR EngelogTec 5 STP 2Samm 30 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 31 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT PROFILE INDICATORS ATTACHMENT PROFILE INDICATORS ATTACHMENT CCR GROUP’S ORGANIZATIONAL CHART BORD OF DIRECTORS CCR GROUP’S ORGANIZATIONAL CHART COMMITTEES EDUARDO BORGES DE ANDRADE Currently President of the Board of Directors and the Administrative Board São Miguel S.A. (holding the has 33% of the stock of Andrade Gutierrez S.A.), member of the Board of Directors of Andrade Gutierrez S.A., President of the Board of Directors of AG Concessões, President of the The CCR Group was the first company in the New Market to establish a Governance Committee to evaluate the Board of Directors of the CCR Group, member of the Board of Directors of CEMIG S.A., CEMIG GT Board of Directors performance. Currently, the management of the Board is supported by six technical and advisory S.A., CEMIG D S.A. and of Mater Dei Hospital and of the Board of Trustees of the committees, which contribute to the assessment of risks, opportunities and decision-making. Fundação Dom Cabral. Alternate: PAULO MÁRCIO DE OLIVEIRA MONTEIRO FERNANDO AUGUSTO CAMARGO DE ARRUDA BOTELHO Member of the Board of Directors of the Company since February 16, 2011 and alternate CCR’s Committees are: of the Board of Directors of CPFL Energia S.A. Alternate: ANDRE PIRES OLIVEIRA DIAS AUDITING COMMITTEE FRANCISCO CAPRINO NETO Currently, Mr. Caprino is a member of the Boards of Directors of: (a) Camargo Corrêa Energia S.A.; (b) VBC Energia S.A. (“VBC”); (c) of Camargo Corrêa Investimentos em STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY Infraestrutura S.A. (“CCII”) and (d) of ESC Energia S.A.; (e) Member of the Board of COMMITTEE Directors of the Concessionária do Estacionamento de Congonhas S.A. and Member (alternate) of the Board of Directors of CPFL Energia S.A. Alternate: MARCELO PIRES OLIVEIRA DIAS President FINANCE LUIZ ROBERTO ORTIZ NASCIMENTO COMMITTEE HENRIQUE SUTTON DE SOUSA NEVES Member of the Board of Directors of the Company since Currently also acts as the Vice President of the Board December 9, 2009. of Directors of CCSA, CCII., VBC, of InterCement Brasil S.A., CCBB – CIMPOR Brasil and of Camargo Corrêa GOVERNANCE Desenvolvimento Imobiliário S.A. and is a member of the COMMITTEE LUIZ ALBERTO COLONNA ROSMAN Board of Directors of CIMPOR – Cimentos de Portugal Effective and independent member of the Board of SGPS, S.A. Directors of the Company. Except of the position he occupies and that he has been nominated to occupy in the Company, Alternate: CLÁUDIO BORIN GUEDES PALAIA NEW BUSINESS he has never held an administrative position in other public COMMITTEE companies. Vice President LUIZ ANÍBAL DE LIMA FERNANDES ANA MARIA MARCONDES PENIDO SANT’ANNA Currently also exercises the position of independent member of Besides being a counselor of the Company, she is also HUMAN RESOURCES the Board of Directors of Kroton Educacional S.A. a member of the committees of Strategy and Sustainability, COMMITTEE Alternate: EDUARDO PENIDO SANT‘ANNA Auditing, Governance, New Business and Human Resources of the Company. With the exception of the position she currently holds in the Company, she has never occupied a LUIZ CARLOS VIEIRA DA SILVA position in the administration of any other public company. Effective and independent member of the Board of Directors of the Company. Currently Mr Silva participates in the Strategic Committee Alternate: ANA PENIDO SANT’ANNA of Corporate Governance of AMCHAM and on the Business Council of Economic Policy of the Commercial Association of Rio de Janeiro PAULO ROBERTO RECKEZIEGEL GUEDES Represents AG Concessões in the Boards of Directors of affiliated company, being a Counselor of CCR S.A. since June 2000, Counselor of CEMIG S.A., CEMIG GT S.A. and CEMIG D S.A. since August 2010, of BRio S.A. since June 2012, of Water Port S.A. and Highway Operating Company. BOARD Alternate: TARCÍSIO AUGUSTO CARNEIRO RICARDO COUTINHO DE SENA Represents Andrade Gutierrez Concessões in the Board of Directors of CCR S.A. since June 2000 and of CEMIG S.A., CEMIG GT S.A. and CEMIG D S.A. since August 2010. Alternate: JOSÉ HENRIQUE BRAGA POLIDO LOPES Source of information concerning the curriculum vitae of members of the Board of Directors of the CCR Group – Reference Form 2014 32 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 33 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT PROFILE INDICATORS ATTACHMENT PROFILE INDICATORS ATTACHMENT MEMBERSHIP IN ASSOCIATIONS GROUP SIZE ENTITIES AND ASSOCIATIONS IN WHICH CCR PARTICIPATES 11 1 highways Associação Brasileira das Empresas de Concessionária de Rodovias ABCR Shared 6 million Services Center Associação Brasileira de Comunicação Empresarial ABERJE 3 Associação Brasileira da Infraestrutura e Indústria de Base ABIDB vehicles transit daily on Associação dos Dirigentes de Vendas e Marketing do Brasil Câmara Americana do Comércio ADVB AMCHAM service companies 3,284 KM of roads Associação dos Analistas Profissionais de Investimento do Mercado de Capitais de Minas Gerais APIMEC/MG Associação dos Analistas Profissionais de Investimento do Mercado de Capitais de Sao Paulo APIMEC/SP Associação dos Analistas Profissionais de Investimento do Mercado de Capitais da Região Sul APIMEC/Sul 1 BM&FBOVESPA S.A. (Commodities and Futures exchange) BOVESPA 1 data transmission company to provide electronic payment Conselho Empresarial Brasileiro para o Desenvolvimento Sustentável CEBDS company services for tolls, parking lots and gas stations Centro das Indústrias do Estado de Sao Paulo CIESP 4.5 millions More than Approximately 3,242 KM Confederação Nacional da Indústria CNI Conselho Regional de Administração de Sao Paulo CRA-SP customers have of subterranean optical fibers electronic payment tags Conselho Regional de Engenharia de Sao Paulo CREA-SP Empresas pelo Clima EPC Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de Sao Paulo FAPESP 1 Federação das Indústrias do Estado do Paraná FIEP 1 ferry boat Federação das Indústrias do Estado de Sao Paulo FIESP operation 24 Federação das Indústrias do Estado do Rio de Janeiro FIRJAN VLT Veículo Instituição Brasileira de Executivos de Finanças do Estado do Rio de Janeiro IBEF Leve sob Trilhos (Light Vehicle vessels Instituto Brasileiro de Governança Corporativa IBGC on Tracks) International Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association IBTTA Instituto Brasileiro Veicular IBV Instituto de Engenharia IE 4 2 20 International Integrated Reporting Council IIRC airports Associação Nacional de Transportes de Cargas Global Compact – Nações Unidas NTC&Logística UNGC subway lines trains 21 million passengers in airports on an annual basis 34 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 35 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENT EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating EN1 Material used by weight or volume costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, etained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments STATEMENT OF ADDED VALUE (In thousands of Reais) CONSUMPTION OF MATERIALS NON RENEWABLE Revenue Consolidated 2014 Material Volume (Tons/year) Toll renevue 5,701,388 Construction renevues 1,743,671 HMAC (Hot mix asphaltic concrete) 3,470.00 Others renevues 593.900 Tires 20.52 Inputs acquired from third-parties Road traffic cone 44.31 Construction costs (1,735,535) Defensa metálica 11,711.00 Maintenance reserve (206,943) 72-stand fiber optic cable 88.08 Cost of services provided (708,322) Crusher run aggregate 9,100.00 Materials, electricity, third-party services and others (318,734) PVC Rods 14.30 Gross value added 5,069,425 Paint 106.77 Depreciation and amortization (694,494) Total 24,554.98 Net added value generated by the Company 4,374,931 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Added value received in transfer Equity in the earnings of subsidiaries 197,658 DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION GJ Financial revenues 430,466 Renewable LubrifiTotal added value to distribute 5,003,055 Source Acetylene Diesel Ethanol Gasoline GLP source Kerosene Propane cants Added value distribution electricity Total NonNonNonNonNonNãoNãoEmployees Type Renewable Renewable renewable renewable renewable renewable renewable renovável renovável Direct compensation 488,287 CCR AutoBAn 2,44 39.635,36 2.388,27 12.397,70 35,80 149,83 16,42 _ _ 54.625,81 Benefits 104,833 CCR Barcas 5,26 396.386,59 _ 674,44 5.620,68 52,93 _ 5,64 _ 402.745,54 FGTS 23,487 CCR* _ _ 1.214,08 2.318,58 0,04 48,01 _ _ _ 3.580,71 Other 9,516 CCR _ 60.335,68 13.822,98 1.003,20 31,92 272,66 13,78 _ _ 75.480,23 Taxes NovaDutra CCR Ponte 0,05 3.563,70 _ 1.517,00 7,59 _ _ _ _ 5.088,34 Federal 940,975 CCR State 9,262 0,88 6.893,40 2.297,64 2.143,31 _ _ 1,62 _ _ 11.336,84 RodoAnel Municipal 298,077 CCR Third-capital compensation _ 29.442,84 1.002,63 3.785,62 0,074 176,92 _ 5,39 _ 34.413,48 RodoNorte Interest 1.,395,333 SAMM _ 306,32 100,67 791,47 _ _ _ _ _ 1.198,47 Rentals 21,917 CCR SPVias 0,58 29.518,04 1.083,82 8.249,11 _ 106,28 31,84 _ _ 38.989,68 Granting 361,675 CCR ViaLagos _ 3.473,91 1,50 2.209,93 0,14 23,56 1,35 _ _ 5.710,39 Own capital compensation CCR ViaOeste _ 14.877,79 8.541,92 3.772,85 0,07 168,00 5,35 _ _ 27.365,98 Dividends 560,000 Retained earnings for the year 788,841 ViaQuatro 0,10 2.083,06 57,20 1.000,75 30,77 446,42 _ _ 29,38 3.647,69 Non-controlling interest 852 Total 9,30 586.516,68 30.510,71 39.863,98 5.727,09 1.444,62 70,36 11,03 29,38 664.183,16 5,003,055 * Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Brasília offices and service units (Engelog, EngelogTec e Actua). 36 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 37 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENT EN4 Indirect energy consumption EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION GJ Unit Saved Energy Rate (J) Comment Source Electricity CCR AutoBAn _ _ Type Non-renewable CCR Barcas _ _ CCR AutoBAn 35,758.14 CCR* _ _ CCR Barcas 12,867.95 CCR NovaDutra _ _ CCR* 2,074.35 CCR Ponte _ _ CCR NovaDutra 28,201.95 CCR RodoAnel _ _ CCR Ponte 13,117.33 ‘Replacement of light bulbs in the head office building for LED light bulbs; replacement of 56 400W floodlights CCR RodoNorte -169,074,000,000 CCR RodoAnel 18,609.29 for 52W LED light bulbs in AVI roads in August and September. CCR RodoNorte 9,633.58 SAMM _ _ SAMM 557,85 Installation of LED light bulbs in toll plazas and CCR SPVias -303,329,232,000 awareness campaigns. CCR SPVias 12,880.22 Increase in energy consumption was due to operating changes in the head office building, and also due to high CCR ViaLagos 1,926.64 CCR ViaLagos _ temperatures recorded in November and December, generating more variations. CCR ViaOeste 20,822.49 Replacement of two 400W floodlights for three 100W ViaQuatro 215,873.06 pendant fixtures, generating a 500W reduction per CCR ViaOeste -2,204,560,800,000 track (62% decrease). Implementation of 7 toll plazas in Total 372,322.86 103 tracks. No reduction was recorded due to implementation/ * Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Brasília offices and service units (Engelog, EngelogTec e Actua). opening and commercial operation of Fradique Coutinho CCR ViaQuatro _ station, which opened to the public in November 15, 2014. In prior months, the exceeding consumption refers to tests in the respective systems. Total -2,373,634,800,000.00 * Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Brasília offices and service units (Engelog, EngelogTec e Actua). 38 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 39 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENT EN8 Total water withdrawal by source EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjecent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE in m3 PROTECTED AREACCR NOVADUTRA PROTECTED AREACCR RODONORTE Municipal Water Supply or other Source Groundwater Rainwater collection Total Parque Florestal da Mata do Amador Piraí Parque Estadual Vila Velha Ponta Grossa water supply companies CCR AutoBAn 14,756.00 23,733.00 38, 529.00 Parque Natural Municipal Curió de Paracambi Parque Estadual do Guartelá Tibagi Parque Natural Municipal Jardim Jurema São CCR Barcas 51,231.70 51,231.70 Parque Estadual Colônia Mineira Apucarana João do Meriti/RJ CCR* 2,402.00 2,402.00 APA Área de Proteção Ambiental do Guandu Horto Florestal Geraldo Russi Tibagi CCR NovaDutra 15,411.00 22,444.00 37,855.00 Floresta Nacional Mário Xavier Reserva Florestal Córrego da Biquinha Tibagi CCR Ponte 9,655.70 57.50 9,713.20 Floresta Nacional de Lorena PROTECTED AREA CCR SPVIAS CCR RodoAnel 644.00 12,890.71 13,534.71 Parque Nacional do Itatiaia Apa Corumbataí Botucatu Tejupá CCR RodoNorte 2,853.00 15,955.00 18,808.00 PROTECTED AREACCR AUTOBAN Floresta Nacional de Capão Bonito SAMM Parque Estadual ARA Valinhos e Campinas Floresta Nacional de Ipanema CCR SPVias 2,627.00 29,994.22 32,621.22 Parque Estadual Cantareira Parque Estadual Carlos Botelho CCR ViaLagos 231.00 3,182.00 3,413.00 Parque Estadual Jaraguá Reserva Florestal de Saltinho Imabaú CCR ViaOeste 7,360.00 23,557.24 30,917.24 Parque Estadual Juquery PROTECTED AREACCR VIAOESTE CCR ViaQuatro 28,826.00 28,826.00 Parque Municipal Anhanguera APA da Várzea do Tiête TOTAL 135,997.40 131,796.17 57.50 267,851.07 Parque Ecológico Monsenhor Emílio José Salim APA da Ituparanga * Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Brasília offices and service units (Engelog, EngelogTec e Actua). APA Jundiaí Floresta Nacional de Ipanema APA Cajamar PROTECTED AREACCR VIALAGOS SAMM’s business unit has not yet performanced an accurate management regarding this indicator. Unit’s water APA de Sapiatiba consumption has been brought along with other office costs, paid by SAMM which is billed by the business park APA Cabreúva where it is located. PROTECTED AREA CCR RODOANEL APA Bacia do Rio São João/Mico Leão Dourado APA da várzea do Tietê PROTECTED AREACCR BARCAS Parque Estadual Jaraguá Ilha de Paquetá APAC Parque das Nascentes Cotia APA Tamoios Ilha Grande e Angra dos Reis Parque dos Paturis Carapicuíba APA Mangaratiba Parque Municipal Anhanguera 40 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 41 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENT EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas IMPACTS ON BIODIVERSITY AND MEASURES TAKEN TOTAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION, BY WEIGHT (EM tCO2e) Impacts on biodiversity Action and measures taken to mitigate and reduce impacts Water Source consumpWastewater Energy Fleets Generators Infrastructure Maintenance Implementation of wildlife crossing tion Total Training of service team Rescue of scaring away of wildlife Emissions Direct Direct Indirect Direct Direct Direct Direct Impacts on wildlife Transfer of seized animals to specialized institutions Specialized monitoring and handling of injured animals CCR AutoBAn _ 26.10 1,336.90 3,425.43 90.41 10.01 2.82 4,891.67 Implementation of wildlife crossing CCR Barcas _ _ 478.26 32,444.38 55.26 584.28 415.48 33,977.66 Impacts on Flora Compensatory planting of native species to restore degraded areas CCR* _ _ 80.33 134.97 _ 3.04 0,00 218.34 Risk management plan, including emergency action plan for accidents involving hazardous products Implementation of containment berms in environmentally sensitive spots CCR NovaDutra _ 51.87 1,054.42 4,220.64 106.16 17.70 2.35 5,453.14 Monitoring of water quality Intervention in water Restoration of permanent preservation area through compensatory planting resources CCR Ponte _ 19.17 493.17 338.65 0.72 0.01 0.57 852.29 Use of temporary production system to contain solid waste Erosion prevention CCR RodoAnel _ 17.11 699.10 539.22 72.55 0.19 0.06 1,328.23 Replacement of groundcover in cut and fill slopes Highway monitoring through closed-circuit TV CCR Fire outbreaks _ 19.53 363.20 2,255.62 35.81 11.44 6.84 2,692.44 Availiability of water tank trucks and of fire fighting team RodoNorte Compensatoring planting SAMM _ _ 21.12 65.22 2.28 0.01 0,00 88.63 Clearcutting Restoration of degraded areas CCR SPVias _ _ 480.95 2,548.97 11.53 28.64 0,84 3,070.93 Noise Mitigation through the implementation of noise barriers CCR ViaLagos _ 11.20 71.54 370.50 2.47 1.56 0,01 457.28 CCR ViaOeste _ _ 783.27 1,256.01 17.81 153.36 0,01 2,210.46 CCR ViaQuatro _ _ 8,082.07 192.52 12.53 102.96 32.26 8,422.34 Total _ 144,98 13,944.33 47,792.13 407,53 913,20 461.24 63,663.41 * Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Brasília offices and service units (Engelog, EngelogTec e Actua). 42 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 43 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENT EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emission by weight EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method OTHER RELEVANT INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION , BY WEIGHT (EM tCO2e) TOTAL WEIGHT OF NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE , BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD in ton Special-Hazardous Waste Workforce transportation Disposal method Emission by production Operation and MainteFreight transportation Onsite storage Non-hazardous Waste Composting Incineration Non-hazardous Recycling Recovery underground Landfill Infrastructure Reuse Others Wastewater Maintenance injection Total Source chain nance Contractors non-recyclable waste recyclable waste Air travel CCR AutoBAn _ _ 12.808,09 _ _ 4.670,99 _ _ _ 17.479,09 Total Emission Indirect Indirect Indirect Indirect Indirect Indireta Indirect Indirect Indirect Indirect Indirect CCR Barcas _ _ 85,50 _ 26,33 3.055,16 _ _ _ 3.166,99 CCR AutoBAn 21.95 927.22 112.62 2,146.89 0,08 9.61 646.04 8.63 3,873.04 CCR* _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ CCR Barcas 86.45 46.25 6,518.46 16.97 1,749.24 220.41 68.08 77.80 8,783.66 CCR NovaDutra _ _ 591,62 _ 1,91 2.087,90 _ _ _ 2.981,43 CCR* 7.09 79.20 0.01 979.08 1,065.38 CCR Ponte _ _ 7,04 _ 0,21 620,40 _ _ _ 627,64 CCR CCR RodoAnel _ _ 14,50 _ _ 212,17 _ _ 25,57 252,24 1,488.90 610.82 5,581.67 1.50 1,565,92 1.65 47.40 166.88 25.23 9,489.97 NovaDutra CCR _ _ 27.253,52 _ _ 339,29 _ _ _ 27.592,81 CCR Ponte 2.11 7.36 82.08 50.65 154.39 0.18 372.24 0.06 12.48 57.22 39.12 777.89 RodoNorte CCR RodoAnel 226.72 13.68 223.45 7.50 148.20 619.55 SAMM _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ CCR CCR SPVias _ _ 598,13 _ _ 648,27 _ _ _ 1.246,40 4.11 577.07 501.68 1,503.47 0.32 254.47 2.99 335.60 42.22 3,221.93 RodoNorte CCR ViaLagos _ _ 7,127 _ 0,28 5,43 _ _ _ 12,84 SAMM 1.27 20.93 2.52 24.72 886,21 CCR ViaOeste _ _ _ _ _ 3.006,40 _ _ 3.892,61 CCR SPVias 650.50 438.42 957.12 0.62 486.20 16.55 168.95 1.20 2,719.56 ViaQuatro _ _ 73,3322 _ _ 1.745,00 _ _ _ 1.818,33 CCR ViaLagos 91.62 20.09 322.67 0.07 3.26 0.09 0.92 0.72 6.13 445.57 TOTAL _ _ 41.438,86 _ 28,73 16.391,01 _ _ 911,78 58.770,38 CCR ViaOeste 25.54 602.92 108.67 1,076.95 0.15 49.15 81.83 254.37 7.38 2,206.96 * Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Brasília offices and service units (Engelog, EngelogTec e Actua). ViaQuatro 48.60 55.31 50.51 1.80 74.34 230.56 TOTAL 197.12 53.61 11,320.93 1,873.61 11,966.61 2.92 4,480.48 222.21 297.87 1,779.78 1,263.65 33,458.79 Waste ammount generated by Service Units ( CCR Engelog and CCR EngelogTec ) is accounted attached to * Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Brasília offices and service units (Engelog, EngelogTec e Actua). CCR AutoBan total due to trade center issues. CCR Actua has not yet been able to quantity its waste. Corporate Offices (Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Brasília) and SAMM are not provided of this control for their location. 44 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 45 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENT ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENT EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services and the TOTAL WEIGHT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE , BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD in ton extent to which they were reduced Onsite storage The CCR Group maintains a series of initiatives to mitigate its environmental impacts in the regions where it Composting Injeção Incineration operates. On highways, there are several projects to avoid the generation of waste. Below we present examples Recycling Recovery subterrânea of initiatives that reduce the volume of waste generated using rubberized asphalt made with scrap tyres, reuse of Fonte Reuse Landfill de resíduos Others Total materials, and pavement recycling. CCR AutoBAn _ _ 171.34 _ 0.14 0.60 _ _ 5.89 177.97 RUBBERIZED ASPHALT CCR Barcas _ _ 0.89 _ _ _ _ _ 132.189 133.08 CCR AutoBAn SP-330 CCR* _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Volume of rubberized asphalt (m³) 49.633 CCR NovaDutra _ _ 253.07 _ 2.53 39.30 _ _ _ 294.90 Number of tyres (un.)* 192.303 m² _ _ _ CCR Ponte _ _ 0.26 _ 4.59 2.85 7.70 CCR NovaDutra Marginal Guarulhos CCR RodoAnel _ _ 0.59 _ _ _ _ _ _ 0.59 Volume of rubberized asphal (m³) 5.950 CCR _ _ _ 0.30 _ _ 0.45 _ 10.46 11.21 Number of tyres (un.)* 23.053 m² RodoNorte SAMM _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ CCR RodoNorte CCR SPVias _ _ _ _ 1.04 _ _ _ _ 1.04 Volume of rubberized asphalt (m³) 34.175,03 CCR ViaLagos _ _ _ _ 0.12 _ _ _ _ 0.12 Number of tyres (un.)* 132.411,14 m² _ CCR ViaOeste _ _ 0.97 _ 0.25 _ _ _ 1.22 CCR ViaOeste SP-270 ViaQuatro _ _ 4.17 _ _ _ _ _ 22.08 26.25 Amount of rubberized warm-asphalt (m³) 5.125,78 Total _ _ 431.58 8.67 43.20 _ _ 170.62 654.08 Number of tyres (un.)* 19.859,83 m² * Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Brasília offices and service units (Engelog, EngelogTec e Actua). *Number of tyres used to produce rubberized asphalt Waste ammount generated by Service Units ( CCR Engelog and CCR EngelogTec ) is accounted attached to CCR AutoBan total due to trade center issues. CCR Actua has not yet been able to quantity its waste. MATERIAL RECYCLING SPVias SP-127 Corporate Offices (Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Brasília) and SAMM are not provided of this control for their location. Volume of recycled mix (m³) 5.517,69 Volume of material reused (t) 3.862,38 46 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 47 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT LABOR PRACTICES ATTACHMENT LABOR PRACTICES ATTACHMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region by gender TOTAL WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE PROPOTION OF POSITIONS BY GENDER Type Men Women Total Proportion of position by gender Homem Mulher Total Apprentices 60 79 139 Apprentices 0.67% 0.88% 1.55% Self-employed professionals 13 1 14 Self-employed professionals 0.14% 0.01% 0.16% Directors 35 1 36 Directors 0.39% 0.01% 0.40% Interns 61 56 117 Interns 0.68% 0.62% 1.30% Registered employees 4,935 3,725 8,660 Registered employees 55.04% 41.55% 96.56% Total 5,104 3,862 8,966 Total 56.93% 43.07% 100.00% TOTAL WORKFORCE BY REGION EMPLOYEES (BY GENDER, AGE AND REGION) Region Men Women Total 14-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 Over 50 Employees (by gender, age and region) Total years old years old years old years old years old Paraná 375 293 668 Rio de Janeiro 1,232 349 1,581 Men 2 102 153 79 39 375 Paraná Sao Paulo 3,497 3,220 6,717 Women 9 133 99 40 12 293 Total 5,104 3,862 8,966 Men 27 359 382 205 259 1,232 Rio de Janeiro Women 8 110 173 42 16 349 TOTAL WORKFORCE BY HOURS WORKED BY GENDER Men 94 1,007 1,319 669 408 3,497 Hours worked and gender Men Women Total Sao Paulo Women 158 1,291 1,193 474 104 3,220 Part time 4 4 8 Men 123 1,468 1,854 953 706 5,104 Full time 5,100 3,858 8,958 Total Women 175 1,534 1,465 556 132 3,862 TOTAL 5,104 3,862 8,966 298 3,002 3,319 1,509 838 8,966 TOTAL WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT Tipo de contrato Men Women Total Fixed-term/ Temporary Agreement 312 343 655 Indefinite-term/ Permanent Employment 4,792 3,519 8,311 Agreement Total 5,104 3,862 8,966 48 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 49 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT LABOR PRACTICES ATTACHMENT LABOR PRACTICES ATTACHMENT LA2 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age, group, gender and region NEW HIRES TERMINATIONS 14-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 Over 50 14-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 Over 50 New Hires in 2014 Total Terminations (Total) in 2014 Total years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old Men 4 32 29 4 2 71 Women 10 40 31 9 1 91 Paraná Paraná Women 12 45 26 8 2 93 Men 8 31 33 11 5 88 Men 27 114 62 22 20 245 Women 27 31 25 6 2 91 Rio de Janeiro Rio de Janeiro Women 7 25 21 3 1 57 Men 19 102 94 38 51 304 Men 98 452 294 103 30 977 Women 122 455 290 81 16 964 Sao Paulo Sao Paulo Women 171 652 386 175 33 1,417 Men 60 272 261 104 61 758 Men 129 598 385 129 52 1,293 Women 159 526 346 96 19 1,146 Total Women 190 722 433 186 36 1,567 Total Men 87 405 388 153 117 1,150 319 1,320 818 315 88 2,860 246 931 734 249 136 2,296 NEW HIRES TERMINATED TURNOVER RATE 14-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 Over 50 14-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 Over 50 New Hires Terminated in 2014 Total Turnover rate Total years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old Men 2 5 7 _ _ 14 Women 0,12% 0,47% 0,32% 0,10% 0,02% 1,03% Paraná Paraná Women 4 6 6 _ _ 16 Men 0,07% 0,35% 0,35% 0,08% 0,04% 0,89% Men 4 21 10 4 5 44 Women 0,19% 0,31% 0,26% 0,05% 0,02% 0,83% Rio de Janeiro Rio de Janeiro Women 2 5 2 1 _ 10 Men 0,26% 1,21% 0,87% 0,34% 0,40% 3,06% Men 18 88 60 20 5 191 Women 1,63% 6,17% 3,77% 1,43% 0,27% 13,28% Sao Paulo Sao Paulo Women 44 164 87 28 3 326 Men 0,88% 4,04% 3,10% 1,15% 0,51% 9,68% Men 24 114 77 25 10 250 Women 1,95% 6,96% 4,34% 1,57% 0,31% 15,13% Total Women 50 175 95 28 3 351 Total Men 1,21% 5,59% 4,31% 1,57% 0,94% 13,62% 74 289 172 53 13 601 3,15% 12,55% 8,65% 3,15% 1,25% 28,75% 50 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 51 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT LABOR PRACTICES ATTACHMENT LABOR PRACTICES ATTACHMENT LA7 Rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and work LA13 Composition of the groups responsible for corporate governance and related facilities by region and gender breakdown of employees per employee category by gender, age group, minorities, and other diversity indicators LOST-DAYS RATE BY REGION POSITION BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP 14-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 Over 50 Sao Paulo Rio de Janeiro Paraná Position by gender and age group (%) Total years old years old years old years old years old 583,51 495,30 259,92 Man 0.61% 0.06% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.67% Trainee Woman 0.84% 0.04% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.88% ABSENTEEISM RATE BY REGION Man 0.00% 0.00% 0.01% 0.01% 0.12% 0.14% Sao Paulo Rio de Janeiro Paraná Self-employed professionals Woman 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.01% 0.01% 75.29 56.73 27.63 Man 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.11% 0.28% 0.39% Director Woman 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.01% 0.00% 0.01% TOTAL NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED FATALITIES OVER THE TOTAL OF EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS Man 0.09% 0.57% 0.02% 0.00% 0.00% 0.68% Employee work-related 3rd party employee Total work-related Interns State fatalities work-related fatalitie fatalities Woman 0.07% 0.55% 0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 0.62% RJ 0 2 2 Man 0.67% 15.75% 20.64% 10.51% 7.47% 55.04% Work and Social Security CCR Ponte 0 0 0 Card Woman 1.05% 16.52% 16.33% 6.19% 1.46% 41.55% CCR ViaLagos 0 2 2 Man 1.37% 16.37% 20.68% 10.63% 7.87% 56.93% CCR Barcas 0 0 0 Total Woman 1.95% 17.11% 16.34% 6.20% 1.47% 43.07% SP 2 8 10 3.32% 33.48% 37.02% 16.83% 9.35% 100.00% CCR AutoBAn 0 1 1 CCR 0 0 0 CCR NovaDutra 2 2 4 CCR ViaOeste 0 4 4 CCR ViaQuatro 0 0 0 CCR RodoAnel 0 1 1 SAMM 0 0 0 CCR SPVias 0 0 0 PR 0 2 2 CCR RodoNorte 0 2 2 Total 2 12 14 52 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 53 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT LABOR PRACTICES ATTACHMENT LABOR PRACTICES ATTACHMENT POSITION BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES ETHNIC ORIGIN BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP Position by gender and age group for 14-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 Over 50 14-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 Over 50 Total Etnia por gênero e idade (%) Total persons with disabilities (in %) years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old years old Women 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Men 0.00% 0.03% 0.14% 0.07% 0.09% 0.33% Self-employed Asians professionals Men 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Women 0.00% 0.03% 0.06% 0.02% 0.00% 0.11% Women 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Men 0.88% 11.42% 14.92% 8.01% 5.72% 40.95% Directors Caucasians Men 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Women 1.37% 12.41% 12.39% 4.83% 1.19% 32.20% Women 0.01% 0.19% 0.20% 0.10% 0.06% 0.56% Men 0.00% 0.02% 0.02% 0.01% 0.00% 0.06% Registered employees Indigenous Men 0.00% 0.42% 0.39% 0.29% 0.37% 1.47% Women 0.00% 0.02% 0.03% 0.01% 0.00% 0.07% Women 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Men 0.36% 3.67% 3.96% 1.85% 1.71% 11.54% Interns Pardo Men 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Women 0.50% 3.74% 3.01% 1.06% 0.17% 8,48% Women 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Men 0.13% 1.23% 1.63% 0.69% 0.36% 4.04% Apprentices Afro-descendents Men 0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.01% Women 0.08% 0.90% 0.85% 0.28% 0.11% 2.22% Women 0.01% 0.19% 0.20% 0.10% 0.06% 0.56% Men 1.37% 16.37% 20.68% 10.63% 7.87% 56.93% Total Men 0.01% 0.42% 0.39% 0.29% 0.37% 1.48% Total Women 1.95% 17.11% 16.34% 6.20% 1.47% 43.07% 0.02% 0.61% 0.59% 0.39% 0.42% 2.04% 3.32% 33.48% 37.02% 16.83% 9.35% 100.00% 54 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group GRI Report 2014 CCR Group 55 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI INDEX ATTACHMENT EXPEDIENT LABOR PRACTICES ATTACHMENT POSITION BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP Position by gender and Asians Caucasians Indigenous Pardo Afro-descendents Total GRUPO CCR CCR ACTUA SUSTAINABILITY ethnic groups CCR Group’s Presidency and Vice Presidency Wagner Gudson Marques Men 0.00% 0.55% 0.00% 0.08% 0.04% 0.67% Institutional Relations Vice President Marina Mattaraia Apprentices Planning and Control Board Livia Gallucci Women 0.00% 0.65% 0.00% 0.21% 0.02% 0.88% New Business Board Leandro Sebok Financial and Investor Relations Board Juliana Damante Men 0.00% 0.14% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.14% Business Development Board Luiz Guilherme Pivanti Self-employed Counsel Office Ane Duarte professionals Airports Board Jéssica Trevisam Women 0.00% 0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.01% Marketing and Sustainability Board Men 0.01% 0.38% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.39% Directors Women 0.00% 0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.01% Men 0.00% 0.59% 0.00% 0.06% 0.03% 0.68% Interns Women 0.00% 0.51% 0.00% 0.10% 0.01% 0.62% Registered Men 0.32% 39.29% 0.06% 11.41% 3.96% 55.04% CONSULTING employees Ricardo Catto Women 0.11% 31.02% 0.07% 8.16% 2.19% 41.55% Álvaro Pureza Hugo Brandão Men 0.33% 40.95% 0.06% 11.54% 4.04% 56.93% Cyntia Watanabe Andreia Andrade Total Women 0.11% 32.20% 0.07% 8.48% 2.22% 43.07% Maíra Rubio 0.45% 73.15% 0.12% 20.02% 6.26% 100.00% comunicação & sustentabilidade LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender WRITING / REVIEW / TRANSLATE Bianca Notário Cezar Martins RETURN TO WORK Claudio Andrade Employees who Employees who % Of return Roberta Cipoloni Tiso Employees entitled Employee retention, for at took parental returned to work to work after Parental leave to parental leave in least 1 year, after return leave in 2014 after leave ended parental leave 2014 to work ended Men 4,970 229 229 100% 226 Women 3,726 178 177 99,4% 174 Total 8,696 407 406 400 LAYOUT / TEXT EDITING Liniker Lener Renata Schmutzler Stephanie Reis 56 GRI Report 2014 CCR Group Relatório GRI 2014 Grupo CCR 57 Relatório GRI 2014 Grupo CCR 58 Relatório GRI 2014 Grupo CCR 59 Relatório GRI 2014 Grupo CCR 60 Relatório GRI 2014 Grupo CCR 61 WWW.GRUPOCCR.COM.BR
