United Nations Global Compact CRI Group’s Communication on Progress 2015 TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Content 03 Statement of Continuing Support 04 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 05 Principle 2: Businesses must ensure their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses. 06 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 07 Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 08 Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. 09 Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 10 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 11 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 12 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies. 13 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 14 Measurement of Outcomes United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUING SUPPORT This report is the CRI Group’s Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact (UNGC). It details our work, progress and achievements within the area of corporate social responsibility (CSR) , aligned with the UNGC’s ten principles. CRI Group undertakes a range of CSR initiatives in support of the UNGC principles. CRI Group joined the Global Compact on 6th August 2012 and is committed to supporting the 10 principles by providing responsible business, diversity and inclusion, community engagement, and environmental stewardship. Examples of CRI Group’s initiatives that align with the UNGC principles can be found throughout this report. It is our intention to continuously improve in our efforts to meet the UNGC principles across the entire CRI Group. Please note that throughout the report we refer to our global network of independent units as ‘CRI Group’ or the ‘Company.’ Zafar I. Anjum, MSc, CFE, CIS, MICA, Int. Dip. (Fin. Crime), CII, MIPI Group Chief Executive Officer Corporate Research and Investigations Dated: April 2015 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Policies: Code of Conduct, Anti-Harassment Policy Progress: CRI Group has established a Code of Conduct to lay down key principles in consideration of responsibility towards respecting human rights. Our corporate policies ensure non-discrimination in all personnel practices. CRI Group offers employees a safe and healthy working environment whereby they are offered professional growth and freedom of association as a member of the ACFE, IAPP or other professional group. CRI Group respects internationally recognized human rights and supports the observance of these rights. We act in accordance with the applicable requirements of the International Labor Organization. We recognize the basic right of all employees to establish trade unions and labor representations. We reject all deliberate use of forced or compulsory labor. Child labor is prohibited. We heed the minimum age requirements for employment in accordance with governmental obligations. CRI Group ensures that rules in our organization are obeyed and raise awareness among employees though suitable preventive measures and their integration in the existing management system. We have created a compliance network throughout the CRI Group which brings together the expertise of compliance officers to implement best practices in compliance with international and local laws. We provide access to basic health and security to our workers and their families. We ensure giving reasonable space for all employees’ religious practices. The Anti-Harassment Policy here at CRI Group fundamentally secures the social rights. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 4 Principle 2: Businesses must ensure their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policies: Code of Conduct Progress: The CRI Group Code of Conduct expresses our support for the General Declaration on Human Rights issued by the UN in 1948 and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, 1950. CRI Group respects international guidelines and standards including the FCPA, UK Bribery Act 2010 and Privacy Law in Asia while rendering risk mitigation services round the globe. The organization privately and publicly condemns systematic and continuous human rights abuses such as discrimination on the basis of cast, creed, religion, color, etc., safeguards fundamental working rights, introduces a fair and independent justice system and creates awareness among the people about their rights. CRI Group also conducts a complete assessment regarding the impact on human rights, from both inside and outside the company, with relevant stakeholders during both preand post-investment phases in order to avoid any risk of becoming linked to human rights abuses. This involves looking at the functions including purchasing, logistics, human resource management, HSE (health, safety and environment), sales and marketing. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 5 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Policies: Code of Conduct Progress: CRI Group acts in accordance with the applicable requirements of the International Labor Organization. We recognize the basic right of all employees to establish trade unions and labor representations. CRI Group does not interfere with the activities of workers while they carry out their functions in ways that are not disruptive to regular company operations. Practices such as allowing the collection of charity money on company premises, and provision of office space for moral purpose, have proven to help build good relations between management and workers, provided that they are not used as a way for the company to exercise indirect control on anything. CRI Group is committed to address problem-solving or other needs of interest to workers and management, including rearrangements and training, dismissal procedures, safety and health issues, grievance and dispute settlement procedures, disciplinary rules, and family and community welfare, etc., ensuring the effectiveness of collective bargaining. Professional dealings with employees that permit neither privilege nor discrimination are integral to our corporate culture. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 6 Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Policies: Code of Conduct, Employment Contracts, Interest-free Loans Policy Progress: CRI Group acts in accordance with the applicable requirements of the International Labor Organization (ILO). We reject all deliberate use of forced or compulsory labor and do not allow any conduct through which employees are not offering themselves voluntarily. Unforced labor is the basis for creating opportunities and developing skills, and helps produce healthy labor markets. CRI Group is firmly against slavery, debt-bonded labor, child labor, physical confinement in the work location, punishing opinions or expressions of views, physical or psychological violence, withholding and non-payment of wages, any false promises about terms and types of work or any similarities to aforementioned. Remuneration and benefits paid or otherwise rendered in compensation for a normal working week are in keeping at least with the minimum national legal standard or standards of the respective national economic region. All employees of CRI Group have employment contracts, based on voluntary employment in accordance with the principle of freedom of contract and contain arrangements for the employment contract to be terminated. Furthermore, we support and encourage all other affiliated companies, as well as our business partners and suppliers, to take the Code of Conduct into account in their own corporate policies including recognition of the ILO’s key working standards. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 7 Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Policies: Code of Conduct, Insurance Policy Progress: CRI Group acts in accordance with the applicable requirements of the International Labor Organization (ILO). CRI Group has carefully undergone a complete and detailed awareness of countries, regions, sectors, economic activities where there is a greater likelihood of child labor, and while working in such jurisdictions we respond accordingly with our policies and procedures. For example, we adhere to minimum age provisions of national labor laws and regulations and, where national law is insufficient, take account of international standards. Child labor is strictly prohibited. We heed the minimum age requirements for employment in accordance with governmental obligations. We are constantly engaged in using adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age verification in pre-hiring process during our recruitment procedures. CRI Group is seeking practical alternatives and access to adequate services for the children and the families of our employees by providing adequate insurance provisions for them. CRI Group works together with suppliers that share the company’s concept of sustainability, and expressly include recognition of the ILO’s key working standards. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 8 Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policies: Code of Conduct, Talent through Diversity and Re-hiring Policy, Non-discrimination Policies and Practices, Grievance Policy, Whistleblower Policy Progress: CRI Group guarantees equal opportunity and equal treatment, irrespective of ethnicity, skin color, gender, disability, ideology, faith, nationality, sexual orientation, social background, or political conviction, provided such is based on democratic principles and tolerance towards those of contrary convictions. As a matter of principle, our employees are chosen, hired, and supported based on their qualifications and skills. CRI Group is succeeding with specific activities to address the question of discrimination and eliminate it within the workplace. Some common examples include our ‘Talent through Diversity and Re-hiring Policy’ that entails qualifications, skill and experience the basis for the recruitment, placement, training and advancement of all the staff at all levels. Our company-wide policies and procedures guide equal employment practices, and fairly link advancement to desired performance in this area. Furthermore, we are committed to our Corporate Social Responsibility on recruitment, training and promotion by providing a transparent view of opportunities for employees and giving them guidance an support for their progression within the organization. Each of our employees is prohibited from discrimination of any kind (e.g., by disadvantaging, harassing, or bullying) and shall foster a respectful, partner-like interaction with one another. At CRI Group there is a climate of zero tolerance for any form of discrimination. Clear processes and harsh sanctions — even as far as dismissal — have been implemented and communicated. Our deliberate staff training on ‘Non-discrimination Policies and Practices’, including disability awareness, reasonably adjusts the physical environment to ensure health and safety for employees, customers and other visitors with disabilities. As a group brand we ensure equal access to employment for women and minorities as well. Company is also looking into addressing the handicapped employment opportunities in coming years, guaranteeing far better removal of discrimination in its employment patterns. At the heart of our ‘Grievance Policy’ and procedures we address complaints, handle appeals and provide recourse to employees. Our formal structures to address informal traditional issues help preventing employees from raising concerns and grievances. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 9 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Policies: Health, Safety and Environmental Policy, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Progress: Environmental considerations are given due diligence in the CRI Group for service provision and process development. At CRI Group, we are constantly engaged in developing an environmental management system in line with our Code of Conduct Policy and the practices for operations and services to confirm our commitment to care for health and the environment. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 10 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Policies: Health, Safety and Environmental Policy, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Progress: CRI Group is committed to achieving continuous improvements in the environmental compatibility of its service provision and processes. CRI Group has actively developed and promoted sustainability targets (sustainability objectives) that act as indicators to economic, environmental and social expansion. CRI Group is committed to sustain the service (production and consumption) programme with clear performance objectives to take our setup beyond compliance in the long-term. For this we continually measure, track and communicate progress in incorporating sustainability principles into business practices. Our platform ensures transparency and unbiased dialogue with stakeholders. The existence of appropriate management systems is crucial in helping CRI Group to meet organizational challenges. Key tools are audit assessment such as: environmental risk assessment, technology assessment, etc. We provide due diligence and investigative services around the world to preserve business and fight against corruption. We bear responsibility for continuous improvement of the environmental tolerability of our service provision by operating in a paperless environment and constantly seeking to reduce our demand on natural resources while taking economic considerations into account. We therefore make ecologically sound business decisions and implement them over the entire group network. Each of our employees make appropriate and economical use of natural resources and ensure that their activities have only as limited an influence on the environment as possible. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 11 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies. Policies: Health, Safety and Environmental Policy Progress: At CRI Group, the Ethics and Compliance Department is involved in development of the environmental management system by providing advice and undertaking a controlling function. This means concepts for making use of renewable raw materials, employing green materials, and taking measures to reduce carbon footprint due to business activities are evaluated and implemented across all business functions. For example, we have implemented environmentally friendly technologies to reduce the use of raw materials, leading to increased efficiency by employing an eco-mode copier and shredder. CRI Group seeks to make information available to all stakeholders about the benefits of using improved technologies and refocusing research and development towards sustainability of such machinery at the strategic level. This technology innovation generates new business opportunities and helps increase the overall competitiveness of the company. Furthermore, this initiative also promotes environmentally friendly economic growth and to protect the local environment and nature, to improve living and working conditions, and to maintain social cohesion. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 12 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policies: Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and FCPA Policy, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Progress: It is important to us that the professional activities of our employees do not come into a conflict between their private interests and those interests of the CRI Group. Therefore, it is imperative that all situations from which conflicts of interest could arise be avoided. For the protection of the CRI Group and our employees, we have established binding internal rules of conduct as well as a system for counseling, exposure, and the pursuit of such activities and offences (CRI Group AntiCorruption Policies and programs within organizations and our business operations is the core responsibility of our Ethics and Compliance Department). In this context, preventative approach is taken through compliance. An early identification, assessment and management of risks is a particular focus of this department. We support national and international efforts to prevent the influence or distorting of competition through bribery, and we reject any corrupt and detrimental conduct to business. None of our employees may use the business connections of the Company for their own benefit or for that of another, or to the disadvantage of the Company. This means, in particular, that none of our employees grants or accepts impermissible personal benefits (e.g., money tangible assets, or services) that are intended to influence a fact-based decision. To avoid legal consequences for the CRI Group, associated business partners, and individual employees from the outset, each of our employees must always take the initiative to inform themselves about the internal rules before giving or receiving gifts, or extending or accepting invitations or business entertainment. Anti-bribery policy in our business group serves best in this respect. Each of our employees is obligated to seek help or advice upon suspicion or legal uncertainty about the existence of corruption or white-collar crime. Advice and assistance are provided by the superior, the responsible internal departments (e.g., Compliance, Human Resources or Management). United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 13 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES At CRI Group, all staff members are treated fairly and equally, irrespective of their race, religion and gender. CRI Group regularly solicits staff feedback to ensure employee needs are being voiced and met. Results of recent employee feedback reflected that employees were concerned with training and career advancement. Hence, CRI Group initiated a program of professional in-house training for employees. Furthermore, we conduct annual appraisals to identify training needs and assessments to empower our employees professionally. In this year, 24 percent of employees received professional training from leading training organizations like SGS, BSI, HP and NAPBS. In terms of professional development, CRI Group offers promotion and growth for all employees. Currently, the staff breakdown in CRI Group is 51 percent female and 49 percent male, with the majority of core operations being headed by female staff. Furthermore, CRI Group has provided interest-free loans to 18 percent of its employees, as per its comprehensive Interest Free Loan Policy, which gives our employees greater financial mobility. CRI Group is committed to providing a safe and productive working environment to its employees and for this purpose, CRI Group goes a step further in installing its own system for protection and safety (in addition to the building’s fire safety system). Also, during the past year CRI Group has not been subjected to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights violations. Our CSR upholds at its core the protection of human rights. As evidence in support of this is the fact that there were no serious employee grievances filed with our Human Resources department during the past year. On the environmental front, CRI Group is committed to reducing its carbon footprint by using the least resource-intensive operational means. CRI Group’s objective is to transform into a paperless environment, for which our IT department is currently working on a Human Resource Information System (HRIS). To date, CRI Group has not been subjected to any legal cases involving corruption, bribery or anti-money laundering. Our business units are overseen by an Ethics & Compliance department, which ensures a zero-tolerance policy for unethical behaviour. Furthermore, CRI Group’s financial accounts are verified by external auditors at least once each year as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be linked to money laundering, corruption or bribery. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 14 NOTES United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 CRI GROUP 15 Additionally, we welcome any queries or comments you may have on this report. Please address them to: Zafar I. Anjum Group CEO at CRI Group zanjum@CRIGroup.com Middle East & North Africa Asia Dubai Pakistan CRI Group Corporate Headquarters Level 12, #1210, 1211 Level 9, #917, Liberty House, DIFC 55-B, Islamabad Stock P.O. Box 111794 Exchange (ISE) Towers Dubai, UAE Jinnah Avenue, Blue Area Tel: +971-4-3589884 Islamabad, Pakistan Fax: +971 4 3589094 Tel: +92 51 111 888 400 Email: cridxb@CRIGroup.com Toll Free: 0800 00 CRI (274) Email: pakistan@CRIGroup.com Qatar QFC Branch Singapore Office No. 130, 1st Floor 1 Raffles Place, #19-61, Tower 2 Al – Jaidah Square, 63 Airport Road One Raffles Place P.O. Box 24369 Singapore 048616 Doha, Qatar Tel: +65 6808 5634(35)(36) Mobile: +974 7406 6572 Email: singapore@CRIGroup.com Tel: +974 4426 7339 Email: doha@CRIGroup.com Hong Kong Rooms 05-15, 13A/F South Tower World Finance Centre Europe Harbour City 17 Canton Road Tsim Sha Tsui Kowloon, Hong Kong London Tel: 852-2208-6064 EMEA Head Office Email: CRI.hongkong@CRIGroup.com Level 37 1 Canada Square Malaysia London E14 5AA Lot 2-2, Level 2, Tower B United Kingdom The Troika, 19 Persiaran KLCC,M +44 20 7712 1626 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or +44 20 3478 2449 Email: london@CRIGroup.com North America New York 600 Third Avenue, Suite 252 New York, NY 10016 USA © 2015 Corporate Research and Investigations (Pvt) Limited. Tel: +1 (646) 571-2501 Email: newyork@CRIGroup.com
