2015 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Report 0 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Table of Contents Statement of support ....................................................................................................................... 2 People .............................................................................................................................................. 4 Our systems 5 What we do 7 Community ..................................................................................................................................... 10 Our systems 11 What we do 11 Environment ................................................................................................................................... 15 Our systems 16 What we do 17 Ethical Business Practices ............................................................................................................... 22 Our systems 23 What we do 23 Information Security and Data Protection .................................................................................... 25 Our systems 26 What we do 26 1 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Statement of support Corporate social responsibility isn’t a fad or fleeting trend—it’s a defining feature of today’s business environment. Companies have recognized a strategic (and increasingly business-­‐critical) incentive to drive positive social impact. We’re passionate about our role as a socially responsible entity. Our social impact strategy is known as onboard. Onboard’s objective is simple: to do good with everything we do. Onboard is supported by five pillars: People, Community, Environment, Ethical business practices and Privacy & data protection. These pillars form our CSR Principles. They’re the fundamental “rules of engagement” for the way we interact with our employees, colleagues, customers and business partners. We set high expectations for ourselves and we’re committed to meeting them. We’ve always encouraged our employees to contribute to social causes in their communities and wherever we do business. We formalize this process with a commitee that leads CSR activities and creates cross-­‐company awareness. You’ll find a comprehensive outline of progress in this 2014 report, but we’d like to call attention to several particularly significant accomplishments. First, we took steps to define our standards of behavior in a Code of Conduct. Transparency is the name of the game in our ever more connected world. It’s about conducting business in a forthright and open way—and it’s how we’ve always operated. But with an increasingly strict regulatory environment and a higher interest level from our customers and prospects, it was important to formalize it. Putting a code in place demonstrates our commitment to honest and respectful business practices, and shows our willingness to be held accountable for our actions. We expanded our Making a Difference program to 19 charities around the world. The program was originally established by our shareholder on behalf of the John and Marine van Vlissingen Foundation, and funds employee-­‐nominated charities that make a direct impact in the lives of children. We have a long history of involvement with the GBTA Foundation, the education and research arm of the Global Business Travel Association. In May 2014, we were recognized for our efforts to promote sustainable business practices. BCD Travel took the Sustainability Outstanding Achievement Award in the Travel Intermediary category. 2 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Our employees continue to volunteer and donate to causes they’re passionate about. In 2014 that included volunteering at food banks, embarking on medical mission trips to communities with poor health infrastructure, participating in sponsored athletic events, organizing toy drives for deserving children and many more. In addition to these successes, we faced an unfortunate setback in our CSR efforts this year. Nearly five years ago, a 7.0-­‐ magnitude earthquake wreaked havoc on Haiti, killing more than 230,000 people and leaving an entire country in ruin. Soon thereafter, the John & Marine van Vlissingen Foundation and BCD Travel launched the Haiti Project and BCD School of Hope. With colleagues and supporters from around the world, we pulled together to educate and feed and give hope to hundreds of desperate children. But widespread corruption and a deteriorating political environment have halted our efforts. While staff and students were safely away from the school at night, an armed group seized control of the property. As a result, we are, for the moment, forced to put our financial support on hold while we thoroughly evaluate the situation and look for solutions. We’re convinced that, in the long term, we’ll be able to continue our support. We don’t want to give up on the Haiti children or this project where we have invested so much already. We are deeply saddened by this turn of events, yet we’re encouraged by what we hope and know is possible. As we proudly submit our Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact for the sixth consecutive year, we’re reminded of the benefits in persuing a social impact strategy—benefits to our community, employees and our bottom line. Reputation, integrity and social awareness are increasingly important to our clients, investors and suppliers. We all win when our values align. At the end of it all, engaging in CSR is simply the right thing to do. Human rights abuses, corruption, environmental destruction and persistent poverty are deeply engrained in today’s global society. But as individuals and as a company, we’ve chosen—and we will always choose—to battle against these evils, and to recognize and appreciate the impact of our choice. Kathy Jackson Executive Vice John Snyder President Global Client President & CEO Management & Advito BCD Travel /onboard Executive Sponsor 3 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect People the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We work to help our people strike a healthy balance between their professional and personal lives, creating a flexible workplace that serves the requirements of both the company and the individual. We operate our services and facilities with a single-­‐minded objective: to protect the Our PEOPLE principle supports the wellbeing of our employees, customers, the public, and the environment. We defend United Nations Global Compact our employees from unreasonable health and safety risks on the job, forbidding any principles of Human Rights (1 and 2) acts or threats of physical violence—including intimidation, harassment or and the principles for Labor Standards coercion—that occur in the workplace or during the conduct of company business (3, 4, 5 and 6). Our CSR executive off company property. We specifically prohibit harassment based on race, color, sponsor for this p rinciple heads talent national origin, ancestry, religion, creed, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, management and human resources medical condition, veteran status and age. activities for the company at global Honest communication is a vital part of a positive work environment. We encourage level, overseeing the requirements employees to bring forth their ideas, suggestions, questions and concerns. We listen stated in the UN principles. carefully and act upon what we hear. We protect the confidentiality of all personal information in our employees’ records and will never release personal information to outside sources unless we’re legally required to do so. Christian Dahl Senior Vice In addition, we offer pay and benefits competitive and appropriate for the markets President Strategic in which we operate. Talent Management & Global Human Every day, our people bring our creative and personal brand to life. They do this Resources because they know their actions count and their views matter. We want to give them the tools, skills and outlets to build their “confident self,” because our success hinges on theirs. 4 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Our systems collective bargaining. The following systems and procedures ensure that our Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination commitment to human rights and labor standard issues is addressed: of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. • Each of our employees has a part to play in our company’s success. Each employee needs to be confident that they can play that part. That’s why we make it a priority to develop the ‘confident self’ of each employee. One way we do this is through our competency model. The model links each competency to our company’s strategic priorities. We help our employees use the model to build their competency levels and develop the skills and abilities they need to advance themselves in their careers. • In 2014, we completed the global roll out of Knowledge Hub, an online platform that gives our employees a single point of access to all our learning and training programs. • Our CSR principles outline our position on human rights issues. Available in nine languages (English, Dutch, French, German, Spanish, Portuguese, Japanese, Chinese Traditional and Chinese Simplified), this document is given to all employees at orientation and is also available on our website, on local intranet sites and in local employee and HR manuals. If local laws are more restrictive than BCD Travel’s standards, employees must comply with the more stringent, applicable local laws. • A dedicated global CSR committee helps raise awareness throughout the organization on issues dealing with human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-­‐corruption. This committee is made up of staff members from various functions and levels across the globe. • Our locations around the world have a dedicated contact to which employees can turn for advice on human rights abuse issues. • Bi-­‐annual employee satisfaction surveys are carried out by a third party on a global scale. These surveys allow employees to confidentially voice their opinions and raise any important issues. • We work with suppliers and sub-­‐contractors who are encouraged to sign up to our Code of Conduct, which stipulates our policy on human rights issues. 5 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 • We value the relationship with our clients, taking great Labor standards care and responsibility to manage and protect client Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective data. We recognize that unauthorized disclosure of abolition of child labor. sensitive information can result in failing to comply Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of with industry best practices, industry compliance, or discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. applicable legislative requirements and regulations. In addition, unscheduled downtime of the services and applications that we use to process client information or that we provide to our clients negatively affects our performance, reputation and client retention. • We protect our clients' travelers with Travel Risk Management & Traveler Security technology that enables them to monitor their travelers' security anywhere in the world. Our DecisionSource platform provides crisis management reporting, pre-­‐trip and on-­‐trip compliance reporting, risk assessment and destination intelligence, offering instant access to accurate travel and security information. In the event of a crisis, a plan can be immediately executed to get travelers out of a high-­‐risk area quickly. It monitors risk across the globe, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, generating e-­‐mail alerts to keep travelers informed and aware. • We also work with a highly specialized third-­‐party firm that brings home travelers who become sick or are injured while on a business trip, with the maximum of care and minimum fuss. • We respect the rights of employees to form works councils to allow a greater degree of employee input into the company. Several works councils are currently in place in European countries and conform to local country and European Union laws. • Through the development of activities employing our own workforce to attract new employees, our Talent Management team is working towards refreshing our employer brand with company-­‐wide recognition and Recruiting Management System (RMS) programs. LinkedIn has become our primary source for recruitment at all levels. • By developing a customized on-­‐boarding plan for new employees and expanding the use of technology and social media practices in recruiting, BCD Travel’s Talent Management team looks to enhance the employee on-­‐boarding experience via new technologies and create a more comprehensive talent pipeline program. • With our Talent Management initiative, we aim to achieve recognition as the “employer of choice” among competitors, and to increase employee engagement and satisfaction. 6 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 What we do • In 2013, an executive sponsor team was named to lead the company’s efforts in support of each of our principles. The role of each executive stems from the function they front within the organization, allowing each to focus on one area to provide better guidance and direction. • All regions report quarterly on their activities and progress within our CSR Principles. • A number of our locations carry out audits of all work spaces through an external company specializing in safety and ergonomic standards in the workplace, to certify that our employees are working in a safe and comfortable environment. • A formal, mandatory screening process is used along with confidentiality agreements and ongoing training and awareness programs. Background checks are performed on potential employees and contractors. • We provide information for clients experiencing travel disruptions on our website. Customized for each region, these pages feature widgets for information about airport delays, weather links, local forecast and government alerts. • We uphold our duty of care objective by consulting with clients on destination and security, while publishing intelligence pieces and White Papers on topics such as Building a Travel Risk Management Plan and Responsible Travel Management. • The Global Crisis Management team coordinates all internal responsibilities and resources to monitor the world through multiple media sources: 24/7/365 for incidents that happen globally, and incidents that have a direct or indirect impact on travel. During crisis mode and after incidents, the team identifies potentially impacted travelers by pulling reports on global data through our risk management and intelligence & analytics tool, DecisionSource. • We uphold our duty of care for our employees while they’re on the road by providing traveller tracking, crisis and emergency response and security awareness and eduction. In 2014, we issued ‘Travelsafe’ cards to our employees. The card consolidates a company ID card, IATA card and travel insurance card in one and allows us to better support our employees when they’re outside their regular working environment. It includes information for travellers such as telephone numbers to dial in the case of emergency, for medical assistance and information on travel disruption while travelling. In addition, employee traveler data is included in a reporting process that alerts HR teams of any impacted travelers. And a 24 hour hotline and ‘follow the sun’ process ensures that our travellers are taken care of while travelling. 7 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 • Our global employee satisfaction survey was conducted in 2014, with 74.4% of the employee base participating -­‐ up from 72.6% in 2012. With the increase in participation we also saw an improvement in all of the 19 categories evaluated. The company's Overall Satisfaction jumped from 77.9% to 79.7%, a significant improvement year over year, meeting our enhanced strategic focus on PEOPLE. A further statement to that is the Engagement Index, which went up from 80.2% to 81.9%. These results are the voice and sentiment of our employees, a proclamation we take very seriously and to heart; therefore, we will contine to conduct employee surveys every second year, allowing more time between evaluations to further assess the results and work on action plans and initiatives stemming from the responses. • Work placements allow students to gain real experience in an industry or a particular function that he or she is interested in. We have accepted various placements around the globe, working in close partnership with the students' educational institutions, providing practical experience and mentoring to help students complete necessary course work while on placement. • BCD Travel is dedicated to employees’ professional development to hone their skill levels and advance with the company. Training content is developed internally for BCD Travel-­‐specific training needs and purchased externally for universal content. Global Training Average time Completed Unique Average courses spent on training courses participants per person per person 78,061 10,279 7.6 8.5 hours 8 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 922 different courses are offered around the globe Virtual classroom Other Classroom courses Online courses courses 129 293 290 210 • Global Talent Management continued with the CHALLENGE program that identifies and develops candidates that will potentially fulfill future leadership positions at different levels within the organization by strengthening skills and capabilities in four areas of management: self, people, business and results. • Another new program is called MAP (Management Associate Program), developed to teach basics of the industry, business and culture to recruits through on-­‐the-­‐job experience via functional rotations, formal training sessions, and mentoring. • Through the Discovery program, BCD Travel Germany provides the opportunity to work for three weeks in another location either in Germany or in other EMEA countries. This program allows trainees to strengthen their competencies and gain experiences valuable to their development. 9 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Community Our commitment to community is embodied in our corporate vision of promoting global business growth and positive social impact by improving our clients’ performance, their travelers’ lives and communities worldwide. We carry out that commitment to community in a number of ways. Investment in community begins with the individual. So we encourage our employees’ efforts to improve their local communities through social investment, business relationships and charitable activities. We also leverage our business relationships in support of community. Our While our COMMUNITY principle is not partnership with licensees in emerging markets helps these businesses and directly linked to a particular principle their employees secure their future role in a global marketplace by providing from the United Nations Global access to training, technology and opportunities for business growth. And we Compact, we meet our obligations as a combine the energy of our business with the power of our business partner global citizen with our communities relationships to do more for global and local communities than we could do on and support efforts for its wellbeing. our own. Our CSR executive sponsor for this principle heads talent management Finally, we proudly support our shareholder’s Making a Difference foundation, and h uman resources activities for the focusing on championing underpriviledged children’s causes around the globe. company at a global level. From company initiatives to individual good works by employees around the world, we give back to our local and global communities. These actions go far beyond collecting money. Simply put, they express our passion for helping Christian Dahl others. Senior Vice President Strategic Talent Management & Global Human Resources 10 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Our systems In support of the Human Rights principle within the UN Global Compact, we believe in being an agent of positive change through: • Local empowerment: investment in our community begins with the individual and we encourage our employees to initiate and support efforts to improve our local communities. • Making a Difference foundation: we proudly support our shareholder’s organization-­‐wide effort, focused on supporting underpriviledged children’s causes around the globe. • The Haiti Project: in partnership with the Great Commission Alliance, BCD Travel created a fundraising program to support the future of the children in Haiti by building the BCD School of Hope. • Emerging markets: our partnership with licensees in emerging markets helps these businesses and their employees secure their future role in a global marketplace by providing access to training, technology and opportunities for business growth. • Working with suppliers: we work with suppliers and other business partners to encourage joint in-­‐kind contributions to community initiatives. What we do The Haiti Project: BCD Travel and the John and Marine van Vlissingen Foundation partnered with the non-­‐profit Great Commission Alliance to launch the Haiti Project in 2012. Our mission was to fund the construction and operation of the BCD School of Hope in the town of Mirebalais, Haiti, offering 500 underprivileged children the opportunity of receiving an education and the promise of a bright future. The widespread corruption and deteriorating political environment halted 2014 Haiti Project ambassadors our efforts in Haiti this year, but not before our employees invested their visit the BCD School of Hope. time, effort and resources to the cause. 11 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 • A group of seven employees went on an ambassador trip to Mirebalais to carry out the projects they identified on their first trip to the school in 2013. They set up a geography lab and computer lab. And they were able to see the summer school program in action. • We launched a Gift-­‐Give campaign in support of the school. Employees, as well as their friends and family, had the opportunity to direct their donations to a project of their choice. • BCD Travel employees took the initiative to hold fundraising events, participate in sponsored sporting events, sell baked goods and come up with other creative ways to support the project. • To date, BCD Travel has raised nearly US$350,000 for the project. We used about $200,000 to fund the BCD School of Hope, leaving nearly $150,000 for future investment. Making a Difference: a grass-­‐roots level programs that make a direct impact in the lives of children and reinforces the charitable instincts of BCD Group’s employees across the globe. Says John Fenterner van Vlissingen, Chairman and founder of BCD Group: “Making a difference that can be felt by children living on all continents requires vision on both a global and local level. We are delighted to invite our company’s staff from all corners of the globe to help improve the world for children. As an organization, we are dedicated to being an agent of positive change and truly benefiting children.” Our global offices support a wide variety of charitable efforts (not including the Haiti Project): Contributions reported in 2014 Region (cash and in-­‐kind) U.S. & Canada US$ 195,291 LatAm US$ 15,224 EMEA/UK US$ 36,465 APAC US$ 49,444 gifts for one of is, TN wrap holiday Employees in Memph ouse Day Care. ce charities, Hope H our Making a Differen Total US$ 256,424 12 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Where we are Making a Difference BCD Travel Germany BCD Travel UK Städtisches Kinderheim Aschaffenburg The Rainbow Trust Kids To Life The Children’s Adventure Farm FRÜZ Mädchencafé BCD M&I UK The Link Foundation BCD Travel Netherlands Kidsbase BCD Travel US Chicago BCD Travel France Reves BCD Travel Luxembourg Thumbuddy Special Caritas BCD Travel Singapore Jamiyah Children’s BCD Travel US Memphis BCD Travel Mexico Home BCD Travel Belguim Hope House Day Care Fundacion Camino a Casa, A.C. Bednet BCD Travel Nicaragua BCD Travel Israel BCD Travel Costa Rica Asociacion de Padres de ninow y Natal Asociacion Proyecto Daniel jovenes diabeticos de Nicaragua Pro Ayuda a Jovenes Con Cancer y Otras Enfermedades Cronicas BCD Travel Argentina Tu Amigo Invisible en el Chaco 13 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Growth and Emerging Markets: our partner network currently numbers over 87 To ensure that standards are independent travel agencies around the world, each with an exclusive contract to use the maintained and constantly improved BCD Travel brand in their markets. Partners integrate as closely as possible and ensure in the partner markets, the focus is that our clients receive a seamless service throughout the world, whether they are in on training, introducing new Eastern and Central Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific, Latin America or the technologies and products and Caribbean. streamlining processes so that the agencies can generate efficiencies Activities in 2014: and cost savings, which can then be • Partner EMEA Meeting in Athens (March) passed on to all their clients, local as well as multinational. • African Hub Meeting in Uganda (April) and Tanzania (November); Middle East Hub Meeting in Jordan (December) • New partners: Botswana, Cameroon, Mauritania, Mozambique, Namibia • Continuing implementation of Global IT Strategy additional modules • Turkey CSR initiative – HeforShe, a solidarity campaign for gender equality initiated by UN Women. It aims to engage men and boys as agents of change for the achievement of gender equality and women’s rights, encouraging them to take action against inequalities faced by women and girls. • New partner in Cambodia. APAC Partner summit in Cambodia (April) to identify emerging opportunities • Pertapis Children’s Home CSR Walkathon in partnership with ACTE • Staffing smaller Latin American markets with account management, sales and operations to meet the increasingly complex needs of our multinational customers in these markets. 14 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Environment Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. We’re committed to a healthy and sustainable Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the environment, by establishing policies and development and diffusion of environmentally programs that specifically outline how we friendly technologies. conduct business in a safe, environmentally sound manner in accordance with relevant legislation and regulations. Our operations reflect our focus on recycling, conserving resources and Our ENVIRONMENT principle preventing pollution. And our facilities planning and processes take into account supports the United Nations Global environmental considerations like energy consumption, commuting emissions and Compact principles of Environment efficient use of office space. (7, 8 and 9). Our CSR executive We’re dedicated to providing products and services that promote environmentally sponsor for this p rinciple heads our sound travel practices, minimize waste and reduce harmful emissions to the air, relationship with suppliers at a water and land. Our Supplier Code of Conduct encourages our business partners global level, overseeing the to adopt practices aligned with our environmental principles, ethical business requirements stated in the UN practices, human rights and labor practices. principles. In addition, we regularly conduct formal reviews to make sure our activities comply with environmental regulations and internal practices. We’ve always been Rose Stratford a company that builds for the next generations. And for those generations, we Executive Vice have a duty to appreciate, manage and protect the resources we’re fortunate President Global enough to have. ‘Green’ isn’t shorthand for saving trees. It’s a way of life. Supplier Relations & Strategic Sourcing 15 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Our systems The following systems and procedures ensure that our commitment to environmental issues is addressed: • Our comprehensive CSR initiatives focus on sustainability to evaluate and reduce the environmental impact of travel activities and accountability to improve traveler well-­‐being and security and promote ethical business standards throughout their travel supply chain and stakeholder network. • Our carbon emission tracker calculates emissions produced by air travel and reports on this information at company, departmental and individual traveler levels. The tool is incorporated into our information management solution, DecisionSource, which provides intelligence to targeted audiences throughout the travel and reimbursement lifecycle. DecisionSource calculates emissions in accordance with the methodologies of both the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and DEFRA (the United Kingdom's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs). We offer two credible, transparent and consistent structures to provide our customers with maximum flexibility in integrating business travel emission reporting with their broader internal CSR initiatives. • Carbon off-­‐setting can help compensate for the environmental impact of travel programs by allocating funds commensurate with the emissions produced through business travel. That money is then invested in climate protection projects that generate emission-­‐free energy, reduce demand for energy or absorb emissions that have already occurred. BCD Travel's global carbon off-­‐setting partner, Atmosfair, conforms to the Gold Standard for emissions calculation, project selection and funds allocation. • Our consulting arm, Advito, provides a range of consultative services to diagnose and improve travel program environmental and social impacts, including: • Responsible travel p rogram diagnostic: t o help travel and procurement managers determine the contribution their program makes to the company’s overall CSR program and help to achieve the right balance of traditional travel management and CSR objectives. • CSR travel s trategy w orkshop: to help clarify corporate requirements and stakeholder expectations and constraints for sustainable and accountable travel management through single or multiple stakeholder workshops. • Travel a voidance p rogram: to help customers to successfully implement trip avoidance programs through an integrated approach that considers all key stakeholder requirements. 16 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 • Sustainable and accountable travel procurement: to design and manage supplier Request for Proposals (RFPs) that are aligned with the organization’s sustainable and accountable procurement principles. • Meeting location optimization: to address the environmental impact of meetings through sustainable sourcing, ‘environmental housekeeping’ and a total trip perspective. • Off-­‐setting advisory: to provide the customized advice needed to address the key questions on carbon off-­‐set partner selection and implementation. • Travel r isk m anagement consulting: to help to assess exposure to travel-­‐related safety and security risks and recommend changes to operational programs, travel security initiatives and risk management providers. What we do • Paperless (or almost) processes: North America offices maintain a listing of processes that have become paperless. In years past, most of our business was very paper intensive and we continually work to reduce paper and automate or go online with our processes: online new hire portal, annual open enrollment for benefits and online pay stubs for direct deposit. • Pay slips in the UK are now available online, accessible to employees via their own login. This new process saves paper, time and postage. • Travel Operations continues to remove paper from all processes and is implementing a tracking process for each office to calculate the number of trees saved per year by eliminating ticket stock, ticket jackets, invoice/itineraries, bills /invoices and record keeping of commissions. 17 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 • BCD Travel offices continue to increase the number of employees working from home: 56% in the U.S. and 54% in Canada. This saves gasoline and CO2 emissions as well as time and provides a better work-­‐life balance. Additionally, this adds flexibility to supporting the needs of the business or disaster recovery and also reduces office space (sq. ft) costs/CO2 emissions. • Our processes, systems and activities detailed above enable a greater understanding of environmental liabilities linked to business travel among our employees and clients. The steps we have taken count towards reducing the carbon footprint of our travelers and educating our community at large on being more environmentally responsible. • All of our offices in Germany and the Netherlands are certified to the environmental management standard ISO 14001:2009. A surveillance audit of both these countries took place in Q1 2014, certification is valid until 2017. BCD Travel UK’s office also achieved ISO 14001 re-­‐certification in October 2014. • An ISO 14001 survelillance audit was carried out in our Atlanta Headquarters in June 2014 with the current certification valid until 2016. The second location in the US to start the ISO 14001 certification process in late 2014 is our Dallas office with certification slated for Q3 2015. • BCD Travel Germany maintained their share of environmentally friendly office materials to >40% in 2014. The Netherlands also maintained their share of > 48%. • All paper purchased in the Netherlands and Germany in 2014 continues to be more than 95% environmentally friendly. • Eleven office facilities in the US are now Energy Star certified which means that they meet the strict energy performance standards defined by the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency). Energy Star rated buildings use less energy, are less expensive to operate and cause fewer greenhouse gas emissions. Threeoffice facilities are LEED certified. • Square footage of office space was reduced by 5% in the U.S. and Canada in 2014, resulting in a reduction of 46% since 2009. 18 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 • Server virtualization in our IT department in the U.S. has had a significant environmental impact by reducing energy costs and reducing annual CO2 emissions required to power physical services. To date this effort has reduced energy consumption by 11,661,915 kilowatt-­‐hour (KWh) and CO2 emissions by 18,460,810 lbs or 8,373,682 kgs which also equates to eliminating 1,565 cars off the highway and the planting of 27,677 trees. In addition, a positive impact on capital and operating expenses was achieved. Virtualization technology is currently being used to meet the growing remote workforce. 8% of all desktops have been converted to date with more expected in the future. • Travel itineraries contain CO2 emission statements for air, car, rail and hotel segments. • With the move to a smaller location in Paris, the number of employees working from home has increased resulting in reduced CO2 emissions due to travel. • BCD Travel Germany and BCD Travel Netherlands have set a baseline carbon footprint for electricity and energy consumption. • Environmental award die Grüne Flötte 2014 (Green Fleet) from VW Leasing GmbH and NABU (Naturschutz Bund) for ecologically responsible car fleet management. • The Green Brigade in Mexico devised a car-­‐pooling project through their local intranet. Employees can register to share their car or to match up with other employees to share the ride to the office, thus reducing CO2 emissions. • BCD Travel Costa Rica started a composting project and within the first month, 112 kg of organic material was converted into 33,5 kg of fertilizer. Composting continues and fertilizer is distributed to all employees for their home gardens. 19 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 • In 2014 we launched “Green Computing” efforts within the IT department. Commonly referred to as “Green IT”, this global effort is being implemented to address the environmental impact of rising CO2 emissions as a result of increasing computing demands for business operations. The Green IT concept is based around the premise of addressing CO2 emissions through the deployment of the Green Action Plan. Each Green Action Plan is designed to address CO2 reduction through process and technology. The status of each initiative is listed in the table below: Action Status Energy efficient desktops with ENERGY STAR ratings Implemented Energy efficient monitors with ENERGY STAR ratings Implemented Power management – desktop, monitors and printers Planned for Q3 2015 Efficient cooling systems within the data centers Implemented Physical infrastructure management systems within data centers Implemented Air-­‐flow dynamics management within data centers Implemented Virtualization expansion beyond server and desktop to include storage, Planned for Q4 2015 network, and application virtualization Expansion of e-­‐waste & IT asset recycling efforts In progress Expansion of telecommuting efforts Ongoing Deployment of these Green Action plans will reduce IT’s CO2 emissions, reduce waste, improve employee productivity, and lower IT’s operational costs. • Earth Day / Earth Hour / World Environment Day: BCD Travel carried out a number of activities in support of Earth Day on April 22nd, Earth Hour on March 29th and World Environment Day on June 5th. These activities included planting trees and vegetables, collecting batteries, mobiles and electronics for recycling, grow cards, recycling plastic, shut down of all unnecessary electricity, implementation of trash separation and collection. • Paperless documentation: BCD Travel produces screen friendly documents that are easy to read and navigate avoiding the need to print them out. This not only helps us reduce our paper consumption but also that of our customers and suppliers. 20 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 • All employees in Mexico received a can with plant seeds branded with the onboard CSR logo. This activity was used to increase environmental awareness and awareness of our global onboard initiative. • Staples Office Supplies converted the “green” office supplies for the U.S. offices from Jan. through Dec. 2014 using the Environmental Defense Paper Calculator to provide these results: Environmental Report: January 1 – December 31, 2014 Total Volume 5,323.35 lbs. Total Post-­‐Consumer Recycled Content 1,271.65 lbs. Average Post-­‐Consumer Recycled Content 23,89% Greenhouse gas emissions reduced (CO2) equivalents 1,412.16 lbs. Equivalent number of average US cars not driven per year 0.14 cars Water saved 6,482.22 gallons Trees saved 10.81 trees Wood resources saved 4,412.61 lbs. Total energy (BTUs) saved 10,808,995.97 BTUs Energy equivalent to oil saved 77.21 gallons Equivalent number of average US homes heated per year 0.28 homes Energy equivalent to electricity saved 3,077.73 Kwh Equivalent number of average US homes powered per year 0.27 homes • Energy saving: more offices are adopting tighter policies on energy efficiency. The goals include opening windows to allow sunlight, switching off lights during lunch hours, optimizing energy settings in computers, using power strips, using compact fluorescent light bulbs. 21 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Anti-­‐corruption Ethical Business Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Practices and bribery. Today, how we do what we do—more than what we do—determines whether or not we survive and thrive. BCD Travel employees follow a comprehensive model of conduct that ensures Our ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES transparency and dependability in our business transactions. No employee can principle supports the United Nations hold any interest (financial or otherwise) or be actively involved in any activity, Global Compact principle of Anti-­‐ business or organization that might constitute a conflict of interest with our corruption (10). Our CSR executive company. And employees may not select a vendor for any reason other than its sponsor for this p rinciple is our global ability to fulfill our company needs. Information learned during employment with CFO who oversees the requirements us cannot be used for personal gain and employees know they cannot share stated in the UN principles. confidential information with anyone (family or otherwise) who is not employed by us. We deliver what we promise, and only promise what we can deliver. We maintain accounts and records and prepare financial reports in a way that Stephan Baars conforms with our own policies and applicable laws. Only the highest legal and Global Chief moral standards are observed in our business relationships, confirming our sound Financial Officer reputation as a solid and unwavering partner. 22 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Our systems The following systems and procedures ensure that our commitment to anti-­‐corruption issues is addressed: • Our stance on anti-­‐corruption is clearly stated within our CSR Principles, which has been distributed to all employees across the globe and available for download on our Web site. • In late 2014 we introduced our Code of Conduct to all employees. The Code of Conduct sets forth the standards by which we, as a collective organization and as individuals, should act and provides an ethical and legal framework for our day-­‐to-­‐ day activities. A strong message against corruption is included in the Code. Our Non-­‐Compliance Reporting Policy provides guidelines on bringing any potential misconduct to mangement’s attention. • BCD Travel suppliers and sub-­‐contractors are encouraged to sign up to the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-­‐ contractors, which stipulates that: “Corruption and bribery are recognized as some of the barriers for sustainable development. BCD Travel does not accept these practices and does not, therefore, offer or accept any kind of undue payment. BCD Travel expects suppliers to act the same way.” What we do We understand that anti-­‐corruption issues may be larger in some markets than others, so we encourage local initiatives to help employees understand the broader issues and ensure all forms of corruption and bribery are prevented. • In 2014 we requested suppliers globally to sign up to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-­‐contractors. We have also requested our Partners in our global Partner Networks to sign the Code of Conduct. To date 69% have signed and returned the document. • The internal Global Group Policies document includes, among others, BCD Travel’s policies on corruption, bribery and conflict of interest. This document is updated twice yearly and communicated to all employees globally. • The Code of Conduct and Non-­‐Compliance Reporting Policy were rolled out in late 2014. • All employees were required to participate in a mandatory Code of Conduct training which provides specific training on identifying corruption and how to report non-­‐compliance to the Code. The participation rate within the first four months was 91%. Annual Code of Conduct training will be mandatory for all employees globally. 23 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 • A compliance e-­‐mail account was setup and is monitored by the global functions Internal Audit and Legal. In addition, we setup the independently operated BCD Travel SpeakUp System which offers our employees the opportunity to anonymously report any misconduct. All incidents reported are investigated and the results are reviewed by a designated member of the BCD Travel Board responsible for Compliance. • The global internal audit team also partners, upon request, with the compliance and ethics departments of our clients to promote ethical business practices beyond companies’ and industries’ boundaries. 24 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Information protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not Security and complicit in human rights abuses. Data Protection We place a high value on information security—not just Our INFORMATION SECURITY AND because it’s a competitive differentiator—but also DATA PROTECTION principle supports because it demonstrates corporate stewardship of the the United Nations Global Compact data entrusted to us by our customers and employees. principles of Human Rights 1 and 2. Our CSR executive sponsor for this The information that travels over our computer networks is treated as our own principle heads global technology and corporate asset. We prohibit unauthorized access, disclosure, duplication, oversees the requirements stated in modification, diversion, destruction, loss, misuse or theft of this information. Third-­‐ the UN principles. party information that’s been entrusted to us is protected in a manner consistent with its sensitivity as well as in accordance with all applicable agreements. Our computers, mobile devices and other information storage devices are protected Russ Howell with appropriate information security policies, procedures and technologies. Our Executive Vice information security measures apply regardless of the media on which information President is stored: paper, electronic, local, cloud; regardless of the systems that process it: Global Technology personal computers, voicemail systems; and regardless of the methods by which it’s moved: email, telephone, face-­‐to-­‐face conversation. We also protect information in a way that’s consistent with its classification, such as whether it’s need-­‐to-­‐know or internal only. Compliance requirements are set in accordance with industry, international standard, legislative and client expectations. In addition, we regularly perform audits (including ISO 9001, Payment Card Industry Data Protection Standard (PCI) and Safe Harbor) to make sure we comply with best practices, industry regulations and legal obligations. 25 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Our systems The following systems and procedures ensure that our commitment to human rights is addressed: • The Corporate Security Governance Committee includes management from human resources, legal, operations, finance, information technology, internal audit, industry relations and security management, to review the security program periodically and ensure that it continues to meet the security needs of the business and our customers. • We have taken extensive measures to protect corporate and customer data and information from loss, manipulation unauthorized access and falsification, by complying with legal provisions and by adopting international security standards such as ISO 27000 series and PCI –DSS into its global security standards. • Certified Security Professionals with cutting-­‐edge technical expertise and professional designations such as Certified Information Security Manager (CISM), Certified Information System Security Professional (CISSP), Holistic Information Security Practitioner (HISP), Certified in Risk and Information Control (CRISC) and Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA), are dedicated to protecting assets in our care. • Information protection is part of our operations and business alignment, led by steering and advisory committees and applying risk assessments. What we do • Our data centers ensure that customer data remains secure while stored on BCD Travel production information systems. We maintain certification to the internationally recognized standard Information Security Management ISO 27001:2005 which provides a framework for best practices in the management of information security. We use encryption or other compensating controls to secure data during collection, transit and storage. • We have successfully completed PCI Merchant compliance efforts in Germany, Australia, Singapore, India, Switzerland, Canada and the United States. • We incorporate cutting-­‐edge technologies into our network and systems to protect personal data. This includes, among other tools, endpoint protection, intrusion detection and protection and data loss prevention. 26 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 • We successfully completed the ISO 9001:2008 surveillance audit, ISO 27001:2005 recertification audit and the SSAE16 audit report for 2014. • Over 15,000 BCD Travel employees received our online security awareness training in 2014. Along with this annual training, BCD Travel employees receive security updates via bulletin and Salesforce alerts, intranet communications and security-­‐related articles in our quarterly internal magazine focus. • 2,100 employees globally participated in our October Cybersecurity Awareness Week. This effort aligns with the 10th Anniversary of National Cyber Security Month hosted annually in the U.S. by the National Cyber Security Alliance. 27 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015 Otto-­‐Lilienthal-­‐Str. 1 Sharon Dirks 28199 Bremen Global CSR Germany Coordinator T +49 (0)421 3500 491 email: sharon.dirks@bcdtravel.de About BCD Travel BCD Travel helps companies make the most of what they spend on travel. For travelers, this means keeping them safe and productive, and equipping them to make good choices on the road. For travel and procurement managers, it means advising them on how to grow the value of their travel program. For executives, we ensure that the travel program supports company objectives. In short, we help our clients travel smart and achieve more. We make this happen in 110 countries with more than 11,000 creative, committed and experienced people. And it’s how we maintain an industry-­‐leading client-­‐retention rate of 96%, with 2014 sales of US$24.2 billion. For more information, visit www.bcdtravel.com. About BCD Group BCD Group is a market leader in the travel industry. The privately owned company was founded in 1975 by John Fentener van Vlissingen and consists of BCD Travel (global corporate travel management), Travix (online travel: CheapTickets, Vliegwinkel, BudgetAir, Flugladen and Vayama), Park 'N Fly (off-­‐airport parking) and joint ventures Parkmobile International (mobile parking applications) and AERTrade International (consolidating and fulfillment). BCD Group employs over 12,500 people and operates in 110 countries with total sales of US$ 25.6 billion, including US$ 10 billion in partner sales. For more information, visit www.bcdgroup.com. 28 Communication on Progress – UN Global Compact BCD Travel © 2015
