COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Year: 2014 Please give a brief executive summary of your company and its mission and objectives, its subsidiaries and financial performance. Located within the close proximity of the international airport, Radisson Blu Plaza Delhi, New Delhi offers easy access to shopping and business districts of both Delhi and Gurgaon. Designed for travelers who want to be in a central location, Radisson Blu Plaza Delhi has 261 beautifully appointed guest rooms, including 21 suites and one Presidential Suite. Contemporary and modern in setting, all rooms offer elegant décor and luxurious amenities. Guests can savour critically acclaimed cuisine with top-of-the-line service at award winning restaurants. The Great Kabab Factory, NYC, R-The Lounge, Neung Roi and Savannah Bar. The hotel also offers a 20,000 sq. feet, RThe SPA, which is a perfect wellness retreat. Our Mission : Worldwide World-class Hospitality Our Vision : To be the most admired Hotel Company in the Asia Pacific. Our Values : Our company values are: Integrity Empowerment Customer focus Courage Perseverance Our Purpose : At Carlson we work with a clear and noble purpose. We seek to: Serve millions of guests and travelers in a way that makes a positive difference to their lives. Provide tens of thousands of jobs and help our employees grow and achieve their potential Contribute to the common good through our commitment to social responsibility Generate attractive financial returns for our shareholders and business partners. Carlson – Credo Whatever you do, do with Integrity Wherever you go, go as a Leader Whomever you serve, serve with caring Whenever you dream, dream with your All And never, ever give UP 1 Commitment Statement by GM The principles outlined as a part of the U.N. Global Compact are consistent with the focus of Radisson Blu Plaza Delhi‟s corporate responsibility strategy, including its anchoring the Carlson Credo and our key values, its focus on our relationship with and impact on all of our stakeholders (including our people, our guests, our customers, our business partners, our suppliers, the environment, government and statutory bodies and the communities in which we live and operate) and our sense that we are here to make an impact for the common good. By signing the Compact, we are building on our rich legacy of commitments to the common good. Concretely, we have committed to support the Compact‟s ten principles by: Making them an integral part of our business strategy, day–to–day operations and organization culture. Incorporating these principles in our decision making processes. Communicating our progress. We are also committing to engage in partnerships to advance broader development objectives, such as the U.N.‟s Millennium Development Goals. ------------------------------------------August 23rd 2015 Vishvapreet Singh Cheema General Manager Contact: Mr. Vishvapreet Singh Cheema Email: vishvapreet@radissondel.com Phone: 01126779051 Fax: 01126779009 2 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for No. compact the upcoming year principle 1 Businesses Carlson has HR philosophy of “Catch Me”, “Grow Me” and “Keep Me” which should support is very people focused. and respect the protection of Our “Values”, “Purpose” and “Credo” give a direction and articulate the way internationally we do our business and support universal human rights for people, be it our proclaimed employees or the local communities that we operate in. human rights; We, at Radisson Blu Plaza Delhi (RBPD), strongly believe that an organization can play a very positive role in contributing to safeguarding human rights. Our principles prohibit child labour, forced labour and discriminatory behavior as well as recognize the right to freedom of association and representation. Carlson has clear Responsible Business initiative whereby we take care of People, Community and Environment. ACTION TAKEN:  At RBPD, we provide safe and healthy working conditions for all employees.  We organize trainings & activities religiously to ensure employee awareness and well-being.  Food handlers have compulsory medical examination to ensure food safety & health of our guests and employees.  Hotel has HACCP and EarthCheck silver certifications to support this clause.  Our endeavor is to accommodate religious observance and practices of all employees in a reasonable manner.  To provide our employees with access to basic health services, we organize weekly medical camp on-site through ESI Department of Government Of India wherein they also distribute free medicines to our employees.  We inform and educate our employees on our social & environmental accountability.  All employees are given equitable treatment and there is no discrimination on the ground of sex, religion, place of origin etc.  We support the cause of elementary education for the underprivileged children by organizing periodic initiatives with “Nai Disha”, a nonprofit organization.  We support the Government of India‟s national skill development initiative of “Hunar-Se-Rozgar”.  We ensure strict compliance to the local laws. 3 OUTCOME  At RBPD no case of human rights violation has been reported till date. 4 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for No. compact the upcoming year principle 2 and make sure At RBPD we have a clearly laid down policy on harassment. that they are not complicit in ACTION TAKEN:human rights abuses  RBPD ensures strict compliance to labour laws enacted by the government of India/ state, to protect the interests of its workers.  Hotel places highest importance to Human Rights and ensures that at no point these rights are abused, in principle and in practice. These rights are ensured in all forms of manpower employment.  Grievance mechanism – Hotel ensures prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers following a well established grievance redressal system.  For sexual harassment, a complaint committee exists for redressal of complaints. Also, hotel has appointed a female confidential counselor and even the complaints committee is headed by a lady who is a senior management team member.  Hotel ensures that the contractors working for it take appropriate steps for the safety and welfare of their workers including insurance. OUTCOME:  At RBPD no case of human right violation has been reported till date. 3 Businesses We recognize the freedom of association at RBPD. However, we do not have should uphold any employee association; we follow the model standing orders laid by the the freedom of Government of India. We are under the jurisdiction of labour office of Delhi association and Government and subject to regular inspections by them, the effective recognition of ACTION TAKEN: the right to  Management ensures that it maintains two-way communication with collective employees at all times and resolves their grievances, if any, on priority. bargaining:  Employees are provided with regular training opportunities to keep them up to date and expose them to the working environment of other organizations.  There are work groups and committees wherein employees from different departments at various levels are members. OUTCOME:  Participation of employees has been ensured in staff welfare activities. 5 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for No. compact the upcoming year principle 4 The elimination ACTION TAKEN:of all forms of forced and  We ensure strict adherence to local laws. compulsory  There is no forced or compulsory labour since staff is governed by labour hours of work as per Delhi Shop & Establishment Act 1954.  Further, labour officials, who are the enforcing authority, inspect our establishment regularly and no incidence of forced or compulsory labour has been reported at RBPD so far.  Wherever employment of contract labour in non-core areas are made, it is done in accordance to contract labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 and it is ensured that minimum wages, provident fund, and all the statutory requirements are met by the contractor.  Service conditions are explicitly explained to the employees upon their joining. OUTCOME  No case of forced labour has been reported so far 5 The effective ACTION TAKEN: abolition of child labour;  Strict adherence to the child labour (Prohibition and regulation) act, 1986, which prohibits the engagement of children in certain employments and to regulate the conditions of work of children in certain other employments. However, RBPD has prescribed the minimum age limit for employment as 18 years. No person below this age can be employed in RBPD, thereby ensuring that child labour is not employed.  Adequate procedures for age verification in recruitment procedures are used.  Our contractors and vendors are required to scrupulously follow the laws / rules and regulations in respect of engagement of child labour. This is addressed and ensured through our contract agreement and inspection by RBPD and enforcing authorities.  Regular trainings are conducted to increase employee awareness on such issues OUTCOME:  No case of child labour has been reported so far. 6 6 ; and the ACTION TAKEN:elimination of  We do not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, colour, discrimination gender, religion or region. There is a firm belief of inclusivity and we in respect of strongly oppose discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to employment & training, promotion etc. at work place. occupation  At RBPD there are 78 executives out of whom 13 are female executives and 319 staff, out of which 39 are female employees. There is no discrimination in terms of employment, place of posting, nature of work, duty hours, training, promotions, emoluments etc.,  RBPD does not allow any kind of behavior that is threatening abusive, exploitative or sexually coercive, including gestures, language and physical contact at the workplace. Our system is well equipped to deal with such situations, as we have a very well defined and laid out process in our standing orders.  In lines with the Constitution of India being a Secular state, RBPD offers a list of restricted holidays as per festivals of various religions; employees can choose any four as per their choice.  We conduct trainings to sensitize our employees to the discrimination of various forms and implications thereof.  As per the guidelines laid down by the hon‟ble Supreme Court of India, RBPD has appointed a special counselor and also constituted complaints committee for each Region to address any such grievances.  There is no discrimination at RBPD in the process of recruitment, placement, training and advancement of employees.  Hotel is engaged in different activities with „non-profit making/ non government organization‟ for orphaned & underprivileged people. Due importance is given for recruitment of people from these areas at appropriate positions in our hotel. OUTCOME  No such case has been reported so far. 7 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for No. compact the upcoming year principle 7 Businesses COMMITMENT / POLICIES should support a The environment & social sustainability policy of the hotel as declared by the precautionary GM is given below: approach to environmental Radisson Blu Plaza Delhi considers the importance of environmental and social challenges:sustainability and is committed to strive to achieve the same within the hotel and in its immediate vicinity. The Radisson Blu Plaza Delhi features 261spacious guest rooms, including 144 Superior Rooms, 54 Premium Rooms, 41 Business Class Rooms, 21 Suites and one Presidential Suite, each appointed to meet the needs of the business traveler. Our hotel offers a range of business amenities and dining options such as NYC, The Great Kabab Factory, R The Lounge, Neung Roi, Savannah Bar, Wi-Fi and complimentary airport transfers. To ensure a comfortable stay, rooms at our hotel in Delhi feature silk designer upholstery and linens, luxury beds, rain showers and mist-free mirrors. The hotel is close to Indira Gandhi International Airport and is located near urban village, Mahipalpur. Radisson Blu Plaza Delhi commits to continually improve the environmental and social sustainability performance and annual benchmarking. Radisson Blu Plaza Delhi has implemented an Environmental Management System and meets the requirements of the Earth Check company standard. Radisson Blu Plaza Delhi will comply with all relevant legislation and regulations, and strive to achieve international best practice. We have appointed the Earth Check Coordinator, who has responsibility and skills for ensuring ongoing environmental performance, identification of environmental risks, recording and monitoring of impacts and implementing environmental and social sustainability measures. Special consideration will be given to employing local employees, and wherever possible environmentally sustainable, products and services will be sourced locally. We encourage employees to present our commitment to environmental and social sustainability and our benchmarked / certified status under the Earth Check Program to our guests, suppliers, contractors, agents and wholesalers. 8 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for the No. compact upcoming year principle 7 Contd. ACTION TAKEN  Water Proofing of SPA Gym entrance canopy.  Replaced CFL lights with LED Lights in Guest Rooms and Guest Floors.  Installation of Energy Saving CFL lights in Back of the House area, Lockers, Offices etc.  Replaced PAR lighting with LED Under water lights.  Installed Energy saving tube lights in the back of the House areas, Basement Parking Area etc.  Solid biodegradable / non biodegradable waste is collected in color coded bins and segregated. It is either recycled / disposed off to authorized agencies for recycling.  Using recycled/ biodegradable products like papers, chemicals etc.  Disposing the waste product to the municipal authorised landfill.  Hazardous waste is stored separated in designated store and collected by Delhi Pollution Control Committee authorised vendor i.e., M/s Bharat Oil Company.  We provide biodegradable bags for collecting and delivering laundry to guests.  Environment training is an essential part of the induction programme.  Use of natural lighting in foyer areas.  Preventive Maintenance of Equipments.  Monitoring of daily consumption of Energy.  Training to staff on conservation of Energy.  Creating awareness among staff, guests and stakeholders through observing eco events like “Earth Hour”, “World environment day” etc.  Hotel undertakes rain water harvesting to help protect the ground water levels.  Pollution control check of the hotel vehicles is regularly done and records maintained  Eco friendly chemicals are used in the laundry & kitchen for cleaning / washing.  To conserve our natural resources we have instructed all departments regarding switching off lights, air conditioning and computers when not required.  Recycled water is used for(i) Cooling Towers (ii) W.C. Flushing System in the staff toilets. (iii) Watering the landscaped areas inside and outside the Hotel. (iv) Cleaning / Washing of outer areas. 9 OUTCOMES  Resulted in saving of energy.  Resulted in usage of maximum recycled water in hotel premises  Resulted in maximum recycling of solid waste. PLANS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR  Generating ideas from team and implementing possible ones to enable further savings on energy.  Preventive maintenance for all plant and machineries, keys equipments & machineries, chilled water & condenser water circulation pumps etc.  Cleaning of Rain water harvesting system.  Replacement of inefficient AHU‟s 10 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for No. compact the upcoming year principle 8 Undertake COMMITMENT / POLICIES initiatives to promote greater The hotel is committed to continual improvement in the environmental environmental performance through prevention of pollution and compliance to local and responsibility national environmental legislative regulatory requirements. ACTION TAKEN The following actions have been taken: Hotel participate in Earth Hour annually and motivates and stakeholders to participate through communication to them.  Hotel celebrate the Earth Day, Hand Wash Day, World Environment Day, World Water Day, World Food Day etc with the involvement of hotel staff, stakeholders and guests.  Hotel encourages and provides cleanliness drive along with neighborhood and local authority for cleaning of the areas around hotel premises / immediate vicinity.  Leftover food is being given to Sanjay Gandhi Animal Hospital and Friendicoes.  Old linen and uniforms are being recycled through conversion into duster and being given away to NGOs respectively.  Plantation of trees in order to augment the Buffer Zone Towards the Highway and Swimming Pool area.  Installed Submersible Pumping set of KSB Make 4 HP for Borewell.  Replaced Steam Coil for Laundry Dryer for energy conservation  Flue Gas Analysis of Boiler was done Six times a year for increasing the Boiler efficiency  Replaced Steam coil of Boiler for better efficiency / energy conservation.  Installation of energy efficient Steam generator for Ladies and Gents Steam rooms.  D.G. Synchronized with CRDI technology and are working on Auto Mode through programme logic control.  Replacement of energy efficient pumps. OUTCOMES  Green and healthy environment for staff and community. 11 Sl. Global compact Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans No. principle for the upcoming year 9 And encourage the Awareness of environmental management system among all employees, development and associates and key stakeholders. diffusion of environmentally ACTION TAKEN friendly technologies. The following actions have been taken: Four Nos. of 'Rain Water Harvesting systems are in place and are well maintained.  Solar water heating system of capacity 5000 Litres / day with 50 solar flat collectors of TATA Power Solar System Limited is being used for augmented hot water system in the hotel.  Sewage Treatment Plant of capacity 450 KL per day for treatment of entire waste water upto teritary l evel is in place .  Entire treated water from STP is being reutilized in cooling towers, horticulture, W.C. Flushing system of service areas and for washing of service areas.  5 Nos. Electro Static Precipitator scrubbers are installed for Banquet Kitchen, Banquet Tandoor kitchen, Bakery, Neung Roi and Banquet dish wash, 3 Nos. Wet scrubbers are installed for NYC kitchen, NYC show kitchen and TGKF kitchen. 1 No. air scrubber installed at the outlet of Boiler chimney.  Organic Waste Converter (composting machine) of capacity 400 kg. per day is installed and is in operation.  Flow meters have been installed at the Inlet and Outlet of the STP, at outlet of the treated water, various consumption areas of the treated water viz. Cooling Tower and Horticulture, W.C. Flushing system.  Roof top has been insulated with Dr. FIXIT heat shield technology.  Double glazed double windows with tinted glass are installed in 227 guest rooms.  Double glazed windows with tinted fixed glass are installed in 34 guest rooms.  Double insulated glasses are installed in Business Centre, Meeting Rooms, Savannah Bar, Shopping Arcade, Gymnasium, TGKF, R The Lounge, Plaza Lounge.  Double glass doors are installed in Lobby entrance, Banquet entrance, swimming pool area, TGKF entrance. , Plaza Lounge etc.  All steam and hot water lines are insulated.  All chilled water lines are insulated.  All AHU ducts are insulated  AHU rooms are insulated from inside.  Heat exchanger installed to recover Heat from the laundry condensate to 12 augment heat water temperature  All Steam and Hot water boilers are fitted with Economizer.  Steps have been taken for complying with Envionmental measures, Energy Conservation, Water Conservation & Waste reduction measures as per the DPCC guidelines.  Energy saver guest room control sstem is used in 222 guest rooms.  Installed 28 Nos. Variable Frequency Drives  Minxon is installed for controlling the illuminating and air conditioning in guest rooms.  Energy efficient cold rooms installed in banquet kitchen, Garde Manger, Bakery, Garbage cold room, Banquet Pantry and Thai kitchen.  Auto sensors are installed in Public Area Urinals.  Energy saver system in Guest Rooms; When key card is removed it switches off all the lights and AC is slowed down.  Cleaning of Exhaust of all kitchens and kitchen corridors as per schedule.  Cleaning of Fresh Air ducts of all kitchens and kitchen corridors as per schedule. OUTCOMES Green and healthy environment for staff and community. 13 Sl. Global compact Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans No. principle for the upcoming year 10 Business should Commitment / Policies: work against all Ensure open channel of communication for vendors and employees to forms of corruption, report instances of malpractice, solicitation of bribes / kickbacks. including extortion Ensure operations team makes no recommendation for unauthorized and bribery. payments to external agencies. Action Taken: Initiatives have been taken through committee and forums during negotiation with vendors / agencies to ensure instances of malpractices are not tolerated and practical best practice codes in various disciplines are followed by all. Outcomes: There have been no report from operations teams of any cases of unauthorized payments to external agencies. Further no complaint about solicitation of unauthorized payments were received. Plans for the upcoming year: Vendor management team and operations teams maintain transparency in business dealings and do not recommend any unauthorized payments. 14
