GLOBAL COMPACT TECHNICOLOR 2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Message from Fabienne Brunet, Executive Vice-President Human Resources and Corporate Social Responsibility The UN Global Compact’s ten fundamental principles of strategic policy have supported Technicolor’s approach to corporate social responsibility since its initial affiliation twelve years ago. Supplementing many strategic turning points that have accompanied the company’s changing business profile over the last few years, 2014 has seen us build on existing policies and processes, best practices and initiatives to ensure that sustainability is progressively embedded in our organizational culture. This report highlights some of the key advances we have made in our efforts to balance business success, social equity and environmental accountability. Further progress has been made, for instance, to ensure the health and safety of our employees, to reduce our environmental footprint both through eco-design of products and optimized industrial processes, to ensure ethical best-practices across the Group and to engage with our local communities worldwide. Our ability to do business responsibly and sustainably depends on the quality and diversity of our people. Therefore, our programs have included the identification, training and 1 development of key technical and managerial competencies to support our new Drive 2020 strategic roadmap. We understand nevertheless that progress is ongoing and continuously look for opportunities to improve. This is reflected in the corporate social responsibility initiatives. TECHNICOLOR – WHO WE ARE Technicolor, a worldwide technology leader in the media and entertainment sector, is at the forefront of digital innovation. Our world class research and innovation laboratories enable us to lead the market in delivering advanced video services to content creators and distributors. We also benefit from an extensive intellectual property portfolio focused on imaging and sound technologies, based on a thriving licensing business. Our commitment: Enhance the media experience on any screen, in theaters, at home and on the go. Our Businesses: Technology Technology includes several activities: Research & Innovation; Intellectual Property & Licensing; and new platform development aimed at end-user convenience and ease of use, such as M-GO and Virdata. Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 The main objective of Research & Innovation is to develop and transfer innovative technology to support the services, software and solutions the Group provides. The Licensing activity – which includes patent, technology and trademark Licensing is responsible for protecting and monetizing the Group’s Intellectual Property and technologies, while managing some iconic brands. M-GO is a new platform aimed at making digital entertainment easier to find, watch, and enjoy. Virdata extends both the lifetime and the applicability of traditional industrialization and automation enterprise applications such as asset management and asset tracking systems. Entertainment Services Entertainment Services develops and offers video-related technologies and services for the Media & Entertainment industry, notably the motion picture, broadcast and commercial advertising industries. This business is dedicated to delivering solutions for content management (including creation, imaging, finishing, and preparation) and for digital and physical content distribution (including DVD & Blu-ray™ services). Connected Home Connected Home offers a wide range of solutions to Pay-Tv operators and network service providers for the delivery of digital entertainment, data, voice, and smart home services. Through the design and supply of products such as set-top boxes, gateways, managed wireless tablets, Technicolor offers full connected life solutions. 2 TECHNICOLOR As a signatory to the UNGC Global Compact, Technicolor ensures it addresses the Ten Principles within its policies, codes, and practices. TECHNICOLOR VALUES & CODE OF ETHICS The Technicolor Code of Ethics constitutes the foundation for the company’s core practices. The Ethics Compliance Committee (ECC), created in connection with the 2006 Code of Ethics update, is responsible for all ethical issues related to the Group’s activities. The Code of Ethics, updated again in 2014, governs Technicolor’s business decisions and actions, and displays the fundamental values we practice in our dayto-day activities. Key principles of the UNGC are endorsed such as elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation and elimination of corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. It has been distributed to all Technicolor employees and is available on the company’s intranet and internet websites. Over the last several years, the Group has deployed many ethics training programs. Several online training sessions were launched to educate employees on various ethical rules and obligations, including bribery, competition, and fraud. The ECC’s composition is comprised of the following: Fabienne Brunet (Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Social Responsibility), Didier Huck (Vice President Corporate Social Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Responsibility and Public Affairs), Guillaume Litvak (Internal Audit Director), and Meggan Ehret (General Counsel, Litigation and Compliance). Didier Huck serves as the Chair of the Committee and Meggan Ehret as the Committee’s secretary. The ECC reports directly to the Audit Committee. TECHNICOLOR SOURCING ETHICS POLICY AND SUPPLIER ETHICS HANDBOOK Technicolor’s Sourcing/Procurement organization often is the first internal organization to meet with external suppliers and is charged with developing and implementing the Group’s ethical standards in relation to those suppliers. While Technicolor is required to obey the law and abide by its agreements, Technicolor’s ethical standards often demand more. Technicolor must deal honestly with those whose interests are affected by its business dealings. All Technicolor personnel involved in Sourcing activities must follow the principles outlined in the Sourcing Policy revised and updated in 2011 and Supplier Ethics Handbook, revised and updated in 2013. ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Technicolor places a high priority on enhancing implementation of ongoing environmental, health, and safety (EH&S) policies company-wide. The cornerstone of the EH&S effort is the Corporate EH&S Charter, which defines key management principles designed to protect human health and the environment, and thus helps Technicolor meet its legal and corporate responsibilities. Signed by Technicolor’s CEO and posted throughout Technicolor sites worldwide and on the Company’s external website, the EH&S Charter 3 pledges the Group’s commitment to “continually improving facilities, services, and products in the best interest of our employees, our communities, our customers, our company, and the future.” The EH&S Charter is supported by more than 50 individual policies and guidelines. TECHNICOLOR FOUNDATION Created in 2006, the Technicolor Foundation is a non-profit entity, acting in the field of the preservation and promotion of film heritage, which reflects the history and the culture of a country. The programs are built around three main guiding principles: • Preserve film heritage as a key part of a country’s memory; • Promote and highlight film heritage in order that it may be seen by and shared with as wide an audience as possible; • Train and sensitize everyone who can play a part in the safeguarding of film heritage. In 2014, the Foundation restored, alongside the Cineteca di Bologna and the MEMORY Cinéma Association, Marriage Italian Style (1964) by Vittorio De Sica. The premiere of the restored version took place at Cannes Classics Festival in presence of Sophia Loren, Guest of Honor of the festival in 2014. The foundation supports classics festivals or creates specific festivals or events for the promotion of film heritage. In 2013, the Foundation co-created MEMORY! International Film Heritage Festival alongside MEMORY Cinéma Association, the first festival in Asia dedicated to worldwide cinema heritage. It is designed to reach both large audience and international professionals. The second edition of the Memory Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 International Film Heritage Festival took place in June 2014 in Phnom Penh. Nearly 60 films from around the world were screened with the presence of leading figures of cinema such as Catherine Deneuve, Brillante Mendoza, Antony Chen and over 50 industry delegations from more than 20 countries. 2014 MAIN ACTIONS AND RESULTS Technicolor endeavored to fulfill a number of objectives in 2014 as part of its ethical and EH&S obligations. These included the continuation of programs to further reduce employee injury rates on the job, particularly serious injuries, reducing waste and improving carbon impact from manufacturing operations. The Group also continued a strong internal auditing process and utilizes a web-based reporting system for gathering and analyzing EH&S-related information. Since 2010, non-industrial sites are contributing to EH&S reporting.  The Group refreshed and revised in 2014 its Code of Ethics to include reference to the Data Protection EU Directive 95/46/CE and any equivalent legislation where the Technicolor Group is present. Ethics training continued to be deployed in 2014 notably for employees in the US, China, India and Mexico who received courses highlighting key parts of the Code of Ethics.  The pilot phase of a new program, the Management Academy, gathering HR and Managers at all levels, for the development of management competencies was launched in 2012. Created around management communities who meet monthly, this management curriculum includes essential 4 topics of people management and encourages the collaboration between managers to learn and improve their own practices.  In addition, an analysis of the evolution of the Group is an essential contribution to these people and competencies development initiatives. In this perspective, a comprehensive and detailed review of the architecture of jobs in the organization has been conducted in 2013 2014 Sourcing Supplier Ethics Program Delivering products and services to our customers involves numerous external supply chain partners. We aim to fulfill our social responsibilities and ensure that our values are respected throughout. To ensure supply chain CSR compliance, we audit our suppliers, promoting progressive labor and social standards, environmental protection and fair business practices. The Technicolor Supplier Ethics Program:  Ensures that Technicolor suppliers respect our policies and program requirements  Promotes economic and social welfare through the improvement of living standards support for non-discriminatory employment practices Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Technicolor actively seeks suppliers with similar interests and ethics commitments. Suppliers are expected to adhere to these basic principles:  Tolerate no discrimination and encourage diversity  Promote best working conditions  Use no child or forced labor  Protect peoples’ health, safety and the environment  Support employee development  Respect fair market competition  Strive to be a good corporate citizen  Respect consumer and personal privacy  Avoid potential conflicts of interests To ensure that suppliers respect established principles, Technicolor sourcing management:  Defines a list of high risk commodities and countries  Determines when ethics audits, always performed by Technicolor-selected auditors, are required  All suppliers must sign the General Rules of Conduct Compliance Certificate  All suppliers are periodically reviewed according to the Technicolor Suppliers Ethics Handbook/Checklist procedure. 5 Technicolor requires suppliers to actively support its EH&S principles and to comply with local legislation and standards. They must also ensure that their components and products comply with legal requirements in the countries where our products are sold. Compliance certificates are required from suppliers to ensure they follow regulations and standards as well as Technicolor programs and specifications. Through audits and other methods, Technicolor shares its expectations that suppliers and their subcontractors provide safe and healthy working conditions for their employees, abide by human rights laws and standards, and strive for continual improvement in their environmental management systems, processes and products. During the audit process, instances of child labor are classified as “critical”, resulting in an immediate stoppage of business. Audits revealing employee discrimination, forced labor, safety violations, permanent disabilities or fatal injuries are classified as major and require immediate corrective action. 32 audits were performed in 2014. Technicolor monitors key performance indicators according to SA8000 criteria for key active electronics manufacturing service (EMS) partners to ensure they comply with CSR regulations and practices. Since 2009, monitoring has been carried out as part of the company’s quarterly business reviews. KPIs are Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 weighted 40 % on CSR focus at top management level, to ensure that supplier management is sufficiently engaged and adopts a proactive CSR approach. Ten percent of KPIs focus respectively on young workers performing hazardous work, monthly employment turnover rate, average overtime, one day-off per week rate, EH&S (Environmental, Health and Safety) training for operators and injury trends. In 2014, Technicolor adopted the Code of Conduct for the electronics industry Citizenship Coalition and was granted Applicant Member status with a goal to achieve full membership at the beginning of 2016. Technicolor gives preference to suppliers who have achieved ISO 9001 certification and who are certified to meet such EH&S standards as ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. The Supplier Ethics Program applies to all new and current suppliers. To ensure effective supplier assessments, Technicolor has defined a specific audit scope and focus for suppliers categorized as high risk, defined as suppliers in countries with a relatively high potential for adverse human rights issues. 2014 Employee Development and Diversity Efforts Significant changes have taken place within Technicolor as the company has refocused on content creation, management and delivery and striven toward a more customer-centric organization. The success of these changes depends upon significant workforce evolution and transitions. To adapt to our new strategic focus and market context, we re-examined basic issues: what leadership 6 skills are necessary to meet our new strategies and goals? How do we align our values with our vision and strategy to ensure that everyone is heading in the same direction? These questions provided the basis for a wide-ranging assessment of our ability to fill business-critical positions, now and in the future, including comprehensive succession planning. We also completely revised our approach to performance management. The change is designed to ensure that expectations are clearly established and that individual results are well managed, in terms of both measurable outcomes and behaviors. The transformation also aims to ensure that employees are engaged in the company’s future and will develop the right skills to face coming challenges. Technicolor’s Human Resources & Corporate Social Responsibility (HR&CSR) organization is aimed at reinforcing Technicolor’s strategic priorities and at contributing to the Group’s objectives. In order to remain fully aligned with the needs of the Group’s different businesses and to reinforce global HR leadership capability, HR&CSR has adopted in 2010 a new operating model and has, during 2014, pursued its reinforcement across the Group. The HR Global Centers of Expertise ensure consistency and delivery of key Group HR projects and provide specialized advice and expertise across the whole organization in the following areas: • Compensation & Benefits focusing on rewards, incentive programs, international mobility programs, pension schemes, medical care and other benefits; Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 • Talent and Development focusing on people development, talent management, performance management and organizational development practices; • HR Information Systems Processes and KPIs focusing on implementing coherent and sustainable tools supported with adequate processes; • Resources Management focusing on Technicolor resource plan definition and tracking; • Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) focusing on all areas pertaining to Sustainable Responsibility Environmental care and Social Responsibility; • Labor Relations, focusing on keeping a consistent set of relationships and interactions with all European Union’s representatives. The Regional HR Competence Centers, built on a shared service model, ensure a consistent HR approach across sites and functions within each geographical region, and guarantee that Technicolor remains fully compliant with local employment laws and practices The Head of HR&CSR, a Member of Technicolor’s Executive Committee, defines HR&CSR strategic priorities in line with Technicolor’s strategic plan, implements and adapts the HR&CSR model, identifies organizational needs and related resources, and pilots HR&CSR initiatives across all of the Group’s activities. Talent and development 7 Further to the deep analysis of the learning and development needs and the alignment of training investments with the Amplify 2015 Roadmap undertaken in 2012, Technicolor’s priorities in Talent and Development were reviewed and the focus on leadership development, innovation and entrepreneurship to support the growth of our divisions was increased. In parallel, the creation of new development programs at the executive level in all divisions and corporate functions enabled the identification of the technical and non-technical critical competencies to be developed in the next years. The outputs of these programs are the foundations of a global training and development strategy. In addition, an analysis of the evolution of the Group is an essential contribution to these people and competencies development initiatives. In this perspective, a comprehensive and detailed review of the architecture of jobs in the organization has been conducted. Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Talent Review and Development of Leadership A yearly Talent Review process is conducted in all divisions and corporate functions. The process involves managers at all levels of the organization as well as the members of the Executive Committee and of the Management Committee in the identification of employees with the right level of potential and performance to integrate the Group’s talent pool. The members of the talent pool benefit from dedicated leadership development trainings, activities and events during the year. The Leadership Development Programs included workshops on “Leadership & Influence” where members of the talent pool reflect and learn how to take action not only on their leadership development but also on recognizing and fostering talents of others. These workshops took place in Paris and Los Angeles and gathered participants from all geographic regions. One-day thematic events for Group High Potentials and High Potentials were organized in Europe and North America. The themes in 2013 were “The Role of Leaders in Spreading strategic Mentality” and “Generating Passion and Perseverance”. These events were closed by discussions led by the CEO and the CFO on the Group’s strategy as well as on important achievements of the past year. Capitalizing on our previous partnership with the University of Stanford in California the third edition of the “Innovation Management and Culture” program was revamped. Group High Potentials have followed this program that focused on demonstrating the impact of internal organizational aspects and external 8 aspects on the capacity to innovate. Aligned with the Group’s strategic priorities, topics such as innovation and profitability, monetization and innovative business models and leading for innovation were covered. In addition to these training sessions, small teams of Group High Potentials participated in 10 innovative projects through an iterative process oriented on Minimum Viable Product. These groups were mentored and presented to EXCOM Mid 2014 to arbitrate on their integration in R&D and business funnels for future developments. HR Development and Management Academy An HR development program was created in 2011 to reinforce the people development capabilities of HR Business Partners and managers and to support the development of skills aligned with Technicolor vision, values and strategy. In 2014, this initiative has been continued with a blended learning program mixing on-line courses and on-site sessions on how to develop leadership and emotional intelligence Twenty members of the HR community participated in this initiative that aims at enhancing the HR leadership and at enhancing the support HR provides to the development of managers and leaders. The Management Academy plays an important role in the support HR provides to managers in the Group. A group of HR managers has been prepared to facilitate management sessions within the academy with the objective of ensuring the quality and the consistency of our management practices across the globe. Adjustments in this program were made further to the conclusions of the pilot phase of 2012. Sessions were delivered in the U.S., UK, France and Belgium in 2014 both by internal and external experts. Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Ressource and Development plans After a pilot phase in 2013, every division and function now monitor their Resource & Development Plan. The ambition is to provide each division or function with a comprehensive HR road map that is fully consistent with the business needs and strategy evolutions. These plans rely mainly on the existing HR processes and tools and are built by HRBPs hand in hand with their business leaders. They aim at identifying HR priorities for the future and detail specific HR action plans to support the business evolutions: hiring policies and action plans, evolution and mobility, learning and development priorities and training plans, and all HR-related actions that could support the business transformation. As part of these plans, a comprehensive work has been initiated to identify the evolutions of key jobs. This work includes a review of the mission and responsibilities of jobs as well as the set of competencies that are necessary to achieve excellence in the execution of these jobs. A set of customer facing, R&D and research jobs were the first to benefit from this initiative. A series of learning tracks were designed to ensure the development of crucial competencies and give new perspectives on the evolution of execution in key jobs. Linked with the learning tracks, professional accreditation programs were designed to recognize the level of competencies and achievements of the employees that have followed the tracks. The accreditation program launched in 2012 is now available for 8 jobs, representing 324 persons enrolled at end of 2014: Product/Service Line managers, R&D Project 9 managers, Customer Project managers and Solution Architects, Customer Technical Support, New Product Introduction Manager, Product Quality Assurance and Project Sourcing Managers. Incumbents of these jobs who have completed all the learning tracks designed for their jobs can be candidates to be accredited in January 2015. More than 1,486 man/days of training were delivered in this program till it started in 2013. Job Architecture In order to respond to evolving business needs and provide the foundations for a number of HR programs, an update of the Technicolor job architecture has been conducted in 2013. Building on the knowledge and business experience of HR and Operational teams from all regions, the job architecture has been enriched, structured and documented, to become a consistent framework across organizations and countries. As a result, a lean and standardized collection covering all jobs in the Group is now available. This is the first step for a longer journey that will support, in the short-term, the consistency between the existing job structure and job profiles. In mid-term, it will be used as a base layer for various activities such as workforce planning discussions, talent management, career development, compensation benchmarking etc. Diversity in the Workplace Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Gender Diversity A comprehensive program was launched in 2014 under the sponsorship of the EXCOM, in order to better balance gender diversity and increase the ratio of women in business roles, management levels and leadership pipeline. Actions were put in place through a full range of processes:  The governance has evolved and for the first the first year, 2 women entered the EXCOM in 2014, now representing 22% of the total number of members. At MCOM level, 2 new women were nominated, now reaching 38% of the total number of members.  A recruitment policy was adopted to encourage gender diversity in senior management positions : Technicolor requires recruitment and personnel search professionals worldwide to ensure that the curriculum vitae of at least one qualified woman is included in every list of finalists submitted for open senior management positions within the Company.  Leadership talent criteria were reviewed and adapted to secure equity between men and women in leadership positions; Gender diversity was integrated in divisions Talent review, which outcomes are presented to EXCOM, including dedicated action plans as needed.  A mentoring policy was implemented towards talented women in order to support them in overcoming classical breaks to career evolutions : all Group Hipo women now benefit from an individual EXCOM female member mentoring ; every HiPo woman are also mentored by SLT female Members.  An internal Women’s network of almost 80 women keeps animating awareness sessions on changing gender values throughout the Group. 10 In addition, a couple of local initiatives were launched in UK and India to promote gender diversity:  In UK, out of the 101 roles advertised 93 had at least one female applicant in the shortlist, as the remaining IT/Engineering roles did not attract female applicants; The maternity policy was reviewed with recommendations for more attractive maternity provision in 2015 with the aim of retaining the female talents; and Technicolor got strongly engaged with Women in Film & Television Network by hosting a Technical Skills award for Female Technicians in the Media Industry.  In India, among the final shortlists, 8% were women for A&G, 15% for MS and 42% for TF (very variable rates due to the % of female applicants); The local women's network was re-energized and 2 specific events were held (Women’s Day celebration celebrated in March 2014 and Training on Self Defense for Women employees, in August 2014), whereas constructive links were established with the Women in Animation with the ambition to extend the gender initiatives externally in 2015. Principle of non-discrimination: A diverse workforce is a business imperative to Technicolor in its competitive environment. It must be able to recruit and retain the most talented candidates from a broad range of disciplines and experience. Technicolor’s policy is to provide equal employment opportunity without regard to race, sex, religion, national origin, and age or disability status. Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Non-discrimination and equal employment opportunity policies, based upon the Ethics Charter and locally augmented according to specific legal requirements if needed, including the anti-harassment policy, are implemented at all Technicolor sites. In several countries, managers and supervisors are provided Legal awareness training sessions about anti-harassment and non-discrimination. In addition to the role of management, detection of discrimination cases also relies on the whistleblower policy allowing any employee to confidentially disclose their situation or the situation of a co-worker, without fear of publicity or adverse reaction. Such cases are reported to the Ethics Committee and investigated with the Audit team. Some countries implement in addition an official trust person or advocate for employees if there is a discrimination issue. Overall about less than ten cases of discrimination were reported in 2014. Employment and integration of disabled people: Depending on national legislations, legal requirements to integrate disabled persons or to hire a specified number or percentage of disabled employees, and thus the definition of a disabled employee, may strongly vary, or may not even exist. Also, labeling, categorizing, or making a record of an employee as disabled may be legally prevented in certain countries or subject to the individual authorization by each concerned employee who may refuse. Therefore statistics do not reflect properly the reality. However, beyond the legal requirements when they exist, Technicolor strives to adapt our working places, including factories, to provide equal employment opportunities with no discrimination against disabled people with regard to hiring, training, allocation of work, promotion, or reward, and seeks to eliminate 11 employment barriers and to accommodate disabled employees. In that regard, employment of disabled is part of our non-discrimination policy, and Technicolor has been and continues to be willing to integrate different needs including modified duties, adapted hours, and adapted workspaces. Women’s Forum The Technicolor Women’s Forum currently consists of 80 women, each of whom plays an important role in raising awareness of changing gender values. Since 2012, this network has ensured that each Technicolor site has one appointed woman leader who coordinates regular site meetings on the progression of women in the company and how women can be key to initiating change for Technicolor. Technicolor requires recruiting and personnel search professionals worldwide to ensure that the curriculum vitae/resume of at least one qualified woman is included in every list of finalists submitted for open senior management positions within the company. Technicolor is part of the Women in Science & Technology (WIST) initiative. Under the aegis of the European Union, WIST consists of companies and academics committed to diversity who recommend ways to improve the status and position of women in scientific careers and corporate managerial positions generally. Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Labor Relations As part of a new HR organization deployed in 2010, the Group has designated regional correspondents (heads of the HR Competence Centers in Americas, Europe, and APAC) who are responsible for ensuring that the Group’s HR policy is in line with national legislation, most notably with respect to freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Note in all events that the Group largely does not have activities in countries where the right to freedom of association is potentially an issue. Labor relations with Technicolor employees are the responsibility of site managers in each country with the support of Human Resources. With respect to its European operations, Technicolor entered into a labor agreement with a European council of employee representatives (the “European Council”) confirming the Group’s labor practices. This council, which meets several times each year, comprises union representatives or Members of local works councils in European countries. Technicolor’s European Works Council is a supranational body, the purpose of which is to address topics of a transnational nature. The European Works Council is informed of Technicolor’s European operations in respect of personnel, finance, production, sales, and research and development, and their impacts upon employment and working conditions. It is also informed of major structural, industrial and commercial changes as well as organizational transformations within the Group. It met twice in 2014. 12 In accordance with applicable law in the European Union, Technicolor’s managers of each European country meet annually with labor organizations to discuss remuneration and working conditions. In accordance with domestic laws, data regarding the level of unionization is not available in most of European countries (the laws in these countries do not allow this type of statistic to be published). In 2014, Technicolor entered into 4 collective bargaining agreements with its German employees; 12 such agreements in France; 2 such agreements in Belgium. In Italy, 100% of the employees are unionized. In Spain, 100% of the employees are unionized. In Poland, 4.0% of the employees are unionized. In Canada, in 2014, we entered into 2 collective bargaining agreements and 5.0% of the Group’s employees are unionized. In the United States, approximately 3.8% of the Group’s employees are unionized and were covered by the collective bargaining agreements negotiated with the national and/or local unions. These agreements, with an average duration of three years, address salaries, employment benefits, and working conditions and organization. In Australia, 60% of employees belong to an union. In China, 100% of the employees are unionized. Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 2014 Ethics training program As part of its effort to ensure that employees are familiar with the Code of Ethics and related policies, such as the Whistleblower Policy, the ECC has implemented numerous training programs, including both in person and online courses. The Ethics Compliance Committee continued several training initiatives through 2014. Over the last few years, training courses highlighting the key parts of the Code of Ethics as well as dedicated courses on topics like anti-bribery, competition, anticorruption, business communications, addressing employee concerns, and fraud prevention. More than 9,915 employees have been trained on ethics related topics over the period 2010-2014. Some dedicated training sessions were also organized on specific sites or for specific functions. Connected Home Set Top Boxes and Gateways: Environmental impacts of products, compliance, and safety: progress from the design table Technicolor’s Connected Home activity continued to implement in 2014 its Environmental Product commitments in its business activities. After a pilot phase and several fruitful experiences involving Technicolor Connected Home product lines, life cycle analysis continued to be deployed as part of the Division’s core development process in 2012 to 2014. Detailed analysis of the environmental impact of 13 products across their entire life cycle according to multiple criteria has enabled the development of innovative designs that are more respectful of the environment. As a leading supplier of Set Top Boxes (STBs) and Home Gateways, Technicolor has acquired experience and decided to incorporate Eco-design principles and methodology into its main new products families. Rigorous product environmental performance analysis is used to measure the impact of innovations and to target key areas of focus. Specific eco-design studies have been completed on many aspects of core product design (e.g., energy consumption, electronic cards and components, casing and cable materials, accessories, etc.) as well as on related elements including packaging and transportation. Objectives: 2011 objectives were among others to acquire sufficient knowhow and practical experience in order to initiate a full deployment of eco-design for newly developed products, according to the ISO 14062 ecodesign methodology, adapted to the ETM (early-to-market) product development methodology. Based on this knowhow, 2012 and 2013 objectives were to be an active contributor in EU energy efficiency initiatives such as the Code of Conduct Digital TV (CoC DTV), Code of Conduct Broadband (CoC BB), Voluntary Agreement for Complex Set-top boxes (VIA for CSTB), EU energy related regulations such as 801/2013 (networked standby) or the revision of 278/2009, (external power supplies). Another key objective is to work with our suppliers to ensure we meet environmental regulatory requirements so that energy consumption (Energy Related Product directive) hazardous substances Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 (RoHS, REACH), waste electronic and electrical equipment as well as voluntary initiatives (CoC DTV, CoC BB and VIA for CSTB) are managed properly. All relevant disciplines and organizational functions such as design, engineering, marketing, quality, and purchasing, supply chain are involved in this process. Results Full deployment of ISO 14062 eco-design methodology was achieved for all Connected Home R&D sites worldwide in 2011. Other objectives achieved in 2011 included the compilation of a Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) tool user guide for electronic cards in order to specify consistent analysis methodologies and best practices and thus ensure that product LCAs are reliable and non-conflicting. In 2012 Technicolor issued a new LCA guidelines document. The aim of this document is to provide LCA rules and parameter values for all “common” or “subassembly” components used in our products and obtain product LCA impact values independent of the LCA tool user. In 2013 a new version of our Life-Cycle Analysis Tool (EIME V5) SW was made available to support ecodesign, allowing the measurement of the environmental impacts of a product over its entire life (i.e., from cradle to grave). This new version offered access to the European reference Life Cycle Database (ELCD) in addition to other existing data bases, as well as use of the International Reference Life Cycle Data System (ILCD) impact indicators in addition to or in place of other existing impact indictors. The use in LCAs of the ELCD data base and ILCD indicators allows more reliable database and indicators to perform our LCA. In addition, LCAs results are more comparable than when the products LCAs have been performed using different LCA tools. 14 Key Product environmental and safety requirements compliance Technicolor operates in a worldwide market and thus has to deal with a wide variety of national and regional initiatives governing the environmental performance and risk management associated with its products. In particular, energy consumption, which is the main significant environmental impact for Connected Home products, remains a key priority across the industry and regions. In Europe, therefore, Technicolor continues to support voluntary EU industry initiatives such as the Industry VA for Complex Set Top Boxes, the Code of Conduct (CoC) for Digital TV and the CoC for Broadband equipment. Technicolor actively contributed to the revision of the 278/2009 regulation on External Power Supplies (EPS) by providing inputs to the EU commission, in particular via its membership of the Digital Europe organization of leading Digital Technology European companies. The scope of this revision extended beyond energy efficiency and no load power consumption to use of PVC-free and halogens-free materials, overall material usage reduction and EPS standardization to drive reusability. Also 2013 saw the finalization of the latest 801/2013 Networked (NW) standby regulations, (amendment to the 1275/2008 On/Off and Standby mode regulation). Effective industry adoption will depend upon suitable Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 implementation guidelines becoming available. Technicolor is currently contributing to the development of such NW standby guidelines, particularly in relation to Home Gateway (GW) and Complex STB (CSTB) products. In the Americas, in Australia, in Asia, in Africa, and in the same manner, Technicolor monitors and follows environmental regulations and standards. In the United States for example, Technicolor follows the Department of Energy proposed amendment on external power suppliers and rulemaking initiatives on efficiency standards for Set-Top Boxes and Network Equipment. For a number of years, most of Connected Home STB models marketed in U.S. met the Energy-Star STB energy efficiency levels. In Australia, Technicolor is an Associate Member of the Subscription Television Industry Voluntary Code for improving the energy efficiency of conditional access set-top boxes. Compliance methods and actions are in place with regard to the RoHS, WEEE European directives, and the REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) European regulation, or similar legislation in other regions, dealing with the Restriction on the use of Hazardous Substances within products and systems, and preparing for better end-of-life handling of Electrical and Electronic Equipment Waste. For U.S. market, Technicolor, although not directly under scope of Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, also took steps to develop and implement a due diligence process for identifying and managing the sourcing of “conflict minerals” based on the OECD Due Diligence guidance. Regarding consumer product health and safety, the Group ensures that all products sold comply with all consumer safety regulations applicable in each country where the product is marketed. Additionally, in 15 some emerging markets where safety regulations may not yet be robust, the Group applies its knowledge of appropriate product safety regulations and ensures that emerging market products comply with a higher product safety standard. 2014 EH&S Programs Web-Based Reporting System Technicolor continued to use and expand a global, web-based reporting system to monitor and consolidate occupational health, safety, and environmental results and progress. Work injuries, energy consumption, water use, waste generation, air and water emissions as well as program performance are covered at industrial and non-industrial sites. Internal Auditing Internal Auditing related to EH&S remained active within Technicolor, following the “at least every third year” rule in corporate governance for industrial locations. Five audits were conducted in 2014 compared to three in 2013. Full fledge audits at industrial locations are matched by compliance visits at non industrial locations to ensure that some key performance and compliance elements are present such as emergency action plans Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 and procedures, occupational risks assessments, first aid training, proper documentation and investigation of work related injuries, and generally to ensure the facilities are safe. Occupational Health The Group’s main business units continued to focus on programs to reduce injuries. In 2014, Technicolor experienced a 10% decrease in work related injury and illness incident rate from 1.13 in 2013 to 1.02 in 2014. The work-related lost workday incident rate decreased as well from 0.51 in 2013 to 0.44 in 2014. Thirty-nine sites representing nearly 90% of Technicolor’s global work force now are part of the incident reporting system. This includes all locations with more than 300 workers, all Research & Development Centers with more than 100 workers, and all seven of Technicolor’s Centers of Excellence (Paris, Rennes, and London in Europe; Burbank, Indianapolis, and Princeton in the Americas, and Beijing in Asia). Water Use, Energy Use, Waste generation and recycling In 2014, water consumption at the Technicolor reporting locations significantly decreased by 28% versus 2013 to 447 thousand cubic meters, principally due to the closure of remaining photochemical film labs. In 2014, energy consumption decreased to 1,134 terajoules, 10% over 2013. Of the total energy consumed, 84.9 was in the form of electricity. Total waste generated in 2014 was 30,394 tons, a 10 % decrease compared to 2013. The recycling rate was 81.7%, increasing about 4.6% compared to2014. The percentage of waste determined to be hazardous kept decreasing in 2014 to 2.4% compared to 3.3% in 16 2013. Carbon Disclosure Project Technicolor is rated as part of the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for France by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an independent, not-for-profit organization concerned with climate change. The CDP’s goal is to facilitate a dialogue, supported by quality information, from which a rational response to climate change will emerge. Over the last ten years, the CDP has become the global standard for carbon disclosure methodology and processes. The CDP website is the largest repository of corporate greenhouse gas emissions data in the world. The organization seeks information on the business risks and opportunities presented by climate change and greenhouse gas emissions data from the world’s largest companies. Climate change is integrated into Technicolor’s business strategy along two primary axes: development of eco-friendly products and services and infrastructure improvements to reduce emissions or to maintain performance when faced with climate impacts. The development strategy has Technicolor joining or leading various industry groups, regulatory committees, or trade collaborations as a way to find or to Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 create improvements and manage them in to the product or service offerings. The infrastructure strategy is to seek out improved efficiencies in technology or human process/behavior. Examples are upgrades of existing lighting installations, building management systems, research and innovation programs linked to integration of smartgrid software in Set-Top Boxes, energy efficiency improvements from eco-design of products or packaging, anticipation on upcoming legislation, increase use of energy from renewable resources. Locally other initiatives exist such as a “green car” policy for leased vehicles or a CO2 emissions compensation program implemented at our Set-Top Box manufacturing facility in Manaus, Brazil. Finally, Technicolor is preparing its facilities to mitigate the material effects of climate change (principally severe weather episodes such as heavy rainfalls and flooding or draughts or storms) by putting in place the needed prevention programs and adapting emergency action and contingency plans where needed. See the CDP website at: http://www.cdproject.net See Technicolor’s responses to CDP (2014) questions at: https://www.cdproject.net/en-US/Pages/CDPAdvancedSearchResults.aspx?k=technicolor EH&S at Non-Industrial Sites The year 2014 continued the shift in the environmental profile of the Group in alignment with the increasing emphasis on business to business partnerships with Media & Entertainment professionals as 17 the concentration of risk at non-industrial sites has become more prominent in the overall group footprint subsequent to consumer manufacturing divestitures. Site-by-site visits and reviews continued through 2014. Various templates were developed in 2009 to assist larger administrative and non-industrial sites, as well as other sites with smaller worker populations unable to staff fulltime EH&S managers at their location. Critical aspects of basic EH&S are facilitated such as emergency action planning, EH&S-related training organization, job hazard analysis, and compliance awareness and tracking. Other EH&S Activities There were many notable environmental achievements during 2014 and several of them are summarized below:  In Brampton (Canada), the office temperatures are now lowered two hours earlier at night by three degrees, and maintained 0.5 degrees lower through the day to reduce energy consumption.  In Boulogne-Billancourt (France), an open loop water-cooled air conditioning system was dismantled in favor of a closed system, leading to a significant reduction of water consumption. Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014  In Burbank (USA) and Culver City (USA), electrical charging areas for vehicles were added, and one site implemented a battery disposal service on-site as part of local efforts to promote the use of low emitting cars and electrical vehicles.  Several sites continued systematic replacement of fluorescent lighting with the most recent energy efficient LED lighting fixtures.  In Manaus (Brazil), in cooperation with local government, the site has begun building its own solar panel power plant at a pilot level of 100 kWp generation capacity, currently powering all exterior lights and with room for future expansion.  In Montreal (Canada), calories collected during the cooling of the server rooms is recycled as heat during the winter months and helps reduce the consumption of natural gas.  In Manaus (Brazil), tanks and piping have been installed for the collection and reuse of rain water, with capacity for 20,000 liters. Planned uses for 2015 are landscaping and non-potable domestic water.  In Melbourne (Australia), process and facility improvements were made to reduce Nickel discharge in the effluent and to lower pH levels of effluent going to trade waste.  The three sites of Rugby (UK), Vancouver (Canada), and Indianapolis (USA) changed their waste contractor and enjoy now an increased recycling rate with more waste being diverted from incineration or landfill. 18 Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Summary: Technicolor 2014 United Nations Global Compact Actions & Results GLOBAL TECHNICOLOR Program and 2014 TECHNICOLOR Action COMPACT Policies Principle Principle 1: Technicolor CODE OF ETHICS, The Group refreshed and revised in 2012 Businesses should SOURCING ETHICS POLICY, 2014 its Code of Ethics to include support and ENVIRONMENT HEALTH AND reference to the Data Protection EU respect the SAFETY CHARTER provide high Directive 95/46/CE and any equivalent protection of level guidance on the respect legislation where the Technicolor Group is internationally and protection of human rights. present. Ethics training continued to be proclaimed human The Ethics Compliance deployed in 2014 notably for employees rights; Committee is responsible for all in the US, China, India and Mexico who ethical issues related to the received courses highlighting key parts of group's activities. Training and the Code of Ethics. auditing to these policies are Training many employees on the instrument of compliance anticorruption, fraud prevention, global and performance. Supplier competition and antitrust. Online training Monitoring and KPIs on labor courses focused on the EU CompetitionHuman Rights issues Dealing with Competitors, fraud prevention, UK Bribery Act and preventing 19 sexual harassment launched. Over the period 2010-2014, 9,915 employees were trained Occupational Health and Safety training totaled some 30 000 hours on a wide variety of environmental and safety compliance and protection, injury prevention, emergency preparation and response, and occupational health topics were provided to employees and contractors throughout the group. Technicolor is taking steps to develop and implement a due diligence process for identifying and managing the sourcing of conflict minerals based on OECD Due Diligence guidance. Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Principle 2: make Technicolor CODE OF ETHICS, In 2014 New in 2014, Technicolor adopted sure that they are SOURCING ETHICS POLICY, the Code of Conduct for the electronics not complicit in ENVIRONMENT HEALTH AND industry Citizenship Coalition and was human rights SAFETY CHARTER, Supplier granted Applicant Member status with a abuses; Monitoring and KPIs on labor goal to achieve full membership at the issues, beginning of 2016. Founded in 2004 by a group of leading electronics companies, the EICC is a nonprofit coalition of electronics companies committed to supporting the rights and wellbeing of workers and communities worldwide affected by the global electronics supply chain. EICC members commit and are held accountable to a common Code of Conduct and utilize a range of EICC training and assessment tools to support continuous improvement in the social, environmental and ethical responsibility of their supply chains. Principle 3: HR regional correspondents are In 2014, 2 collective agreements were Businesses should responsible for ensuring that signed in Canada. In Germany, 4 collective uphold the the group's HR policy is in line bargaining agreements were signed with freedom of with national regulations, most German employees, 12 in France, 2 in association and the notably with respect to freedom Belgium. Unionization rates fluctuate from 20 effective of association and the right to country to country from about 4% for recognition of the collective bargaining. instance in Poland to 100% in China. right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the CODE OF ETHICS, SOURCING In 2014, 32 supplier audits were elimination of all ETHICS POLICY, Supplier Audit performed at key active electronics forms of forced program with a specific audit manufacturing partners, aligned to the and compulsory scope and focus for suppliers in SA8000 standard Labor labour; countries with a relatively high potential for adverse human rights issues. All suppliers are required to sign a General Rules of Conduct Compliance Certificate. Principle 5: the AUDITING of suppliers: During In 2014, 32 supplier audits were effective abolition the audit process, instances of performed at key active electronics of child labour; child labor are classified as manufacturing partners, aligned to the critical and entail an immediate SA8000 standard stoppage of business. Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Principle 6: the Management development and Senior management opportunities for elimination of training , Program to foster women encouraged. discrimination in gender diversity in recruiting Monitoring policy implemented towards respect of and career orientation , talented women. Recruiters worldwide employment and Individual Training programs asked to include the CV of at least one occupation; qualified female candidate for open senior positions. All high potential women now benefit from an individual EXCOM member mentoring, as well as from Senior Leadership Team female members. Creation of specific learning tracks per job has been encouraged in each division. In 2014, training initiatives represented 17,600 hours person of training. Principle 7: ENVIRONMENT HEALTH AND Technicolor continues to disclose carbon Businesses should SAFETY CHARTER, Hazardous emissions on the CDP website. A supplier support a Substances Control in Products questionnaire annex is now also included precautionary and systems. Participation to in responses. Direct emissions are audited approach to Carbon Disclosure Project by a third party for 2013 and 2014. environmental (Climate Change) challenges; Environment Principle 8: ENVIRONMENT HEALTH AND In 2014, 6 sites held an ISO 14001 21 undertake SAFETY CHARTER, Policies and certification. 3 industrial sites were initiatives to Guidelines, Audit program in audited within the rule that all industrial promote greater place at industrial locations, sites must be audited at last every three environmental Corporate Goals, EICC applicant years. responsibility; member. Carbon Disclosure Project participant. Compliance and monitoring on Hazardous Substances in products or systems, ISO 14001 Certification at industrial locations matching a risk criteria Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Principle 9: LCA, Eco-design, Energy Technicolor is an active contributor to EU encourage the efficiency of devices and energy efficiency codes including the CoC development and systems DTV, CoC BB, VA for CSTB, and EU diffusion of regulation for networked standby. In the environmentally Americas, in Australia, in Asia, in Africa, friendly and in the same manner, Technicolor technologies; monitors and follows environmental regulations and standards. In the United States for example, Technicolor follows the Department of Energy proposed amendment on external power suppliers and rulemaking initiatives on efficiency standards for Set-Top Boxes and Network Equipment. For a number of years, most of Connected Home STB models marketed in U.S. met the Energy-Star STB energy efficiency levels. In Australia, Technicolor is an Associate Member of the Subscription Television Industry Voluntary Code for improving the energy efficiency of conditional access set-top boxes. Principle 10: Technicolor SOURCING ETHICS Training many employees on Businesses should POLICY, Technicolor Supplier anticorruption, fraud prevention, global Anti-Corruption 22 work against Ethics Handbook, Supplier competition and antitrust. Online training corruption in all its Monitoring and KPIs on labor courses focused on the EU Competitionforms, including issues Dealing with Competitors, fraud extortion and prevention, UK Bribery Act Over the bribery; period 2010-2014, 9,915 employees were trained Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Source material Corporate Social Responsibility (Overview) http://www.technicolor.com/en/hi/about-corporateinfo-csr Code of Ethics (available under “Documents”) http://www.technicolor.com/en/hi/about-corporateinfo-csr Environmental, Health & Safety Charter (available under “Documents”) http://www.technicolor.com/en/hi/about-corporateinfo-csr Environmental Considerations (available under “Documents”) http://www.technicolor.com/en/hi/about-corporateinfo-csr Carbon Footprint (available under “Documents”) http://www.technicolor.com/en/hi/about-corporateinfo-csr 23 Sustainability Communication (available under “Documents”) http://www.technicolor.com/en/lo/about-corporateinfo-csr Annual Reports http://www.technicolor.com/en/who-we-are/investor-center/financial-information/annual-report Technicolor UNGC Communication on Progress 2014
