PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2014 CONTENTS 5 CEO STATEMENT 20 ETHICAL HIGHLIGHTS 7 PRODUCT 23 PLANET 7 Value chain 23 Precious metals 7 Design 23 Transport 8 Responsible Supplier Programme 24 Stores 9 Supplier audits 24 Production 9 Core materials 27 APPROACH 10 Intellectual property rights 27 Governance 13 PEOPLE 27 Responsible Jewellery Council 13 People development 28 United Nations Global Compact 13 Global trainee programme 28 Stakeholder communication 14 Diversity 29 DATA 14 Human and labour rights 29 People 15 Charity 30 Planet 15 People in Thailand CONTENTS 3 CEO STATEMENT Our CSR Policy guides the way A prosperous year has passed, allowing us once again 2,000 new colleagues joined PANDORA Production “PANDORA is committed to advancing responsible to celebrate strong top-line performance and increased Thailand, which now provides a safe and healthy place business practices, from the sourcing of gemstones, profitability. 2014 delivered remarkable growth for to work and the opportunity to develop for more than precious metals and other materials to the crafting and PANDORA both in terms of geographies and products and, 7,900 craftspeople. Accident rates as well as the number marketing of our jewellery. We believe that corporate social with the opening of concept store number 1,400, we now of craftspeople choosing to leave us remained remarkably responsibility and our aspiration to offer high quality and have a more branded store network than ever before. low, and we considerably improved the recycling of our genuine jewellery go hand in hand. Responsible business industrial waste. On the other hand, the increase in both practices and social awareness have always been part of All this was made possible by the 12,000 dedicated product complexity and the number of pieces produced PANDORA’s DNA, and they are virtues which we strive to people who by the end of 2014 operated our integrated challenged our ambition to lower energy and water honour in our daily operations as well as through initiatives value chain, which continued to accelerate and perform consumption. that aim at raising the bar for the jewellery industry. unprecedented. We increased the number of pieces produced from 79 million in 2013 to 91 million in 2014 During 2014 we launched a new energy efficient Furthermore, we believe that our business shall benefit and offered competitive and rewarding jobs to an additional store concept, which will significantly lower energy our stakeholders and not least our customers. Therefore, 3,500 people. consumption. Further, we reached an all-time high in PANDORA has a social commitment to supporting developing the skills of our store affiliates with more than charitable purposes that inspire individuality and improve Whilst increasing in numbers, we simultaneously 380,000 e-learning courses completed within jewellery the lives of women around the world.” managed to maintain and further develop our responsible knowledge and sales expertise. business practices. By involving the entire organisation, we were able to ensure high ethical standards from the design As always, responsible business practice is work in phase, through sourcing and crafting to the marketing and progress. In this year’s report we once again share our sale of our products. efforts to craft our PRODUCT with integrity, to provide a great environment for our PEOPLE and to take actions to minimise our environmental impact on the PLANET. Allan Leighton President & Chief Executive Officer 4 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT CEO STATEMENT 5 PRODUCT PANDORA jewellery is sold in 9,900 stores in more than improve our overall responsibility performance at the same 90 countries around the world. In 2014, we produced pace as we have improved our product offering. approximately 91 million pieces of jewellery, representing a growth in number of 15% compared to 2013. This has been achieved by our more than 12,000 highly competent DESIGN people who operate our integrated and highly scalable value chain. Moreover we have been able to meet our Any PANDORA product starts its journey in Group Design. commercial goals – while still improving our performance As the design evolves our designers will make choices on within responsible business practices. which materials to use. When new materials are being introduced our designers consult Group CSR to understand more about potential environmental or social impacts VALUE CHAIN associated with a given material. From the very outset of the PANDORA journey, our “founding fathers” were determined to ensure responsible business practices throughout the value chain. Only by building collaborative and transparent relations with our suppliers have we gained access to quality materials and the latest crafting techniques. Only by providing a safe and secure working environment and by giving our people opportunities to develop have we been able to attract and retain skilled and innovative craftspeople. Finally, only by facilitating the training and professional development of sales representatives in our own and partner stores have we been able to market our product successfully to millions of customers. The importance of our integrated value chain cannot be overestimated since it enables us to respond quickly and decisively when new opportunities or requirements appear on the horizon. We call this “respond-ability”. Our integrated and scalable value chain not only provides respond-ability in terms of bringing more, newer and still more complex products to market. It also enables us to react fast when encountering new challenges and opportunities within the realm of responsible business Creating a PANDORA Murano glass charm. practices. In fact, we believe that we have been able to The glass used for PANDORA charms is produced on Murano, a small island off the coast of Venice. PRODUCT 7 Purple amethyst stone being set on a pendant. Each stone is controlled before being set. Such early interaction helps to ensure that PANDORA RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER PROGRAMME SUPPLIER AUDITS CORE MATERIALS refrains from using potentially problematic material – and it provides Group CSR and other departments with valuable PANDORA sources vast quantities of jewellery materials Our key performance sourcing indicator stipulates that The vast majority of PANDORA’s products are made of knowledge in due time. as well as a wide range of fixtures, furniture, gift bags, and 80% of total sourcing value must come from suppliers silver or gold, often decorated with gemstones or stones. At jewellery boxes, etc. In order to ensure that our partners who have either been successfully audited by our external PANDORA we are fully aware that mining and processing Design and CSR also benefit from a close cooperation are complying with our ethical standards, all suppliers are auditing company or are certified members of the of precious metals, gemstones and semi-precious stones in regards to our strategic partnerships. Like PANDORA, required to sign and comply with our Supplier’s Code of Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), which means can be associated with adverse social and environmental our strategic partners have strict ethical requirements of Conduct which is downloadable from that they have been audited against the broadest and impacts. As a major player within the jewellery industry we their business partners. This means that our crafting facilities www.pandoragroup.com/csr. strictest standards within the jewellery supply chain. recognise our ability as well as our responsibility to help in Thailand, as well as our suppliers of jewellery boxes develop a more responsible supply chain for core jewellery and bags, all have to be audited and approved by these To support our suppliers in complying with the Code we Non-compliances identified during the independent materials. partners before a final business contract can be signed. have developed a comprehensive supplier programme. Our supplier audits predominantly have to do with either Our integrated value chain makes it possible for us to react CSR team, based in Bangkok, Hong Kong and Copenhagen, health and safety standards or working conditions. swiftly and arrange successful audits within a matter of work extensively with our suppliers throughout the world PANDORA has worked diligently to achieve high standards days. both to enable them to fully understand our requirements as well as expertise within both issues at our crafting and to inspire them to implement sustainable solutions. facilities in Thailand. 2014 NON-COMPLIANCE ISSUES Our designers constantly interact with Group To this end, we provide our suppliers with annual training Thus we regularly invite suppliers to visit our crafting AT AUDITED SUPPLIERS Manufacturing to ensure that our designs and crafting on issues such as safety, health and environmental facilities in Thailand to understand more about how we techniques are a match. At our cutting-edge Innovation management, national/international worker rights and maintain high people standards and how such standards Health and safety Centre in Bangkok we develop innovative production human rights, and we take pride in showcasing our own help us raise safety levels, job satisfaction, commitment, 11% Compensation and benefits techniques and improve our ability to introduce new best practice solutions. attraction and retention, and in turn performance and Working hours products. The Innovation Centre offers our Thai colleagues productivity. 13% 48% Disciplinary practice the opportunity to work and invent in the frontline of The Supplier Programme has been in operation since 4% Discrimination technical development within the jewellery industry. 2011, and it was reviewed in 2014. The review reaffirmed In 2015 our 60 most important Chinese suppliers will be Lacking forced labour policies 2% Each of our people acquires top-notch skills within highly that we are on the right track and resulted in the decision to invited to attend a major training programme at PANDORA 3% Environment 10% advanced jewellery manufacturing and it is our firm belief expand the scope of our audit list to 120 questions and to Production Thailand to learn more and showcase best Freedom of association that PANDORA´s Innovation Centre makes an important intensify training of our own sourcing and purchasing staff. practice on site. Others contribution to maintaining Thailand´s position as a global This will allow them to spot potential CSR issues during 5% 4% hub in the jewellery industry. their initial contacts with new or potential suppliers. 8 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT PRODUCT 9 Stones, gemstones and diamonds Man-made stones, natural gemstones and diamonds are all included in our jewellery, and have different characteristics and advantages. Man-made stones are identical to their natural gemstone counterparts in almost every way, including the same basic crystal structure and chemical composition. They are fully traceable, affordable and can be supplied in quantities suitable for large-scale jewellery crafting. Finally, they exhibit fewer variations in color and quality, which considerably reduces material waste. While we have made no decision to remove diamonds and gemstones from our assortment, man-made stones are taking on an increasingly important role in our collections Gold grains before being transformed into jewellery. and diamonds did not feature in any of the 2014 collections except in the PANDORA Club charm. In the sourcing of diamonds, which we continue to do to support customer Gold and silver demand for existing collections, we only accept suppliers In 2014, all gold grains entering PANDORA’s crafting fawho comply with the following statement, which is cilities were sourced from reputable refining companies included on all PANDORA invoices: certified according to the RJC’s Code of Practices. Furthermore, all PANDORA gold suppliers are certified conflict “The diamonds herein invoiced have been purchased free according to the London Bullion Market Association from legitimate sources not involved in the funding (LBMA) “Good Gold Delivery List” or the RJC Chain-of-Cusof conflict and in conformance with United Nations tody Standard for gold. 90% originated from recycling and resolutions. PANDORA hereby guarantees that these the remaining 10% from mining. diamonds are conflict free, based on written guarantees provided by the supplier of these diamonds.” Origin of sourced gold and silver Further, since 2012 we have required written guarantees RJC certified Certified Recycling Mining from our diamond suppliers that the diamonds sent to refiners conflict free PANDORA do not originate from the Marange region in Zimbabwe. Gold All All 90% 10% Silver All N/A* 99% 1% INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS In 2014, 99% of the silver grain entering PANDORA’s Like any other global brand, PANDORA is facing the crafting processes originated from recycling and the remainchallenge of counterfeiters attempting to copy our ing 1% originated from mining. Further, all our silver grain brand, our products and our identity. We safeguard our suppliers are certified members of the RJC. Thus PANDOintellectual property rights by all available means, including RA can guarantee that our silver is conflict free as well comprehensive global surveillance, registration and control as environmentally friendly compared to mined material. programmes, so that our customers can remain confident However, as PANDORA is committed to helping improve that their PANDORA products are authentic and live up to ethics throughout the jewellery supply chain, we will start our standards. working with our suppliers in 2015 to develop a standard for responsible silver mining. As part of our commitment to advancing responsible Finally, PANDORA cooperates with a very limited numbusiness practices, we want to make sure that our consumber of highly specialised manufacturers of semi-finished ers have access to information about the special features, gold and silver parts. All such partners deliver auditable stamps and markings, allowing them to distinguish genuine proof that the gold used in their products is sourced from PANDORA jewellery from counterfeits. RJC/LBMA certified suppliers. In 2015 we will continue to work with our suppliers of specialised silver products to For more information, please visit our Brand Protection find ways to ensure that they will also be able to guarantee section at www.pandoragroup.com. the ethical origin of their silver. 10 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT Silver charm hearts and gold heart pieces are cast in one “tree”. 11 PEOPLE At PANDORA, the importance of our products is equalled only by the importance of our people. We constantly work to improve their conditions as well as their performance and make sure that our people have the required skills and opportunities to develop. PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT The main contact between PANDORA and our consumers is established and nurtured by the more than 29,000 people passionately engaged in selling our jewellery in more than 90 countries around the world. We are dedicated to helping sales people develop their skills and knowledge, in both our own stores and the more than 9,500 points of sale operated We have developed e-learning and face-to-face training modules on PANDORAs ethical programmes. by our partners. Our extensive training programmes provide face-to-face training, coaching and e-learning. The scope is broad and entails training in PANDORA´s values, identity and history, informed and knowledgeable about PANDORA’s ethical jewellery and material expertise, production processes and programmes and initiatives. professional sales skills and techniques. The overall goal of these tools is to enable us to communicate PANDORA’s ethical aspirations and initiatives PANDORA’s Group Training Department has the overall to our consumers and, in turn, to engage them in our responsibility for developing our training programmes, company, in our values and in our responsibly crafted which are implemented by our 55 in-house trainers. products. Face-to-face training is supported by our comprehensive e-learning programme available in 19 languages. In 2014 the number of online training sessions completed amounted GLOBAL TRAINEE PROGRAMME to more than 380,000 up from 200,000 in 2013. We have a responsibility to make sure that our people Focusing on responsible business practices, in 2014 we have the opportunities to develop in their professional launched three CSR e-learning modules for our store staff environment. We also acknowledge our responsibility to introducing them to our responsible sourcing practices, participate in the education of new generations of global working conditions at our crafting facilities in Thailand and knowledge workers. In 2014 we developed a Global finally how to combat counterfeit jewellery. Trainee Programme, which will be tested as a pilot in 2015. In 2015, we expect to develop face-to-face training The programme will ensure each participant experiences modules to further ensure that our sales people are always Extensive training programmes for our store affiliates gives in-depth knowledge of our business and products. PEOPLE 13 two years of traineeship and different assignments at business circumstances caused by our high growth and PANDORA organistions on three continents. The aim is to the acceleration of product introductions, weekly working give each trainee the skills and insights so they can develop hours in specialised departments periodically exceeded 60 a broad global perspective on PANDORA´s value chain and hours per week. In order to mitigate this and ensure our consumer value creation. The pilot will be evaluated at the capacity for future growth, we hired an additional 2,000 end of 2015, and we expect the programme to be expanded employees in 2014 and took steps to expand existing in the years to come. crafting facilities. This expansion will continue in 2015, when we will also begin the construction of a new crafting facility in a different area of Thailand. DIVERSITY Employment and promotions at PANDORA must always CHARITY be based on merit. We are deeply committed to work against any form of discrimination and remain especially PANDORA has always been committed to charitable committed to ensure gender diversity in our management efforts and has historically taken a special interest in the positions. To this end, we have set a number of fight against breast cancer. In addition to this, in 2014 management diversity objectives, and progress is reviewed PANDORA Production Thailand provides our we launched the PANDORA Hearts of Today programme people with cheap and healthy meals. once a year. The objectives and recent results are as follows: as a pilot on the US market. Hearts of Today supports causes that are important to our female consumers. It is an ›› By no later than 2020, the gender split in senior initiative to celebrate the selfless work women do within management positions (members of the Executive their communities and around the world to improve the Management, General Managers and Vice Presidents) sphere of influence. To do this, in 2014 we continued our livelihood of women and children. A number of women should be 40% 60%. At the end of 2014, 34% of senior engagement in Steering Committees of the Human Rights were nominated and PANDORA Club members voted to management were women, up from 31% in 2013 and 26% Exchange Initiative under the Responsible Jewellery Council select the final eight honourees. in 2012. and the Danish Business Network for Human Rights. Each honouree received USD 25,000 to support their ›› The gender composition of the Group’s leadership At PANDORA we regularly assess potential human causes, which we hope will help them in their mission programmes for the years 2012-2015 (on aggregate) should rights risk in our value chain. These assessments – either to help others. Hearts of Today was a very rewarding mirror the gender composition of staff in Vice President and carried out internally or in cooperation with external experience, and we are planning to launch the initiatve in Shuttle buses provide transportation between Director positions. On 1 January 2014, women accounted experts and peers – tend to reach the same conclusion; that Canada, Italy and Hong Kong in 2015. the different PANDORA buildings in Thailand. for 50% of this management group, and made up 50% of the largest human rights risks are to be found amongst our the enrolment in our 2014 leadership programmes. suppliers. By sourcing our core jewellery materials from In total PANDORA donated more than DKK 10 million certified responsible suppliers we seek to lower the risks of to charities and sponsorships in 2014. ›› It is PANDORA’s objective that by 2015 at least 35% becoming complicit in human rights infringement where of board members elected at the Annual General Meeting the potential risks are most severe. must be women. By the end of 2014 women made up 20% PEOPLE IN THAILAND of our board members, which is well above the average Further, PANDORA’s Responsible Supplier Programme 11% for Danish listed companies, but still below our 35% (described under PRODUCT) is designed to prevent us from PANDORA’s global mission “to provide women across target. Subsequently we have changed the target year from becoming complicit in human rights infringements through the world with a universe of high quality, hand finished, 2015 to 2018 and we will from 2015 work to reach our our general sourcing and procurement activities. modern, genuine jewellery at affordable prices” has at its target. foundation the skills, care, attention and professionalism of Within jewellery crafting and trading we are aided by our craftspeople. You can find more statistics on our Group-wide gender, our vertically integrated business model that gives us full management and age composition in the DATA section. control of the crafting process. Further, the responsible PANDORA´s jewellery is crafted by our 7,900 foundation on which our Thai crafting facilites are built, colleagues at PANDORA Production Thailand (PPT). PPT as well as the PANDORA Ethics Programme, allows us is a state-of-the-art jewellery crafting facility and since the HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS to prevent and when necessary mitigate and remedy earliest days of PANDORA’s crafting operations in Thailand, negative impact of our activities. our approach to the employment relationship has exceeded Our Human Rights Policy is published on www. simple compliance with Thai legislation or minimal pandoragroup.com/csr and stipulates PANDORA´s One ongoing challenge during our continued growth conformance with international regulations. commitment to the United Nations Guiding Principles for has been keeping the amount of overtime in Thailand Businesses and Human Rights and the core conventions below ILO conventions (overtime at PANDORA is always In 2014 this commitment was recognised by Jewellery of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). The policy voluntary, compliant with Thai law and remunerated PANDORA Hearts of Today News Asia, when it chose PPT from 91 highly qualified further instructs us to advance human rights within our at premium rates). Again in 2014, due to exceptional rewards selfless women. entrants to win the Employer of the Year Award. 14 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT PEOPLE 15 Clarity, Competence, Confidence and Commitment (4 Cs) The 4 Cs are our way of operationalising the employee relationship at PPT. Clarity, Competence, Confidence and Commitment are interconnected values of equal importance and we have unrelenting focus on them. We believe they are necessary for our long-term development and support our vision, and we constantly measure ourselves against them. Everything we do at PPT should support at least one and preferably all of the 4 Cs. CLARITY COMPETENCE Everyone in our team must have a clear Our colleagues draw on their skills, idea of our vision, mission and values their knowledge and their experience Clarity. They should have a clear idea of in making hundreds of decisions each their own role and responsibilities and how day. Decisions that impact each piece this role contributes to meeting the needs of jewellery that they are responsible of our customers. Equally important is for. It is our obligation to ensure that that everyone is clear on what is expected our colleagues have the skills required CO of them and that they receive regular, ITY M to fulfil these responsibilities. supportive feedback on how they are AR CL PE performing against those expectations. TE NC E CONF CONFIDENCE T COMMITMENT It is of great importance that all our ID EN We believe that by providing Clarity, Pregnant colleagues are entitled to extra breaks and are craftspeople have the confidence to EN CE M building and enhancing Competence, and recognisable thanks to their blue uniforms. T MI speak out – to raise issues, concerns and COM creating an environment of Confidence, opportunities. We want everyone to be we get Commitment. This commitment confident that when they do speak up, they fosters the unique individual skills and will be listened to and get a response. From talents of our team, and applies them a management perspective, we want all of to the collective goal of providing Training and development Health and safety our leaders to have the confidence to listen, outstanding products and services to We invest significantly in training and development At PPT, we operate an effective Safety, Health & even to opinions they may not agree with, our customers. It has helped create the and to provide feedback in a constructive PANDORA of today and will serve as our spanning technical skills, safety, health, the environment, Environment (SHE) Committee comprised of senior and professional manner. foundation for the future. business continuity, leadership skills, quality and life management and employee representatives. The 15 skills. All training activities aim to further advance a employee representatives are offered modern, on-site safe and rewarding environment for our colleagues and facilities and receive comprehensive training, both in-house to demonstrate our socially responsible practices as an and externally, enabling them to effectively contribute employer and important member of the local community. in their role. In 2014 all colleagues received SHE-related training using a number of training methods and supported An example of proactive life skills training is the impressive by a variety of channels such as PANDORA TV and Radio. Communication story of our financial literacy programme “Happy Money”. In addition to regular on-the-job safety training, our dediWe want to provide up-to-date and relevant company Recognising that credit card debt and loan sharks are cated team of SHE experts delivered tailored training coursinformation as well as entertainment to our colleagues so common in Thailand, we launched basic courses in es to more than 3,292 colleagues, regularly participated that everyone fully understands the context of their work, personal finance in 2011 to raise staff awareness about debt in morning talks across all departments and provided SHE the feedback from our customers and has a clear picture dynamics and the nature of bank and credit card interest news using our internal communication channels. of PANDORA’s global performance. To this end we share rates. news updates, departmental news and customer feedback In 2014, the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare through our in-house PANDORA Radio and PANDORA “Happy Money” has evolved from basic courses to include gave the SHE team the Thailand National Safety Award in Production TV, both broadcasting daily. extended confidential individual financial counselling to recognition of its excellent management and performance employees. A “Savings Club” has since been established in occupational safety, health and environment. But we also want to listen. Besides training and and the Government Savings Bank makes monthly visits encouraging our people and managers to both speak to PPT to make it possible for employees to make savings As a result of our on-going focus on improving safety up and listen on a daily basis, we also conduct monthly deposits. Finally the creation of an employee-managed and health standards, we saw as few as eight work-related New PANDORA Radio DJ´s receive training meetings where colleagues are invited to share their PANDORA Cooperative Savings Club shows impressive accidents at PPT in 2014 (resulting in a total of 64 lost in broadcasting communications. opinions and ideas and suggest subjects for discussion. commitment by our colleagues. working days). With 7,900 people by year-end, this is a 16 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT PEOPLE 17 50 different acts competed in PANDORA Got Talent 2014. remarkably low accident rate compared with any industrial employees to ask questions or seek assistance on issues sector in any country. This achievement was recognised such as pay, benefits or employee relations at a time and with the prestigious Gold Level Award by the Thai Ministry place convenient for the employees. In 2014, the HR of Labour. Nonetheless, recognising that any accident is Services team received over 8,310 visits. one too many, we will continuously work to improve our performance in 2015. Recognising that access to education is a challenge in Thailand, we have established an Edutainment Centre, Employee development and benefits which features modern e-learning/internet facilities and a Our Employee Welfare Committee operates with three library. This provides our colleagues with a comfortable and sub-committees responsible for coordinating employee inspiring environment where they can relax and learn. interests within a) Compensation & Benefits, b) Employee During 2014, the library had more than 50,900 visits, and Relations and c) Social Activities. As is the case for the more than 10,100 books were borrowed throughout the SHE Committee, the 15 members of the Employee Welfare year. Committee also draw on modern facilities and extensive training. Fun PPT employee benefits include cheap and healthy meals, Our colleagues’ commitment to PANDORA is also clearly parental classes, extensive professional and personal devisible during our great social events. What in early days velopment training, annual outings, scholarships, employstarted out as a small company outing to the beach, is today ee operated radio and TV channels, as well as safe bus a two-day large-scale beach event for more than 1,700 transport to and from work. By year-end, more than 6,200 people. Those colleagues opting not to go to the beach colleagues regularly took advantage of the buses which receive family tickets for the nearby fun park. over the course of the year added up to more than 25,000 The end of year party is an even larger event, and with roundtrips. more than 5,000 participants it resembles a music festival. For entertainment at the party, national pop stars and the Three times per week, our HR Services team sets winner of that year´s very popular “PANDORA Got Talent” up consultation centres during lunch breaks to allow competition perform for the happy crowd. 18 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT Colleagues walking towards the buses at closing time. PRODUCTION +91,000,000 Having our own Pregnant employee production facilities 2014 HIGHLIGHTS benefits include extra in Thailand means full PIECES OF JEWELLERY breaks and maternity production control classes PRODUCED CERTIFIED RESPONSIBLE OHSAS Health & Safety SUPPLIERS Management +2,000 EMPLOYER OF THE YEAR 5% Employee turnover amongst ISO 90001 Quality Management new craftspeople at PANDORA Production AWARD craftspeople Thailand ISO 14001 Environmental Management We engage with our suppliers to achieve high MAN-MADE STONES WE CHECK OUR CORE MATERIALS FROM 90% recycled gold ISO 50001 ethical standards Energy Management have less environmental MINE TO MARKET impact Diamonds, gold and silver 99% DKK RJC 50 acts +50,000 are certified conflict free 10,000,000 recycled silver Code of Practices entered the yearly PANDORA visits to the modern deposited in the CONSUMERS Got Talent competition Edutainment Centre with free employee-run computers, internet PANDORA cooperative and a large library bank HEARTS OF TODAY SOLD IN We vigilantly protect WASTE +90 our unique designs supports women who help against counterfeits their local communities COUNTRIES DKK 3R RECYCLING 80% 0% +6,000,000 +3,000,000 10,000,000 AWARD from the Thai recycled industrial waste recycled water. Something we Club members devoted customers follow donated to charity Ministry of Industry want to improve! us on Facebook STORES TRANSPORT ALL PAPER BAGS certified by the Forest 50% 380,000 3 NEW CSR E-LEARNING 4,300 tonnes 1,000,000 km Stewardship Council ENERGY CUT completed of CO2 emissions from driven by buses ferrying Thai e-learning modules by the use of LED MODULES transporting our jewellery colleagues to and from work lighting in new about our ethical work concept stores and aspirations 20 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT 2014 HIGHLIGHTS 21 PLANET As part of our commitment to continuously minimise our Thus PANDORA can guarantee that our silver is environmental footprint, PANDORA Production Thailand environmentally friendly compared to mined material. initiated a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) project in 2014 in However, as PANDORA is committed to help improve collaboration with the Eco-Efficient Engineering Research ethics throughout the jewellery supply chain, we will in Laboratory (Eco-Lab) at Mahidol University in Thailand. 2015 start working with our suppliers to develop a standard The project revealed a range of interesting findings, some for responsible silver mining, as we have also stated in the of which we have instantly been able to react upon. The PRODUCT chapter. project also revealed shortcomings in the LCA methodology – not least due to lack of comparable data in available environmental databases – leaving it up to the individual TRANSPORT company to estimate its impact rather than depending on reliable third-party verified impact data. PANDORA jewellery is sold in more than 90 countries around the world; hence PANDORA requires transport services from a variety of different providers using different PRECIOUS METALS types of transport rail, sea, road and air with various levels of environmental impact. The LCA project confirmed that recycling precious metals will under effective controlled conditions remarkably reduce carbon emissions compared to mining. The Ecoinvent Database Eco-Lab estimates that under proper conditions, reusing gold and silver results in CO2 emissions of as little as 5% and 7% respectively compared to the emissions associated with mining. This makes reused precious metals extremely efficient in terms of potential CO2 reductions. As part of our efforts to advance social and environmentally responsible sourcing practices 90% of all gold used in PANDORA products in 2014 originated from recycled sources. The remaining 10% originated from mined material that is certified conflict free. When it comes to silver, 99% of the silver grains sourced by PANDORA in 2014 originated from recycling. The remaining 1% can be traced back to responsible mining. Further, PANDORA is working with our specialised Gold hearts being soldered on silver product suppliers to ensure that the silver used in to duotone “LOVE” charms. their products also originates from reused sources. Millions of jewellery pieces are sorted and sent to our consumers from our Distribution Centres. PLANET 23 In 2014 CO2 emissions from the transport of our will continue into 2015 when an expected 500 people will jewellery was identified as a new focus area, and we are undergo the training. closely cooperating with our transport providers on how to gather reliable data and how to minimise emissions in the 2014 also saw several smaller projects aiming at future. reducing energy consumption. Thus, one of our production Our first transport data from 2014 covered more than 90% facilities now has solar panels on the entire roof, LED of our transport activities and estimated the transport emislights have been tested with promising results and we are sion of 4,300 tonnes CO2. testing how to optimise energy consumption in different production processes. At PPT the amount of energy used was up from 19,170,000 STORES kWh in 2013 to 23,243,000 kWh in 2014. This rise in energy consumption was a result of the increased number and PANDORA jewellery is presently sold in 9,900 stores complexity of jewellery pieces produced. around the world, of which more than 300 are owned and operated by PANDORA. The remaining stores are operated At PPT modern and energy efficient burn-out ovens by our retail partners. and chillers regulating the heat in the buildings account for approximately 40% of consumption. All buildings are air As part of the development of our new Evolution conditioned to provide a pleasant working environment for store concept, we wanted to significantly lower energy our 7,900 craftspeople. consumption. While our previous concept relied on The LCA project confirmed our own impressions that the conventional light bulbs, Evolution relies to a greater extent potential for lowering the electricity consumption of our on LED lights. According to our in-house estimates, this crafting processes is modest, since most of our production change will enable us to cut up to 50% of our electricity does not rely on machinery but literally lies in the capable consumption in an average PANDORA concept store. This hands of our craftspeople. reduction will come from more effective illumination in fixtures, furniture and ceilings which in turn will reduce the Bus services need for air conditioning. We offer our PPT colleagues safe bus transport to and from Finally, all paper bags and almost all printed material is cerwork, which in 2014 totalled more than 25,000 roundtrips tified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and we conand more than 1 million kilometres. By year-end, more tinuously seek to expand our range of certified paper-based than 6,200 people regularly made use of this service. Bus and wood-based materials according to international suscompanies are subject to regular control by government tainability standards. agencies and our in-house SHE teams. With 50 passengers per bus and buses in good condition, this option is highly energy-efficient compared with other feasible means of PRODUCTION transportation. The Evolution store concept uses energy PANDORA experienced a sharp increase in demand and Water saving LED lighting in the displays. produced approximately 91 million pieces of jewellery As a result of our growth and the increased complexity in 2014, compared with 79 million in 2013. At the same of our jewellery designs, our water consumption at PPT time, the accelerated pace at which we introduce our still increased by almost 30% from 291,572 M3 in 2013 to more complex jewellery designs has made it challenging to 378,973 M3 in 2014. The disposal of waste water is subject Waste An average of 90% of waste gypsum was recycled in the simultaneously reduce our energy and water consumption to control by local authorities, audited by external experts, Our waste management procedures measurably improved construction sector, reaching 100% in November. at our crafting facilities. With planned expansion of our and handled by a joint waste water treatment facility manin 2013 and continued to do so in 2014. At PANDORA, production capacity, we expect to be able to improve aged by the industrial estate. waste is seen as a resource. In 2014, 81% of the total waste It is a great pleasure to see our waste being transformed performance in the years to come. produced by our crafting facilities in Thailand was reused or into useful products. The benefits are twofold as we While continuously experimenting we have still not been recycled, an increase of 24% compared to 2013. optimise the use of resources and considerably reduce our Energy able to find efficient solutions to the recycling of water and The crafting of our jewellery generates three main types of own waste. Having achieved the ISO 14001 certification on the results so far remain insignificant. This is in part due process waste: glass, rubber and gypsum. The gypsum deenvironmental management in 2012, PPT acquired ISO to lack of space for recycling within our present facilities, rives from the jewellery casting process, the glass from the In 2014, our Thai facilities were recognised for this 50001 certification on energy management in 2014. This which is something we will take into consideration in future making of our Murano charms and the rubber from moulds. impressive achievement within waste management by will help us define and monitor our goals, methodology expansion plans. We will however continue our search for In 2014 an impressive 100% of Murano glass waste was the Thai Ministry of Industry. The “3 Rs” (Reduce, Reuse, and performance in regard to energy consumption. Training solutions for existing premises and hope to improve our recycled as glass tiles and 100% of our rubber waste was Recycle) award was given as a recognition of good practice in energy management awareness has been initiated and performance in 2015. used as an alternative fuel source in the cement industry. in resource management. 24 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT PLANET 25 APPROACH In 2014, we continued the rollout of our PANDORA Ethics programme, which is designed to implement our ethical aspirations and policies within human rights, working conditions, the environment, business ethics and responsible sourcing. Our core Ethics policies can be found on www.pandoragroup.com/csr. GOVERNANCE For PANDORA, the aim of good corporate governance is to maximise long-term value creation and ensure transparency and accountability in the way we fulfil our obligations Rubber moulds for the casting of wax charms. towards all key stakeholders. PANDORA intends to exercise good corporate governance at all times and we assess our practices according to the recommendations issued by the Danish Committee on Corporate Governance. Read more across the entire jewellery supply chain. RJC is recognised about governance on www.pandoragroup.com by other leading certification organisations as the sustainability leader within the jewellery industry. PANDORA Ethics is governed by our CSR Steering Committee, headed by our Vice President, Group CSR In 2014, PANDORA continued in the Standards and is further made up of the heads of Procurement, Committee as the elected representative of the jewellery Manufacturing, HR and Investor Relations & manufacturing members and accepted additional roles as Communications, with our CFO and Chief Marketing & Standards Committee Chair as well as a seat in the RJC Merchant Officer representing executive management. Our Executive Committee. progress in advancing responsible business practices is regularly addressed at PANDORA’s Audit Committee under In 2012, the PANDORA entities around the world were the Board of Directors. successfully audited by independent consultants in order to achieve Group-wide certification under the RJC Code of Practices, which requires strict compliance with more than RESPONSIBLE JEWELLERY COUNCIL 100 sustainability provisions. PANDORA’s recertification against the new and improved PANDORA is a certified member of the Responsible RJC Code of Practices is due in 2015 and we expect to be Jewellery Council (RJC). RJC is an organisation dedicated in compliance with all applicable provisions. to reinforcing consumer confidence by developing and Find the list of these provisions on their website: implementing responsible business practices and standards www.responsiblejewellery.com Wax models of charms are attached to a wax 26 tree which is used for making a gypsum mould. APPROACH 27 PEOPLE DATA Staff as of 31 December 2012 2013 2014 M F Total M F Total M F Total < 18 1 8 9 0 10 10 0 26 26 18-25 616 1,320 1,936 1,006 2,009 3,015 1,322 3,047 4,396 26-35 1,546 1,910 3,456 1,980 2,527 4,507 2,591 3,538 6,129 36-45 195 389 584 248 494 742 312 730 1,042 46+ 104 271 375 121 288 409 153 471 624 Total 2,462 3,898 6,360 3,355 5,328 8,683 4,378 7,812 12,190 Management 2012 2013 2014 M F Total M F Total M F Total Global Management Team 12 0 12 11 0 11 12 1 13 Tools used to grind and polish the jewellery. Vice Presidents 42 19 61 40 23 63 43 27 70 Directors/Managers 132 153 285 155 192 347 207 244 451 Store Managers 19 136 155 13 159 172 21 263 284 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT responsible business practices to our consumers. We do this Total management 205 308 513 219 374 593 283 535 818 with the dual purpose of catering for the generally growing Total management in % 40 60 37 63 35 65 In 2014, PANDORA continued as a member of the United number of ethically conscious consumers as well as to Nations Global Compact and also remained active in the strengthen our brand equity with our loyal customers. Global Compact Nordic Network. PANDORA continues to Staff Turnover 2012 2013 2014 support the Global Compact, which we recognise to be the In 2014 our production facilities in Thailand greeted M F Total M F Total M F Total most important sustainability initiative across industries. visitors from national newspapers, lifestyle magazines New staff 488 1,188 1,676 1,133 2,028 3,161 1,345 3,388 4,733 and bloggers from countries such as Italy, the UK, Poland, Resignations/dismissals/retirements France, Malaysia and Singapore, all with a keen interest in including store staff 305 680 985 220 539 759 315 664 979 STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION CSR-related stories. The benefits for PANDORA have been staggering, both in It is PANDORA’s policy to be open and transparent about terms of PR value from the numerous positive stories about our CSR efforts and results. We maintaine a comprehensive our designs, brand and responsible business practices CSR section on our corporate website www.pandoragroup. and the lessons we have learnt in terms of which stories Accidents 2012 2013 2014 com, we have published a PANDORA Ethics Report each and messages resonate with different consumer segments. No. of accidents 7 26 21 year since 2010 and we have honoured our commitment to In 2015 we will use this valuable knowledge to further Number of lost days 37 319 310 openly engage in stakeholder dialogue. strengthen our consumer communication through various Going forward we will more proactively communicate our media channels. 28 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT PEOPLE DATA 29 PLANET DATA CO2 Emissions (tonnes) 2014 Transport emissions total 4,324 PPT Energy Consumption (kWh) 2012 2013 2014 Total 13,913,000 19,170,000 23,243,000 PPT Waste (tonnes) 2012 2013 2014 General waste 1,813 161 476 Recycled waste 284 1,693 3,229 Industrial waste 1,418 1,084 259 Hazardous waste 43 16 1 Total 3,558 2,954 3,965 Total % recycled 8 57 81 Crafting Waste 2013 (tonnes) 2013 (% recycled) 2014 (tonnes) 2014 (% recycled) Gypsum 1,921 46 2,320 90 Rubber 49 29 60 100 Murano glass 6 45 8 100 30 PANDORA ETHICS REPORT PANDORA A/S Hovedvejen 2 DK-2600 Glostrup Denmark Phone: +45 3672 0044 Fax: +45 3672 0800 CVR nr.: 28505116 www.pandoragroup.com
