UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2014 THINKING AHEAD – MOVING FORWARD 2 3 04 HELLMANN AT A GLANCE 2014 06 FOREWORD KLAUS AND JOST HELLMANN 08 STANDARD DISCLOSURE 10 OUR STRATEGY 11 VALUE-BASED MANAGEMENT 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 14 STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS 16 HUMAN RIGHTS 19 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 20 SOCIAL COMMITMENT 24 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO 26 LABOR 29 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT 30 CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROCESS 31 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 32 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 36 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO 38 ENVIRONMENT 40 POLICY AND TRAINING 42 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 44 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 50 ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS 54 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO 56 BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 60 BUSINESS ETHICS 62 COMPLIANCE 64 REPORTING AND COMMUNICATION 66 CONTROLS AND FOLLOW-UP MEASURES CONTENT 68 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO 70 APPENDIX 4 5 Hellmann at a Glance 2014 6 7 A t Hellmann we believe our success is determined by the consequences our actions have on the environment and communities around us. procedures. Trying to resolve all issues and challenges on our own is unrealistic. Only through working together with our internal and external We also acknowledge that this is only an issue stakehold­ers – customers, employees, universities, providing our activities are economically sustainNGOs governments, etc. – will we create new and able. Therefore, we strive to balance our economic, even greater opportunities to help us overcome environmental and social goals. Since committing our challenges. to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we have integrated the ten universal principles For this reason, we conducted a stakeholder analy­ regarding human rights, labor, environment and sis to identify essential CSR topics and to familiar­ anti-corruption into our daily business. ize ourselves with our stakeholders’ expectations, In 2014, we continued to work according to wants and needs. We are working in collaboration one of our corporate values; “Live Sustainability”. with other parties on our company’s CSR strategy We promoted the ten UNGC principles among our to identify our key goals for 2015. employees worldwide through various initiatives. One of our major achievements was raising aware­ Thinking Ahead, Moving Forward on our sustain­ ness by measuring our carbon emissions in our ability journey….TOGETHER. various regions. We are proud to report that we can now publish transparent Scope 1 and Scope Forward-looking Statements 2 emission data for Europe and Asia. Two years This Communication on Progress (CoP) report conago, we were only able to provide this information tains forward-looking statements that are partly for Germany. Furthermore, we are strengthening based on estimations as well as information curour business ethics through internal policies driven rently available. These statements are in no way a by international and national laws, including the guarantee of prospective corporate performance. UNGC principles. Not only do we want to cover They may be subject to risk and uncertainties, the minimum required standards but we also want which are beyond our control and therefore may to provide all our employees with comprehensive cause actual results and developments to differ internal policies. Through the internal Compliance from the expectations expressed in this CoP. Effectiveness Survey in 2014, we had the opporFOREWORD tunity to measure the effectiveness of our compliReport Profile ance program and received positive feedback and This is the third Communication on Progress Report JOST AND KLAUS suggestions from our employees. Implementing (CoP) published regarding our commitment to the these suggestions is one of our key tasks in the United Nations Global Compact to date. The data area of anti-corruption in 2015. and information reported in this CoP cover the We are aware that we do not have all the an­­ time period from January 1, 2014 until December HELLMANN swers, solutions and know-how to answer every 31, 2014. question asked. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is not a stand-alone “project”; it needs to be integrated into our business processes and STANDARD DISCLOSURE 10 11 OUR STRATEGY VALUE-BASED MANAGEMENT W e are committed to being the leading global logistics provider in terms of service excellence, quality, innovation and environmental D NA is the abbreviation for deoxyribonucleic acid, the “building block of life”, which carries hereditary codes and traits from parent to Our corporate genes and family values continue to inspire the way everyone in our global network thinks and acts from country to country and from care. child. Like individuals, every company has its own generation to generation. They also continue to We recognize that people are the foundation of DNA in the form of a unique culture and way of determine the integrity and mutual trust with our success. We make every effort to provide them doing business. which we build both our business and our partwith a fulfilling and engaging working environOur Corporate DNA defines who we are and ners‘ business. ment. We carry out our commitment to customers what makes us stand out. It also ensures our herby being responsive to their needs and providing itage endures through successive generations by them with logistics solutions that create value and enabling new team members from around the support their success. world to share our values. At Hellmann, we see our Corporate DNA as being far more than mere Thinking Ahead, Moving Forward! words on paper. Ultimately, our corporate genes inspire the way we think. They determine the motives behind our actions and define what we should expect of one another. Most importantly, F.A.M.I.L.Y they highlight the qualities that ensure we are, and F irst, people first always will be, different from other logistics service A ll about the customers, always M aking it work better, everyday providers. I nnovation and entrepreneurship Family defines not only who we are, but also L ive sustainability forms the basis of our Corporate DNA: F.A.M.I.L.Y. Y ou and Me! CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 14 15 STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS In order to explain our goals and to identify which important to include all our stakeholders in the strategy. The first step in our stakeholder analysis compare our corporate expectations with those areas need our attention, we plan to widen the process. Therefore, we plan to conduct a global was to identify stakeholder groups and classify of the stakeholders, to help us develop our busiscope of our Corporate Social Responsibility analysis to identify topics important to our interthem into relevant subgroups. The stakeholder ness further whilst having a positive impact on (CSR). Not only is it important for us to define nal and external stakeholders. These topics will groups will be asked to rank CSR related topour environment. essential KPIs and goals internally but it is also be used as the basis for our CSR approach and ics according to their relevance. An analysis will HUMAN RIGHTS 18 19 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY T he health and safety of our employees is important to us. We consistently strive to further develop processes and procedures to ensure that a safe working environment is in place and continuously maintained. Every country has its national laws and regulations regarding occupational health and safety. Many of our countries have developed health and safety programs safety experts came together to compare regional including frequently training employees, auditing, standards and possibilities for internal global “At Hellmann, we respect all human rights according to internaattaining external certifications and nominating guidelines. Our branches in the United States of designated contacts for health and safety issues. America are one example of a best practice. In the tional human rights standards and instill these rights throughout all Internal and external health and safety audits were past two years, they were able to reduce the numour business functions. We are also committed to respecting, proconducted in 64% of our countries in 2014. To creber of accidents by 25%. This was made possible moting, and accomplishing these fundamental principles and rights ate the same secure working environment for all through frequent training and auditing, and the reorganization of our warehouses. in the workplace. This helps us attract and retain a highly qualified and motivated workforce as well as continuously improve relations 215 work-related accidents occurred at our facilwith our staff.” ities worldwide. Every accident is taken seriously. We classify accidents in different categories for which specific prevention training courses are  Stephan Wimmer (Chief People Officer) developed and conducted for employees. employees, we started to develop internal Health and Safety Guidelines for all our branches worldwide. In an initial workshop, internal health and 20 21 SOCIAL COMMITMENT H elping those in need is something we have pursued since the early days of our company. As a F.A.M.I.L.Y we do our best to care for the O n November 5, 2014, our branch in Charlotte, USA, organized a 747 aircraft loaded with personal protection equipment, buckets, gloves, a As shown in the following illustration, numerous initiatives took place in 2014. One of the most impressive was an initiative introduced by our environment and the communities around us. As forklift and other supplies to be used in the relief South African colleagues who started the social a global operating company, we have the responsiefforts of our client Samaritans Purse, in fighting project “More with Less”. The purpose of the projbility to provide support in emergency situations. In the Ebola virus in Liberia. Twelve hours later, the ect was to give back to people, employees and line with this, the Hellmann Disaster and Humanflight arrived in Monrovia where the supplies were customers alike, living in South Africa. itarian Logistics Services initiative was created. It distributed using a special US Marines Osprey airsupports humanitarian efforts of governmental, craft to reach remote areas. non-governmental and charitable organizations, which handle a wide range of local and regional emergencies. We offer expertize in coordinating short and long-term projects and providing strategic solutions during unforeseen humanitarian crises. Our worldwide network offers global presence which can meet the most demanding requirements in times of need. Our company is engaged in various social initiatives around the world through the special dedication of Our employees are actively committed to social and our employees. They support and initiate programs environmental initiatives. This year, together with in order to solve social and environmental issues the residents of the “Gerhard-Uhlhorn-Haus”, our through donations, community programs and other interns in Germany helped maintain the garden of actions taken in their country – our F.A.M.I.L.Y. the pedagogic-therapeutic institution for children knows no boundaries. and adolescents. 22 23 Germany Engaging student teams in internal research projects to Poland foster environmental susTransporting supplies for tainability. the victims of the flood ­catastrophe in the Balkans. USA Thailand Breast cancer awareness Employees, clients and our month in October in order branch in Thailand supported to support the Susan G. a homeless shelter in the Komen foundation. Petchaburi province with hygience products. Chile Voluntary donations by employees to Brazil support local school Supporting children and the children. homeless on the streets of South Africa Brazil with clothes, blankets, In addition to donating toys and milk. the meals served at the soup kitchen, our Australia employees provided Supporting the Starlight Foundation Argentina their time as well as which seeks to improve hospital expeCollecting plastic bottle tops and giving donations towards riences for children and chronically ill them to the Foundation Garrahan Chilclothing and necessities teenagers. dren’s Hospital which recycles them into for the homeless. plastic buckets and sells them. The money received is used to buy medical supplies. 24 25 Activities in 2014 Progress Activities in the upcoming years WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND Principle 1 WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO  Integrating a Corporate Volunteering Initiative, “Perspektivwechsel” in our Learning and Development Program  Refining and further developing our Corporate Volunteering Initiative, “Perspektivwechsel” and make it available in other countries  Exploring options for creating a foundation, which  Integrating the “Perspektivwechsel” initiative in supports and coordinates the charitable work of the Hellmann Learning Experience (HLE) our employees (in cooperation with other organizations/companies)  Exploring the options to support building and rebuilding houses in developing areas  Participating in further UNGC-related events on  Creating awareness about sustainability and corthe subject of best practice sharing porate citizenship, internally and externally  Collaboration with schools and universities  Guest lectures Principle 2 Global Employee Opinion Survey (EOS) Global Employee Opinion Survey (EOS)  Conducting follow-up meetings with Managing  Measuring progress of KPIs by conducting the EOS in all Directors and Country HR Managers our branches worldwide every other year  Monitoring implemented corrective action plans  Conducting follow-up meetings with 100% of our Managing Directors and Country HR Managers  Defining corrective action plans per country by Q4 in 2015 Global Employee Induction Survey  Requesting feedback from new employees regarding their induction process  Developing follow-up workshops and action plans aligned with individual country results  Developing global health and safety principles to Corporate Health and Safety Program serve as an internal corporate standard  Developing a concept for our Global Health and Safety approach by August 2016  Implementing 90% of our Global Health and Safety program by Q1 in 2017  Analyzing the corporate health management programs in all of our countries LABOR 28 29 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT D ue to the current employment market situation, we are in the war for talent. It is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit, develop 18 months of job rotations which also include an international placement our graduates have the opportunity to decide between following either a and retain the right people for our organization. 12-month Specialist or Management career path. To address these issues and act according to our The entire program is structured around compeCorporate DNA, we must increase the recognition tency-based and on-the-job training where all of our employer brand to attract talent around candidates participate together in one location. In the world. It is also necessary to retain new talent addition, they work on projects and assignments, by creating and implementing development proindividually and in virtual groups. Participants are “As a family-owned business, the entire company is committed to the grams to support and nurture their full potential. reviewed regularly to assess their development throughout the program and are given support very meaning of family. Through our corporate DNA, we encourage all Graduate Programs where necessary. of our employees worldwide to build strong global networks based on The Hellmann International Logistics Management We are happy to share that the first group respect, integrity, understanding and mutual cooperation. We behave (ILM) program is established amongst senior-level constitutes a truly global group of participants talent. Its aim is to develop talent at all levels of from: United Kingdom, Poland, the United States responsibly towards the people, societies and environment in all areas the organization. Based on the success of the ILM, of America, Mexico, and South Africa. In January in which we are active.” we introduced a second initiative: the “Hellmann 2015, we began the recruitment process through Graduate Program”, despite challenging economic online applications via our graduate website http://  Jost Hellmann conditions. The Graduate program aims to give grads.hellmann.net, and we received more than entry-level talent the opportunity to learn about 200 applications. the core of our business, to become part of a global talent network, and to become one of our future specialist or leader. The “Hellmann Graduate Program” is 30-month long and consists of six three-month long “Foundation Modules” which rotate through each of our core business units (Airfreight Export and Import, Sea Freight Export and Import, Road Freight, Contract Logistics and Sales). After completing the first 30 31 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS W e aim to align our internal compensation and benefit programs with national and local market practices in each region and country. minimum wage is determined by local authorities. According to this year’s data, the remuneration we offer is above the minimum wage in 69 % of these We monitor related data on a regular basis. In 88 % countries. of countries in which we operate, the national As an employer, we offer a wide range of different benefit programs, which can be divided into three major groups. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROCESS O ur Continuous Improvement Process (CIP) provides sustainable and comprehensive logistics solutions for our customers. CIP is a management philosophy that focuses on improving frequent and simple activities. The goal is not only to create lean processes but also to reinforce people’s dedication. The CIP helps to develop innovative processes and leadership capabilities internally and provides opportunities for sustainable working relationships with our customers by delivering a transparent and stable supply chain. “The improvements made are reflective of the INNOThese benefits vary according to region and country, adapted to the local wants and needs of our employees. Optimization projects, in the form of workshops, VATION trait, which is part of our Hellmann DNA. allow us to analyze our operation processes in a This has not only allowed the team and myself to structured and effective manner and identify waste complete our tasks efficiently, but has also opened and inefficiencies in our warehouses and offices. our minds to finding different methods of doing a Training our operational workforce is a priority particular job and leading innovation ourselves.” in our company. The Hellmann Academy focuses on their development and training. A detailed training || Rahul Tirthani (Senior Accountant) plan is created for all new employees to familiarize them with our customer-related processes. This We put significant importance on ensuring that our ensures that employees know how to be flexible employees have a good understanding of customer in routine operational tasks. Moreover, each of our procedures and products and are able to perform new hires is mentored by an experienced employee. key processes in all operations. CIP enables employStatutory requirements, such as forklift training (for ees to become knowledgeable in upstream and warehouses) and general product training, are downstream processes. Every blue-collar worker regularly carried out and documented. Hence, this is trained in all operative functions, e.g. inbound, assures that only qualified employees are assigned picking, packing and outbound Allowing for the to a specific task, department or area in compliance necessary flexibility to handle absenteeism and to with customer requirements. facilitate job rotation. 32 33 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION O ur Corporate DNA defines who we are, our culture and our way of conducting business. Our brand describes how we distinguish ourselves Within the framework of the Diversity Charter, we are committed to: 1. Fostering a corporate culture of mutual respect from our competitors, and how we want to be and appreciation for every single individual. We perceived in our markets and communities. It is the seek to create conditions in which all employees individuality and diversity of our employees that respect, practice and acknowledge these values ultimately bring our Corporate DNA and our brand with the support of leaders and supervisors. to life. At Hellmann, we are committed to sup2. Overseeing and ensuring that our human porting diversity in a constantly changing environresource processes are compatible with the “We live in a globalized world and we are a global company. There is a ment shaped by globalization, changes in values existing competencies, abilities and talents of and demographics, and continuously increasing our employees, as well as with our own perforwide variety of people in our world; all are unique and full of ideas. It complexities. mance standards. is very beneficial for the world and for companies to embrace diver3. Recognizing the internal and external diversity sity. Change is driven by the views of others. Different perspectives Our Corporate DNA supports a diversity manof our organization, appreciating its potential agement policy. We have already reported on the and opportunity for our business. are never wrong. We must work towards understanding others’ and measures undertaken to date, such as cooperating 4. Ensuring that the implementation of the Charinclude them into our considerations. Diversity drives our company, at with the Christophorus-Werk and hiring Spanish ter is recognized by communicating it internally all levels.” interns to be become professional truck drivers in and externally. Germany. As part of our diversity initiative, Klaus 5. Publicizing our efforts and achievements in proand Jost Hellmann signed the Diversity Charter at moting diversity on an annual basis.  Klaus Hellmann the beginning of May 2014. This is our public com6. Keeping our employees and colleagues informed mitment, along with 1,750 other German compaand actively involved in the implementation of nies, to actively value and recognize diversity in the Charter. our company. 34 35 INTERVIEW WITH MIRKO HOEHNE M irco Hoehne is a trainee of the Christophorus-Werk, which is one of the partners in our diversity initiative. Christophorus-Werk offers flows and processes. From the first day on I felt comfortable working at Hellmann because I was warmly welcomed by everyone. In upcoming weeks time and patience. In the departments in which I have worked here, this initial situation was given and everyone took the time to include me. It is “The attitude and dedication of affected as well as non-affected employees has developed in a positive direction. In particular the trust and confidence young adults with disabilities an apprenticeship at I will be working in the regional dispatching departalways about the individual person and their good of our disabled employees in the Employees with this institution. During the first six weeks of his ment where I will be announcing, checking and intentions, and not so much about the result. Disabilities Council has increased tremendously internship at our company, Mirco worked in the redeeming delivery notes. It is amazing how much I over the past years.” truck garage gaining knowledge in scheduling was able to do and see during this internship. ComHuman Resources: One last question, Mirco. regional transport. pared to other companies, it is much more. Could you imagine working at Hellmann? Human Resources: Mirco, we are glad to Human Resources: Apart from getting to Mirco Hoehne: Yes, definitely! have you here at our company. Would you know the day-to-day business, what were be so kind as to introduce yourself briefly? the “highlights” of your internship? Human Resources: Thank you very much for your time. Mirco Hoehne: I have nearly finished my apprenMirco Hoehne: Definitely accompanying a truck on ticeship as an office clerk at the Christophorus-Werk. Since I always wanted to work in the area of logistics, I am glad to have the chance to a tour! It was interesting to experience Hellmann’s daily business. Plus, I would like to add that I recognized that this work requires a lot. The prejudice A nother initiative we wish to develop further is our Employees with Disabilities Council. Since its foundation in 2010, the representatives of the work here. It is important for me to gain various that most truckers are reckless drivers is completely council are continuously working on improving the insights into different departments and to undersubjective. Also, I had the chance to take part in situation for employees with disabilities at Hell|| Alexander Lülf (Representative of the Council stand how this business works. the CIP Program (Continuous Improvement Promann, whether work related or private. of Employees with Disabilities) cess) for youngsters at Hellmann. One of our largest projects was to facilitate Human Resources: How were your first days the application process for potential candidates at Hellmann? Human Resources: Could you name some with disabilities. Therefore our Employees with areas for improvement? Disabilities Council contacted several job agencies Mirco Hoehne: At the beginning I was skeptical as to ensure that disabled applicants with the same to whether everything would work out in regard Mirco Hoehne: In the past, I gained experience qualifications as non-disabled applicants would be to the organization, but I am impressed that everywith other companies where I was just allowed to preferred. We received positive feedback from the thing worked out so well. In the first few weeks, I sort and handle simple tasks. Before I came here, I job agencies regarding this initiative. According to was working in the truck garage where I had the did not have any expectations. It is important that them, most companies would rather pay fines than chance to slowly get used to the different workeveryone understands they need to have plenty of make efforts to hire employees with disabilities. 36 37 Activities in 2014 Progress Activities in the upcoming years WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND Principle 3 WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO  Strengthening relationships in more countries by engaging in a continuous dialogue with trade unions Evaluating laws and regulations for collaboration ongoing ongoing  Strengthening relationships in more countries by engaging in a continuous dialogue with trade unions Evaluating laws and regulations for collaboration with trade unions or work councils in all countries with trade unions or work councils in all countries  Implementing the Hellmann Business Code of  Achieving a 90 % training / acknowledgment Conduct as a mandatory training for all our level for our Business Code of Conduct among employees employees Principle 4  Global roll-out of the Business Code of Conduct  Promoting the Business Code of Conduct as well as the ten UNGC principles in more countries Principle 5  Analyzing and setting standards for employment  See Principle 10 contracts and policies (applicable internally and externally i.e. temporary labor agencies) Principle 6  Exploring the options for rolling out our Diversity  Fostering the development of our Diversity ManManagement in the US agement Program in Germany  (Inclusion) Offering apprentices with disabilities  (Inclusion): Offering internships to people with internships at our company (cooperation with disabilities and young foreigners Christophorus-Werk Lingen)  Number of people with disabilities and young foreigners hired  Making the Performance Management Program  Implementing our new Performance Management available in more countries Program and competency model globally  70 % of HWL employees will be evaluated based on the new Performance Management Program by the end of Q4 in 2016 ENVIRONMENT 40 41 POLICY AND TRAINING W e need to create awareness for the environmental issues which can be improved by changing technical equipment, logistics processes their 3-year development plan. A few weeks after the initial release of the training, it was completed more than a hundred times and helpful feedback was given Spill-response trainings Transporting hazardous goods such as chemicals or oil poses a severe risk to the environment. We or personal habits. Besides having support from top to further improve the program. have identified the risks involved and responded management through their commitment, training is The next steps include rolling-out the training for by developing a training program for offices which also an important tool for increasing awareness. But all German employees. Following this, the training handle these goods in their daily operations. to do so globally would incur significant emissions will be translated into other languages and made In 2014, we conducted a mix of scheduled due to travelling. We developed online e-learning available in other Hellmann countries. We will keep and unscheduled training courses, some of them modules although online training is not as effective track of the development and use the number of in cooperation with the local fire brigades, to conas classroom training. Because of this, our training “completed trainings” as a KPI for our CSR program. tinuously improve our collaboration. The courses courses go through multiple stages of quality assurare planned and executed by our health, safety are conducted regularly in collaboration with HSE ance which is carried out by our development experts “I was given the opportunity to participate in this and environmental specialists and are conducted specialists and the local fire brigades, to improve and the Hellmann academy. training as part of my Hellmann trainee program. on a regular basis. As well as evaluating the trainthe emergency processes in our warehouses. To Statement from Kirsten Bahr: “As part of my eduI was impressed by the areas and tools our coming, these specialists also take care of preventive protect the environment and the health and safety cation at Hellmann, I was able to take part in the new pany uses to positively influence the environment. I and corrective actions for our environmental manof our employees, it is important to maintain our environmental e-learning course. It explains, in an learned a lot of important things, which I can apply agement system. internal processes and create a pleasant and safe easy to understand manner, what we can do for our to my daily work.” Spill-response training is also part of the work environment. With a mix of scheduled and environment, as a company and as individual employOHSAS (Occupational Health and Safety Assessunscheduled training courses the management is ees, to reduce waste. It also increases our awareness || Niklas Paetzold (Working Student) ment Series) program, which is part of our health able to reflect the actual measurements and identify of the effects our behavior have on the environment. and safety management system in North America training needs.” In particular, the topic of emissions was very interestand the United Kingdom. The efficiency of these ing to me and reminded me of the unique responsispill-response and work safety training courses || Michael Brockmeyer (Head of Crossdocks, Osnabrück) bilities a logistics company has. I really liked how the is monitored on a regular basis by internal envisubject was presented, because it is interactive and ronmental, health and safety, and fire protection gives an overview of all environmental aspects at our audits. company.” German trainees were chosen for the initial roll“Spill-response training helps us to increase our out of our environmental awareness training. Comemployees’ awareness in the case of emergency accipleting the environmental training is mandatory in dents with hazardous goods. The training courses 42 43 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM New branches In 2015, we are planning to include our wareEcological responsibility is an integral part of our house branch in Bor Tachova, Czech Republic, as philosophy and firmly anchored in the F.A.M.I.L.Y. well as the road freight branch office Anroechte DNA. To satisfy these requirements, we were the in the certification process. first logistics company in Germany to be ISO The ISO 14001 process requires that each 14001 certified in 1996. The first branch office to certified office is frequently audited in line with be certified was the company’s headquarters in their standard, company management and legal Osnabrück. Other locations, such as our regional requirements. The auditing processes are impleheadquarters in Miami and Hong Kong followed mented by trained specialists from the Global “As a global logistics service provider, we are obliged to take care of the soon after. Today, environmental management Quality and Environmental Management departsystem is becoming an internal global standard ment located in our headquarters in Germany. environment, which we do by developing and maintaining an environfor Hellmann. Besides auditing the branches, the Global Qualmental management system. “Live Sustainability” is a key aspect of In 2014, the environmental management sysity and Environmental Management department our corporate DNA and a clear statement regarding the importance tem included 32 branches globally. Most certified offers support in implementing the environmenbranch offices are in the European region, where tal management system. Local employees are of, and our commitment to, ecological and social sustainability. Due to the external demand for certification is highest. responsible for fulfilling and carrying out local this, a strong commitment from our employees is essential in achieving Three new branch offices have passed the requirements and operational implementation of our objectives in this area. The ISO 14001 certification underlines our external certification audit conducted by the the ISO norm. independent certification institute, DEKRA. The company’s environmental orientation and our employees´ sustainable European warehouse branch in Oelde was sucuse of resources. Apart from that, our company-wide standard ensures cessfully certified as was the airfreight office in the implementation of ecological and social standards in our customKelsterbach, located close to the Frankfurt airport. The latter is our first airfreight office to be ers’ supply chains. It also guarantees control of major risks and hazards part of environmental audits and the certification in our daily business.” process. Last but not least, the first joint-venture sub René Stoecker (Director Operations Germany) sidiary of Hellmann East Europe, Hanau, and the road freight branches in Mannheim became part of the certification process. 44 45 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 46 47 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS 48 49 New heating system in our largest wareWe developed specialized airfreight packaging in house in Osnabrueck collaboration with Lufthansa which reduced the As reducing carbon emissions have become increasweight of shipments and consequently the fuel ingly important in logistics, we are constantly lookconsumption of airlines, reducing the carbon emising for new technologies to cut our consumption sions of our airfreight shipments. of fossil fuels and carbon dioxide emissions. It is for Another opportunity to reduce our environmenthis reason that we equipped our largest warehouse tal impact is by becoming paperless. Because of based in Osnabrueck with a new heating system. security and customs clearance standards, a large number of shipping documents are necessary. The “Implementing an electronic airway bill is a win-win situation for all parair waybill in particular is often required, which leads to a high consumption of paper per shipment. Electies involved; allowing all of us to be more efficient. The quality of data tronic air waybills (eAWB) save paper, because the that we exchange with our partners can be greatly enhanced using documents are sent electronically. Our first eAWB eAWB, which improves costs and time efficiency. Switching to eAWB shipment took place in Hong Kong, in collaboration with Lufthansa Cargo in April 2013. Today it has has helped us to standardize our processes, a positive experience become part of our day-to-day business. which motivates us to spread e-freight globally.” Introducing the eAWB has not only saved us The new heating system reduces the use of time and money but has also rendered the process  Mark Hellmann (Regional Director Asia) natural gas by 30%, from 2.1 million kWh to 1.5 more efficient and reliable by making the documillion kWh by producing heat only when required. ments immediately available at destination. It is computer operated thus allowing for transparHandling airfreight documents requires a high ency which helps us optimize operating times in level of data quality and standardization. The use order to minimize the natural gas requirements. of electronic documents enforces compliance with globally recognized requirements. In addition, it eAWB allows more information to be exchanged between Our impact on fuel saving programs or carbon-emisfreight forwarders and airlines. As a member of sion reduction for airplanes and/or ships is limited IATA “Cargo2000”, we are implementing their due to the fact that we operate as a Non Vessel leading standards and taking the next step to fully Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC). implementing “efreight”. 50 51 ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS “The use of electric vehicles will have a positive impact on our carbon footprint. It also represents our corporate values “innovation” and U sing alternative mobility concepts is a key factor in reducing our Scope 1 emissions. While we concentrate on LNG-technology for our trucks, erator. A 22 KW charging station was installed at our headquarters in Osnabrueck and one of the first steps in this two-year testing phase is to iden“sustainability”. Sure, the vehicle has a limited distance range and it is now our goal to test and expand e-mobility in tify other charging station possibilities within our recharging takes some time, but we will make smart use of this conthe company car fleet. European offices and warehouses. We conducted a survey in collaboration with A review of the BMW i3 will be published in cept. Besides, many people often forget that driving an electric car is the University of Applied Sciences in Heilbronn our next CoP. great fun!” amongst all employees who drive a company car in Germany and asked them about their mobility  Tobias Juechter (Global Quality and Environmental Representative) needs and their use of the cars. The result highlighted the potential for the use of 10-20 electric vehicles keeping in mind the limited range of electric cars. Following the survey results, we replaced a conventional diesel car with a BMW i3to test the daily usage of an electric vehicle in the Environmental Management department. Because electric vehicles cannot travel as far as conventional vehicles, we decided to add an optional mileage extender that can charge the car battery like a mobile gen52 53 THE REDRESS FORUM 2014 IN HONG KONG UN Decade of Education for Sustainable HWL on Fashion Recycling the development of clothes-recycling technology, Development During the Hong Kong fashion week, our company which in turn aims to make used textiles a viaIn 2014, our company participated in an ecologwas invited to join the Redress Forum, a panel of ble production resource. As a consequence, new ical development project initiated by the United leading fashion industry experts, to discuss the infrastructures and services are being created to Nations. In collaboration with several schools (midproblem of mounting textile waste. With the facilitate the collection and recycling of used texdle, high and vocational), we supported initiatives increased consumption of clothing, the clogging tiles and clothes”. She concluded that: “We are to create awareness of the impact logistics comof landfills and the diminishing natural resources, excited to participate in the creation of fashion panies have on the environment. the fashion industry is under pressure to address recycling services and believe that they will have Although the project was scheduled to finish at these issues. Jil Hellmann Regouby, Director of a tremendously positive environmental and ecothe end of 2014, we decided to continue. Now, for Business Development Fashion Americas, prenomic impact. Also, our first-mover advantage example, school classes can visit our headquarters sented her case study of post-consumer clothing in this new market has been an opportunity to to explore the impact logistics companies have on recycling, alongside Charles Dickinson from Esprit develop best practices that can be applied to new the environment. Educating children about waste and Woo Pat-Nie from the Sustainable Fashion customer projects”. separation, carbon emissions, and informing them Business Consortium. about green solutions, are all important parts of Our company is recognized in the sustainable the learning activities we provide. fashion sector for its collaboration with the textile recycling company I:CO and for providing the reverse logistics for I:CO’s fashion take-back program in over thirty countries. This program is one of the largest post-consumer collection projects in the industry. It gained awareness when H&M announced their cooperation with I:CO in all of H&M’s 48 countries. During the panel discussion, Jil Hellmann Regouby explained that: “Rising natural resource costs for virgin fibers are driving 54 55 Activities in 2014 Progress Activities in the upcoming years WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND Principle 7 WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO  Integrating our Environmental Protection Policy into our new Hellmann Business Code of Conduct  Ensuring that 90 % of our employees worldwide are trained on our Hellmann Business Code of Conduct  Conducting at least one audit in each of our 31  Auditing each of our 33 ISO 14001 certified ISO 14001 certified branches branches in 2015  Implementing a new environmental training in Ger Completing more than 1,000 environmental trainmany and in at least two other European countries ing courses in Germany  Number of completed environmental training  Finishing and launching an international environcourses in our online learning management platform mental training course  Creating more emissions reports based on Scope 1  Creating emissions report based on Scope 1 + 2 + 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to Europe for two additional regions by Q1 in 2016 Principle 8  Certifying 31 branches according to ISO 14001 standard  Certifying 33 branches according to ISO 14001  Including Hanau, Kelsterbach and Oelde in the  Including Bor in CZ and Anroechte in DE, in the certification process certification process by Q4 in 2015 Principle 9  Installing Germany’s first LNG truck filling station  Facilitating the installation process of the first LNG  Acquiring 5 LNG trucks truck filling station in Germany  Acquiring 5 LNG trucks in the coming years  Transporting approx. 300-400 swap-body type con Transporting approx. 300-400 swap-body type containers with Hellmann Rail Solutions on a daily basis tainers with Hellmann Rail Solutions on a daily basis  Increasing the number of e-bookings to further  Increasing the number of e-bookings by 5 % to further our environmental development and to save paper our environmental development and to save paper  Increasing the number of containers handled by  Increasing the number of containers handled by HellHellmann Rail Solutions to China mann Rail Solutions to China by 7 %  Conducting an emissions report for Hellmann Rail Solutions and comparing it to an air and sea freight emissions analysis  Facilitating further implementation of new lighting  Facilitating further implementation of new lighting systems with LED-technology systems with LED-technology in 2015 if applicable  Purchasing the first fully electric company car BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 58 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A s with all companies that focus on integrity and ethics, corporate governance plays an integral role in managing and driving our corand adopt our corporate culture by conducting themselves and our services according to our rigorous ethics standards. Although our company’s porate culture. All essential functions within our compliance program is relatively new, it is robust. company are represented throughout our various The Compliance Team has worked diligently in boards: Finance, Controlling, Operations, IT, Sales, training all employees on a variety of topics, impleProducts and Services, Human Resources, as well menting a whistle-blowing hotline (EthicsPortal), as our Co-Chief Executive Officers (our owners). conducting risk assessments, and creating policies, Our corporate governance dictates that our manuals and procedures. We are confident that boards are diverse and dynamic, allowing us to our compliance program will be able to respond to “As with any modern and progressive company, at Hellmann, complifocus from a broad global perspective (our Main the ever-present compliance risks and challenges of ance has been anchored in all aspects of our corporate culture and Board of Directors), to an international cross-sectoday’s business demands.” tion (International Executive Board), to geographDNA. What differentiates us from other companies is how far we ically specific boards (European Executive Board). are willing to take our commitment. Where most companies simply Each board focuses on the most pressing issue come up with a policy and have limited vision as to how that comand ensures seamless communication throughout the organization. This allows all of our corporate pany enforces compliance, we have partnered with and/or purchased leaders to gain visibility, and adopt and enforce tools from several software providers to enable us to take compliance key initiatives that are crucial to the success and to a new level. We are currently developing our own protocols and longevity of our company. Initiatives such as compliance, F.A.M.I.L.Y. DNA and operational commitpractices that best showcase our software capabilities. I am confident ment to excellence are given the focus, attention that in the near future, Hellmann‘s compliance program will be a and communication needed to drive our future. gold standard in the freight forwarding community.” “Transacting and facilitating business on a global  Manfred Fischer (Managing Director) basis means that we have to adhere to the strictest || Steve Lee (Global Chief Compliance Officer) and highest standards for compliance issues. From antitrust to anti-corruption issues, we ensure that our people and F.A.M.I.L.Y. members understand 60 61 BUSINESS ETHICS Policies & Procedures Supplier Code of Conduct In compliance with our Hellmann Business Code  Conduct towards employees In order to foster a strong foundation of business Having focused primarily on our employees of Conduct and our commitment to the United  Occupational health and safety ethics, our internal policies are driven by interthrough our Business Code of Conduct and a Nations Global Compact, the Supplier Code of  Environmental protection national and national laws including the United global Antitrust and Anti-Bribery training initiative Conduct covers the following topics:  Conduct in business environment Nations Global Compact principles. We not only in the past, we developed a Supplier Code of Con Reporting mechanism and policy  Confidential or proprietary information want to cover a minimum required standard but duct to include our suppliers in our fight against against retaliation provide a complete and robust basis of internal corruption. policies for all our employees. As a global logistics service provider, we rely on One of these new policies is our Hospitality and the services of thousands of suppliers worldwide. Entertainment guideline. At Hellmann, we believe As those suppliers are an integral part of our dayit is beneficial and necessary for our business to to-day business, we feel that they also need to be develop strong relationships with our customers part of our value system and our F.A.M.I.L.Y. DNA. and service providers. Relationships take effort and With our Supplier Code of Conduct, we convey time. We are aware that some of the most effecour values to our suppliers and ensure that we tive ways to strengthen business ties involves interfight for the values of the United Nations Global acting with our business partners outside of work. Compact together. Exchanging infrequent gifts of nominal value The Hellmann Supplier Code of Conduct will be can also be an important aspect of a business relaavailable to all our business partners in 2015 and tionship and mutual respect. will be another key building block in our upcoming The aim of the polsupplier third party due icy is to ensure that the diligence approach. business decisions we As a first step it will make as well as those be communicated made by our business through our homeppartners are based age (www.hellmann. on the merits of the net), internally through products or services direct communication provided rather than in response to inappropriate with our global entities, intranet, as well as our business courtesies provided or received. partner network. 62 63 COMPLIANCE EthicsPortal filed against us (three in total), the total number The EthicsPortal has not only been used by our Continuing the fight against facilitation Compared to 2013 the number of reports raised of issues resulted in seven. All other reports have employees but also stakeholders that raised conpayments via our EthicsPortal has increased by 100% from been duly evaluated by the Chief Compliance Officerns. Due to the evaluation and investigations Facilitation payments have always been a concern 5 to 10 reports in 2014. When adjusted to discer and detailed investigations have been initiated, within the logistics industry. Not only have regulacount the issues where a claimant mistakenly where necessary. tory changes and authorities increased the focus on this topic – which we highly appreciate – but also our own efforts against this conduct have increased greatly. Our Antitrust and Anti-Bribery Issues Reported via Manual, our Business Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct make a strong statement in regard to facilitation payments. In addition our Internal Audit Department has been sensitized to conducted, all reports filed in 2014 were closed the topic and constantly ensures that issues are by the beginning of 2015. identified, discussed with local and top manageWhistleblower Program We will continue to take all reports raised on ment, and that the appropriate corrective measures the EthicsPortal seriously and treat them confidenare taken where necessary. Our target is not only to tially. In order to increase the awareness of not minimize such payments in the short-term, but in only our employees but also our stakeholders we the long-run eliminate them completely. will further promote the platform through diverse channels, globally. 64 65 Due to the diverse feedback of our employees we were able to identify areas for improvement and further explore general perceptions and the experiences of our employees. At Hellmann, we encourage our employees to alert their immediate superior to any kind of non-compliance with our Business Code of Conduct, or any other internal policies. We are glad to announce that most of our employees are REPORTING AND more likely to participate in an open communication process than COMMUNICATION via other channels like EthicsPortal. Nevertheless, our employees and other stakeholders are also invited to report issues via our EthicsPortal. S etting up a structured Compliance Management System has been our focus in the past years. Based on our Business Code of Conduct and Global Anti-Corruption and Antitrust Compliance Manual we have created training courses for our employees. We continuously strive to improve our program and the awareness of our employees. Having built a solid foundation for compliance, we conducted an anonymous CompliAREAS OF IMPROVEMENT ance Effectiveness Survey in order to measure the impact of our compliance program. This would drive us towards developing a robust compliance department that would identify our strengths and weaknesses. The survey was distributed to all employees in our four geographic regions and consisted of 25 questions: As shown below, more than 2,200 employees gave us valuable feedback on how they feel about the program and what needs to be further improved. 66 67 CONTROLS AND FOLLOW-UP MEASURES Annual Compliance Acknowledgment and provide feedback on local projects to a central Audit and Certification Global Compliance Officer. In 2014, our Internal Audit Department increased We consider our dedication to the UNGC not only By signing our Annual Compliance Acknowledgthe focus on compliance and especially the fight as a commitment from our Board of Directors ment our local managing directors renew their against corruption. Apart from the general audit but also that of all our countries, managers and commitment to our Hellmann Compliance Proprocedures conducted, a specialized compliance employees – ultimately, everyone at our company gram including the UNGC principles. Both meaquestionnaire has been established. The questionfully supports the ten principles. sures ensure that our commitment to the ten prinnaire, conducted with top management and key ciples is truly global. sales and operational functions, helps to increase general awareness with our employees on the one hand, and on the other helps to gain a deeper understanding of the situation allowing us to take the appropriate action if needed. All our entities have therefore nominated UNGC contacts that support and facilitate our group efforts at a local level. These contacts also measure 68 69 Activities in 2014 Progress Activities in the upcoming years WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND Principle 10 WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO  Getting written commitment of Managing Directors regarding the Antitrust and Anti-Corruption Manual  Ensuring the annual commitment of Managing Directors regarding our Hellmann Compliance Program and UNGC commitment  Conducting Business Code of Conduct training  Ensuring that 90 % of our employees worldwide  90 % of employees worldwide trained on our are trained on our Hellmann Business Code of Business Code of Conduct Conduct  Conducting Anti-Bribery and Antitrust training ongoing  Ensuring that 90 % of our employees worldwide  90 % of our employees worldwide trained in are trained on our Anti-Bribery and Antitrust Anti-Bribery and Antitrust through the online Guidelines. learning management platform  Conducting and completing the online Anti-Cor Conducting Compliance Risk Assessments on a ruption and Anti-Bribery Risk Assessment in 2014 regular (at least) bi-annual basis.  Analyzing reported violations and actions taken  Analyzing reported violations and actions taken against our policies on the Hellmann EthicsPortal against our policies on the Hellmann EthicsPortal  Integrating the Global Internal Audit function into the Global Compliance Team (goal from 2012)  Rolling out our Hellmann Supplier  Communicating our Hellmann Supplier Code of Code of Conduct Conduct and making it an integral part of our  Number of countries in which our Hellmann business relationships Supplier Code of Conduct has been rolled out  Rolling-out our Hospitality and Entertainment  Ensuring that 90 % of our employees worldwide Guideline globally are trained on our Hospitality and Entertainment  Number of employees trained in Hospitality Guideline and Entertainment Guideline through the online learning management platform  Developing a global employee compliance survey  Performing annual compliance surveys to measure effectiveness and take corrective measures where necessary  Implementing a global Third-Party-Due-Diligence process by Q4 in 2017 70 71 APPENDIX Stated in Hellmanns UNGC Principles Our Commitment Policies and Regulations P1: Businesses should support and Hellmann firmly believes in adopting  Business Code of respect the protection of internationally and embracing respect of human rights Conduct (p. 13) proclaimed human rights. (as articulated in the United Nations Uni Corporate DNA Human versal Declaration of Human Rights) all Rights around the world and therefore, compliP2: Business should make sure that ance with the UNGC principles and the they are not complicit in human rights Business Code of Conduct is mandatory abuses. for every employee and office. P3: Businesses should uphold the It is our company’s policy to act with  Diversity Charta freedom of association and the effective integrity and fairness and treat all  Business Code of recognition of the right to collective employees and persons with dignity, Conduct (p. 6, 13, 23) bargaining. decency and respect by providing a  Employee Handbook healthy, safe and secure work environ Corporate DNA P4: Business should uphold the eliminament. tion of all forms of forced and compulLabor sory labor. P5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. P6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P7: Businesses should support a preFor a globally active company such as  Corporate DNA cautionary approach to environmental Hellmann Worldwide Logistics, the devel Business Code of challenges. opment of economic interests is inherently Conduct (p. 7, 15) connected to our responsibility for the  Environment Protection P8: Businesses should undertake initiaenvironment and the idea of sustainable Policy tives to promote greater environmental development has long been our focus. At Environment Photo: UNGC Working Group responsibility. Hellmann, we are committed to working within a structured system of environP9: Businesses should encourage the mental management using task-oriented development and diffusion of environmethods, continuous self-monitoring and mentally friendly technologies. regular external auditing. Contact Point Human Rights and Labor: P10: Businesses should work against One key element of our success is our ded Global Anti-Corruption and We value your feedback! Stefan Wimmer corruption in all its forms, including ication and commitment to integrity and Antitrust Compliance Manual As a valued stakeholder, we welcome your feedback, Quality and Environmental Management: extortion and bribery. ethics which serve as our foundation when  Business Code of Conduct (p. concerns and suggestions regarding the content of this Tobias Juechter & Daniel Huelemeyer interacting with customers and vendors. 16-22) report as well as our commitment to the United Nations Anti-Corruption: Our compliance policies and commitments  Hellmann´s Commitment to AntiGlobal Compact. Stephan Schnitzler are the embodiment of the highest level Compliance Corruption of ethics practiced every day and serves as  Annual Compliance AcknowlPlease provide us with your feedback by writing to our UNGC Project Coordination & CSR: a constant reminder to all our employees edgment and Certification Hellmann UNGC Working Group ungc@hellmann.net or Pia Stein of the importance of maintaining our  Hospitality and Entertainby addressing the topic to the person directly responsible: standards for ethics and excellence. ment Guideline  Supplier Code of Conduct WWW.HELLMANN.NET
