Sustainability report | 2013 Sustainable The power to be growth sustainable Contents 01 Having sustainable ambition 02 Our sustainability journey 03 About Dialog 06 Our approach to sustainability 08 Corporate ethics and governance 10 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Employees 11 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Employees 10 Employees In 2012, Dialog was awarded a place in The Guardian UK Top 300 Graduate Employers as voted by students and graduates. We continued this trend in 2013, and have a target to climb the 2013 – Dialog awards its first Gary Duncan “Women in Engineering” Scholarship to a second-year student from Imperial College London. 2014 target – Dialog will run its first employee engagement survey, covering job satisfaction; how the organisation is perceived; manager capabilities; career development; recognition; values; working 12 Community investment list in 2014. environment and level of work Employees enjoyment. The centre of our success 14 Environment What makes Dialog different is that 75% of our workforce are engineers, giving us a huge R&D pool, and enabling our focus on innovation. Therefore attracting and nurturing talent both for now and in the future are key focal points of our people strategy. Dialog has an ongoing commitment to the training and development of all staff US$1,470,000 =45% growth From 2012 at all levels of the organisation, both in technical and non-technical areas. Invested in employee development 16 Sustainability through more efficient We are also committed to developing young engineers who are the future talent pipeline, not just for Dialog but also for the industry as a whole. Training and development Dialog has a global learning Company through their technical expertise innovation.Those who Well-being Dialog is committed to supporting and development strategy that are successful in gaining a place the health of its employees. is written to support both the on the Ladder spend around Employees and their families are development of the organisation 20% of their time researching eligible to participate in nonand the individuals within it. new initiatives, developing our contributory medical plans where The strategy supports the key aims university and education local culture and practice supports of Dialog’s annual and mid-term partnerships, speaking at external this. Additionally, Dialog offers a power management business plans. Everyone within the and internal conferences, and selection of “well-being” initiatives organisation has the opportunity delivering and participating in across its locations including a free to participate in a variety of training training opportunities. on-site flu vaccination programme, Dialog won the 2013 National events, which feed into these cycle to work schemes and an Microelectronics Institute (NMI) key aims. Commitment to the on-site gym. Training and Development professional development of our Numbers on the technical Award in recognition of our employees is directly responsible ladder Equal opportunities internal training initiatives for for a low employee turnover rate The industry standard for women employees, and also for the target of 5.2%, which has reduced from in electronic engineering is low, work done with schools and 75% 50 35 9.6% in 2010. and although Dialog is in line with 1,100 universities to encourage 30 this at 15% of the overall young people into electronic Career development 18 workforce, we are working hard Dialog’s sustainability road map 25 engineering. One of our recent Dialog has clear career levels and to improve this. We are involved graduates also won the NMI Engineers in the Nationalities P10-11 › Employees paths for those wishing to pursue 20 in a number of initiatives, Young Engineer of the Year. global workforce represented a technical career or to focus on leadership and management. 15 particularly in the area of STEM education, which is designed to 10 For example, we have created a encourage more women to pursue 825 23 14 Technical Ladder, which provides 5 careers in electronic engineering promotional opportunities for those 0 and engineering as a whole. who bring great value to the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Engineers Locations Countries 20 UNGC communication on progress 23 Key metrics 24 Advisers and corporate information 25 Group directory 12 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Community investment 13 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Community investment Types of charities and not-for-profit groups supported by Dialog in 2013 (%) STEM teacher sponsorship We have sponsored a maths teacher 10| electronic Scholarships for engineers 5 | Other groups through her teacher training at Community investment 8 | Artistic groups a US university, who would have otherwise been unable to achieve 6| Access bursaries for low-income students this qualification. In return she will Medical/ | 30 8 | Sports health be teaching maths for a year to children in deprived areas. 18| programmes Schools’ liaison groups Making a positive impact 15 | Educational support Children’s | 12 charities Our employees and future employees, value the opportunity to engage 8 | Other with their local communities whether through fundraising, charitable charities Environmental/ | 14 animal welfare donations or volunteering. Our aim is to invest an amount equal to 1% of the previous year’s pre-tax profit back into the community. Corporate giving Our target for 2014 is for each office Dialog launched the Corporate to participate in a minimum of three Giving programme in 2012, volunteering or fundraising projects focusing on the communities local for local charities. to the areas around our business operations. It focuses on three Partnerships with educational 13% 14 key areas: institutions The fourth key area in which we Charitable giving – Dialog will invest time and money is give financial donations to local encouraging young people into charities and groups where electronics and the engineering of Dialog employees Locations Innovative education – UTC, Swindon In 2013, Dialog became a key sponsor of the Swindon UTC employees are actively involved. industry as a whole. We have a In 2013 these included children’s number of programmes throughout participated in charitable (University Technical College). A UTC is a college for students charities, sports groups, charities Europe to attract the brightest and aged 14 to 18 years that specialises in technical studies and activities in the first year is sponsored by a university. Swindon UTC’s speciality is for those with disabilities, arts and theatre groups, and best talent of school and university age. These initiatives include engineering, and offers full-time courses that combine environmental charities. sponsorship of students at leading practical and academic studies. UK and European universities, the Fund-matching – Dialog will provision of access bursaries for Dialog have provided financial support for the college in match funds raised by employees low-income students, donation preparation for its opening in 2014, as well as having high for charitable causes. Examples for of academic prizes, industrial involvement in shaping the curriculum, designing project 2013 included funds raised through mentoring, and sponsorship of 9 US$485,000 opportunities, and assisting with the selection of staff. running the London Marathon, electronic engineering society field Swindon has always been at the heart of engineering since growing moustaches for Movember, trips abroad. The target for 2014 the age of steam railways, and Dialog wants to be a part of selling cakes and other crafts, is to extend these programmes encouraging engineering back to the town and assisting countries for charitable organisations young people to have careers in this industry. sponsored walks and bike rides, and organising a football tournament. into the US and Asia. We also had a global fundraising effort Dialog run a range of outreach P12-13 › for the Philippines typhoon appeal. programmes for schools, including work experience at various global Volunteering – we actively locations, careers talks and encourage employees to participate presentations, assistance with in volunteering activities with job finding skills (CV writing, charities in their local communities. interview skills), and sponsorship of Duke of Edinburgh Awards. 14 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Environment 15 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Environment Environment Dialog has developed a programme 95% -39.8% During 2013 Dialog continued to Responsible approach to actively monitor the environmental impact of its design and testing Dialog’s five design centres Dialog is one of the ten successful facilities, and all major suppliers. currently recycle 95% of packaging and waste companies achieving the “CO2 Emission Reduction” with a benchmark their reduction of emissions of 39.8% CO2 emissions from in our design centres in 2013 Dialog’s environmentally responsible approach to business underpins business travel, and everything that we do. We aim to minimise our use of natural resources and we are on target to reduce and eliminate all types of waste, following the principles of redesign, 100% 100% 100% offset 100% of our reduce and recycle. We are ISO 14001 certificated and require all our suppliers of our major suppliers have a formal CSR policy of products are ROHS and PFOS compliant of products are shipped with non-wood packing and conform travel emissions by to be accredited to, and comply with, this environmental standard. to J-STD-609, 94/62/EC the end of 2015. 225% increase in collection rate of copper from scrap devices Redesign Dialog offers a range of green IC Reduce Dialog is working to systematically Recycle We have also implemented a Targets for 2014 solutions that minimise the number reduce CO2 emissions and rigorous recycling of precious of components required within consumer electronic products, the minimise the carbon footprint of our business, focusing on the metals, such as gold and silver, from waste and damaged products. 100% 61% of major suppliers will have a formal energy they consume, and extend impact of our design centres. In 2013, we increased the quantity CSR policy, including suppliers of to their overall lifespan to reduce The Carbon Disclosure Project of recovered gold by 61% and our newly acquired locations waste. In power management, our recognised Dialog as one of ten recovered silver by 300%. single-chip solutions reduce the successful companies achieving increase in quantity of recovered gold number of discrete components that need to be used within the “Scope-2Indirect CO2 Emission Reduction”, with a Dialog only uses packing material qualified as “green packing”, 30% mobile devices, while delivering reduction of emissions of 40% in implementing a “non-wood further reduction in our energy savings. our design centres in 2013, which packing” delivery policy in 2012. CO2 emissions equates to 618 tonnes of CO2 We believe that reusing and The Company also offers a range of emissions. Despite the significant recycling packing material and low energy short-range wireless ICs for a range of smart home growth in our employee base, we have already beaten our target of waste (including the PET and glass bottles used in our work areas) can 10% further increase in the quantity 300% devices, including energy 30% by 2014. In addition, we are contribute to the effectiveness of of recovered gold monitoring, metering and actively reducing the quantity of our resource management and management applications. In 2012, hazardous substances used in sustainability. Our five design increase in quantity Dialog began actively developing next generation, highly controllable our labs. locations currently recycle 95% of packing and waste. 10% of recovered silver LED (Light Emitting Diode) technologies to deliver better We take the scarcity of natural resources seriously and consider Rigorous recycling of precious further increase in the quantity of recovered silver 87% quality light within homes and the conservation of raw materials, metals P14-15 › offices, aiming to significantly such as metals, to be a priority. Increased quantity of recovered reduce energy usage, and enabling consumers to benefit from bulbs Dialog continues to identify potential methods to improve gold by 61% and recovered silver by 300%. 15% further increase in the collection increase in the recycling with an average lifespan of around ten years in comparison to just existing technologies and substitute alternatives, such as copper for rate of copper from scrap devices of scrap devices from three to four years with Compact precious metals, to minimise our suppliers Fluorescent (CFL) bulbs. impact on the environment, and reduce costs without sacrificing quality and performance. 01 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Having sustainable ambition Having sustainable ambition Travelling our sustainable journey Last year I set out Dialog’s commitment to doing business responsibly in our first sustainability report. Making a positive contribution is highly important to us, and we seek to do this across three key areas: • Innovation – our focus and expertise in power management and power-efficient semiconductors contribute to higher power efficiency and low power consumption for a range of personal portable devices and applications in the consumer products market • Our people and our communities are at the centre of the innovation process (and our success) – Our people, our greatest asset: we are committed to creating an inclusive working environment that attracts and retains talent – Community investment: we are committed to making a positive contribution to our communities, and to supporting the development of talent and young engineers globally •  A responsible approach to our environment – we don’t manufacture our products but use other existing third-party facilities to do this, and therefore do not have a large direct adverse effect on the environment. We work with them to ensure best responsible practices are adhered to, as we do within our own boundaries and right across our supply chain. Our product designs include a range of green IC solutions; we are actively working to minimise the carbon footprint of our business, and to ensure that we recycle precious materials from waste and damaged goods. We live in a connected world in which mobile devices have become a ubiquitous part of our life and we have the capability to measure and interpret data in a precise way. In order to minimise the power consumption of an increasing number of personal devices and data processing capability we need more intelligent power management and power-efficient semiconductors. Dialog’s expertise and innovation are an important enabler for this higher power efficiency. Our journey began with our highly integrated power management semiconductor for portable devices and we are now offering a range of low power connectivity solutions (DECT ULE and Bluetooth Smart), low power audio, AC/DC converters and LED solid-state lighting drivers. Our ambition is to make a positive contribution in everything we do and in 2011 we took the first steps towards a wider range of sustainability areas that are relevant to our business. In 2012, we signed the UN Global Compact, an expression of our commitment to human and labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. We also support ending the violence and human rights violations in the mining of certain minerals from a location in Africa described as the “Conflict Region”. Last year we published our first annual sustainability report, our statement of commitment about our role in society and doing business responsibly. Within this year’s report, I am pleased to be able to show our continued progress towards this aim, and to renew our commitment. I am proud of what we achieved during the year. We set some ambitious targets for 2013 and in some areas we have even exceeded these. Some of the biggest impact has been around making a positive contribution to our local communities and developing long-term partnerships with universities and schools in order to create Our focus and expertise in power a sustainable talent pipeline of innovative individuals for the future. management and power-efficient semiconductors contribute to Our activities put Dialog firmly on the sustainability map as a leader in innovation and responsible behaviour, higher power efficiency and low enabling us to deliver long-term sustainable profitable growth. power consumption. Jean-Michel Richard, Chief Financial Officer 02 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Our sustainability journey Our sustainability journey Our world is changing positively on a daily basis, and much of this is due to advances in science and technology. However, this also means that the pressure on the world’s natural resources is growing. Dialog has a commitment to being part of the solution, rather than the problem, using innovation to create resourceefficient designs. Becoming a more connected world in areas important to Dialog – About this report Stakeholder engagement is allowing Dialog to use its innovative employee development The objective of this report is to We encourage an open dialog technology in a variety of energyprogrammes, charitable giving, communicate Dialog’s ongoing with all our stakeholders. If you efficient products. However, links with STEM education, and commitment to and progress have any feedback on our connectivity is not just a part responsible environmental towards performance in the areas sustainability programme or of our technology, it is part of practices. It also outlines our of sustainability and corporate this report, please do contact us: the way we do things at Dialog. renewed commitment to responsibility over the previous Our sustainability journey shows continuing with this in the year. Dialog’s second annual Rebecca Fradley-Stokes, how we are seeking to connect our future so that Dialog has a positive sustainability report focuses on the Head of Corporate Responsibility, technology, our employees, the impact in everything we do. benchmarking and targets set for Sustainability and University Relations environment, and our communities. 2013, and aims to tell the story of Rebecca Fradley-Stokes, our sustainability journey so far, Dialog Semiconductor Plc This report shows how in 2013 Head of Corporate Responsibility, and into 2014 and beyond. 100 Longwater Avenue we made some great achievements Sustainability and University Relations Green Park Report timeframe Reading RG2 6GP This report covers the period from UK 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013, unless otherwise stated. CSR@diasemi.com Dialog’s first sustainability report was released in October 2013. We will also continue to improve We will publish future reports our communications on sustainability on an annual basis. through better use of our website and intranet to provide stakeholders, both internal and external, with as much information as possible. As part of our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact in 2012, this report Our sustainability journey shows how we are seeking to connect our will act as our Communication technology, our employees, the environment, and our communities. on Progress (CoP) and serves as a public reporting mechanism. 03 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | About Dialog About Dialog Clients OEMs/ODMs Selection of Suppliers best-in-class technologies Partners Expert Expert engineering Design Production engineering talent duct dev talent mo nt pro elo 3 ew hs m n on pm 6-18 id t ths R ap en Mixed signal n t-i ch IP Bes analog ips IP cl a r ss s cto emicondu 1-5 years Cash Robust supply generation chain management Product Clients OEMs/ODMs The Dialog business model Dialog Semiconductor creates and markets highly integrated mixed-signal Dialog Semiconductor Plc is headquartered in London with a global integrated circuits (ICs), optimised for personal portable, low energy R&D, marketing and sales organisation. In 2013, the Company delivered short-range wireless, LED solid-state lighting and automotive applications. US$903 million in revenue and continued to be one of the fastest-growing The Company provides customers with world-class innovation combined European public semiconductor companies. At the end of 2013 we had with flexible and dynamic support, and the assurance with dealing with around 1,100 employees worldwide. an established business partner. 04 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | About Dialog Core technical competencies A Aud io charg C/DC + er a IC da PM pt er High er t IC co P o nv w ly in w men e r manageme rs teg ma P we er ion rive Dd nt rat na o Po rs PM ed ge LE IC ASIC Mixed signal analog Bluetooth Smart SoC rt S h o ge y co M o t o mo Low ea ASSP n tr r e ar Homtwork r a n ti v it o ll e ne ec rs tor pow conn Po wer efficiency er ess con rel trol Wi udio Mu a lers to l t i io CT d is u c h Aud p la DE y EC MT OD IC udio C A Dialog’s innovation, focus and expertise are in We design custom Application Specific Integrated • Our Bluetooth Smart system-on-chip (SoC) analog mixed signal semiconductors for personal Circuits (ASICs) for large, high-volume customers, product is playing a crucial role in enabling and portable devices and applications in the and standard Application Specific Standard a whole new range of personal connectivity fastest-growing consumer product markets. Products (ASSPs) for a wider customer base. devices and giving consumers the ability to We seek to bring best-in-class power management We sell our products to original equipment connect oneself to the internet or the and power efficiency technologies to sustain and manufacturers (OEMs) and original design “Internet of my Things” build on our position as a leading provider of manufacturers (ODMs). highly integrated innovative power management, • Dialog’s patented PrimAccurateTM digital audio, display, AC/DC and short-range wireless • The world’s leading consumer electronic control technology reduces the cost of technologies. brands rely on Dialog’s mixed signal expertise materials and allows our customers to to enable their mobile devices to charge produce smaller, lower-cost adapters, We design and produce power-efficient faster and support power-hungry multimedia chargers and LED solid-state lighting drivers. semiconductor chips for a range of personal applications, and extend consumers’ playtime LED solid-state lighting refers to a type portable devices and applications in the consumer between charging of lighting that uses semiconductor light products market as well as applications for the emitting diodes (LED). automotive and industrial markets. 05 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | About Dialog Value creation model Partnership Operational approach flexibility 1. Reciprocal cooperation with 1. Rapid new product clients and partners enhance development our innovation capacity 2. Decentralised R&D 2. Fabless model allows with 21 hubs us to deploy the most 3. Fabless model advanced production provides flexibility processes available on process Mixed signal M and capacity analog I Innovation Quality of our product 1. Inherent design expertise, world-class engineering talent 2. Best-in-class technology 3. Highly integrated and power efficient ICs 4. Focus on high-growth portable platforms and consumer devices The level of innovation that we bring into the to rapidly evolving consumer requirements and on advanced processes, test and packaging design of a chip requires a substantial investment competition in this vibrant market. development through our own teams. in R&D. Our core technical competencies are in mixed signal analog technologies applied We are continually investing in our human Our foundry and packaging partners are the to the design of power management and capital, recruiting the best talent we can and leading companies in their field and, over time, power-efficient semiconductors. Our partnership supporting their development in order to we have developed a strong collaboration approach, operational flexibility and the quality maintain innovation and produce best-in-class with them. Some of our teams are based at of our products are key sources of value to solutions. We have a decentralised approach manufacturing sites, enabling a continuous our customers. to research and development, with teams in quality improvement process that help us 14 countries. achieve better manufacturing yields and The design of our customised solutions (ASICs) reduce quality impairment issues. is well embedded in our customers’ design cycle. While we design and manage the production of We engage with our largest customers as an each semiconductor chip in-house, we outsource Our customers include the leading brands “extended R&D team”, delivering differentiation its production to the most suitable foundry partner. in each of our markets who are attracted by with the speed of execution of a start-up This “high-touch” fabless model provides us the quality and performance of our innovative company. For our customers, and in particular with the flexibility to deploy the most advanced products. A business model based on high Tier 1 those in the consumer devices market, production processes while keeping our fixed client penetration results in high volumes, and product development times are short due asset costs low and maintaining deep expertise a strong cash generation capability. 06 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability Our commitment to sustainable business practices, along with corporate responsibility, is an integral part of our business model and is a central component of Dialog’s strategy to deliver long-term profitable growth. We focus on three key areas – social, environmental and governance – all of which support the economic sustainability of the Company. Governance Social Environmental Good corporate governance is essential to Dialog’s comprehensive approach Dialog’s day-to-day operations, supply creating value over the long term. Dialog’s encompasses all stakeholders across chain and products all have an Code of Conduct encourages responsible our value chain – from the source of the environmental impact. We feel that management, open communication, and raw materials to the end-user. We have we have a responsibility to continue regular training and development. The developed and integrated policies to to increase our awareness and strive to policy encompasses not only the business manage and monitor the areas covering: reduce that impact. We are continually policies of the entire organisation, but also health and safety, training and improving processes to identify, evaluate a complete set of internal and external development, human and labour rights, and reduce environmental impact and monitoring processes, which are designed diversity in the workplace, working inform stakeholders about the to ensure compliance at every level of conditions, customer relations and environmental risks on an ongoing basis. the Company. community investment. 07 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Our approach to sustainability lth and saf Hea et t • portunities • y op nd developm dom of asso ga tion of roles: ree ara ci E ep nt • Independ x • F rk/life balance at e nin iversity • Equa n e e Employees ompensation nd Board ve a o uti ec D l • d W ec t Boar Corporate tiv f top manage S governance n Tra ion m i o hts • Labour sparen rig uppliers • righ Tran D t exec n s Co ivers u by Hu onitoring sy ity Incide ma •M nts s ts flict minerals • te audited ann Supply ally u chain rn • Transparenc al n y uneration • R ort rep m CC ental record rem itment to Exte EI onm rials • P • E ons (GH ir ate roc Corporate missi m u ntal awa s e ions • Re G) • Suppliers’ nme m CS policy a g iss sou om Recycl env ren m able energ iro Greenhou pr nv ment ocess e new ed Supply Carbo se y chain Re usage Em mmunity i Business e ploy ne Co Univer nvest re e sity operations rce C p ngageme t•E ct ss pa ct nt en hips m rtners u UN Global Co Community eo m a Cod f Cond Business ethics earch an Res th d de wi prod v Social nts u de ent • Eco-effi Inc pm sta i c elo s • Su inable ie Governance Environmental Products ct nc oducts pr Sustainability Sustainability 08 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Corporate ethics and governance Corporate ethics and governance Dialog is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our Company. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact Communication on Progress policy. The Board of Dialog Semiconductor is committed United Nations Global Compact Dialog and its suppliers must ensure that workers to maintaining high corporate governance standards In February 2012, Dialog publicly committed are not threatened or subjected to inhumane or to protect the interests of all stakeholders. Such to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact harsh treatment, harassment or any form of principles reflect a range of guidelines that apply with respect to human and labour rights, the unlawful discrimination. Open communication to the Company given its status as a UK environment and anti-corruption. We are and direct engagement between workers and incorporated, Frankfurt Stock Exchange listed committed to making the Global Compact and management is encouraged, even in those company. In this context the Company has its principles part of the strategy, culture and countries where there is no meaningful published on its website its corporate governance day-to-day operations of our Company. legal protection. principles, which have regard to the UK Combined Code and other best practice corporate governance We support public accountability and Every supplier is required to complete a self-audit policies. These have been updated as of January transparency, and therefore commit to report questionnaire to identify and document compliance. 2014 and will be updated on an ongoing basis. on progress annually according to the Global We also carry out regular on-site audits of all of Compact Communication on Progress policy. our major suppliers. In addition, we have several Ethics polices on “whistle-blowing” and equal Dialog believes that continued success in the Human rights and labour principles employment opportunities. semiconductor market can be achieved only Dialog is committed to fair wages, healthy and by adopting high standards of ethical behaviour safe working conditions, respect for human and Measurement of outcomes when dealing with customers, suppliers labour rights, and honest relationships. In 2013, 100% of our major suppliers had their and workers. We have adopted the Electronics Industry own documented corporate social responsibility Code of Conduct (EICC) standard as the model policy including the adherence to human rights It is particularly important to protect Intellectual for our own Code of Conduct to try to ensure and labour principles in accordance with Property (“IP”), which is the key to ensuring that working conditions for both external the UNGC. the development of innovative solutions to suppliers and employees are safe and that all complex problems. Any transfer of technology workers are treated with respect and dignity. To date, Dialog has never had a human rights or know-how is always done in a manner that This is in addition to adopting principles from or labour issue arise. seeks to protect IP rights, but also enables us to the International Labour Organization Standards discuss products openly with our business partners. (ILO), Universal Declaration of Human Rights The disclosure of information that is related to (UDHR), Social Accountability International business activities, structure, our financial situation (SAI), and the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI). and performance, is always carried out in accordance with applicable regulations and All labour must be given voluntarily and workers prevailing industry practices. We expect the must be free to leave their employment on highest standards of integrity from all Dialog reasonable notice. Child labour must not be used stakeholders. Any malpractice is strictly prohibited at any stage of manufacturing. Working hours and may result in immediate employer or supplier must not exceed the maximum set by local laws termination and legal action. and wages must comply with all applicable laws. 09 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Corporate ethics and governance Anti-corruption Dialog has publicly adopted a zero tolerance Dialog believes that policy on corruption and bribery – as clearly continued success in stated in our Code of Conduct: “No form of extortion and bribery, including improper the semiconductor offers for payments to or from employees, or organisations, is tolerated”. market can be achieved only Neither we, nor our suppliers offer or accept inducements or any other means of obtaining by adopting high undue or improper advantage. We have a standards of ethical “whistle-blower” policy in place to protect employees’ confidentiality and encourage behaviour. our suppliers to do the same. Dialog has put in place biannual training sessions for its Board of Directors, which are facilitated by an independent third party. In 2013, these were: July – “2010 Bribery Act”; October – “Corporate responsibility and crisis management”. Measurement of outcomes No incidents of bribery or corruption were identified in 2013. In the future, should incidents of bribery or corruption be identified, they would be dealt with through appropriate policies. Sanctions up to, and including, dismissal would be considered depending on the incident. Dialog is committed to fair wages, healthy and safe working conditions, For further information on corporate respect for human and labour rights, governance, please refer to pages 55 to 82 and honest relationships. of our 2013 annual report. 10 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Employees Employees The centre of our success What makes Dialog different is that 75% of our workforce are engineers, giving us a huge R&D pool, and enabling our focus on innovation. Therefore attracting and nurturing talent both for now and in the future are key focal points of our people strategy. Dialog has an ongoing commitment to the training and development of all staff at all levels of the organisation, both in technical and non-technical areas. We are also committed to developing young engineers who are the future talent pipeline, not just for Dialog but also for the industry as a whole. 75% 50 1,100 Engineers in the Nationalities Employees global workforce represented 825 25 14 Engineers Locations Countries 11 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Employees In 2012, Dialog was awarded 2013 – Dialog awards its first 2014 target – Dialog will run its a place in The Guardian UK Top Gary Duncan “Women in first employee engagement survey, 300 Graduate Employers as Engineering” Scholarship to covering job satisfaction; how the voted by students and graduates. a second-year student from organisation is perceived; manager We continued this trend in 2013, Imperial College London. capabilities; career development; and have a target to climb the recognition; values; working list in 2014. environment and level of work enjoyment. US$1,470,000 =45% growth From 2012 Invested in employee development Training and development Company through their technical Well-being Dialog has a global learning expertise innovation.Those who Dialog is committed to supporting and development strategy that are successful in gaining a place the health of its employees. is written to support both the on the Ladder spend around Employees and their families are development of the organisation 20% of their time researching eligible to participate in nonand the individuals within it. new initiatives, developing our contributory medical plans where The strategy supports the key aims university and education local culture and practice supports of Dialog’s annual and mid-term partnerships, speaking at external this. Additionally, Dialog offers a business plans. Everyone within the and internal conferences, and selection of “well-being” initiatives organisation has the opportunity delivering and participating in across its locations including a free to participate in a variety of training training opportunities. on-site flu vaccination programme, Dialog won the 2013 National events, which feed into these cycle to work schemes and an Microelectronics Institute (NMI) key aims. Commitment to the on-site gym. Training and Development professional development of our Numbers on the technical Award in recognition of our employees is directly responsible ladder Equal opportunities internal training initiatives for for a low employee turnover rate The industry standard for women employees, and also for the target of 5.2%, which has reduced from in electronic engineering is low, work done with schools and 35 9.6% in 2010. and although Dialog is in line with universities to encourage 30 this at 15% of the overall young people into electronic Career development 25 workforce, we are working hard engineering. One of our recent Dialog has clear career levels and to improve this. We are involved graduates also won the NMI paths for those wishing to pursue 20 in a number of initiatives, Young Engineer of the Year. a technical career or to focus on 15 particularly in the area of STEM leadership and management. 10 education, which is designed to For example, we have created a encourage more women to pursue Technical Ladder, which provides 5 careers in electronic engineering promotional opportunities for those 0 and engineering as a whole. who bring great value to the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 12 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Community investment Community investment Making a positive impact Our employees and future employees value the opportunity to engage with their local communities whether through fundraising, charitable donations or volunteering. Our aim is to invest an amount equal to 1% of the previous year’s pre-tax profit back into the community. 13% of Dialog employees 14 Locations participated in charitable activities in the first year 9 US$485,000 for charitable organisations countries 13 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Community investment Types of charities and not-for-profit groups supported by Dialog in 2013 (%) STEM teacher sponsorship We have sponsored a maths teacher 10| Selectronic cholarships for engineers 5 | Other groups through her teacher training at 8 | Artistic groups a US university, who would have otherwise been unable to achieve 6| Alow-income ccess bursaries for students this qualification. In return she will Medical/ | 30 8 | Sports health be teaching maths for a year to children in deprived areas. 18| Sprogrammes chools’ liaison groups 15 | Educational support Children’s | 12 charities 8 | Other charities Environmental/ | 14 animal welfare Corporate giving Our target for 2014 is for each office Dialog launched the Corporate to participate in a minimum of three Giving programme in 2012, volunteering or fundraising projects focusing on the communities local for local charities. to the areas around our business operations. It focuses on three Partnerships with educational key areas: institutions The fourth key area in which we Charitable giving – Dialog will invest time and money is give financial donations to local encouraging young people into charities and groups where electronics and the engineering Innovative education – UTC, Swindon employees are actively involved. industry as a whole. We have a In 2013, Dialog became a key sponsor of the Swindon UTC In 2013 these included children’s number of programmes throughout (University Technical College). A UTC is a college for students charities, sports groups, charities Europe to attract the brightest and aged 14 to 18 years that specialises in technical studies and for those with disabilities, arts best talent of school and university is sponsored by a university. Swindon UTC’s speciality is and theatre groups, and age. These initiatives include engineering, and offers full-time courses that combine environmental charities. sponsorship of students at leading practical and academic studies. UK and European universities, the Fund-matching – Dialog will provision of access bursaries for Dialog have provided financial support for the college in match funds raised by employees low-income students, donation preparation for its opening in 2014, as well as having high for charitable causes. Examples for of academic prizes, industrial involvement in shaping the curriculum, designing project 2013 included funds raised through mentoring, and sponsorship of opportunities, and assisting with the selection of staff. running the London Marathon, electronic engineering society field Swindon has always been at the heart of engineering since growing moustaches for Movember, trips abroad. The target for 2014 the age of steam railways, and Dialog wants to be a part of selling cakes and other crafts, is to extend these programmes encouraging engineering back to the town and assisting sponsored walks and bike rides, into the US and Asia. young people to have careers in this industry. and organising a football tournament. We also had a global fundraising effort Dialog run a range of outreach for the Philippines typhoon appeal. programmes for schools, including work experience at various global Volunteering – we actively locations, careers talks and encourage employees to participate presentations, assistance with in volunteering activities with job finding skills (CV writing, charities in their local communities. interview skills), and sponsorship of Duke of Edinburgh Awards. 14 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Environment Environment Responsible approach Dialog’s environmentally responsible approach to business underpins everything that we do. We aim to minimise our use of natural resources and reduce and eliminate all types of waste, following the principles of redesign, reduce and recycle. We are ISO 14001 certificated and require all our suppliers to be accredited to, and comply with, this environmental standard. 225% increase in collection rate of copper from scrap devices 61% increase in quantity of recovered gold 300% increase in quantity of recovered silver 87% increase in the recycling of scrap devices from suppliers 15 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Environment During 2013 Dialog Dialog has developed a programme to actively monitor the environmental 95% Dialog’s five design centres -39.8% Dialog is one of the ten successful continued to impact of its design and testing facilities, and all major suppliers. currently recycle 95% of packaging and waste companies achieving the “CO2 Emission Reduction” with a benchmark their reduction of emissions of 39.8% CO2 emissions from in our design centres in 2013 business travel, and we are on target to 100% 100% 100% offset 100% of our of our major suppliers have a formal CSR policy of products are ROHS and PFOS compliant of products are shipped with non-wood packing and conform travel emissions by to J-STD-609, 94/62/EC the end of 2015. Redesign Reduce Recycle Targets for 2014 Dialog offers a range of green IC Dialog is working to systematically We have also implemented a solutions that minimise the number reduce CO2 emissions and rigorous recycling of precious of components required within consumer electronic products, the minimise the carbon footprint of our business, focusing on the metals, such as gold and silver, from waste and damaged products. 100% of major suppliers will have a formal energy they consume, and extend impact of our design centres. In 2013, we increased the quantity CSR policy, including suppliers of to their overall lifespan to reduce The Carbon Disclosure Project of recovered gold by 61% and our newly acquired locations waste. In power management, our recognised Dialog as one of ten recovered silver by 300%. single-chip solutions reduce the successful companies achieving number of discrete components that need to be used within the “Scope-2Indirect CO2 Emission Reduction”, with a Dialog only uses packing material qualified as “green packing”, 30% mobile devices, while delivering reduction of emissions of 40% in implementing a “non-wood further reduction in our energy savings. our design centres in 2013, which packing” delivery policy in 2012. CO2 emissions equates to 618 tonnes of CO2 We believe that reusing and The Company also offers a range of emissions. Despite the significant recycling packing material and low energy short-range wireless ICs for a range of smart home growth in our employee base, we have already beaten our target of waste (including the PET and glass bottles used in our work areas) can 10% further increase in the quantity devices, including energy 30% by 2014. In addition, we are contribute to the effectiveness of of recovered gold monitoring, metering and actively reducing the quantity of our resource management and management applications. In 2012, hazardous substances used in sustainability. Our five design Dialog began actively developing next generation, highly controllable our labs. locations currently recycle 95% of packing and waste. 10% LED (Light Emitting Diode) We take the scarcity of natural further increase in the quantity technologies to deliver better resources seriously and consider Rigorous recycling of precious of recovered silver quality light within homes and the conservation of raw materials, metals offices, aiming to significantly such as metals, to be a priority. Increased quantity of recovered reduce energy usage, and enabling consumers to benefit from bulbs Dialog continues to identify potential methods to improve gold by 61% and recovered silver by 300%. 15% further increase in the collection with an average lifespan of around existing technologies and substitute rate of copper from scrap devices ten years in comparison to just alternatives, such as copper for three to four years with Compact precious metals, to minimise our Fluorescent (CFL) bulbs. impact on the environment, and reduce costs without sacrificing quality and performance. 16 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Sustainability through more efficient power management Sustainability through more efficient power management Acquiring iWatt in 2013, Dialog established itself as a leader in high efficiency AC/DC power converter and LED driver IC solutions for power adapters, portable chargers and solid-state lighting (SSL) applications. These ICs are designed to costeffectively reduce energy consumption by maximising power conversion efficiency with technology that uses fewer components. This leads to lower consumption of fossil fuels, less energy spent manufacturing unneeded components and lower total system cost for customers. Dialog’s zero milliwatt PWM Energy efficiency in every power adapter previously required a relay switch controlled converter easily exceeds industry Over the past ten years, global regulators have by a microcontroller. Dialog’s proprietary digital 5-star charger efficiency emphasised standby and no-load power issues technology achieves zero milliwatt standby rating specification and their impact on power usage. Today power while reducing the overall adapter everyone is striving to reduce their carbon size and eliminating the cost of these 250 footprint and curb greenhouse gas emissions. added components. 220GW This needs to be reconciled with the ever200 growing global demand for energy over the The world’s largest cell phone handset makers coming years, which will become a critical introduced a 5-star rating system in 2008 150 challenge, exacerbated by increasing reluctance to help consumers identify the most energyto build more power stations. efficient chargers. With over 50 million units 100 shipped, Dialog’s iW1700 converter saves Dialog was the first company to introduce approximately 11 gigawatts annually versus the 50 a zero-standby power AC/DC pulse width most stringent 5-star rated charger specification. 13GW 2GW modulation (PWM) controller, the iW1700, that It also saves a stunning 200+ gigawatts 0 reduces no-load power consumption to less than compared to the 1-star rated requirement. 1-Star rated 5-Star rated 5-Star rated 5 milliwatts, or effectively zero1 for cell phones, Using conventional Using Dialog’s cordless phones, tablets and other portable converter zero milliwatt technology converter devices. This ultra-low level of standby power Dialog’s iW1700 zero milliwatt standby power AC/DC converter saves approximately 11 gigawatts annually versus the most stringent 5-star rated charger specification. It also saves a stunning 200+ gigawatts compared to the 1-star rated requirement. Dialog’s PrimAccurate™ digital control technology (chip iW1700) slashes the bill of materials cost for smaller, lower-cost adapters with faster charge times. 1 The International Electrotechnical Commission IEC 62301 standard for measuring standby power rounds power usage of 5mW or less to zero. 17 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Sustainability through more efficient power management What is standby power What is no-load power Why are standby and no-load power consumption important consumption? consumption? to sustainability? Standby power is the electricity No-load power is the energy used Standby power consumes more than The number of new, power-hungry consumed by power supplies in by a charger when it is plugged 100 billion kilowatt hours of annual appliances, smartphones and other smartphones, appliances, TVs, DVD into a wall socket without the electricity in the US alone, amounting electronic products is rapidly players, set-top boxes, PCs, routers, smartphone, tablet or other to more than US$10 billion in annual increasing, so the wasted power printers and all electronic products portable product connected to it. energy costs, according to Energy adds up quickly and has a significant while they are off but their power Star. This wasted energy is enough impact on greenhouse gases and supply is in standby mode. It is to power 9.4 million US households global warming. also the energy consumed by that consume, on average, the power adapter “bricks” that 10,656 kilowatt hours per household convert AC to DC power. per year. Illuminating sustainability, LED lighting Dialog delivers a wide range of dimmable and US lighting consumption solutions save energy non-dimmable SSL LED driver solutions for projections* With lighting accounting for almost 20% lighting applications up to 45W – equivalent in of global electricity consumption, the industry brightness to a 200W incandescent bulb. has been focused for some time on improving the efficiency of lighting products. Projected reduction of 800 117 Power Energy comsumption (TWh) Earlier technologies designed to replace incandescent bulbs, such as fluorescent tubes greenhouse gas emissions 700 plants 83 and compact fluorescent light (CFL) bulbs by 210 million metric tonnes 600 700TWh Power plants improve lighting efficiency, but there has been 58 consumer resistance, with issues ranging from of carbon due to increased 500 Power 500TWh 400 plants slow turn on, low light output, and poor dimmer use of LED lighting. 300 350TWh compatibility. CFLs also contain hazardous materials such as toxic mercury that contradict their claimed 200 “green” advantages. In recent years, LED 100 technology has progressed to the point where Our LED drivers offer superior energy efficiency, 0 LEDs are sufficiently bright to offer a viable meeting or exceeding global mandates. 2010 2020 2030 alternative light source to all forms of illumination. Primarily Impact of projected incandecent LED bulb replacements bulbs Today, the efficiency of solid-state lighting (SSL) Source using LEDs is on a par with, or better than, CFLs; * Extrapolated from US Department of Energy Data, 20122 and, as LED and driver technologies continue to improve, SSL lighting will become even more efficient, with higher performance at lower cost. In 2030, the annual energy savings in the US due to the increased market Governments across the world have focused on penetration of LED lighting is projected reducing energy consumption, implementing to be approximately 300 terawatt-hours (compared to 2030 baseline estimated phase-out policies and subsidies to accelerate energy consumption of 650 terawattthe transition to more efficient forms of lighting, hours), or the equivalent annual including LEDs. The European Union and Japan electrical output of about 50 power required phase-out of all incandescent bulb sales plants, reducing greenhouse gas in 2012, the US banned all incandescents by emissions by 210 million metric 2014, and China by 2016. Dialog’s LED drivers (chip iW3600) address tonnes of carbon.2 dimming, heat and cost in high-power SSL bulbs. 2 US Department of Energy (DoE) “Energy Saving Potential of Solid-State Lighting in General Illumination Applications,” 2012. 18 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Dialog’s sustainability road map Dialog’s sustainability road map October 2012 Made Guardian Top 300 Most Popular Graduate Employers for the first time July 2011 August 2013 February 2012 Integrated sustainability Devised global Committed to the ten principles issues into supplier audits sustainability of the United Nations Global to improve monitoring strategy Compact of sustainability issues in supply chain SeptemberNovember 2011 Benchmarked key sustainability June 2013 issues June 2012 Award first university Launched Corporate “Women in Engineering Giving Programme to Scholarship” “Give Back” to the communities where we operate, driven by a team of representatives in local offices 19 2013 | Dialog’s sustainability road map Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 201 October 2013 Launched first annual 2014 sustainability report 30% employee volunteerism rate Carbon Disclosure Project – reduce Scope 2 CO2 emission by 30% 2015 Corporate giving December 2013 to be equal to 1% TARGETS Hit US$485,000 in charitable of pre-tax profit donations and corporate giving for 2013 Offset 100% of travel emissions November 2013 Won NMI National Training and Development Award in recognition of internal and 2014 Launch first employee external programmes engagement survey Hit US$500,000 in charitable donations and corporate giving 20 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | UNGC communication on progress UNGC communication on progress Communication on Progress (COP). As part of Dialog Semiconductor’s participation in the UNGC, we are submitting this report as our official Communication on Progress (COP) covering the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013. Statement of continued support by CEO Dialog continues its commitment to global citizenship, the principles of which are at the heart of all Company activities. Both through our innovative new technologies and through our environmental, employee or supplier policies, our ambition is make a positive contribution to both the cultures in which we operate and to society as a whole. It makes me proud to confirm that Dialog Semiconductor reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environmental and Anti-Corruption. In our second annual Communication on Progress, we describe the progress in our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We continue to be committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Jalal Bagherli, CEO 21 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | UNGC communication on progress Human rights and labour principles Every supplier is required to complete a issues should be an instinctive part of any Assessment, policy and goals self-audit questionnaire to identify and decision-making process, and suppliers should: Dialog is committed to fair wages, healthy and document compliance. We also carry out safe working conditions, respect for human and regular on-site audits of all of our major • Design and manufacture only labour rights, and honest relationships. We have suppliers. In addition, we have several environmentally friendly products adopted the Electronics Industry Code of polices on “whistle-blowing” and equal Conduct (EICC) standard as the model for our employment opportunities. • Monitor, reduce and eliminate all types of own Code of Conduct to try to ensure that waste. This includes wastewater, solid waste, working conditions for both external suppliers Measurement of outcomes wasted energy, ozone-depleting CO2 and employees are safe and that all workers are In 2013, 100% of our major suppliers had their emissions and other volatile organic treated with respect and dignity. This is in own documented corporate social responsibility chemicals (VOC). We work with suppliers addition to adopting principles from the policy including the adherence to human rights relentlessly to maximise yields, minimising International Labour Organization Standards and labour principles in accordance with the the number of chips that fail performance (ILO), Universal Declaration of Human Rights UNGC. We will ensure that this does not drop tests and need to be disposed of, alongside (UDHR), Social Accountability International (SAI), in 2014. hazardous substances used during the and the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI). production process Dialog adheres to the principle that all labour To date, Dialog has never had a human rights must be given voluntarily and workers must be or labour issue arise. • Identify resource substitution and resource free to leave their employment on reasonable recovery processes and take steps to ensure notice. Child labour must not be used at any Environmental principles that conflict minerals are not used in the stage of manufacturing. Working hours must Assessment, policy and goals manufacturing process not exceed the maximum set by local laws and Dialog’s environmentally responsible approach wages must comply with all applicable laws. to business underpins everything that we do. • Ensure all environmental permits are We aim to minimise our use of natural resources obtained, maintained and kept current. Implementation and reduce and eliminate all types of waste, Dialog and its suppliers take measures to ensure following the principles of redesign, reduce Implementation that workers are not threatened or subjected to and recycle. We are ISO 14001 certificated Dialog is working to systematically reduce CO2 inhumane or harsh treatment, harassment or and require all our suppliers to be accredited emissions and minimise the carbon footprint any form of unlawful discrimination. Open to, and comply with, this environmental standard. of our business, focusing on the impact of our communication and direct engagement between design centres. workers and management is encouraged, even As a fabless semiconductor company, it is in those countries where there is no meaningful important that all of Dialog’s manufacturing Dialog offers a range of green solutions that legal protection. partners are equally committed to respecting minimise the number of components required the environment. Within our supply chain within consumer electronic products, the energy we continually emphasise that environmental they consume, and extend their overall lifespan 22 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | UNGC communication on progress UNGC communication on progress to reduce waste. In power management, our single chip solutions reduce the number of Anti-corruption Assessment, policy and goals Dialog offers a range of discrete components that need to be used Dialog believes that continued success in the innovative green solutions within mobile devices, while delivering semiconductor market can be achieved only by energy savings. adopting continuously high standards of ethical that minimise the number Dialog only uses packing material qualified as behaviour when dealing with customers, suppliers and workers. We have publicly adopted of components required “green packing”, implementing a “non-wood a zero tolerance policy on corruption and bribery within consumer electronic packing” delivery policy in 2012. We believe that reusing and recycling packing material – as clearly stated in our Code of Conduct – “No form of extortion and bribery, including products and the energy and waste (including the PET and glass bottles improper offers for payments to or from they consume. used in our work areas) can contribute to the employees, or organisations, is tolerated”. effectiveness of our resource management and sustainability. Implementation Neither we, nor our suppliers offer or accept Measurement of outcomes inducements or any other means of obtaining The Carbon Disclosure Project recognised Dialog undue or improper advantage. We have a as one of ten successful companies achieving “whistle-blower” policy in place to protect the “Scope-2-Indirect CO2 Emission Reduction”, employees’ confidentiality and encourage our with a reduction of emissions of 40% in our suppliers to do the same. Dialog has put in design centres in 2013, despite the significant place biannual training sessions for its Board growth in our employee base, beating our target of Directors, which are facilitated by an of 30% by 2014. independent third party. In 2013, these were: July – “2010 Bribery Act”; October – “Corporate Dialog only uses packing material qualified as responsibility and crisis management”. “green packing”, implementing a “non-wood packing” delivery policy in 2012. We believe Measurement of outcomes that reusing and recycling packing material No incidents of bribery or corruption were and waste (including the PET and glass bottles identified in 2013. In the future, should used in our work areas) can contribute to the incidents of bribery or corruption be identified, effectiveness of our resource management and they would be dealt with through appropriate sustainability. Our five design locations currently policies. Sanctions up to, and including, recycle 95% of packing and waste. In addition, dismissal would be considered depending we are actively reducing the quantity of on the incident. hazardous substances used in our labs. 23 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Key metrics Key metrics 2012 2013 stated target 2013 actual 2014 target Number of employees 806 N/A 1,107 N/A Investment in training and US$1 million US$1.5 million US$1.47 million US$1.7 million development Members of Technical 25 30 30 35 Ladder % of employees 6% 10% 13% 20% participating in charitable activities Amount donated US$128,000 US$400,000 US$485,000 US$500,000 for corporate giving programme Number of locations 9 10 12 14 involved in charitable activities Number of interns from 22 25 25 30 partnership universities Number of students with 8 10 10 12 university scholarships Number of low-income 3 6 6 9 access bursaries Number of Master Thesis 2 3 3 5 students Number of schools’ liaison 14 15 18 20 programmes Recycling rate in our five 92% 95% 95% Changing the way we major design centres manage recycling Dialog as one of ten Reduction of 34% in N/A Reduction of 39.8% in Further reduction of 30% successful companies our design centres our design centres achieving the CO2 emission reduction Major suppliers having 91% 100% 100% 100%* a formal CSR policy Increase the recycling of 46% increase Further 5% increase 87% increase N/A as now covered by scrap devices from suppliers recycling of copper, silver, gold Increase collection rate of 47% increase Further 5% increase 225% increase Further 15% increase copper from scrap devices Increased quantity of 26% increase N/A 61% increase Further 10% increase recovered gold Increased quantity of 250% increase N/A 300% increase Further 10% increase recovered silver * Goal extended to suppliers of newly acquired locations 24 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Advisers and corporate information Advisers and corporate information Public relations Registered office FTI Consulting FTI Consulting Dialog Semiconductor Plc 200 Aldersgate Park Tower Tower Bridge House Aldersgate Street Bockenheimer Anlage 44 St Katherine’s Way London EC1A 4HD 60322 Frankfurt am Main London E1W 1AA UK Germany UK Website: www.dialog-semiconductor.com Legal adviser Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP Tower Bridge House Registered number St Katherine’s Way 3505161 London E1W 1AA UK Financial calendar Auditors Annual General Meeting 1 May 2014 Ernst & Young LLP Q1 2014 results 7 May 2014 Apex Plaza Q2 2014 results 30 July 2014 Reading Q3 2014 results 29 Oct 2014 Berkshire RG1 1YE Preliminary results for 2014 February 2015 UK Shares Principal bankers Information on the Company’s shares and HSBC Bank Plc on significant shareholdings can be found Thames Valley Corporate Banking Centre on page 61 of our 2013 annual report. Apex Plaza Reading Berkshire RG1 1AX UK Designated sponsors Close Brothers Seydler Kepler Cheuvreux Schillerstrasse 27-29 Tatnnusarlage 14 D-60313 Frankfurt D-60325 Frankfurt Germany Germany 25 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Sustainability report 2013 | Group directory Group directory Germany The Netherlands Taiwan & Greater China Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Dialog Semiconductor B.V. Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Neue Strasse 95 Het Zuiderkruis 53 Taiwan Branch D-73230 Kirchheim/Teck-Nabern 5215 MV ‘s-Hertogenbosch 9F, No 185, Sec 2, Tiding Blvd Neihu Germany The Netherlands District Taipei City 114 Phone: (+49) 7021 805-0 Phone: (+31) 73 640 88 22 Taiwan, R.O.C Fax: (+49) 7021 805-100 Fax: (+31) 73 640 88 23 Phone: (+886) 281 786 222 Email: dialog.nabern@diasemi.com Email: dialog.nl@diasemi.com Fax: (+886) 281 786 220 United Kingdom North America Email: dialog.taiwan@diasemi.com Dialog Semiconductor Ltd Dialog North America Delta 200 2560 Mission College Boulevard Singapore Welton Road Santa Clara Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Delta Business Park California 95054 Singapore Branch Swindon USA 10 Ang Mo Kio. Street 65. Wiltshire SN5 7XB Unit # 03-11A Techpoint UK Phone: (+1) 408 845 8500 Singapore 569059 Fax: (+1) 408 845 8505 Phone: (+44) 1793 757700 Phone: (+65) 64849929 Fax: (+44) 1793 757800 Email: NA_sales_enquiries@ Fax: (+65) 64843455 diasemi.com Email: dialog.swindon@diasemi.com Email: dialog.singapore@diasemi.com Japan Dialog Semiconductor Plc Dialog Semiconductor K.K. Korea 100 Longwater Avenue Kamiyacho MT Bldg 16F Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd Green Park 4-3-20 Toranomon Korea Branch Reading RG2 6GP Minato-ku 501 Dongsung B/D UK Tokyo 105-0001 158-9, Samsung-Dong Japan Kangnam-Ku, Seoul Phone: (+44) 1793 757700 Korea, 135-830 Fax: (+44) 1189 450219 Phone: (+81) 3 5425 4567 Fax: (+81) 3 5425 4568 Phone: (+82) 2 569 2301 Email: enquiry@diasemi.com Fax: (+82) 2 569 2302 Email: dialog.tokyo@diasemi.com Email: dialog.korea@diasemi.com Designed and produced by FTI Consulting Dialog Semiconductor Plc Tower Bridge House St Katharine’s Way London E1W 1AA UK www.dialog-semiconductor.com
