GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PRINT CITY 2014 391g 1777-73850828-VCU-009 THE TEN PRINCIPLE OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Print City fulfilled the HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT pledge to UN Global Principle 1: Businesses Principle 7: Businesses Compact 1 should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 7 should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; As a member of UN Global human rights; and Compact, Print City was Principle 8: undertake committed to follow the Ten Principles of UN Global 2 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 8 initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Compact regarding to human rights, labor, environment 9 Principle 9: encourage the and anti-corruption with LABOUR STANDARDS development and diffusion a broad network covering of environmentally friendly Principle 3: Businesses technologies. 130 countries. 3 should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of ANTI-CORRUPTION the right to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses 4 Principle 4: the elemination of all forms of forced and 10 should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and compulsory labour; bribery. 5 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elemination 6 of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 Contents Guiding our operations A Print City Business Areas 4 The rules and principles Message from the CEO 5 we follow in our work. A Guiding our operations 6 Strategy & Governance Global Responsibility governance People Sustainable B Looking after the people who shape our business. Business ethics Code of Conduct training B People 10 Human rights Printing and innovation Labour rights C Employees and employment The sustainability of our C Printing and innovation 12 products and solutions. Innovation and product development Product labeling and sustainability performance Product safety and hygiene Responsible sourcing What are Carbon Neutral Printing or GreenPrint D Carbon Neutral? Where our raw materials come from. D Responsible sourcing 14 Our sourcing network Sustainable supply chain information Environment Our sourcing network E Supply chain management Taking responsibility E Environment 16 for the environment and curbing climate change. Climate actions Business risks and opportunities related to climate change Reducing impacts and improving resource efficiency Anti-Corruption Carbon Footprint F This guidance-an important Carbon Neutral Printing milestone in the fight against F Anti-Corruption 22 corruption Applying the Principle Print City in brief Print City, Thailand’s First Carbon Neutral Company, a functional media. This needs to be underpinned is the leader in Print Industry in terms of sustainability with a combination lean & green strategy to ensure with green printing solution and aligned with the UN profitability and sustainability. This strategy combines Guiding Principles on global compact and Business for productivity benefits from lean manufacturing that Peace. GreenPrint is one of the big issues in the print also improve green performance from resource and media industry, with a growing awareness of the need waste reduction. to protect the environment. The increasing scarcity of resources and the impact on air, water, and soil are Print City became the first company in Thailand to making this urgently necessary, with the focus first and receive Carbon Neutral Company certification, While foremost on cutting CO2 emissions. No other printing Print City has realized significant energy cost savings has a set of instruments for precisely analyzing and in reducing its carbon footprint, there is tremendous optimizing the carbon footprints of its products and real and potential value in becoming a certified carbon services. Print City provides support for its customers neutral company. The primary benefit of the Carbon in all areas relating to environmental protection, thus Neutral certification is reputational. Not only does it helping enhance their competitiveness. please consumers, it has the potential to increase market share, attract buyers, and strengthen a firm’s public Print City’s view of the future of print is that it image. These advantages are largely dependent on the will be an evolving mix of multiple scenarios for use of Bureau Veritas (Thailand) a credible third party different market segments, economies and cultures, and granted by Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management however, all of them will have a common need for Organization (Public Organization) for verification strategy to optimize our success. Firstly, print must be thus lending credibility to the organization’s social and seen, it need to stand in its own right and be valued environmental initiatives. 4 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 Message from the CEO Our “sustainability” and “Communication on Process In practice it means that we may also have to reject (cop) report showcases the aspirations, achievements business opportunities that would not match our values. and challenges of our commitment to balancing the The way I see it, Print City, is on the right road towards social, economic and environmental aspects of our becoming a better, more inclusive company, equipping business. We invite you to learn about how Print City itself well for a successful future. is using its Carbon Neutral Printing expertise to address social and environmental issues around the globe. In conclusion, we have reported our progress, successes and challenges. Now, we are focused ahead. The global business environment in 2014 was not easy, We understand that our role as a leading company with and we do not count on it becoming easier anytime carbon Neutral Printing expertise and provides unique soon. I am not only thinking about the turbulent opportunities to assist in addressing global problems. economy. We know that our planet is running out of We continue to advance our transparency and integration natural resources, and that climate change is a reality of sustainability into our operations. And we are that will shape our future. To succeed in this changing well-prepared to meet the increasing demands of our environment, Print City is going through a transformation stakeholders by providing extensive data about our into a company that will use renewable materials to performance and ambitions. create value on a global scale. To do this we must make investments in growth markets, while ensuring that our existing businesses remain profitable. To support this transformation we took two important steps in 2014 related to our responsibility work. We defined a new purpose for the company, along with new value. Our value is “iChange4World”. If this sounds somehow simple, that is a positive thing. We want our purpose to be simple and inclusive. We want it to be something that each and every one of us at Print City can understand, think and feel. Ultimately, this purpose explains how and why we can succeed in a turbulent world. Our value lead does not only mean improving our leadership in a business sense. It also expresses our desire to make the world a better place for future generations. At Print City, we want to change the world, and not wait for the world to change us. I think this is something that we can all contribute towards. Our value is rooted in our everyday work, and guides all our choices. Its meaning is clearly defined in our Code of Conduct and our other policies and guidelines, which we train our staff to follow. But doing the right thing involves more than just following the rules – it is about listening to our stakeholders and learning what they think is right. Teerapol Techavichian Ph.D. CEO of Print City 5 A Guiding our operations Strategy& Governance For Print City Global Responsibility means realizing appropriate decisions, that our management is transparent concrete actions to fulfill our corporate value and efficient, and that we convincingly demonstrate “iChange4World”. This means that Global Responsibility accountability. entails responsibilities for everyone working within Print City. Global Responsibility involves facilitating the Global Responsibility Governance creation of shared value, driving changes that will make our During 2014 we reviewed our Global Responsibility operations more ethical and sustainable, and taking Governance to make it better reflect our operational concrete steps to improve environmental and social environment and the direction the company is taking. responsibility along our value chain together with our Our Global Responsibility strategy defines lead areas stakeholders. Our Boards support the highest standards in which Print City is especially working to enhance of corporate governance and best practice and are operational sustainability and take leadership. These committed to the principles of transparency, integrity lead areas are and accountability. Resource Efficiency & Environment Performance Responsible Business and People Print City define corporate social responsibilities as Each lead area includes specific Key Performance encompassing maintaining compliance, committing Indicators and targets. to the timely disclosure of important information, developing and supplying high-quality printing that Our Business Areas and all support functions are take full advantage of our own technologies, practicing responsible for the operational management of comprehensive quality control and protecting the sustainability issues. Our Global Responsibility corporate environment. In our view, consistently fulfilling these function provides guidance to everyone throughout the responsibilities is essential if we are to increase corporate Group on key responsibility issues, and also coordinates value and if our directors and employees are to and develops Print City’s responsibility work. continually recognize that only by faithfully meeting the expectations of society with sophisticated and unique Key Performance Indicators technologies and earning public trust will the Company Our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) were reviewed achieve sustained growth. in 2014 as part of our Global Responsibility Strategy. Our KPIs are structured by our Global Responsibility Based on this attitude, we seek to continuously improve lead areas. They monitor, measure and summarize the our corporate governance to ensure that we make progress on sustainable development and the related Integrity Creativity Harmonization Accountability Novelty Governance Excellence 6 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 impacts on our business and stakeholders. In addition presented in this report. During 2014 we developed to the KPIs, our sustainability performance is measured data collection processes for the new KPIs and set our using other more detailed metrics and disclosures, as new sustainability targets. Identified key topics and performance indicators for each of our Global Responsibility Lead Areas Key topics for the Lead Areas: Involvement and value sharing in local communities Responsibility along the supply chain Sustainability driven business approach Sustainability performance of products Innovation and new solutions Environment and Efficiency People and Ethics Key topics: Material efficiency Key topics: Health and safety Energy and climate actions Business ethics Water issues Responsible restructuring Environmental impacts from Employee satisfaction logistics Human rights and labour rights KPIs CO2 emissions KPIs Total Recordable Incident rate Material efficiency index Implementation of our Human Process water discharges Rights Approach Leadership index Supplier contracts covered by responsibility criteria Governance and management Business Practice Policy, which was launched Global Responsibility and Ethics are emphasised during 2011, and to further emphasize our views on throughout Print City corporate governance, starting environmental and human rights issues. The Code of from our Board of Directors, the CEO and our Group Conduct is divided into three different sections: Executive Team. Responsible business Caring for people Our CEO and our Group Executive Team are ultimately Caring for the environment responsible for Print City’s strategies on Global Responsibility and Ethics, and related key performance Code of Conduct indicators and policies. To ensure that our employees understand and follow the rules set out in our Code of Conduct, they receive Business ethics related training through our established e-learning tool Print City has a single set of values that are applied or face-to-face training. By the end of 2014, an estimated wherever we operate. Our Code of Conduct defines 95% of our employees had undergone such training. common rules for all our employees, and provides We are still continuing this training where employees guidance on Print City’s approach to ethical business have not yet been trained, and also working to ensure practices, environmental values, and human and that all new employees are trained promptly. New labour rights. During 2014 Print City’s Code of e-learning and face-to-face training procedures based Conduct and related materials were reviewed and on our revised Code of Conduct will be launched in revised to reflect more closely the content of our 2015. Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 7 SUSTAIN 8 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 Sustain Able ur Strategy to take the LEAD The key to sustainable growth over the long-term is a robust framework to identify and manage both financial and nonfinancial risks and opportunities. At Print City, we have integrated our UN Guiding Principles strategy Print City joined the UN Global Compact initiative, across all our business operations to achieve a balanced reflecting our commitment to sustainable business triple bottom line performance. practices. The UN Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact .org) is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies to SHAPE an industry with ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, Print City has been the leader in sustainable development environment and anti-corruption. These principles as an established developer committed to green printing are fully aligned with Print City’ values, mission and development and best practices, we are in the position strategy. The signing of the Global Compact reflects our to engage and influence our extensive network of ambition to be a leader in sustainability. Indeed, we are suppliers and partners. Through astute supply chain committed to making the Global Compact and its management, we take pride in setting standards for principles part of the day-to-day operations of our sustainable practices and driving change in Thailand’s company. printing industry. We strive to actively engage our stakeholders with dynamic processes and innovative At PrintCity, sustainability is more than just an solutions that maintain a balanced triple bottom line. As opportunity to make a positive impact on society and a business and community leader, Print City is driven to the environment; we believe it is imperative to our consistently achieve new benchmarks of SD excellence long-term viability. We have built our business around for our stakeholders. the principles of sustainability, which have allowed us to achieve greater heights, pursue new areas of growth and create lasting value. We are committed to continual to CREATE lasting value engagement with our stakeholders, exploring new ideas Incorporating principles of sustainability as an integral and delivering excellent experiences. part of our business model has not only led to healthy financial growth, but also made Print City the leader in social change and environmental stewardship. More importantly, this has propelled us towards continuous improvements and further growth for the benefit of all our stakeholders, creating value that will leave a lasting impression. Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 9 B People People & Ethics In our People and Ethics, our focus is to conduct Operations identified as having risk for incidents of business in a socially responsible manner throughout child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the our value chain. We set high ethical and professional elimination of child labor. The company has not found standards throughout our operations and fully respect any its plants or operations, which would be at significant and support the human rights and labour rights of all our risk for incidents of child labor. employees and the communities around our operations. We are committed to ensure that our workplaces are We take active measures to prevent and eliminate healthy and safe. child labor through our policies. Our Ethics Policy & Sustainability Policy address child labor and consistent Human rights with the UN Global Compact. Potential employees are Print City long-term commitment to respect and support required to show valid identification and proof of age human rights is reflected in our corporate purpose before they are hired. To the best of our knowledge ‘IChange4World’. In addition to people working in there is no child labor within our company. This type our own operations, our commitment extends to our of risk is addressed with our employees, including suppliers, business partners, communities surrounding all managers who are involved in human resources, our operations and other stakeholders within our sphere through our Ethics Policy which covers a wide range of of influence. financial, social and environmental activities, including safe and healthful workplaces, diversity, discrimination, We have stipulated adherence to all relevant laws and freedom of association, regulatory compliance and regulations, respect for fundamental human rights, and environmental protection, anti-bribery, compulsory prohibition of discriminatory treatment, child labor labor In addition to the number of employees who are and forced labor. These standards require that respect required to take the annual certification of our Ethics be accorded to diverse values, individuality, and privacy Policy, it is communicated to our employees in the of individuals, prohibits discriminatory behavior based following ways: on race, religion, gender, nationality, disability, age, or sexual orientation, and prohibits physical abuse, All new employees upon being hired are required to sexual harassment, abuse of power, and any other sign that they have read, understand and will comply actions that disregard the dignity and individuality of with our ethics policy as a condition of employment others. The ethics policy is addressed by our managers regularly Our human rights approach is aligned with the UN in employee meetings Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The ethics policy is a topic addressed at our annual Labour rights Vision Week which is a week each year focused on There are no operations within Print City, which have employee engagement with a special focus on our vision been identified as having significant risk for incidents of and values forced or compulsory labor. We take proactive measures to prevent forced or compulsory labor through our All leaders are required to comply with the Leadership policies. Our Ethics Policy & Sustainability Policy state Expectations Model of which the ethical behavior forced labor is strictly prohibited outlined in the ethic s policy is one of the core elements 10 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 Print City is committed to respecting human and labour ethical and legal standards that apply to all of our rights as a natural part of daily business. We annually business activities — from strategic planning to ask all our management teams to sign a Statement of everyday business operations. Representation affirming adherence to the principles of the UN Global Compact to ensure that the fundamental High Level of Engagement principles of Print City’s ethical guidelines are known There is a high level of engagement among employees and complied with throughout our organization. Print and a great many of them are willing to make an City conducts regular surveys with its suppliers regarding extra effort for the company they work in, as can their position on acceptance of the UN Global Compact. be seen from Print City’s employee opinion survey. The most recent survey results showed that 75% of For us to succeed as a competitive organization, we Print City’ total purchase volume was represented by need a skilled, trained and committed workforce, suppliers committed to the ten principles. able to undertake jobs safely and productively and fulfill their potential. Our aim is to develop and Employees and employment empower our people to perform at their best and to Print City strives to achieve outstanding performance grow in a dynamic culture. We believe in zero harm and a leading position as one of the best companies in in the workplace. Our approach is based on a visible its industry. To do this, a solid foundation of legally management commitment that starts with senior and ethically correct behaviour must be in place. With leaders and extends through all levels of the this in mind, the Managing Board approved a Code of organization. Through a proactive approach we Business Conduct that applies throughout the Group seek to build trust and lasting relationships among and must be complied with by all employees. The Code employees, contractors, customers, shareholders and of Business Conduct specifies our values and the high communities. Goals & actions 2014-2015 31.05.15 Target Achieved Status Management All local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments, and haveendorsed the policy. 100% 100% Zero tolerance of acts of discrimination of any kind and hence no cases to be reported. 100% 100% Procurement Based on results of the previous survey, a further improvement in compliance with the UN Global Compact will be targeted by seeking a similar commitment 100% 75% also from smaller suppliers. Request for commitment to UN Global Compact principles shall become standard procedure in qualification process for new raw material suppliers. 100% 100% Employee training Improve employee competences and capabilities, thereby improving company competitiveness.The process is ongoing and has our commitment. 100% 100% Measurement of employee satisfaction by conducting a global people survey and developing action plans. 100% 100% Occupational injuries No injuries causing work absence to be registered in the reporting period. 0% 1.0% Labour rights Our Code of Ethics is an integral part of Print City due diligence process and any 100% 100% non-conformities are reported. ÷ Not accomplished Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 11 C Printing and innovation Printing & innovation Renewable materials play a powerful role in creating all of our main products, using calculations that are sustainable development. Print City’s product updated annually. LCIs are used to share information development and innovation are being actively encouraged on products’ environmental performance and impacts. through a change process known as “Greenprint Go Carbon Neutral” launched in 2013. In the context of We provide product-specific information on the new products, the idea behind this is that we must environmental performance of our printing through challenge ourselves and the outside world to rethink Paper Profiles and Paper-by Nature declarations. These the ways we work and live – and utilize our expertise on voluntary environmental product declaration schemes renewable materials and material efficiency to promote have been jointly developed by leading paper producers. sustainable living. Several of Printing paper products also bear recognized We measure the sustainability performance of our eco labels such as the EU Flower, the Nordic Swan and the products using environmental, social and economic Blue Angel labels, showing that they have been produced performance indicators and related targets. For more using wood from certified forests and controlled information on our sustainability targets, to identify, sources, and that the whole journey of the raw materials minimize and inform our stakeholders about the they contain from the forest to the store shelf has been environmental impacts of our products, we also work documented and verified by an external party. with product life cycle inventories (LCIs), Paper Profiles, eco-labels and carbon footprint Environment Footprint All of Print City’s business areas have calculated carbon Product labeling and sustainability performance footprints for their main products, and this information Experts on life cycle analyses (LCA) based at Print is freely available to our customers. City’s Innovation Center compile life cycle inventory (LCI) data on our products and help our printing to Environmental protection has been firmly established as collect the necessary data. We conduct LCI surveys on a corporate goal. Print City is working consistently and systematically to achieve this goal along the entire value chain. Focusing in particular on three areas: Resource consumption, emissions, and waste and is looking to reduce or ideally avoid all three wherever possible. Product safety and hygiene Print City uses high-quality raw materials to manufacture pulp, paper, and wood products for various purposes. Our in-house control systems cover our processes from the product development stage through raw material sourcing to the delivery of the finished products. They also cover the eventual recycling and reuse of products as raw materials for new products or for energy production. We also require our suppliers and partners to comply with Print City’s sustainability requirements, including safety aspects. 12 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 What are Carbon Neutral Printing or GreenPrint Carbon Neutral? Carbon neutral printing and Greenprint Carbon Neutral mean that all greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the print production itself and the used materials such as paper, energy, ink are calculated and compensated through carbon offset projects. Labeling We can put the “carbon neutral print product” logo onto the print object, including an individual tracking number. Tracking number? Each and every print product receives a unique tracking number, generated by carbon offset system. Using this number, everyone can track the amount of compensated greenhouse gas and the carbon offset project. Print City purchases Verified Carbon Units (VCU) certified carbon offsets to give you a way to balance out the emissions. Print City has supported Wastewater treatment and biogas utilization project in Thailand for 1000 tons. By participating in this carbon offsetting program, we are contributing to fight against global warming and support greenhouse gases reduction project in Thailand and enable Thailand’s transaction to a low-carbon future. Buyers can ask for an email confirmation when a VCU is retired in their name and search the VCS Project Database to confirm retirement. While every VCU represents a verified emissions reduction, can be track with additional benefits, such as protecting biodiversity and enhancing community participation. In addition to the quality assurance provided by the VCS, these additional tags often bring added value to the credits. Goals & actions Printing and innovation 2014-2015 31.05.15 Target Achieved Status Achieve Carbon Neutral Printing Define our subject – we can certify our whole company, a product line or 100% 100% activities such as business travel. Measure our carbon emissions using independent, qualified third party 100% 100% assessors. Set a net zero carbon emissions target to provide a strong statement on carbon 100% 100% reduction goals. Reduce our carbon emissions through a cost-effective combination of internal 100% 100% reductions and carbon offsets. Communicate our achievement by displaying our Carbon Neutral certification on websites, reports, letterhead, packaging and vehicles, and communicating 100% 100% how our achieved the target. ÷ Not accomplished Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 13 D Responsible sourcing Supply Chain ustainable Print City has fostered a sustainable procurement system that is comprised of nationally selected vendors Our Supplier Diversity Initiative Focusing on the identification and development and locally recognized distributors. Other attributes of diverse suppliers as sources for the purchase of include an environmentally preferred standardized goods and services, our belief that diverse suppliers purchasing policy provide a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Employees involved in the selection, evaluation and/or The proximity of the distributors in relation to Print City approval of vendors, contractors and consultants have operations and client facilities help reduce our carbon primary responsibility for effectively implementing our emissions and overall corporate carbon footprint supplier diversity strategy. Print City invites suppliers who possess these key characteristic to register as a potential Sustainable supply chain information supplier. The way we work with suppliers is based on Consumers and business customers are becoming more principle to support local business by working with local committed to sourcing products and service providers suppliers is an important way in which we contribute that are ‘sustainable’ or ‘green’. Print City are providing to local economies. more information about the sustainability of our printing. This usually includes features that support Our sourcing network sustainability – such as energy efficiency, reuse and Ensuring responsibility along our supply chain is an recycling systems and innovative use of materials. We integral part of our global approach to responsibility. can reflect the carbon footprint, which usually refers to Our total commitment to responsible sourcing avoids the level of carbon dioxide generated throughout the potential negative impacts of suppliers’ actions, and production and delivery of the product. helps us to maintain good stakeholder relations. We MANAGING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN’S SUSTAINABILITY Life Cycle Assessment GREEN SUPPLY CHAIN PLANNING Demand Planning Supply Planning Collaboration Supplier Development GREEN PROCUREMENT Energy-Efficient Procurement Sustainable Sourcing Green Transportation GREEN LOGISTICS Green Warehousing Green Packaing CARBON MANAGEMENT Carbon Footprint Minimization Ecological footprint Minimization 14 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 work closely with our various suppliers around the PLIER PRO world to ensure that they meet our requirements on SUP CU RE responsibility, and to build up our mutual understanding of M ER E sustainability issues. CU NT ST OM CTURE NUFA The environmental credentials of Print City include SUPPLY MA the whole product life-cycle, from raw material CHAIN LOGISTIC sourcing to production and delivery, from final end-use to disposal of product. Certification, continuous MENAGEMENT monitoring and reporting prove that Print City’s products are made of sustainable raw materials and with minimal PR OD environmental impact. TION U D CT ISTR Supply chain management IBU INVE NTORY The majority of our purchasing agreements are now covered by our sustainability requirements. For suppliers of materials and services Print City has developed a set of sustainability requirements Sustainable purchasing that are routinely included in our purchasing Print City’s purchases of raw materials shall be agreements. These requirements cover environmental based on the principle of sustainable production. management, business practices, health and safety Sustainable development means meeting the needs of issues, and human and labour rights. If we find that a today’s population without compromising the ability supplier is not meeting these requirements, we ask for of future generations to meet their own needs. Global a corrective action plan for reaching compliance, and population growth and increased consumption offer guidance on the necessary improvements where are augmenting the burden on the earth’s natural this is needed. Print City reserves the right to terminate resources. It is already evident that certain natural contracts in case of serious and repeated violations. resources are being exploited. Responsible Goals & actions sourcing 2014-2015 31.05.15 Target Achieved Status Managing supply chain’s sustainability performance Policy decisions about procurement and how we flow through procedures 100% 100% Identifying the risks and opportunities in our supply chain 100% 100% Using local suppliers and contractors to reduce fuel usage and our carbon 100% 100% footprint Which aspects of social sustainability you could evaluate in your suppliers 100% 100% Measurement, costing and analysis models to assist supply chain decisions 100% 100% – these include life cycle assessment, carbon footprint, ecological footprint. Responsible sourcing Setting clear responsibility requirements for our suppliers 100% 100% Training our own purchasers to integrate responsibility issues into purchasing 100% 100% processes Continuous evaluations of suppliers’ performance through risk assessments, 100% 100% audits and follow-up Building up the capacity of suppliers along our supply chain to act responsibly 100% 100% ÷ Not accomplished Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 15 E Environment Environment & Efficiency Print City, THE BUSINESS LEADERS OF CARING FOR CLIMATE: Recognize That: Climate Change is an issue requiring urgent and extensive action on the part of governments, business and citizens if the risk of serious damage to global prosperity, sustainable development and security is to be avoided. Climate change poses both risks and opportunities to businesses of all sizes, sectors and regions of the world. It is in the best interest of the business community, as well as responsible behavior, to take an active and leading role in deploying low-carbon technologies, increasing energy efficiency, reducing carbon emissions and in assisting society to adapt to those changes in the climate, which are now unavoidable. Commit To: Taking further practical actions to improve continuously the efficiency of energy usage and to reduce the carbon footprint of our products, services and processes, to set voluntary targets for doing so, and to report publicly and annually on the achievement of those targets in our Communication on Progress-Climate. Building significant capacity within our organizations to understand fully the implications of climate change for our business and to develop a coherent business strategy for minimizing risks and identifying opportunities. Engaging more actively with our own national governments, inter-governmental organizations and civil society to develop policies and measures to provide an enabling framework for business to contribute effectively to building a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy. Continuing to work collaboratively with other enterprises both nationally and sectorally, and along our value-chains, to set standards and take joint initiatives aimed at reducing climate risks, assisting with adaptation to climate change and enhancing climate-related opportunities. Becoming an active business champion for rapid and extensive climate action, working with our peers, employees, customers, investors and the broader public. And Will: Work collaboratively on joint initiatives between public and private sectors and through them achieve a comprehensive understanding of how both public and private sectors can best play a pro-active and leading role in meeting the climate challenge in an effective way. Invite the UN Global Compact to promote the public disclosure of actions taken by the signatories to this Statement and, in cooperation with UN Environment Programme and the secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change communicate on this on a regular basis. 16 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 Green Print Reduce CO2 emissions Print City is constantly working to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions along the company’s value chain. This involves promoting sustainable forestry, creating innovative products based on renewable raw materials, and developing cleaner and more efﬁcient processes and operations. Print City also actively participates in global discussions related to climate change. Targeting a 33.54% reduction in CO2 intensity Most of the greenhouse gas emissions generated by our operations come from the energy we purchase and produce at paper mills. The most effective way for us to reduce our fossil CO2 emissions is to further improve our energy efﬁciency. In 2014 we updated our previous target for reducing our fossil CO2 emissions, and we now aim to reduce emissions per saleable ton of printing by 33.54 % from 2010. This CO2 intensity target covers both emissions generated directly by our own facilities and indirect emissions produced during the generation of the electricity. emissions Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 17 Pulp and Paper Production Final product manufacturing Fiber Procurement End-of-life final product use Carbon Footprint A carbon footprint is a method used to measure and our CO2 emissions by 35% compared to the baseline communicate the total amount of greenhouse gases year 2009. As this target was already achieved in 2015, emitted both directly and indirectly in the production we have set a new target to reduce fossil CO2 emissions and delivery of goods and services. Raw materials, by 50% from 2009 levels by the end of 2020. energy consumed and transportation are the main elements used to calculate the carbon footprint of a Carbon Neutral Printing product. Most of our direct greenhouse gas emissions Calculating and offsetting the CO 2 emissions come from the energy we purchase and produce to operate associated with printing processes. The huge increase our printing processes. To reduce costs and reach our in emissions of environmentally harmful gases such environmental goals, we are continuously working to as carbon dioxide and methane is seen as a key improve the energy efficiency of our operations’ cause of climate change. CO2 emissions are produced and products’ carbon footprint. when fossil fuels are burned to generate power, and are also a byproduct of transport and an indirect Carbon Footprint reduction target result of the manufacturing and processing of raw We are actively working to reduce greenhouse gas materials. Printing is another indirect cause of emissions from our production. In 2010 we set a target environmentally harmful emissions The principle behind to reduce CO2 emissions per by 35% from 2009 levels carbon neutral printing is to calculate what these CO2 by the end of 2015. By the end of 2014 we had reduced emissions amount to and offset them 18 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 Responsible forestry In 2014 , Print City purchased approximately 2,238 tons which 100% from responsible forestry then help us preserve a total of 54 acres Total paper purchased 2,238tons 54 acres preserved Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 19 PRINT CITY switch off 30 million bulbs from efﬁﬁfﬁiciency activities equivalent to drive sustainability. 20 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 In our Environment and Efficiency, we strive to ensure Environmental impacts from logistics that our resource efficient operations and products have The environmental impacts of logistical operations superior environmental performance throughout their are an important factor when we evaluate different lifecycle. We strive to continuously improve the energy, transport and supply chain solutions. Print City actively material and water efficiency of our operations and promotes transport solutions with good environmental business models, in order to enhance business benefits performance. Our transport chains are planned in and save natural resources and financial resources line with our environmental policies and always analyzed for their environmental footprint. The carbon Climate actions dioxide emissions created by our logistical operations are Environmental issues are integrated into the Print City incorporated in the Group’s carbon footprint and CO2 group and its operational strategies. Operations are emissions target. The transportation of our products required to develop and implement environmental accounted for 16% of our total carbon footprint in 2013. programmes and procedures aligned to Print City operating standards and performance requirements Business risks and opportunities related to climate and management standards, which in turn are aligned change with our environmental strategy. Environmental We recognize a strategic opportunity in the fact that performance is taken into account when management our printings are based on renewable materials with performance is measured. comparatively low carbon footprints. Our printings also store carbon throughout their useful lives, after Energy which they can be either recycled or incinerated to In the near term, reducing our energy consumption produce energy. is perhaps one of the most important climate-related measures that Print City can implement. Reducing impacts and improving resource efficiency Print City’s environmental work has two main Water focuses. Firstly, we strive to minimize the environmental Fresh water is an increasingly scarce resource in many impacts of our operations. Secondly, we strive to use raw parts of the world, and water-related costs are expected materials and energy as efficiently as possible to ensure to rise in the long term. It will therefore be important that we do not waste valuable natural resources or for Print City to reduce our water consumption and financial resources. increase our knowledge of water resources. Goals & actions 2014-2015 31.05.15 Target Achieved Status Product development All new products feature sustainability improvements in at least one and preferably more of the following four areas: Energy consumption, water consumption, use 100% 100% of detergents and disposal. CO2 emissions 30% reduction in 2014 normalised to output as compared with 2010. 30% 33.54% Product environmental footprint Set target for reducing environmental footprint for best-selling products based 100% 100% on conclusions from previously conducted pilot project. Actively participate in industry-related activities, boards and committees to push for agreement on industry standard for measuring environmental 100% 100% performance of products. ÷ Not accomplished Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 21 F Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption tolerate any bribery of private or of public persons. We neither provide nor receive lavish or extravagant gifts. Here’s how you can help: Do not offer, pay, give or promise any favor, service, entertainment, meal, gift or other thing of value to any private or governmental customer to get business. Do not associate with business partners who engage in corrupt practices. Doing business with integrity is the only sustainable option, which attract and retain principled and motivated employees and investors. In contrast, Compliance with Our Ethics Policy is a condition of companies confronted with corruption cases have faced employment. With respect to anti-corruption practices it reputational damage. states the following: PrintCity’s ‘zero tolerance’ position against all forms of corruption, bribery and extortion Accordingly, Print City engages in transparent business and provide information and guidance to employees on relations with partners who must respect the principles how to recognize, address, resolve, avoid and prevent of the UN Global Compact. We are also committed instances of corruption, bribery and extortion which to taking responsible corrective action wherever and may arise in the course of their work. whenever we detect deviations from these principles. Rules and guidelines based on these principles are Applying the Principle: communicated throughout the company, and We win business with the integrity of our products, services management teams are regularly required to sign a and personal character. We do not seek business by trying Statement of Representation affirming their knowledge to corrupt the judgment of our customers. We do not of and compliance with the rules defined. Goals & actions 2014-2015 31.05.15 Target Achieved Status Facilitation payments Ban on facilitation payments. Communication on non-acceptance of facilitation 100% 100% payments has been part of the awareness campaign. Compliance with laws and regulations 100% 100% Renewed attention to be given to the Code of Ethics as regards conduct in contacts with competitors by inclusion of this aspect in the awareness campaign 100% 100% and by scrutinising memberships of associations. Anticorruption No reported corruption or cartel cases. 100% 100% Ensure employees are knowledgeable regarding how to act in accordance with 100% 100% Print City expectations on business integrity issues. ÷ Not accomplished Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track 22 Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 GRI index Print City became signatory to the UN Global Compact in May 2013 and Business for Peace (B4P) in November 2013, this sustainability Report fulfills the company’s obligation to provide Communication on Progress (COP). We uses the ten principles of UN Global Compact integrated with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines as a basis for its report and a framework for measuring and reporting our environmental, social and economic performance. Profile Disclosure Location STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the CEO 1.1 5 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Name of the organisation 2.1 4 Primary brands, products and/or services 2.2 12,13 Location of headquarters 2.4 Back Cover REPORT PARAMETERS Reporting period 1 June 2014 31 May 2015 3.1 Reporting cycle Annual 3.2 Contact point for questions 3.4 Back Cover GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Governance structuer 4.1 6 Mission or values statements, codes of conduct,sustainability principles 4.8 6,7,9 HUMAN RIGHTS Investment and Procurement practices HR1 10 Non-discrimination HR4 10,11 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 10,11 Child, forced or compulsory labour HR6, HR7 10,11 LABOUR PRACTICES & DECENT WORK Employment LA1 10,11 Labour/Management Relations LA7 10,11 Training and Education LA10 10,11 Diversity and Equal Opportunities LA13 10,11 ENVIRONMENT Management approach to environmental responsibility 14,15,16 Materials EN1 19 Energy EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 21 Water EN8 21 Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16, EN17, EN18 17,18 Product and Services EN26 12 Compliance EN28 13 ANTI CORRUPTION Anticorruption SO3, SO4 22 Public Policy SO5, SO6 22 Compliance SO8 22 Carbon Disclosure Project Print City join Caring for Climate (C4C) which Platform is an initiative of UNEP, the UNGC and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) that offers proactive business an opportunity to engage with stakeholders and the public sector globally concerning action to address climate change. We follow the caring for Climate Reporting Guidance for Carbon Disclosure report. Measurement, management and disclosure of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change data is an increasingly important aspect of standard business practice. There are numerous benefits for Print City, including: Increased transparency to shareholders, clients and the public audience, identifying how the organization copes with threats arising from climate change, highlighting the business opportunities available and enhanced ability to increase efficiency and reduce unnecessary costs. Global Responsibility Report Print City 2014 23 THE CREATIVE AND PRINT WITH A FOCUS ON SUSTAINABLE PRINTING INNOVATION ByGreenPrint Print City, CarbonNeutral Company 29/45-46 Rama1 Rd, Rongmuang, Patumwan, Bangkok 10330 Tel : 0-2215-9988 Fax : 0-2215-5599 E-mail : info@printcity.co.th www.printcity.co.th
