Communication on Progress 2014 Farstad Shipping ASA Table of Contents Page The company commits to continued support 2 Corporate Responsibility in Farstad Shipping 3 Code of Business Conduct Corporate Governance Policies Safety 4 Summary KPI 2014 6 Corporate KPI’s 2015 RISKOP 7 CSR and the Company Values Financial Support and Collaboration 8 Human Rights Principles 9 Labour Principles 10 Environmental Principles 12 Anti-corruption Principle 16 The company commits to continued support! The market for Farstad Shipping's services has changed considerably throughout 2014. The figures presented in our annual report at www.farstad.com provide a clear picture of a market in a period of declining activity and corresponding decrease in earnings. This challenges our ability to maintain a sustainable development of the company, and we notice the consequence of increasing competition and a strong cost pressure from the oil companies. But we will continue to focus our efforts in contributing to the further development of a sustainable business taking due considerations to both the environment and society as well as our own employees In 2014, we succeeded well in the COBC implementation throughout our whole organization, and the company’s standpoint towards transparent, fair and sustainable business is well known amongst our employees. In the coming year we will continue the work with Code of Business Conduct, lift the focus on the company’s corporate responsibility and the individual employee’s responsibility and possibilities to take action, report and be responsible. During 2014, we have succeeded in improving our HSEQ results. The total injury rate is reduced, and we register that our employees are committed to the effort of further improving the safety and quality of our operations. This is both pleasing and necessary if we are to reach our goal of an injury-free working environment. In our further development of the company, the 10 UNGC’s principles will be a solid framework for a further improvement of our work with CSR, and we will continue to support the United Nations Global Compact. Yours sincerely, Karl-Johan Bakken CEO 2 Corporate Responsibility in Farstad Shipping By profitable and responsible operation, our company shall create positive financial, environmental and social effects. We shall run our company in accordance with current laws and regulations as well as good business practice. Code of Business Conduct During the past few years, we have conducted a thorough internal process developing the company’s Code of Business Conduct, which has now been implemented in our organization during 2014. All office staff and our sailing crew has been presented and familiarized with the content of this document. Our Code of Business Conduct is governing for our employees and anyone representing the Company. Corporate Governance Farstad Shipping's principles for good corporate governance shall lay the foundation for long-term value creation in the best interest of shareholders, employees and society in general. Norwegian code of practice for corporate governance (last revised 30/10/2014) forms the basis for the companies’ reporting in this area. Every year the management and board of Farstad Shipping evaluate the principles for corporate governance and how these are addressed in the Group. Policies Based on the directives included in the company's governing documents, Farstad Shipping has developed a number of policies to regulate our actions and decisions in relation to important areas. Our policies shall communicate our Values and expectations for how things are done in our organization. They aim at keeping our organization in compliance with legislation. Another function is to document and implement best practices appropriate to the organization, and to support consistent treatment of staff, fairness and transparency. The policies shall help the management to make decisions that are consistent, uniform and predictable, and protect individuals and the organization from the pressure of expediency. Authority and responsibility regarding the policies rest with the CEO. Farstad Shipping's policies provide guidelines for our behaviour, course of action, and our decisions within important areas such as health, safety, quality and environment, as well as social responsibility, ethics and transparency, human rights and labour rights. These policies are the same throughout the Group and apply to our employees as well as anyone representing the Company. 3 Safety Farstad Shipping's goals within health, safety and environment (HSE) are to operate without injury to people, harm to the environment and loss or damage to equipment. The Company works actively on several levels to make employees aware of this goal. Both the Parent Company's board of Directors and the boards of the subsidiaries are focusing on this and discuss the development in health, safety and environment in all their meetings. All the company’s employees are at all times obligated to follow our policies, procedures and instructions based on our governing documents. This is vital in order to obtain safe, efficient and environmentally friendly operation of our vessels in accordance with national and international requirements and regulations. Caution shall be exercised to protect oneself, colleagues, the environment, the vessel, the cargo, offshore installations and the third party. Farstad Shipping is focused on learning and sharing experiences across the company's fleet, based on all types of incidents both with and without damage. Significant resources are invested in order to create safer workplaces and improve the working environment through automation, remote and mechanization of operations with a high-risk potential. This is done to facilitate work as well as to eliminate the need for the crew to be placed in risk-exposed areas. In order to obtain this, priority is given to performing risk analyses in connection with events, which entail high risk when it comes to injuries and incidents with major accident potential. We also focus on developing the safety culture through awareness work and leadership development. It is among other things embodied in the company's Health, Safety and Environment policy that everyone has the right and a duty to stop work, which is not performed safely. An important part of HSE management is recording, reporting and assessment of various HSE data. A number of measurement indicators have been established to help us in this work. The purpose is to document quantitative development over time as well as to strengthen the decision indicators for a systematic and targeted improvement work. One of these measuring indicators is the frequency of lost time injuries (LTIF). The Company measures this as the number of injuries with absence per one million hours worked, measured 24 hours a day so that recreational injuries are also included. For 2014, the lost time injury frequency was 0.73. This is a slight improvement compared with 0.77 in 2013. The actual number of lost time injuries was six in 2014, same number as in 2013. This is disappointing since we are putting many efforts into reducing this figure. However, it still confirms the downward trend we have seen over a five-year period. 4 Another performance indicator for personal injuries is the Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF). This figure indicates injuries where medical attention has been given, and provide a more comprehensive picture of the number of injuries. We have seen a positive development in the TRC frequency during the last years. In 2013, the TRC frequency was 3.22 and the figure was reduced to 2.32 in 2014. This is the best TRCF figures we have achieved ever, and we are now among the best in this area in our industry. Various measures has been implemented based on investigation of both incidents that have caused injuries and of incidents with great potential for injuries. This work will be continued and further developed. 5 Vessels contact/collision with offshore installations during transit and loading operations have high attention in the industry. Implementation of measures to ensure avoidance of this is a high priority in our company. It is satisfactory to see that we had no incident within this category in 2014. To continuously improve our safety performance and make our operations safer and more efficient, we also have a strong focus on learning from incidents. In that respect, more than 30 safety alerts were distributed to the fleet in 2014. We also focus on safety associated with the vessels visits to shipyards both with regard to docking, repairs and renovation of existing vessels, as well as when new vessels are built. There is ongoing work to improve safety in connection with our vessel operations, both in collaboration with our customers and our suppliers. Good control of the vessels' technical condition and backup systems (redundancy), as well as management of operational safety, consist mainly of the following elements: Transfer of experience and prioritizing when projecting and building new vessels, ongoing maintenance and upgrading of vessels. All operations are performed by qualified and competent personnel. Focus on awareness and compliance with external and internal requirements. Summary Corporate KPI’s 2014 – status end of year Indicator Aspect Target Actual Month TRCF Safety/Health <3,1 2,32 End 2014 Sick leave seafarers Health <2,97% 3,13 End 2014 Sick leave office employees Health <1,52% 1,95 End 2014 Accidental Pollution to sea (incident) Environment 235 ltr 230 End 2014 High Potential Incident Frequency Safety/Health/Asset <2,0 2,87 End 2014 Corporate KPI’s 2015 Indicator Aspect Target TRCF Safety/Health <2,80 Sick leave seafarers Health <3,0 Sick leave office employees Health <3,0 Accidental Pollution to sea (incident) Environment <220 High Potential Incident Frequency Safety/Health/Asset/ <2,0 Environment 6 RISKOP – Risks in offshore service operations We are participating in the research project «Risks in Offshore Operations». The project shall submit a report describing the identified risk factors associated with platform supply services, anchor handling and subsea operations. A separate report highlighting the risk factors of lifting operations will also be prepared. The intention is that the material from the study shall be used in a planned Master’s Degree in Nautical Studies at the Haugesund and Aalesund University Colleges, as well as contribute specific suggestions for strengthening the offshore simulator training in which some of the participants are involved. CSR and the Company Values The goal of Farstad Shipping is to increase its competitiveness through awareness of our company Values as well as our respect for people, environment and society. An important arena within the company to build a good CSR culture is the Values Program. Since 2006, the company has spent significant resources on strengthening the organization through arranging Values workshops with participants from both sailing crew and office staff. The purpose of the Values workshops is to develop a common understanding of the Values of Farstad Shipping, as well as making the Values tangible in daily tasks and challenges at work. There is emphasis on understanding different cultures and focus on cultural differences, as well as the individual responsibility based on the Values. In addition to the Corporate Management and the regional Liaison Officer, external consultants in each region participate in the Values workshops. The consultants are an important resource for a local and professional adaption of the program to each region. Presence and involvement from the management is important to improve understanding of the relationship between the company's Values, our organizational culture and how we interact with each other and our surroundings. Having already been established in the North-West Europe and Brazil region, the Values program commenced its official roll out during 2014 in the Australian region. Seven Values workshops were completed in Melbourne, and ten in Rio during 2014. The opportunity for sailing crew and office staff to come together and share their thoughts, ideas and experiences has been a welcome and appreciated experience for all who have attended this far. Participation in Values workshops is mandatory for all our employees 7 Financial Support and Collaboration Farstad Shipping wishes to be a positive contributor to the local communities where we are present. Through our contributions to sports, culture, various organisations and events we wish to create positive associations and make our company visible. We support various projects in connection with education and social initiatives for children and youth. Farstad Shipping has ongoing sponsorship agreements with social projects in Australia, Brazil and Norway. We focus on education of young people, and hope to motivate them to be our future colleagues or choose a future in the maritime industry. Karanba is a social project in Brazil supported by, amongst others, Farstad Shipping. Through this project, we take in a certain number of trainees every year. In 2013, Farstad Shipping employed five students from Karanba who had completed six months of intensive education under the auspices of the Brazilian Navy. In 2014, a new group of trainees from Karanba attended the maritime courses, and we hope to see them as colleagues in the maritime industry in the future. By supporting Karanba we contribute to giving these young people an opportunity to receive an education and a job. At the same time, we invest in future maritime expertise. In collaboration with Woodside, we have for several years, offered a training program aimed at the indigenous population of the Kimberley region in Australia. Through this program, they get an opportunity to achieve an integrated Rating Certificate of Proficiency. The training consist of 15 weeks of school in order to prepare for the job on board. After this, they must undergo 38 weeks of mandatory training at sea before they receive their certificate. Through this scheme, they also have the opportunity for further education. As of today, Farstad Shipping employs 14 sailors who have participated in this program. In 2014, Farstad Shipping supported 115 initiatives within culture, sports and social involvement. As a “small” sponsor to many activities, we create a broad community engagement. We wish to maintain this form of social participation in the regions where we operate, adapted to local culture and needs. 8 Human Rights Principles Principle 1 & 2 • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Implementation The company’s “Interpersonal Relations Policy” emphasizes the importance of all employees and all other personnel engaged in the delivery of our services to be committed to maintaining an environment free from any form of harassment, degeneration, bullying or any other form of intimidating and/or illegal behaviour. The “Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Policy” states that that all individuals or groups has the right to be treated fairly and not be disadvantaged. Code of Business Conduct Training in the Farstad Shipping Code of Business Conduct was rolled out throughout our whole organization in 2014. We have established a system of reporting breaches of the Code, following the guidelines about Whistleblowing. Supplier Declaration In 2014, a supplier declaration was launched by our purchase departments, which started an internal process of adaption to our Code of Business Conduct, self-assessment form and terms and conditions. Future focus and expected outcome Through our management systems, we plan to measure and be able to show that we improvingly work according to the precautionary principle in order to secure our employees’ working environment, and secure legal standards for everyone involved in producing products or services that is delivered to the company. The Code of Business Conduct will give support and guidelines to all employees and the company’s stakeholders, towards conducting their business in a fair and legal manner. We expect this document to help our company support and protect all employees in a healthy, fair and positive work environment. We aim to communicate to our suppliers the expectation of compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and make sure everyone engaged in the delivery of our services have good working conditions well within the frames of all laws and regulations. 9 Labour Principles Principle 3, 4, 5 & 6 • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. • Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. • Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Certification of OHSAS 18001:2007 The Company was certified according to OHSAS 18001:2007 in 2013. OHSAS 18001:2007 provides us with a good framework for control and improvement within health and safety in relation to working environment. This certificate documents that our management system is measured in relation to a standard for good practice and found to be in compliance with this. The certificate is issued by DNV-GL and shows employees and other interest groups that we work according to the precautionary principle in order to secure our employees' working environment. Gender equality Farstad Shipping recognizes the importance of embracing diversity and valuing the differences in its employees. The Board and the Management work continuously to promote gender equality in all areas in order to create a diverse organization. At the end of the year, the Group had 2,200 employees representing 29 nationalities. In 2014, Farstad Shipping in Australia was awarded the renowned Gold Stamp by the Australian Women in Resources Alliance (AWRA). The foundation for this result was an assessment of our workplace policies, procedures and practices towards best practice management of workplace (gender) diversity. The AWRA recognition assists Farstad Shipping in building our gender diversity capability, become a preferred employer for women and realize the advantages of a gender diverse workforce. We are conscious of preventing gender-based discrimination. The principle of equal pay for equal work applies in wage determination. Only relevant qualifications such as education, experience, results, and other professional criteria shall form the basis with regard to hiring, training, wages and promotion. At the end of the year, 106 out of the Company's 240 office employees were women. 10 Farstad Shipping has a challenge with regard to motivating women to choose a maritime education. At the end of the year the total number of crew employees was 1,960, however, only 76 of these were women. The Company will continue to recruit women to maritime related jobs. It participates in initiatives such as the Australian Maritime College’s Graduate Career program, with an emphasis on educating and encouraging females to pursue maritime careers. In addition to focusing on gender equality, there are efforts to include people from groups that are underrepresented in the labour market, including people with disabilities. Employee well-being Through active collaboration and support for cultural and sports events we contribute to creating social meeting points in the local community. Farstad Shipping considers the fact that our employees are 24-hour people who shall also thrive in their free time. We wish to contribute to our employees and their families having active and varied leisure activities in their local community. Our employees' health Starting up in 2013 on board our vessels operating in Brazil, we have an ongoing nutrition project with focus on healthy eating habits. In Brazil this project has been supported by our largest customer; Petrobras. The cooks working on board have been trained in selecting ingredients and preparing healthy dishes. We focus on measures to reduce wastage both with our suppliers and on board, and hope that increased awareness of healthy ingredients will result in less absence due to illness in the long run. Similar projects are run in the other Farstad regions, and have resulted in dietary improvement on the vessels. Future focus and expected outcome We will continue our focus on our “Health, Safety, Welfare and Environment Policy” and the “Human Rights and Equal Opportunity” policy, and use our established tool through OHSAS 18001:2007 to create better measures within health and safety related to working environment. The project and good results on gender equality in Australia will be followed up by the other regions, and the experiences and results implemented throughout the company. When recruiting new employees we will continue to focus on attracting highly motivated seagoing personnel, to make sure we still are able to perform safe, quality vessel operations. The company will continue to recruit women to maritime related jobs. In addition to focusing on gender equality, there are efforts to include people from groups, which are underrepresented in the labour market, including people with disabilities. 11 Environment Principles Principle 7, 8 & 9 • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Farstad Shipping's goal of zero injury to people, zero harm to the environment and zero loss or damage to assets and equipment is the basis for our efforts in reducing our impact on the environment. Our “Vessel Environmental Protection Guidelines” states that it is Farstad Shipping’s intention to provide services whilst applying the principles of world’s best practice in environmental protection. Environmental investments in newbuilds In close collaboration with designers, shipyards and equipment suppliers, we make use of the latest available technological solutions in order to build and operate vessels with minimal risk of releasing environmentally hazardous substances into air and water. For our four newbuilds delivered in 2014, as well as our three newbuilds to be delivered in 2015 and 2016, we have invested in environmental measures far beyond class and authority requirements. Among these are measures to reduce fuel consumption with hybrid propulsion systems, installation of exhaust catalysts, the use of environmental friendly antifouling and Clean Design. There are also installations for measuring and logging fuel oil consumption in various operational modes, providing overview of accurate fuel usage and identifying areas for improvement. Environmental impact from the operation of supply vessels Pollutants into the sea and emissions into the air have been considerably reduced over time as a result of continuous improvements of technical solutions, better control and maintenance of the equipment as well as the choice of more environmentally friendly products. This applies among others to topics such as anti-fouling, lubricants and detergents. In all our vessels delivered after 2006, we have invested considerable amounts in ecofriendly measures beyond current rules and requirements when it comes to reduction of emissions into air. These emissions mainly consist of CO2, NOx, and to a lesser extent, SOx. The amount of emissions depend on various conditions related to fuel quality as well as the vessel's operational profile, including the number of operating hours and average load on the diesel engines. Farstad Shipping use only marine diesel (Marine Gas Oil) with very low sulphur content, which gives neglectable emissions of SOx. On all vessels built after 2006 as 12 well as on some older vessels, catalysts have been installed in order to reduce the amount of NOx emissions. Experience shows that efficient use of catalysts alone reduce NOx emissions by up to 95%. CO2 emissions are directly related to the amount of fuel used, and the company is focused on minimizing consumption in connection with the vessels' operation profile offshore as well as during transit and in port. New technology combined with optimal use of propulsion systems and other heavy consumers on board may reduce CO2 emissions up to 50% compared to vessels built a few years ago. Vessels with diesel electric or hybrid propulsion systems provide opportunities for optimal use of heavy machinery, depending on operational requirements at the time. Electric drive and variable speed control of propellers and other main consumers permit vessels to carry out the required tasks with reduced fuel consumption and at optimal load without compromising safety requirements. Raising focus and training of crew in optimal use of the various technical installations on board have proven to contribute to increased environmental awareness and reduced emissions. In addition, modification of electrical and power supply systems on board a selection of the company's vessels built a few years ago has been carried out. This makes it possible to reduce the number of diesel engines running at the time, depending on the vessel's operational mode. Thus, both diesel consumption and maintenance costs are lowered due to reduced number of operating hours. The Company participates in several projects established in order to minimize the offshore supply vessels' impact on the environment. In 2012 phase one of the project EEOP (Energy Efficient Offshore Partners) organized by DNV GL was implemented. Phase two was implemented in 2013 with the same participants in addition to a selection of oil companies. The project was completed in 2014. The project's overall goal is «the Norwegian-controlled offshore fleet shall be the most environmentally friendly and cost effective in the world and thus preferred because it consciously operates with lower consumption of fossil oils». A pilot project for one of our PSV vessels’ in cooperation with a charterer and DNV-GL, were analyzing the findings from phase one by implementing a selection of measures to the operation of the vessel, documented significant savings in fuel usage. In late 2014, an agreement for carrying out an “Optimal Trim”-pilot in cooperation with DNV-GL and another of our charterers was signed. Trim and optimal use of the vessels are of great significance when it comes to fuel usage, and we have great expectations that the pilot will provide us with valuable insight into how to optimize the way our vessels are used in daily operations. 13 The HeMoS project (Health Monitoring System), which includes condition monitoring of equipment on board one of our PSV vessels and one of our AHTS vessel, has been continued in 2014. Through the project, we receive many valuable data, which help us develop a better management tool both in order to reduce the environmental impact from the company's activities, and contribute to better prediction and planning of maintenance. The Energy Monitoring System (EM1) project has been continued throughout the year. Equipment for identifying and measuring the vessels' operational profile and energy consumption has been installed on board a number of vessels and newbuilds. EM1 enables us to analyze trends for each vessel, as well as compare the various vessels' efficiency, consumption and emissions. Historical data accumulated by EM1 will be utilized for further analysis with the aim to identify areas for improvement in terms of reduced fuel oil usage and thus emission. Equipment for safe and optimal utilization of shore power has been installed on board a number of our vessels and newbuilds. Throughout 2014 we have continued to gain distinction in connection with efficient utilization of shore power during port stays. In this context we have also contributed in various forums discussing how the ports may offer standardized solutions for offshore supply vessels, so that the same electrical power technology is available in various ports Ballast water Farstad Shipping is continuing its focus on the environmental consequences of transfer of vessels from one geographical area to another with regard to the presence of marine organisms in the ballast water. Vessel-specific plans have been created for handling ballast water in accordance with international regulations. The company's vessels operate mainly within the regions North-West Europe, Africa, Brazil and Asia Pacific but are from time to time moved between the regions and also within these regions. The Company is planning to retrofit all treatment systems for ballast water in accordance with upcoming international regulations, which have yet to come into force. Over the recent years all newbuilds have treatment systems installed for ballast water. Environment registration and waste handling Throughout 2014, the internal project «Environmental Footprint» has been carried out. The project has been vital to control measure and visualize the environmental impact of our operations. Previously described projects will also be valuable tools in this context. 14 The reporting tool Vessel Manager has been implemented on all our vessels, with options for accurate registration and control of focus areas such as fuel consumption, waste handling, and thus environmental impact. All waste and garbage on board the vessels are sorted in accordance with international guidelines and reported monthly. Septic waste and grey water are handled, treated and deposited in accordance with current regulations. The Company’s environmental accounts are, together with the SEEMP, the guidance for future improvements. Previous years' efforts to improve air conditioning and air-cooling systems on board our vessels with regard to reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases have continued. When upgrading vessels in operation, as well as installations on board newbuilds, we have applied refrigerants, which are environmentally friendly, as well as using seawater for cooling where possible. As a result of these measures, we see a positive development in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Use of chemicals on board A project for standardizing use of chemicals on board was started in 2014. The overall aim is to reduce environmental impact and reduce the number of chemicals used on board. The Company makes best efforts to use environmentally friendly chemicals to the largest possible extent. We also focus on increased knowledge among crew and improve the understanding of risk and hazard in use of various chemicals through control and safe handling of the chemicals. Future focus and expected outcome The installations for measuring and logging fuel oil consumption in various operational modes will provide overview of accurate fuel usage and identifying areas for improvement. We will continue to develop efficient use of catalysts to reduce NOx emissions. The company is planning retrofitting of purification systems for ballast water in accordance with upcoming international regulations, which have yet to come. All new builds have purification systems installed for ballast water. In regards to use of chemicals on board, we are aiming to achieve environmental improvement and a reduction in the number of chemicals on board. We also work to increase knowledge among our crews regarding safe handling of various chemicals. To reduce CO2 emissions the company is focused on minimizing fuel consumption in connection with the vessels' operation profile offshore as well as during transit and in port. 15 Anti-Corruption Principle Principle 10 • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Code of Business Conduct The presentation of the document throughout our company in 2014 has engaged our sailing crew and office staff in discussions on how to continue this work and the ongoing process of living our Values and thereby following our Code of Business Conduct on all levels. Anti-corruption is a prioritized area. Information to all employees, including guidelines and training, is communicated throughout our organization. The Company now looks at the initial experiences with the anti-corruption work, and how we can improve transparency, through supporting our employees by building up dilemma training, so our staff is better equipped to make the right decisions. In 2014, a supplier declaration was launched by our purchase departments, which started an internal process of adaption to our Code of Business Conduct, self-assessment form and terms and conditions. These documents communicate to our suppliers the expectation of compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and to be in full compliance with the Farstad Shipping Code of Business Conduct. Through our updated guidelines and demands towards our suppliers, we now point at the obligation to keep accurate records of business and financial transactions. We are also focusing on the third party, and on financial transactions undertaken on Farstad Shipping’s behalf. This will help secure good and regulated working conditions for anyone involved in the manufacturing of goods and services to our company. The code, along with our endorsement of the United Nations Global Compact, also provides clear indications with regard to the principles regarding human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. 16 Future focus and expected outcome Through 2015 we will continue to make our Code of Business Conduct part of daily work life for all employees on all levels in our organization. We will focus on establishing an information platform about COBC, and develop periodic training and guidelines in how to handle dilemmas that may occur. We aim to raise the individual awareness and expect to receive more improvement suggestions and reports through our whistleblowing system. Our Code of Business Conduct will continue to be a strong support of Principle 10 and AntiCorruption within our range of suppliers and service providers. 17
