A New Wind! KEPCO KPS, Unfolding Tomorrow with Hope This report is printed with soy-based ink on paper approved to use the eco-friendly mark and guaranteed as chlorine free by FSC, an international NGO institute. A New Wind! Unfolding Tomorrow with Hope KEPCO KPS KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 www.kps.co.kr Bitgaram-dong, 221 Munhwa-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do, 520-350 Republic of Korea TEL.061-345-0114 FAX.061-345-2109 About This Report Purpose of This Report This report describes the performance in sustainability management with regard to the economic, social, and environmental responsibilities of KEPCO KPS. Through this report, the stakeholders of KEPCO KPS can properly understand the overall sustainability management of KEPCO KPS. Reporting Period KEPCO KPS publishes sustainability report biennially, and reporting period for the report is from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2014. In this report, performance prior to 2013 was also described in order to observe the changes over the the respective years. Some activities and performance in 2015 were also included. KEPCO KPS published its sustainability report for the first time in September 2007, and this report is the fifth publication. Reporting Boundary and Scope  This report contains the economic, social, and environmental activities and performance related to the head office, 49 domestic offices, and 14 overseas offices and branches of KEPCO KPS. Reporting Framework This report was drawn up based on the Comprehensive option of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Guidelines, and it follows the 10 key principles of ISO260000 and UNGC. The financial information contained in the report follows Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS), and the financial achievements were reported based on separate financial statements. Assurance In order to ensure fairness and legitimacy of publication procedure and data, the contents were confirmed by an independent third-party body. The assurance results are described in the third-party assurance statement. Surrounding Changes This report had added KPS operations related to the headquarter relocation to Naju, and it has specifically addressed the constant social issues of employee safety, information security, and nuclear stability. In addition, due to the emergence of a subsidiary company following the establishment of a foreign branch in the Philippines in 2013, a consolidated financial statement has been written in connection with KPS and KEPCO KPS Philippines Corp. starting April 2013. The consolidated financial statement is included in the appendix. Distribution of this Report and Feedback  This report has been published in both Korean and English versions. You can read or download the report on our website, and this report is registered on GRI and UN Global Compact. We receive stakeholders’ opinions on this report through various channels including email, mail, and fax as well as our homepage. •Homepage : www.kps.co.kr •Adress : Bitgaram-dong, 221 Munhwa-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do, 520-350 Republic of Korea •Tel : 061-345-0114 •Fax : 061-345-2109 •E-mail : sustainability@kps.co.kr A New Wind! Unfolding Tomorrow with Hope We are on our way to becoming the world’s best provider of general plant services! KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Contents Introduction 02 2013~2014 Highlight 04 CEO Message 06 KEPCO KPS Profile 08 Business Performance and Goals 10 Sustainability Management Strategy 12 Corporate Governance 14 Risk Management 16 Stakeholder Engagement 18 Materiality Analysis 20 Special Issue I. Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business 26 Flawless Maintenance 28 Establishment of Safety Culture at Maintenance Site 30 Enhancement of Quality Management 32 Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction Management II. Globalization Expansion 36 Enrichment of New & Overseas Business 38 Stabilization of UAE Nuclear Power Plant Maintenance Business III. Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries 42 Core Technology Acquisition 44 R&D Promotion and Commercialization 46 Generator Facility Business Diversification Ⅳ. Establishment of Enabling System 52 Nurturing of Global Human Capitals 56 Creation of a Happy Workplace 57 Establishment of Close Labor-management Relations 58 Ethics Management Internalization 60 Eco-friendly Management Expansion Ⅴ. Sharing Value Expansion 66 Win-Win Growth 69 Social Contribution Appendix 74 Financial Information 76 Third-Party Assurance Statement 78 ISO 26000 Implementation Level Diagnosis Report 80 GRI G4 Index 84 UN Global Compact 85 Major Awards and Associate Members 86 Glossary 87 Reader’s Opinion Questionnaire 02 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 2013~2014 Highlight Maintaining Sales of Over KRW 1 Trillion (KRW 1.785 trillion) KEPCO KPS posted KRW 1.0785 trillion in sales in 2014. By maintaining sales of over KRW 1 trillion since 2012, we have boosted the chances of realizing our long-term goal, VISION 2020, to take off anew as a global top-tier company by recording KRW 2.5 trillion in sales by 2020. Ranked 1st in the Korea Quality Index for 3 Consecutive Years In addition to achieving a “Grand Slam” in Quality Management Innovation, KEPCO KPS has been ranked first in Korea Standards Quality Index for three consecutive years and, for the first time, has been chosen as a top-quality competitive public company for 16 years in a row. It is ensuring customer satisfaction with differentiated power plant maintenance service. Awarded the Grand Prize in the Korea Financial Management Awards KEPCO KPS was awarded the financial structure grand prize in the public industries section in October 2014 in recognition of its excellence in safety, profits, activeness, growth, etc. Chosen as the Best Company of DJSI Korea for 6 Years in a Row KEPCO KPS has been chosen as the best company in the support service industries sector for six consecutive years since 2009, gaining recognition for sustainable business growth in both financial and non-financial areas. DJSI KOREA Realized Defect-Free Maintenance for 10 Consecutive Years KEPCO KPS has contributed to stable power supply through the realization of flawless maintenance for ten consecutive years with “Zero” outages. In 2014, it produced an extra 663,591 MWh by shortening the period of outage prevention maintenance construction by 98 days and contributed to the KRW 59.5 billion increase in profits of client companies. 03 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix Ranked 1st in Public Organization Integrity KEPCO KPS was chosen as the best company in the public service sector group in general integrity, earning recognition for its infrastructure in terms of integrity and ethics. In addition, it was named the best organization in anti-corruption policies in 2014. Contract for 500MW O&M Thermoelectric Construction in Bhavnagar, India For two years in a row, KEPCO KPS has signed a contract with Indian government generator O&M following the ATPS thermoelectric power plant. In March 2014, a KRW-190 billion, 15.3-year O&M contract for a coal power plant was signed with Indian company BECL. Awarded the CEO Award in the Internationally Certified Outstanding Company Awards KEPCO KPS was selected as the first recipient of the “Best Management Award” in the International Certified Outstanding Company Awards hosted by the Korean Standard Quality Index. Awarded the CEO Awards in the Korea Service Grand Prix At the July 2014 “Service Grand Prix” hosted by the Korean Standards Association, KEPCO KPS was awarded the “Best Management Award” in recognition for its “servant leadership” symbolized by sharing and communication and contribution to the creation of customer service focused on on-site empathy. Certified for Implementing Benefit Sharing Company KEPCO KPS promoted simultaneous development with small businesses and implemented a results sharing policy. It was certified by the Large and Small Business Cooperation Foundation as a results sharing company for approximately two years from November 2012 to November 2014. 04 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 CEO Message “KEPCO KPS is starting a new history with the Bitgaram era in Naju, and we will not stop challenging ourselves to make KEPCO KPS grow into a company that exists for a century. ” Our Most Valued KEPCO KPS Stakeholders! KEPCO KPS has completed its operations in Bundang for the past 15 years and has begun a new chapter in business at Naju Innovation City as of this year. I would like to extend my heartfelt gratitude to all those who have shown unconditional love and encouragement toward KEPCO KPS. We will continue making a brighter tomorrow to prepare for the next century in Naju. As a company specializing in the maintenance of power facilities that provide high-quality maintenance service for various power generation facilities including hydro-thermal power and nuclear energy power plant, renewable energy facilities, etc., as well as power transmission facilities, which make for a nationally important power network, KEPCO KPS has been trying its best to contribute to stable power supply. As the saying goes, “where there is a will, there is a way” -all of our employees will continue to leap forward with patience. “By regarding crisis as an opportunity, we will move forward by concentrating on the competency in creating a new KEPCO KPS.” For the past few years, KEPCO KPS has experienced severe volatility and uncertainty due to the increased competition in the power generation facilities market and the government policy of normalizing state-owned companies; these posed obstacles to achieving the management goals of the company. In order to have accurate perception of our current status, and for the continuous growth of the company, we have set our management goals for 2014 as follows: to raise our standards in maintenance technology, to initiate business diversification with internal stability, to acquire global competitive advantage, and to achieve sustainable management. Through these goals, we went about laying the foundation for consistent growth and achieving perfect maintenance for power generation facilities; thus becoming a global top-tier company once again. With the 5th sustainability report published this year, there were many changes and various performances that we were able to achieve throughout the reporting period from 2013 to 2014. Our sales and net profit, pegged at KRW 1.1217 trillion and KRW 151.5 billion, respectively, as of 2013, reached KRW 1.0785 trillion and KRW 166.8 billion, respectively, as of 2014. Since 2012, we have been constantly maintaining our KRW 1 trillion-level sales. In addition, we are maintaining our debt-free management practices through constant increase of operating profit. Our operating profit, which stood at KRW 183 billion in 2013, reached KRW 213.1 billion, increasing by 16.4%; our debt ratio also improved from 35.0% in 2013 to 32.6% in 2014. These performances have allowed us to maintain financial soundness as a blue chip public institution. I believe this is the fruit of all the efforts of stakeholders and constant acquisition of core maintenance technologies by prudent decisions and concentration in R&D as a reputable “technology company.” 05 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix “We Will continue hurdling challenges for sustainable development and strive to grow as a leading company in global sustainable management.” In September 2007, KEPCO KPS joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), a global initiative for social responsibility led by the UN, in order to realize sustainable management. Every year, we are reasserting our support for the ten major principles of UNGC including the principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We have been recognized for valuing quality management, sustainability management, ethics management, etc., by credible institutions. Last year, we have been named the most excellent company in DJSI KOREA for the 6th consecutive year, awarded the grand prize by Korea Financial Management, ranked 1st in integrity among public institutions, awarded the CEO award for being a globally certified company, selected as KS-QEI’s No. 1 company for the 3rd consecutive year -the first for a state-owned company -awarded the 2014 Korea Service Grand Prize CEO award, etc. This year, we will continue with our various efforts to improve our financial structure and to execute government policies actively such as Government 3.0, thereby enabling our company to achieve continued growth. To make effective contributions in the economic, social, and environmental aspects, we have heeded the voices of our stakeholders through this sustainability report and selected the issues considered to be material so as to deliver our promises for each issue as follows: We will operate quality-based maintenance systems for stable power supply. In order to differentiate our quality and improve customer trust, we will change the paradigm of post-maintenance to pre-maintenance and establish a maintenance system in response to new, large-scale generator installations. Likewise, by providing performance diagnosis and enhancement services, we will improve customer satisfaction and strengthen workplace safety management for the “zerofication” of safety accidents as well as to implement a culture of safety. We will discover and create new growth engines, and promote diversification of projects. For the creation of a long-term maintenance business environment in the UAE nuclear power plant, KEPCO KPS will promote international-standard maintenance workforce and develop onsite, maintenance environment-focused procedures as well as establish management systems for domestic workers. Likewise, we will make all-out efforts to create new projects overseas and play a pioneering role in the foreign O&M market by forming business strategies for each country; thus stabilizing the overseas business. In addition, to achieve sustainable growth, we will establish a framework for the domestication of maintenance technology for gas turbine’s high-temperature parts and parts production as well as for entry into the new market of nuclear power plant dismantling, thereby creating a growth engine for the future. By developing environment-friendly maintenance technology, we will grow into a leading company at the forefront of the green energy service industry. KEPCO KPS will minimize the effect of power plants on the environment by utilizing the most efficient maintenance methods. Likewise, through the comprehensive maintenance of nuclear power plants, we will increase power plant usage rates and continue to put our efforts into reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We will secure global talents and core technology to achieve global competitive advantage. In response to the age of endless competition and to create a differentiated KEPCO KPS, we will procure core technology, foster global expert talents, arm ourselves with quality service mindset, etc., and pour our efforts into R&D of profit models by combining technological superiority with trained experts in various fields. We will realize sustainable management through commitment to society and responsible business administration. By supporting small companies and strengthening cooperation, we will create an ecology of simultaneous growth and -through various integrity and ethics activities -lay a cornerstone for our growth. Furthermore, in accordance with the Naju age, we will strengthen communication and cooperation with the regional society, carry out suitable activities of service to society, and provide expert knowledge; thus contributing to regional development. For the improvement of employees’ happiness, we will improve welfare facilities, provide suitable services, and promote flexible working systems in order to create a pleasant workplace. Through supportive labor and management relations, we will foster a mature company culture. Through the active use of labor and management communication channels, we will resolve conflicts between generations and positions by strengthening labor and management partnerships and establish labor and management relations based on trust and cooperation by forming and operating a labor and management TF and analyzing the quality of communication. We will continue to create a bright future through the combined will and strength of all KEPCO KPS employees to fulfill our vision of becoming the “pioneering industrial leader, providing the world’s best power plant maintenance service” and put all our efforts into becoming a trusted company, toward a 「New wind! A Bright Future!」 Through this report, I promise once again to do the very best we can to deal with each issue one by one as assured to overcome the current obstacles and grow together with stakeholders in our new home, Naju. Thank you. CEO Choi Yeu Geun 06 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 KEPCO KPS Profile  Sales by Business Type KEPCO KPS Profile Electricity transmission and Overseas transformation KEPCO KPS is doing its best to become the world’s top general plant service company. 9.3% 5.7% Nuclear/ General Status Hydro power 36.2% KEPCO KPS is the world’s best general plant service company offering maintenance services for overseas power generation External facilities in foreign countries including India, not to mention domestic power generation and industrial facilities including Thermal power 8.6% hydro and thermal power, nuclear power, and electricity transmission and transformation. We also operate technology 40.2% research centers developing comprehensive maintenance systems and core technologies for repairs of key components of power generation facilities. In addition, KEPCO KPS engages in the renewable energy business such as solar photovoltaic and wind power generation. Business Areas  Sales Progress (unit : KRW 100 million) KEPCO KPS was established to contribute to the stable supply of electric power through the specialization of power Category 2012 2013 2014 generation facility maintenance technologies. Toward this end, we operate the following businesses and enhance brand Sales 10,066 11,217 10,785 values, reinforce corporate competitiveness, and improve technological prowess through overseas O&M (operation & maintenance) business in India, Pakistan, Madagascar, etc. as well as domestic power plant maintenance to grow into a true global company.  Overseas Business Progress (unit : KRW 100 million) Inspection and Maintenance of other Category 2012 2013 2014 Maintenance of power maintenance of Gas turbine parts repair Renewable energy domestic and overseas generation facilities, electricity transmission and nuclear reactor business including solar Sales 796 931 1,006 power generation and and relevant structures and transformation stability check photovoltaic energy industrial facilities facilities Vision The vision of KEPCO KPS is to become the “creative leading company providing the world’s best plant maintenance service.” This vision includes providing top-quality, plant-specialized maintenance service such as generator and transmission maintenance, renewable-related businesses, and overseas and foreign business in tandem with parts design and production, consultations, etc., as well as becoming the market pioneering company through entry into new markets and diversification of business areas and creative diversification of key capabilities. In order to achieve the goals set when it was established, KEPCO KPS has revised its vision to meet the duties and business achievements and expansion plans. Moreover, by adjusting the midto long-term strategy to suit the business environment, implementing capability for the strategic business plan has been secured.  Vision and Strategy System VISION Creative leading company providing the world’s best plant maintenance service Strategic Goal Sales Operating income ratio Overseas/Foreign Sales Overseas/Foreign Share VISION 2020 KRW 2.5 trillion 16% KRW 1.1 trillion 45% New&Best 2016 KRW 1.5 trillion 14% KRW 458 billion 30% Competitiveness Consolidation of Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Strategic Directions Globalization Expansion Establishment of Enabling System Existing Business Related Industries •Bolstering the competitiveness of the •Enhancing overseas business •Activating engineeringbased business •power generation maintenance business •Improving the organizational operation system •Planning of nuclear energy export business •Promoting the new green energy business Strategic Tasks •Expansion of key capabilities in the nuclear •Development of foreign nuclear power plant •Foreign business establishment and •Building a competitive HR fostering system power sector •Establishing an enterprising corporate culture service management •Expansion of key capabilities in the transmission sector 07 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Employee Status (unit: persons) Shareholder Composition 4,621 4,714 4,948 (As of Dec. 31. 2014) Category Stocks Share (%) Explanatory Note Including Employee Share Minority Shareholders 13,886,316 30.86 Ownership Association Largest Shareholder 24,302,000 54.00 KEPCO Major Shareholders 2,501,213 5.56 National Pension Service 2012 2013 2014 Other Shareholders 4,310,471 9.58 Over 1 % Total 45,000,000 100.00 ※ Employee Share Ownership Association: 182,391 stocks (0.41%)  View of the KEPCO KPS Head Office Organizational Structure With its headquater in Naju-si, Jeollanam-do, KEPCO KPS has three divisions and 14 departments at the head office, 49 domestic offices, and 14 overseas offices. President Executive Auditor Audit & Inspection Dept. Technology Development Dept. Quality Management Dept. Business Management Division Power Generation Business Division New Growth Business Divisiona Corporate Planning Dept. Power Generation Business Dept. Nuclear Power Business Dept. General Affairs Dept. Electric Power Business Dept. Overseas Business Dept. HR & Labor Management Dept. Business Development Dept. Overseas Nuclear Power Dept. Facility Management Dept. Information Security Dept. Electricity Nuclear/Hydro Special Business Overseas Office/ Thermal Power Office Transmission & Power Office Office* Branch** Transformation Office <19 sites> <14 sites> <6 sites> <10 sites> <14 sites> *Special Offices: Maintenance Technology Center (2), Training Center (2), Plant Business Center, Hwaseong, Anyang, Dongducheon, Technology R&D Center, Solution center **Overseas offices (11) / branches (3): Chanderiya, Jharsuguda, Wardha, Ilihan, Daharki, Ambatovy, ATPS, Al-Manakher, Meghnaghat, BNPP test run, Bhavnagar, South Africa branch, UAE branch, India Branch History Aug. Apr. Jan. 1977 1984 2007 Han Ah Industrial Korea Electric Korea Heavy Industries Korea Electric Korea Power KEPCO KPS Management Technical Service and Construction Power Repair Plant Service Founded as the first KEPCO acquired 100% Merged with Korea Established as a wholly Changed Changed maintenance service shares in Han Aha Electric Technical owned company by company name company name provider in Korea Industrial Management Service KEPCO; Korea Electric (power plant repair unit Power Repair took over separated). the power generation Oct. Dec. maintenance unit Nov. 1974 1981 1992 08 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Business Performance and Goals M  ajor Financial Performance Compared to the Previous Year Management Performance and Goals Financial Status (unit : KRW 100 million) KEPCO KPS is actively participating in the government 3.0 plan and the public organization normalization policy and is doing Category 2013 2014 Change ratio its best to achieve the midto long-term strategic management plan “VISION 2020.” Assets 8,391 9,228 10.0% Liabilities 2,174 2,268 4.3% 2014 Management Performance Shareholders’ equity 6,217 6,961 12.0% Sales for 2014 stood at KRW 1.785 trillion. Likewise, thanks to efforts to increase stock values and active participation in aggressive business revision policies by the government, operating profits increased by KRW 30.1 billion (16.4%) to KRW Business Performance (unit : KRW 100 million) 213.1 billion, and net profit during the term grew by KRW 15.3 billion (10.1%) to KRW 166.8 billion compared to last year. Category 2013 2014 Change ratio Sales 11,217 10,785 -3.9%  Status of 2014 Business Performance (unit : KRW 100 million) Operating income 1,830 2,131 16.4% Category 2012 2013 2014 Increase rate compared to 2013 (%) Net income 1,515 1,668 10.1% Sales 10,066 11,217 10,785 -3.9% Gross margin 2,026 2,397 2,746 14.6% Financial Ratios (unit : %) Operating income (operating income ratio) 1,422 1,830 2,131 16.4% Category 2013 2014 Change ratio Net income 1,179 1,515 1,668 10.1% Operating profit to sales 16.3 19.8 3.5%p Return on sales 13.5 15.5 2.0%p  Performance in Each Business Sector (unit : KRW 100 million) Return on Assets 18.0 18.1 0.1%p Category 2012 2013 2014 Increase rate compared to 2013 (%) Return on equity 24.4 24.0 -0.4%p Thermal power 3,786 4,139 4,331 4.6% Nuclear power 2,865 3,813 3,906 2.4% Electricity transmission and transformation 586 574 614 7.0% Foreign 1,133 1,760 928 -47.3% Others (overseas) 816 (796) 931 1,006 8.1% Total 10,066 11,217 10,785 -3.9% Thermal power sector Following the rise in pipe and valve maintenance supplies and establishments, the thermal power sector recorded sales of KRW 433.1 billion, which is a 4.6% (KRW 19.2 billion) increase from last year. Nuclear power sector Given the increase in new contracts and rise in market wage costs, the nuclear power sector posted sales of KRW 390.6 billion; this is a 2.4% (KRW 9.3 billion) increase from last year. Transmission and With the contract condition revision and rise in market wage costs, the transmission and transformation sector transformation sector saw sales increase by 7% (KRW 4 billion) to KRW 6.14 billion compared to last year. Maintenance Following the reduction in supplies for the GT center and expedition center and the technology sector cancellation of solar power generator construction, the maintenance technology sector recorded sales of KRW 9.28 billion, which is a 47.3% decrease from last year. Others sector The others sector posted sales of KRW 100.6 billion -a 8.1% increase from last year -due to the increase in new overseas pipe and valve supplies such as Jordan, Al Manakher, Meghnaghat, etc. 09 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix Midand Long-Term Financial Plan Rolling KEPCO KPS formulated a midto long-term financial plan (VISION 2020) in 2009. On this basis, response to changes in the domestic and foreign business environments has been fluid and reflective of the changes in the business environment and inspection of suitability of the midto long-term financial goals of VISION 2020. Moreover, financial plans have been internally stabilized by rolling them 3 times by 2014, and utmost effort is being made to secure financial integrity through improvements in profits and increase in sales. In addition, by establishing the mid-term financial plan (NEW&BEST 2016) in 2013 and by boosting efforts to reach the target, the mid-term goal was achieved with KRW 1.785 trillion in sales and operating profit rates of 19.8%. Based on the 6th Strategic Supply and Demand Plans and promotion of strategic new projects considering internal and external profits, the midto long-term sales volume is projected to be KRW 1.4785 trillion in 2016, KRW 1.9423 by 2018, and KRW 2.4680 trillion in 2020. In addition, considering the increase in sales and reduction in expenses, operating profits  Imports and Operation Expenses (unit : KRW 100 million) are forecast to be KRW 216.9 billion in 2016, KRW 309.2 billion by 2018, and KRW 414.2 billion in 2020. 1,121,171 1,078,526  Midand Long-Term Financial Plan (unit : KRW 100 million) 1,006,609 881,971 Category 2013 (performance) 2014 (performance) 2016 2018 2020 803,989 803,975 Sales 11,217 10,785 14,758 19,423 24,680 Operating income 1,830 2,131 2,169 3,092 4,142 Operating profit rates 16.3% 19.8% 14.7% 15.9% 16.8% 2012 2013 2014 Direct economic value creation and distribution Interest expense KEPCO KPS has been maintaining non-borrowings management since 2001.  Wage and Welfare Expenses (unit : KRW 100 million) labor costs Labor cost in 2014 stood at KRW 408.8 billion; excluding pensions of KRW 7.4 billion, however, it 4,389 was KRW 401.4 billion. 4,184 Tax Corporate tax expenses recorded on the income statement was KRW 51.6 billion in 2014, 4,088 a 10.9% increase from last year. Community Investment 2014 donations were pegged at KRW 1.1 billion (KRW 200 million reduction from last year) and were inclusive of charity for the poor, etc. 2012 2013 2014 Government Subsidies  Tax Expenses (unit : KRW 100 million) For the continued growth of the power industry and stable power supply and demand, KEPCO KPS has carried out power 516 business and nuclear research tasks by receiving government commissions; specifically, it has been granted government 465 subsidies for the “development and international recognition of a next-generation, automatic, non-destructive inspection 364 of nuclear reactor for the export of nuclear power.” In 2013, KEPCO KPS received KRW 1.1 billion for the inspection of the internal supporting structures and maintenance technology of nuclear reactors. Moreover, in 2014, KEPCO KPS received KRW 400 million for “the 4th-year development and international recognition of a next-generation, automatic, non-destructive inspection of nuclear reactor for the export of nuclear power” and KRW 300 2012 2013 2014 million for the “development of naked-eye steam generator inspection technology,” for a total of KRW 700 million. Currently, there are a total of six development tasks under operation; since the subsidies are managed directly in the RCMS* account rather than the company account, there will be no extra government subsidies according to the financial status lists  Local Community Investment (unit : KRW 100 million) since the subsidies received by the company will be recorded as commissioned task profits. 1,361 * RCMS(Real time Cash Management System) : Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy’s Real-time combined research fee management system 1,343 1,073 2012 2013 2014 10 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Management Strategy  Code of Sustainability Management Sustainability Management Strategy Continuous growth Under the vision of “Creative company providing the world’s best power plant maintenance service,” KEPCO KPS has chosen •One, we will search for new growth engines, enhance profitability, and boost corporate value through sound 5 strategic directions and 15 strategies to achieve the midto long-term strategy VISION 2020. financial structure. •One, we lead maintenance engineering technology development with incessant technological innovation. Strategy for Implementing Sustainability Management •One, we improve management efficiency and secure competitive edge with routine and autonomous To achieve sustainability management, KEPCO KPS has implemented 「New Wind! Global T·O·P·for a brighter tomorrow」 as management innovation practice. a goal, establishing and implementing actual policies reflecting the economic, social, and environmental aspects required by Righteous management sustainability management as well as the will of the CEO for the realization of sustainability management. •One, we will enhance management transparency with * T.O.P(Transparency, Ozon-friendliness, Profitability) strict business handling and openness based on ethical management.  Strategy for Implementing Sustainability Management •One, we will fulfill corporate social responsibilities through active sharing management. VISION Creative leading company providing the world’s best plant maintenance service •One, we will pursue the enhancement of values through partnership consolidation with all stakeholders. Goal New Wind! Global T·O·P·for a brighter tomorrow Eco-friendliness •One, we will strive to foster global talents possessing creativity and professionalism. Integration of Enterprise-wide Midand Long-term Strategy and Sustainability Management Strategy •One, we will strive to establish win-win labor-management culture and improve employee’s quality of life continually  Competitiveness Horizontal/Vertical Globalization Establishment of Sharing Value through welfare enhancement. Strategic Goal Consolidation of Diversification of Expansion Enabling System Expansion Existing Business Related Industries •One, we will realize human rights managementincluding employee’s accident prevention, health enhancement, •Bolstering the •Improving the •Activating engineering •Strengthening of improvement of treatment of the socially underprivileged, competitiveness of •Enhancing overseas based business organizational operation simultaneous growth and compliance with the prohibition on various forms of the power generation business system •Promoting the new •Participation in regional discrimination. maintenance business •Nuclear energy exports •Building a competitive Strategic Tasks •Expansion of key nuclear •Development of green energy business HR fostering system societies •Development and •Expansion of power capabilities overseas nuclear power •Establishing an Valuing humans •Expansion of key service management of enterprising corporate environment-friendly foreign businesses management •One, we will strive to foster global talents possessing transmission capabilities culture creativity and professionalism. •One, we will strive to establish win-win labor-management culture and improve employee’s quality of life continually Code of Sustainability Management through welfare enhancement. •One, we will realize human rights managementincluding All our employees pledge to contribute to social, national, and human sustainable development by practicing sustainability employee’s accident prevention, health enhancement, management in the economic, environmental, social, and human aspects, helping fulfill the social responsibilities of KEPCO improvement of treatment of the socially underprivileged, and compliance with the prohibition on various forms of KPS as a leading power facility maintenance company and valuing all stakeholders. Likewise, we promise to grow continually discrimination. and develop into the world’s top comprehensive plant service company.  Sustainability Management Organization Policy Planning Execution Committees related to sustainability Departments supervising sustainability Departments executing CEO management (board, ethics management (Business Management sustainability management management, customer advisory) Team of Corporate Planning Dept.) (all departments and offices) Establish sustainability management Execute and manage Top-level Internal/External opinion gathering, implementation plans, publish/post sustainability management decision maker reflecting the management policy reports, and set/manage KPI tasks in the relevant field 11 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix KPIs for Sustainability Management In order to inspect periodically and revise the sustainable management goals and strategies, KEPCO KPS has drawn up and improved the lists of sustainable management key achievements by sector as follows, utilizing it for the decision and management of annual targets: Goal Category KPIs Unit 2014 2015 2016 Sales KRW 100 million 11,815 12,619 14,758 Value-added Productivity per Person KRW 1 million 127 129 136 Competitiveness Consolidation of R&D Investment Ratio (to sales) % 5.0 5.0 5.0 Existing Business Forced Outage of Company Imputations Case 0 0 0 Customer Satisfaction Improvement Point 90 90 90 Globalization Expansion Overseas Business Sales KRW 100 million 1,188 1,396 2,164 Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Sales from Renewable Energy KRW 100 million 185 278 452 Related Industries Education Hours and Costs per Person Hr/KRW 1 thousand 80/1,800 81/1,900 82/2,000 Increase Rates of Female Managers % 5.0 10.0 15.0 Ratio of Hiring Disabled Employees % 3.0 3.0 3.0 Establishment of Employee Satisfaction Point 82 82 82 Enabling System Voluntary Turnover Rates % 1.5 1.5 1.5 Integrity Enhancement Point 9.7 9.7 9.7 Accident Rate % 0 0 0  UN Global Compact Support Number of Information Security Lectures Number 2 2 2 E-procurement Ratio % 95 95 95 SMEs’ Product Purchase Ratio % 83 86 90 Number of KRW 100 million/Hr 11/49,000 12/50,000 13/51,000 Sharing Value Expansion Social Contribution Activities and Hours Energy Use Reduction % 16 20 20 Reduction of Total Greenhouse Emissions % 16 20 20 Green Product Purchase Amount KRW 100 million 31 32 33 UN Global Compact  Selected as the Best Company in DJSI KEPCO KPS joined the UN Global Compact in September 2007 to fulfill its social responsibilities and realize sustainability management. We declared support for 10 principles in such four fields -human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption -and presented Communication on Progress (COP) in November 2008. We actually reconfirm our support declaration annually. By not only implementing these principles internally but also expanding their application to stakeholders such as customers, stockholders, government, small companies, part-time employees, regional companies, etc., efforts will be made to expand the paradigm of UN Global Compact to the entire society. Incorporated into DJSI, Selected as the Best Company We have been incorporated into DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Management Indexes) for 6 years in a row since 2009. We were also selected as the Industry Leader* for 2 years in a row in the support service field, and our sustainability management performance was certified externally. KEPCO KPS cyclically inspects the economic, social, and environmental responsibility implementation levels and improves the insufficient aspects continually. * Industry Leader(Commercial Service and Supplies): Acquired the highest score (71 points) among a total of 41 companies subject to evaluation, Highest score among companies selected to DJSI World (65 points) 12 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate Governance  Composition of the BOD Corporate Governance KEPCO KPS is doing its utmost to improve the company’s competitiveness based on sound and transparent governance, and BOD to earn the trust of its stakeholders and enhance their rights and interests. BOD Bureau Operation and Conflict Prevention Process 4 executive Directors 4 Non-executive/External directors In accordance with the relevant articles and BOD regulations, KEPCO KPS deliberates and decides on major issues including Execution of Management Policy Control/Surveillance of Management its business goals, annual business plans, budget and closing accounts, major company rules, and key asset changes. The top executive body of KEPCO KPS approves aspects related to missions, strategies, policies, organizational goals and so forth, Operation of CEO Assures Professionalism Operation of Recommendation External Director and receives the final report on aspects related to risk management. Key management issues related to sustainability are Committee Enhances Transparency System promoted through the implementation of mid-to-long-term strategic management plans, yearly business targets, etc. Also, with regard to pending issues, the planning team reports its findings in a BOD or separate executive director work report, and the top executive body conducts assessments in order to strengthen the policies and targets etc. related to economic, environmental and social aspects. In the event that any faults are identified in the reports, they are corrected in order to manage risks and, whenever necessary, associates participate in the BOD meetings to offer their opinions. Directors who  Operational Process of the BOD have a special interest in BOD issues cannot by regulation vote on any decision pertaining to that issue. The proceedings of D-20 Prior demand survey of agenda the BOD meetings are displayed on the home page and through the Ministry of Strategy and Finance’s Alio systems to allow D-14 Confirmation of the board meeting to be held communication with the stakeholders. In order to prevent conflict of interest between the company and its directors, the D9 Receipt of agenda latter are prohibited from engaging in any business that is of the same type as that of the company without the approval of D7 Notice of convocation the BOD, in accordance with the article of the commercial law that prohibits external work. D3 Prior explanation of agenda (email, reporting by visit) vD Holding of board meeting and notice of its results Board of Directors (BOD) and Shareholders Structure The BOD is composed of eight members in total, including four executive directors (responsible for the execution of management policies) and four non-executive or external directors (responsible for the control/surveillance of management). External directors constitute 25% of the BOD, with the president serving as the chairman, as well as the CEO.  BOD Composition (All Male Directors, as of April 2015) Position Name Birthdate (M/Y) Education / Career Tenure CEO (Board Chairman) Choi Yeu-geun 02. 1953 Public Administration Dept. of Dongguk University; Former Director of Business Management Division, KEPCO KPS ’13.11.08 ~ ’16.11.07 Executive Director (Head of Business Management Division ) Jeong Eui-heon 10. 1955 Masters Degree in Public Administration from Yonsei University; Former Head of Audit & Inspection Dept., KEPCO KPS ’14.01.28 ~ ’17.01.27 Executive Director Maeng Dong-yeol 01. 1958 Electrical Engineering Major at Pohang; Former Head of Power Generation Business Division, KEPCO KPS ’14.12.09 ~ ’17.12.08 (Head of; Head of Power Generation Business Division) Executive Director (Head of New Growth Business Division ) Lee Seon-min 02. 1957 Majored in German Language and Literature at Sungkyunkwan University; Former Foreign Business Director, KEPCO ’14.08.22 ~ ’17.08.21 Masters in Economics from the University of Colorado, Boulder, USA; Current Head of Energy Business at the Ministry of Non-executive Director Lee Won-ju 04. 1971 ’15.03.27 ~ ’18.03.26 Trade, Industry and Commerce Non-executive Director Baek Seung-jeong 08. 1954 Masters in Economics from Kyungpook National University Graduation School; Current Head of Planning, KEPCO ’14.01.28 ~ ’17.01.27 External Director Park Seon-gi 03. 1954 Masters from George Washington Law School; Current Professor at the International Graduate School, Sogang University ’14.01.28 ~ ’17.01.27 Masters in Industrial Information Management at Yonsei University Graduate School; Former Head of Technology, External Director Lee Jae-gu 11. 1951 ’14.12.09 ~ ’17.12.08 Korea Midland Power Co. LTD. Director Appointment Procedure In order to appoint qualified directors equipped with expertise in the energy field and sound ethics, the CEO forms the CEO Recommendation Committee and recommends potential candidates at the general shareholder’s meeting. Non-executive directors (with the exception of government directors), external directors and civilian members participate in the CEO Recommendation Committee, guaranteeing its independence. The executive directors ensure that policies are executed efficiently by appointing directors with the relevant qualifications, expertise and experience in the energy field. Also, nonexecutive and external directors are not viable for ineligibility as external directors and appoints directors with expert 13 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  BOD Meeting knowledge in such fields as law, business, environment, economic, power industry etc. in order to maintain balance and Category 2012 2013 2014 contribute to the sustainable growth of the company through policy suggestions and business advice. No. of Meetings Held 5 9 9  Status of Business Consultations Based on the Expertise of Non-executive Directors Items to Decide 15 22 24 Prior Deliberation (%) 100 100 100 Advice Measures Taken Items Reported 7 6 7 Active Management of Investment Bodies Following Establishment of the 2014 IR Plan Stockholder Characteristics Attendance (%) 79 78 84 For the First Time among the affiliated companies Consultation with Labor and Statement Ratio of NonSincere Implementation of Normalization of Public Institutions 91 100 95 Management Concerning 14 Tasks Related to the Normalization of Public Institutions executive Directors (%) Strengthening of Head Office Relocation Promotion Release of the Company’s 2015 New Year Commercial Management Proposals by 12 14 15 Increase of Investment in Reinforcement of Information Security Formulation of Measures for Strengthening Information Security Non-executive Directors Status of BOD Meetings KEPCO KPS is actively identifying and introducing new business topics to the BOD for its stable operation. In 2014, nine meetings were held with an attendance rate of 84%. Notably, the agenda items are reported to the non-executive directors beforehand to increase their understanding of the issues involved. In 2014, non-executive directors delivered 95% of the statements during meetings. Evaluation and Remuneration of the Board of Directors  Inspection of R&D Complex The president signs a management contract with the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy and is subject to management evaluations in the two categories of business management and key projects. Meanwhile, executive directors sign a management contract with the president, which includes key issues that must be resolved within the year; and the results of their work are evaluated according to the terms of the contract in an assessment conducted by the president. The board members’ salary limits are decided at the general meeting of shareholders, and the wage standards and method of payment are decided by the BOD. In 2014, the wage of the highest paid person’s at KEPCO KPS was 3.32 times the median wage of all employees. The wage standards of the president and the executive directors are decided by the BOD on the basis of the wage guidelines decided after deliberation by the Minister of Strategy and Finance with the public institution operative committee. Active wages are not offered to non-executive directors, government directors and KEPCO directors, whereas two  Inspection of Overseas Worksite external directors are granted active wages in line with the public institution wage limit guidelines. * Median: In statistics, the median is the number separating the higher half of a data sample from the lower half Board Activation and Role Consolidation To ensure the efficient operation of the board, an annual board operation plan is established, and a support system is established and operated. The operation performance is assessed, and the result is reflected in the board meeting the following year. All in all, such an improvement program is in place at KEPCO KPS. The board operation assessment is conducted biannually; assessment is based on metric assessment criteria such as the director’s attendance rate, the non-executive director’s speech ratio, and the number of reported agenda items. Inadequacies are improved through feedback. To deepen the non-executive/external director’s understanding of the company, we hold an onsite board meeting periodically to activate the board and offer management information via email. We also grant the right to access the corporate Intranet management information system to those directors. Non-executive/external directors not only deliberate on agenda items but also present policy suggestions, advise management by attending various committees within KEPCO KPS, act as judges for various contests within KEPCO KPS, deliver management lectures to employees, and contribute to KEPCO KPS’s newsletters on key issues and policies. Overall, their roles have been strengthened through their active engagement in corporate management. The Role Played by the Top Governance Body in Sustainable Development The top administrative body of KEPCO KPS assists with the economic, environmental and social aspects through the Ethical Management Committee and the Commission for Corporate Partnership among other entities. Frequent communication with the stakeholders has been promoted through corporate meetings, the customer advisory committee, IR activities and the hosting of various meetings with similar organizations, thereby facilitating the regular discussion of economic, environmental, and social aspects. Furthermore, through the BOD, policies related to economic, environmental and social influences are periodically deliberated, with the related issues becoming key agendas, and the related risks, dangers and opportunities are assessed accordingly. 14 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Risk Management  ERM Risk Management KEPCO KPS measures the various kinds of risks that can arise in its management activities in real time and operates the ERM system to manage them in an integrated manner at the enterprise-wide level. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) System Through the process of core risk deduction, KEPCO KPS has identified the core risks as ‘business environment’, ‘financial’, ‘human resource’ (HR), and ‘maintenance business’ risks. The business environment risk is an indicator for monitoring the possibility of deviation by a major client and acceleration of the competition environment. As such, we manage our sales composition ratio, sales increase ratio, and private contract ratio. Financial risk is an indicator for managing the volatility of forecast sales and the forecast cost of sales; thus, we monitor the liquidity indicator through which we can identify the company’s short-term liquidity risk. In particular, regarding the risk of exposure to various exchanges according to our plans  Business Environment Risks for overseas business expansion, we measure and monitor the exchange risk using the VaR analysis technique. Finally, HR risk involves managing the technology qualification ratio, non-natural retirement ratio, and prescribed number of employees/ current number of employees ratio in conjunction with the ERP system. Investment Risk (PRM Deliberation Committee) Project Development Project Deliberation Project Promotion Follow-up Project Decision Committee Risk Management Committee PRM Deliberation Committee CEO Consultation Post-assessment of Validity ▼ •On-site Report •Risk and Competitive •Validity of Project KEPCO Investment •Reevaluation of Validity •Project Realization and Analysis Deliberation, Decision Deliberation After Investment  Financial Risks Supplementary Capability •Assessment of Risk Levels (Suitability, Profitability, Risk) ▼ Project BOD Decision •Project Decision and Based on Checklists •External Third-party Assessment ▼ •Gap Analysis and Development as and When Required Project Promotion Feedback KEPCO KPS is promoting the achievement of the ambitious overseas and external business sales targets it has set to realize its VISION 2020. We have actually implemented a process designed to prevent and manage the various risks that may arise at each business stage and to promote systematic strategic business. At the investment project development stage, the Project Decision Committee and the Risk Management Committee cooperate to gather information and systematically analyse and assess the possible risks. Meanwhile, the PRM Deliberation Committee deliberates the validity of the project (suitability, profitability, risk), and the approval for investment reflects the mid-short term investment plans and funding plans  HR Risks in an effort to ensure both financial stability and profitability.  PRM Deliberation Committee Category Details •All projects involving annual fund allocation or investment •Funds exceeding a certain volume (Buildings: KRW 1 billion/Information Business: KRW 1 billion/Industry: KRW 500 million) Object •Securing of key funds requiring approval of the BOD •Other projects requiring approval of the president, deliberation committee or chairman •Need for new investments, and risks •Suitability of investment period and volume Deliberation •Competitiveness and profitability •Connectivity with the mid-long term management strategy, and importance •Mid-long term investment sources etc. •Strengthening of elastic investment adjustment ability ⇒ Reduction of fund allocation •Efficient distribution of resources and enhancement of the investment effects by strengthening deliberations on financial validity Validity •Minimization of risk by assessments based on risk checklists by type (domestic or foreign investment) •Improvement of response to potential dangers based on scenario analysis (Standard, optimistic, pessimistic) 15 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  e-Audit System Internal Audit KEPCO KPS independently operates its internal audit organization as per the Act on Public Audits. The Audit & Inspection Department audits key executions or closing accounts and improves the business process through the consulting audit. This enables us to enhance corporate management efficiency and ensure reliability. The newly established audit infrastructure consists of an internal control system, an ethics management system, and an e-audit system to prevent risks in advance; in essence, we have built an institutional vehicle that guarantees the auditor’s independence and professionalism. To prevent irrationality, we analyze audit information in various ways including internal accounting system assessment and result feedback, prior checking of notice documents and follow-up checks, prior auditing of key duties and budget execution, main accident investigation, e-complaint reporting center operation, and routine inspection. Thanks to this series of initiatives, we are able to identify risk factors and prevent risks in advance, as well as responding to crises and contributing to greater transparency.  Internal Control Assessment Network Internal Control System KEPCO KPS runs an internal control system to ensure transparency and reliability in the process of drawing up financial reports as per the Act on External Audits. It announces the company’s operational status in annual business reports which it submits to the board and the auditors. To ensure transparent management through efficient operation of the internal accounting system and the voluntary risk control activities, we have carried out assessment management and certification using the Internal Control Assessment Network (ICAN). Enterprise-wide inspection procedure and monitoring system ICAN (Internal Control  Results of Assessment of the Internal Accounting Assessment Network) Management System (unit : cases) System established Optimal operation of the international accounting : Dec. 2005 management system based on the Model Internal Category 2012 2013 2014 Accounting Management System Standards Findings 4 5 4 Improvements 4 5 4 Actions and Improvements Related to Internal Control Assessment Following the internal accounting management system assessment conducted in 2014, five cases of control were added, with a total control case of 430, all of which were implemented at all our domestic business branches. As a result of the assessment, flaws in four cases were identified and the appropriate corrective measures were taken, and their recurrence was prevented by periodic inspections of the Internal Accounting Management System and enhancement of the capabilities of the managers through education. Establishment of the Internal Accounting Management System According to the International Accounting Standards We redesigned the internal accounting management system jointly with KEPCO-affiliated companies based on the international accounting standards and posted it to ICAN. This enables to actively address changes in the accounting environment including model internal accounting management system standards and the introduction of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 16 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Stakeholder Engagement  Results of Communication with Key Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Based on the importance and influence of stakeholders upon its operations, KEPCO KPS classifies its stakeholders into employees, labor unions, customers, government, citizens, suppliers, and so forth. As active communication with the stakeholders has been identified as an important factor in the continued growth of the organization, the company is diversifying its means of communication through strategic management meetings and the CEO blog, etc. Key Stakeholders of KEPCO KPS CEO Blog In order to create an organizational culture of cooperation and communication based on the CEO’s business philosophy, the CEO’s blog (Sharing Happiness with the CEO) has been created to assist communication with employees in Korea and overseas. Key Characteristics •Two-way Communication Channel  Internal/External Satisfaction Survey (unit : points) •Formation of an Open Organizational Culture Category Subject Survey Content Result •Value Implementation Agent •Represent demand of association members Internal Former 6 Categories 82.1 Satisfaction Employees Including Pensions External 10 Categories Satisfaction Customers Including SQI 93.1 Internal Employees / Labor Union 11 Categories Communication Program 2014 Voluntary Including the Business 9.76 integrity Supply Status of •CEO Blog Focused on Live Communication Partners Money and Gifts •Expanded Executive Meeting (Once a Month) •Strategic Management Meeting (Once a Month) •CEO Management Special Lectures (6 Times) •Management Issues Briefing (5 Times by CEO/Members) •CEO-led Employee Discussion (14 Times) External Customers / Shareholders / Citizens Key Characteristics Communication Program •Profit, Stock Value •Shareholders Meeting, IR Activities, Workshops •Unspecified Individuals •Customer Advisory Committee (179 times) etc. 17 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix External Key Characteristics Communication program Partner Firms •Meetings with Partner Companies •Opinion and Revision (16 Business Branches) External Associates Key Characteristics Communication program •Information Provision, Cooperation •Meetings, Sustainability Report, Newsletter •Business Announcements, Media •Information System (109 Items) External Government / National Assembly / KEPCO Key Characteristics Communication program •Business Communication Network, BOD •Policy Decision, Business Balance Participation •Group Business Management •Presidential Meetings (3), Business Report, Issue Negotiations 18 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Materiality Analysis Materiality Analysis KEPCO KPS identified the various expectations and interests of its stakeholders, and initiated materiality analysis to identify sustainability issues. Whilst deciding on its sustainability priorities by implementing the GRI G4 guidelines regarding the materiality Analysis and the procedure provided by ISO26000, issues of interest raised by stakeholders were also reflected by using it in the mid-long term sustainability management strategy and the report’s table of the contents.  Process of Defining Material Aspects and Reporting Scope STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Identification Priortization Validation Sustainability Context Materiality Completeness REPORT •T&I Analysis •Benchmarking •Media Analysis •Relevance Assessment •Confirmation of Scope, •ISO26000 Implementation Level Diagnosis •Significance Assessment Aspect Boundaries, and Time Suitability Stakeholder Diversity •In-depth Interview •Online Survey STEP 1 Identification In order to identify the related issues, KEPCO KPS conducted an analysis of its internal and external environments. In the process, KEPCO KPS conducted prior employee surveys, analysis of the issues reported by similar domestic and foreign companies, analysis of media articles released in the past seven years, in-depth interviews with stakeholders, analysis of the level of ISO26000 implementation, and relevance assessments based on the results. STEP 2 Priortization The fifty-one issues identified to be of relevance to KEPCO KPS were sorted according to priority through an online survey of 107 stakeholders. The issues accorded priority were sorted in a Materiality Analysis matrix according to the stakeholders’ interests and their effects on business.  Status of Stakeholders’ Responses (unit : cases/%)  Analysis of Related Issues Category Frequency Percentage Employees 82 76.64% TREND & Survey on KEPCO KPS Employees IMPACT analysis Internal Labor Union 5 4.67% Total 87 81.31% Benchmarking Analysis of Issues Reported by Similar Government and Related Organizations 1 0.93% Domestic and Foreign Companies Normal Shareholders and Investors 1 0.93% External Domestic Power Generation Firms (Power Rirms) 15 14.02% Media Analysis Analysis of Media Articles Released in the Past 7 Years Private Power Generation Firms (Other Customers) 3 2.81% Total 20 18.69% Analysis of KEPCO KPS’s Socially Total 107 100% ISO26000 Responsible Management Standards Implementation and Identification of the Key Issues Level Based on an Analysis of the Level of Assessment ISO26000 plementation level STEP 3 Validation diagnosis The validity of the identified sustainability issues was confirmed by an internal assessment and reflected in the report through In-depth Designation of five Representatives feedback from stakeholders related to the sustainability management report, recommendations stemming from the ESG Interview with among KEPCO KPS’s Stakeholders and Stakeholders In-depth Interviews with Them assessments of third parties, etc. 19 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Trend & Impact Issues Results of the Materiality Analysis 1 Emphasis on the Importance of Talent Acquisition 17 Non-discrimination KEPCO KPS chose 32 issues over the 4.25 average of the Materiality Analysis as the material issues of the company. The 2 Product and Service Labeling 18 Increase in the Rate of issues in which the employees and stakeholders were most interested in 2013/14 concerned the importance of discovering (Customer Satisfaction) Compliance with the Regulations 3 Increase in Demand for Customer 19 Increase in Demand for talents, the product and service labeling (customer satisfaction), the improvement of customer information security, and the Information Protection Employee Welfare and Rights 4 Expansion of Nuclear Power Safety 20 Employment expansion of nuclear safety problems. Problems (Gender, New Recruits, Part-time) 5 Labor/Management Relations 21 Anti-competitive Behavior 6 Increase in Demand for 22 C ompliance (Product Responsibility) 5.00 Significance to Stakeholders New Projects Related to Generators 23 Economic Performance 7 Occupational Health and Safety (Profits, Government Subsidies) 3 24 Anti-corruption 4.80 8 Increase in Demand for Product and 9 (Strengthening of Internal Control 4 Service Safety 18 11 and Protection of Internal Sources) 14 5 1 9 Strengthening Importance of 25 Local Communities 4.60 30 13 Cooperation Rights (Social Contributions) 8 12 6 10 Customer Privacy 26 Increased Demand for Transparency 32 21 20 15 2 4.40 10 7 27 Local Communities 28 27 26 23 11 Increase in Worldwide Connectivity 31 22 (Potential Influence) 29 25 17 12 Diversification and Strengthening of 28 Market Presence 24 19 4.20 Customer Demands (Wages, Purchases, Employment) 16 13 Responsibility for 29 R espect for Employee Diversity and Voluntary External Agreements Equal Opportunities 4.00 14 Falling Trust in Company 30 Climate Change (Emissions) 15 Saturation of International Power Plant Maintenance Market 31 Marketing Communication 3.80 32 Globalization of Market, 3.80 4.00 4.20 4.40 4.60 4.80 5.00 16 Training and Education Competitiveness and Supply Network Significance of Impact on KEPCO KPS Composition of Report Table of Contents Report Boundary Key Issues GRI G4 Aspect Sub-contents Detailed Contents Internal External 13 Responsibility for Voluntary External Agreements Introduction 14 Falling Trust in Company •Economic Performance ◯ 23 Economic Performance (Profits, Government Subsidies) 2 Product and Service Labeling (Customer Satisfaction) •Occupational Health and Safety ◯ 3 Increase in Demand for Customer Information Protection •Flawless Maintenance 4 Expansion of Nuclear Power Safety Problems •Product and Service Labelling ◯ Competitiveness •Establishment of a Culture of Safety 7 Occupational Health and Safety Consolidation of in the Workplace 8 Increase in Demand for Product and Service Safety •Customer Privacy ◯ Existing Business •Reinforcement of Quality Management 10 Customer Privacy •Increase of Customer Satisfaction 12 Diversification and Strengthening of Customer Demands •Compliance ◯ 22 Compliance (Product Responsibility) 31 Marketing Communication •Marketing Communication ◯ 11 Increase in Worldwide Connectivity Globalization •New Projects / Stabilization of Overseas Projects 15 S aturation of International Power Plant Maintenance Market Expansion •Stabilization of UAE NPP Maintenance Business 32 Globalization of Market, Competitiveness and Supply Network Horizontal/Vertical •Procurement of Core Maintenance Technologies 6 Increase in Demand for New Projects Related to Generators Diversification of •Promotion of R&D and Commercialization 18 Increase in the Rate of Compliance with the Regulations Related Industries •Diversification of Generator Facility Business 1 Emphasis on the Importance of Talent Acquisition •Employment ◯ 16 Training and Education •Training and Education ◯ 17 Non-discrimination •Nurturing of Global Human Capital •Non-discrimination ◯ 20 Employment (Gender, New Recruits, Part-time) 28 Market Presence (Wages, Purchases, Employment) •Market Presence ◯ ◯ Establishment of 29 Respect for Employee Diversity and Equal Opportunities •Diversity and equal opportunities ◯ Enabling System 5 Labor/Management Relations •Creation of a Happy Workplace •Labor-management Relations ◯ 19 Increase in Demand for Employee Welfare and Rights •Establishment of Supportive 24 Anti-corruption (Strengthening of Internal Control and Labor-management Relations •Anti-corruption ◯ ◯ Protection of Internal Sources) •Stable, Ethical Management 26 Increased Demand for Transparency •Eco-friendly Management Expansion 30 Climate Change (Emissions) •Emissions ◯ 9 Strengthening Importance of Cooperation Rights •Simultaneous Growth •Anti-competitive Behavior ◯ ◯ Sharing Value 21 Anti-competitive Behavior Expansion 25 Local Communities (Social Contributions) •Social Contribution •Local Communities ◯ ◯ 27 Local Communities (Potential Influence) ※ The report’s boundaries signify the location in which a related issue occurs (inside or outside KEPCO KPS, or both). The boundaries were only marked in the impact category among the identified key material issues 20 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Special Issue : Successful Regional Relocation to Naju-si  View of New Company Building Why this is special issue In December 2014, KEPCO KPS relocated its headquarters to the Gwangju-Jeonnam Innovation New City in Naju-si, Jeollanam-do under the special law on balanced national development and the plans for the regional relocation of public institution headquarters established by the government. The relocation of KEPCO KPS’s headquarters and the construction of new company building was undertaken in keeping with the national balanced development strategy, otherwise known as ‘Public Institution Regional Relocation’, which is aimed at thinning the concentrated capital area and carrying out independent regional relocations. This process of relocation is of utmost importance, as it will become the cornerstone for the next 100 years of KEPCO KPS. Relocation Procedure KEPCO KPS obtained approval of the relocation from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport in December 2007, and completed the purchase of land in Naju, a Gwangju-Jeonnam Innovation New City in Gwangju. Thereafter, construction began in January 2012 and was completed after 30 months in July 2014. With Naju City, KEPCO KPS put into practice Plans for Successful Relocation the ‘1 Company, 1 Mountain Care’ project, signing an agreement to care for Baemesan Mountain, Following the change in the environment due to the relocation project, similar overlapping capabilities of the organization a landmark of the Innovation City, and is currently were eliminated, and measures for rapid decision-making and the improvement of work efficiency such as shifting authority carrying out various community service activities directly to the workplace were implemented. In addition, by collecting the opinion of employees leaving their family behind in Seoul or employees moving with their family beforehand, and reflecting these in the relocation plan, employees’ discomfort was minimized.  Baemesan Mountain Forest Care Agreement Ceremony Green & Intelligent New Company Building KEPCO KPS’s new company building covers a total land area of 52,785.9㎡ and has total floor space of 37,039.68㎡. As a 19-story complex with an underground level, it possesses a main building sector, a technological research sector, and employee welfare facilities. It has been designed as a Green & Intelligent Building, earning top ratings in the categories of environmental-friendliness, energy efficiency, and green building, and obtaining certification as a high-speed information and communication building. Around 500 employees of the headquarters moved in November 2014, and officially ushered in the new Naju era by starting work in new company building on 1 December 2014, in an advanced work environment that allows employees to remain efficient and focused.  Baemesan Mountain Forest Care event KEPCO KPS, Advancing Together with the Local Community To make its second leap forward, using the headquarters’ regional relocation as the springboard, KEPCO KPS will progress together with the Innovation City. By creating new jobs and recruiting strong talents, utilizing the region’s special products and commercial superiority, and engaging in active community service, KEPCO KPS will communicate and unite with the regional community as part of the plans to boost the regional economy and promote co-development. Through such efforts, KEPCO KPS will advance beyond domestic boundaries to become a leading company in the world market. 21 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix Special Issue : Employees’ Safety  Safety Signals Why this is special issue The safety of its workers is something that KEPCO KPS considers to be of the highest priority. To create a healthy workplace, considerable effort is being poured into the prevention of accidents through the implementation of various incident prevention measures, and potential dangers are being identified and eliminated through safety education and training. Establishment of a Safety Culture Based on Basic Standards and Principles The safety culture of KEPCO KPS begins with “devotion to basic standards and principles”. The basic safety conditions are being observed, including danger preventative training such as morning exercise, notification of team members of work information and dangers etc., and photo taking after putting on safety attire. Furthermore, by placing top priority in all work  Inspection by Safety Patrol Team operations on safety, visual (safety stickers, safety posters, etc.) and auditory (safety mannequins, audio guidance systems, etc.) safety systems have been implemented, safe work guidelines have been standardized, and various activities for the establishment of a safety-oriented work culture including mandatory authorization of the safety manager before conducting potentially dangerous works, etc. are in progress. In order to strengthen the safety management of vulnerable workers, they are given basic safety and health education and on-site safety education (1hr), and safety tests are conducted during hiring, in an effort to eradicate ‘safety blind spots’. Safety Education Customized for Worksites In order to enhance the safety management ability of its members, KEPCO KPS carries out a series of systematic safety education activities including workshops for health and safety managers, crisis and accident control leadership education  Safety and Health Management System Certification for management inspectors, and legal safety education for health and safety associates, etc. In addition, standard safe work guidelines are implemented during exercises in the Human Resource Development and Nuclear Maintenance Training center in attempts to form habitual safety procedures. And the use of an automated external defibrillator (AED) is being carried out by third-party experts. Notably, through a specialized safety package produced for KEPCO KPS, the company is distributing health and safety materials customized for each workplace’s characteristics and seasonal situation, and various education materials and safety notes from the HQ’s Head of Safety Management, as well as establishing and operating rapid accident report systems. Active use of the Health and Safety Management System KEPCO KPS is striving to practice systematic safety management by conducting inspections of workplace safety, operating third-party expert safety patrols, and standardizing its safety patrol policies from the management inspector, etc.; and, by increasing its assessment of hazardous work, it is identifying danger levels and causes of various work tasks, allowing the formulation and implementation of suitable responses. Starting with Gori, Samcheonpo in 2013, KEPCO KPS obtained the KOSHA 18001 certification, and, as of 2014, has acquired the KOSHA/K-OHSMS 18001 certification for business branches with fewer that 50 employees, and is continuing to promote safety management systems. 22 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Special Issue : Information Security  In-company Information Security Homepage Why this is special issue Due to the seriousness of cyber-terrorism, social interest in information security is increasing rapidly. KEPCO KPS is combating potential private and technological information leaks by internal and external employees by making consistent efforts to protect information and vital internal properties from advanced cyber-attacks and hacking, and is ultimately fulfilling its social duty as a public organization by adhering to the government’s policies. Revision of Related Policies The company’s guidelines on personal information protection have been set and revised in 2013 and 2014. With the implementation of new measures for strengthening the protection of personal information in 2014, we made efforts to prevent private information leak, strengthen support for business security management, and link channels to the development of technologies for the prevention of cyber-security incidents. Through the revision of a cyber-crisis response  Establishment of Physical Network Separation manual, a step -by-step response procedure for dealing with cyber-security incidents has been established. Existing Web Environment Business Network Linked to Internet Activities to Improve Awareness Safety Devices Through the company’s cyber information security activities, the changes in employees’ awareness of information security Internet Business Network and private information protection are being continuously managed. In 2013, inspections of the information security status (ERP, E-payment, etc) of all the company’s computers, email hacking simulation training, and inspections and complete maintenance of personal information (files) were carried out. In 2014, in-company homepage on information security was opened and breaches Hacker of the information security regulations were disclosed, and voluntary education on private information protection and the Internet maintenance of private information files were was carried out. Sharing Increasing Transparency Physical Network Separation Stable Operation of Data Processing System Business Network Separated from Internet In 2014, KEPCO KPS invested approximately KRW 10 billion in the separation of its business network from its Internet network, and established a separation system for its data processing networks, while in January 2015 it initiated network Separation separation in its business branches following the example of the head office. Through the operation of secure data processing Internet Business Network (ERP, E-payment, etc) systems, KEPCO KPS is earning public trust as a public organization, and is contributing to stable business management by preventing information leakage incidents via its internal technology, and to the strict management of private information. Also, since March 2015, the former Information Team has been promoted to the Information Security Center, where it is Hacker contributing to stable system operations. PC Only for Internet PC Only for Internet [Physical Network Separtion] KEPCO KPS’s Efforts to Strengthen Human Security Efforts for change, such as the strengthening of technological information security and policy revision etc., are most effective when conducted in tandem with efforts to raise the security awareness of employees, as the lack of awareness can lead to  Data Processing Center security incidents at any time. KEPCO KPS is doing its best to strengthen security by carrying out various types of information protection education for its employees on an ON/OFF basis, operating a new internal management performance evaluation index for compliance with cyber-security and increasing the penalty standards for those who breach the regulations, in order to give weight in responsibility. 23 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix Special Issue : Safety of Nuclear Power Plant  Monitoring System Why this is special issue Despite the many innovative improvements made by the government and the nuclear power industry in the wake of the nuclear power problems that began with the 2011 Fukushima Tragedy, and continued with frequent breakdowns at domestic plants and the forgery of quality assurance documents, the people of Korea remain uncertain about the nuclear power problems. Maintenance efforts to ensure absolute nuclear safety are a vital task if the domestic nuclear power industry is to win back the public’s trust and make progress once again.  Recent Nuclear Power Plant Malfunction Breakdowns (unit : cases) ※ Grade Calculation Standards Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Breakdown Level Score reduction Plants in Operation 20 21 23 23 23 Major Breakdown 5 points No. of Breakdowns 2 7 9 7 5 Normal Breakdown 1 points Average no. of breakdowns (per plant) 0.10 0.33 0.39 0.30 0.22 Periodic Breakdown 0.2 points HQ Imputation 0 0 0 0 0 Minor Breakdown 0 points Efforts to Enhance the Nuclear Power Maintenance System Based on the study of overseas models of nuclear power plants, implementation of onsite maintenance experience,  Integrated Preventative Inspection System government regulatory authority regulations, etc., KEPCO KPS operates maintenance management systems separated into seven categories including maintenance procedures, basic maintenance guidelines, maintenance operation plans, maintenance meetings (PJB), etc., to prevent sudden power outages. The workplace suitability of various maintenance support tools is being strengthened with the development of monitoring systems in order to strengthen the feedback from recent maintenance operations, and by standardizing the maintenance procedure manuals. Establishment of a Integrated Preventative Inspection System Existing preventative diagnosis systems were managed separately by each section such as vibration, oil analysis, current analysis, etc., making it difficult to obtain a combined, general diagnosis. Therefore, a combined preventative diagnosis system  Facility Information Management System capable of providing information to a client firm before a general status inspection and breakdown occurred. Since 2014, all our business branches have installed this system. ERP Maintenance Information Improvement of Anticipated Problems with Domestic Designs Report Analysis Knowledge sharing among all nuclear power plants is achieved by researching defects that occur due to the deficient design Management System Information of pumps and valves etc. aimed at new nuclear power plants and finding 29 cases by category, and feedback is being provided to the customers. In this way, any problems with designs can be detected in advance and rectified or improved upon. Standard Infomation •Facility Standards •Material Standards •Project Standards •Others Advanced Automated Maintenance Technology KEPCO KPS has accumulated 35 years’ experience of nuclear plant maintenance, and has ensured that 95% of its maintenance technology is independent due to technology cooperation with the original technology-owning companies. Project Maintenance More recently, thanks to improvements in its own technology and the strengthening of R&D in order to become selfManagement Technology Information Material sufficient in original technologies, the implementing automated technology workplace is guaranteeing the safety of nuclear KMS Maintenance plants while at the same time reducing foreign exchange dependency by not relying on original technology and operating Information independently. 01 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business The Reason Why the Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business is Important for KEPCO KPS KEPCO KPS’s main mission is to “contribute to the stable supply of electricity to the nation by specializing in electric generation facility maintenance”. To that end, increased competitiveness in the maintenance of thermal, nuclear and hydroelectric power generating facilities, along with the maintenance of facilities that transmit and transform electric power, is an essential task. KEPCO KPS aims to implement the necessary measures to consolidate the competitiveness of its existing businesses and fulfill its social responsibilities. KEPCO KPS’s Efforts to Accomplish the Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business To promote its own development, KEPCO KPS has set itself the following strategic goals: execution of flawless maintenance, establishment of safety culture of maintenance site and enhancement of product quality and customer satisfaction management. In addition, responsible maintenance practices are achieved through timely execution of preliminary maintenance works to improve upon the operating ratios of its equipment, while preparing multiple scenarios and plans for responding to emergency situations in power generation facilities. KEPCO KPS also contributes to the creation of customer value while guaranteeing excellent quality and maintaining a competitive edge in the cutthroat competition of the global plant market. Rising concern about the security of Diversification and reinforcement of nuclear facilities customer demands Key Occupational health and safety Material Customer privacy Issues Products and service labeling Rising demand for greater security of (client satisfaction) customer information Compliance (Product responsibility) Marketing communications Increase in demand for enhanced stability of services and products •Established the 11 Rules of Workmanship •Established a system for the maintenance performance process Flawless Maintenance •Implemented emergency restoration systems for individual areas •Implemented KOSHA 18001 / K-OHSMS 18001 Establishment of Safety Culture at •Established systems in preparation for natural disasters Maintenance Site •Rated as the Korean company with the highest Quality Satisfaction Index for 3 consecutive years Enhancement of •Developed and implemented an App for an improved service Quality Management •Selected as a company with top quality competitiveness for 16 manual for customer service consecutive years (first among public corporations) •Enacted permanent 5S activities in all areas of maintenance Enhancement of Customer •No. of VOC measures 2,207 •Established the grounds for KEPIC quality Satisfaction Management •No. of joint workshops with customers 53 •No. improvements to CS Quick-Win policy 275 •Customer Satisfaction Index(CSI) 93pts  Interview Jung Joo Back Management Support Department Director Ace Power Utility Service Co.,LTD The generation maintenance sector is changing rapidly, as can be seen from the demand for differentiated services from clients, and the establishment of affiliated maintenance companies from power-generation companies. Therefore, a company-wide effort is needed to secure the competitiveness of KEPCO KPS in such areas as instilling all employees with a service-oriented spirit, improving production costs, and procuring advanced technology, etc. Also, since the generation maintenance sector is deeply related with the supply and demand for electricity, security measures and systems should be improved on a continuous basis with responsibility. I have high expectations for the future of KEPCO KPS as an excellent generation maintenance enterprise that maximizes customer satisfaction. 26 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Flawless Maintenance  Objectives of Flawless Maintenance CONTEXT Practice of Flawless It is expected that KEPCO KPS will become increasingly important given that the calls for greater security in nuclear plants Maintenance have increased significantly since the Fukushima Tragedy. KEPCO KPS is focusing on enhancing the maintenance/support In Emergencies, system by carrying out flawless maintenance works. Improve Voluntary Improve Liability of Establish Provision Prevention of Technicians of Emergency Malfunction Maintenance OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS Improve BTB(BACK TO THE BASIC) Activities Maintenance that Sticks to the Basics Since man-made mistakes are the main reason for malfunctions in power-generating facilities, KEPCO KPS has drafted and  The 11 Rules of Workmanship implemented “The Eleven Rules of Workmanship” to prevent such mistakes and to conduct maintenance works that stick to the basics by enhancing the workmanship of its technicians.  Establishment of the 11 Rules of Workmanship Progress of revising basic regulations Efforts to establish distinct maintenance culture Declaration of Rules Informing employees Management •Brainstorming from HQ •Maintenance tech team leaders •Prepare self-diagnosis chart •Permanent display conference Declaration Ceremony •Recital of rules during morning •Installation of banner and frames •Business leaders conference July 19, 2013 exercise everyday •Stickers in all workplaces •Reward best cases KEPCO KPS’s maintenance systems and man-made error prevention measures have been inspected by the INPO*; while the company itself has drawn up a mid/long-term maintenance enhancement plan aimed at improving its technicians’ competencies and its service quality. It has also set 19 targets in 4 core areas, such as improving its technicians’ capabilities, enhancing the maintenance process, strengthening the measures for man-made error prevention, and raising the standard of its technicians’ overall workmanship. Also, KEPCO KPS has standardized 6,208 procedural manuals, trained 17 professional man-made error prevention instructors, and created and issued a manual on the “100 basic rules of maintenance” for mechanics, electricity and  Declaration Ceremony for the 11 Rules for measurement. Workmanship * INPO(Institute for Nuclear Power Operations) : A voluntary regulatory and inspection agency established by nuclear businesses to share information and safely operate facilities as a result of the TMI nuclear power plant accident (1979) in the USA Perfect Execution of Overhaul Since overhaul of power plants is a large-scale procedure that includes the complete disassembly of parts in order to check and enhance the credibility and capacity of power generation facilities, KEPCO KPS has established a systemic procedure in which maintenance sheets are used for different items of equipment (turbines, boilers, electrical installations, measurement installations, etc.), capacities, fuels (wind, nuclear, complex, hydroelectric, etc.). Also, in order to extend the performance periods and shorten the time required for maintenance works, KEPCO KPS has implemented maintenance liability, which includes the implementation of a support system for individual areas such as  Status of Overhaul Execution and Effect optimum process control, specialized maintenance offices, while including energy saving equipment. As a result of such Category 2012 2013 2014 efforts, flawless maintenance and time-efficiency has been achieved, thereby saving client firms approximately KRW 59.5 No. of plants overhauled 105 89 99 billion (assuming that average unit costs are 89.62\/kWh). Time saved (days) 290 86 98 Reduction effect (MWh) 2,045,974 760,409 663,591 Establishment of a Maintenance System for Stable Electricity Supply Avg. unit cost (KRW/kWh) 90.32 87.73 89.62 KEPCO KPS is the only professional maintenance firm with a national maintenance network comprising a headquarters and Cost reduction (KRW 100M) 1,848 667 595 forty-three base facilities for preventing the malfunction of overhead connection wires (13,376km, 42,081 pylons). Through operation of eighty malfunction prevention patrol teams, execution of maintenance liability policy per line and incentives for efforts to prevent malfunctions, KEPCO KPS is operating the optimal system dedicated for the stable supply of electricity. 27 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Operation of Emergency Restoration Systems in Also, KEPCO KPS focuses on ensuring a stable supply of electricity through the operation of electricity supply teams in Individual Areas summer and winter, when power reserves are low; operates an expert general diagnosis service for the early discovery Category Base Facility Regional Facilities of facility faults; and carries out voluntary malfunction prevention activities such as the patrol of facilities during power Thermal generation. Gyeongin Area Pyeongtaek Incheon, Seoul ,Yeongheung In emergency situations, KEPCO dispatches a restoration task force to the facility in question to recommend optimum Central Area Boryeong Taean, Seocheon maintenance plans based on an analysis of the problem, and provides a restoration service through its superior personnel Southern Area Samcheonpo Hadong, Yeosu, Honam, Jeju and networks, thus improving the use of equipment in client firms. In addition, analysis of the causes of accidents with are Busan, Yeongnam, Donghae, Eastern Area Ulsan made for fundamental prevention and adjustment plans, and other offices are informed of such cases. Dangjin, Ulsan Complex Bundang, Ilsan, Gunsan, Complex Area West Incheon Yeongwol, Incheon Complex, Procurement and Supply of New High-capacity Equipment Maintenance Technologies Pyeongtaek Complex KEPCO KPS is striving to ensure the stable operation of electric power facilities by securing new maintenance technology Gyeongin Area for the turbines and boilers of the nearly completed 1000MW high capacity generator (Samcheok Units 1 and 2; Dangjin Units 9 and 10; Sinboryeong Units 1 and 2), which is the first such generator in Korea. KEPCO KPS also supplies its superior Central Area Southern Area maintenance expertise during overhaul and test operation maintenance by securing technological independence through education from foreign producers of turbines, boilers, and new gas turbines (M501J, Siemens). Eastern Area Complex Area Differentiation of Maintenance Quality Nuclear · Hydroelectric KEPCO KPS has established a maintenance process encompassing every step from preparation and preand postmaintenance to feedback based on its 40 years of accumulated power plant expertise. Gori2, Singori1, Gori Gori1 2Sancheong, Samrangjin  Maintenance Management System Hanbit Hanbit1 Hanbit2,Hanbit3,Muju (Yeonggwang) Maintenance Preparation Pre-Maintenance During Maintenance Post Maintenance offices Weolseong2, Weolseong3, Weolseong Weolseong1 Yecheon, Cheongsong •Comply with •Post-Job Calculation(PJC) •Job plan report maintenance procedure Deduct areas of Hanul2, Hanul3, Yangyang, •Prevent debris inflow improvement Hanul (Uljin) Hanul1 Cheonpyeong •Maintenance •Pre-Job Briefing(PJB) -deduct man-made risks •Verify independence Create improvement procedure manual (quality) plans •100 rules of Hanul (Uljin) maintenance •Fostering skilled Maintenance Hanbit Weolseong technicians Feedback (Yeonggwang) offices (Area liability) •Industrial safety •Reflect maintenace results Gori •Improve maintenance procedure manual •DB storage of maintenance records Electric Transfer Area 1 Seoul + Jaecheon KEPCO KPS will cooperate with private maintenance firms to establish and implement such maintenance systems, support Area 2 Daejeon + Gwangju the overall improvement of maintenance, and consolidate the competence of private maintenance firms. Area 3 Busan + Daegu KEPCO KPS is the only firm that possesses maintenance technology for power transmission wires (66kV~765kV), as well as Area 1 possessing three new technologies for electricity-related maintenance, and forty industrial property rights. In addition, KEPCO KPS is playing a leading role in the development of overhead connection facility maintenance technology by developing a 765kV wire connection technology which enables making corrections without causing power failure, and a smart monitoring Area 2 Area 3 system that allows real-time monitoring of the construction site, etc. NEXT STEP KEPCO KPS also contributes to enhancing facility usage by providing a differentiated service including the voluntary prevention of malfunctions, preventative and predictive maintenance with regard to all-time peaks of power demand, and constant operation of a prompt restoration service among others. We will continue providing a flawless maintenance service to improve KEPCO KPS’s image, and do our utmost to satisfy the needs of our customers. 28 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Establishment of Safety Culture at Maintenance Site  Disaster and Safety Management CONTEXT In recent times there has been an increase in industrial accidents, which have served to hinder the sustainable development of companies. KEPCO KPS aims to implement diverse prevention programs to create a working environment that is free from •KEPCO KPS, a company that is free from industrial every kind of accidents, disease, and disaster. accidents and disasters! •KEPCO KPS, a company that respects human life and places human safety above all other considerations! •KEPCO KPS, a company that provides a high-quality OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS service with the utmost safety! Health and Safety Management System  TBM-Toolbox Meeting Procedures KEPCO KPS is developing a wide range of safety measures based on its implementation of the KOSHA 18001 and K-OHSMS 18001 health and safety management systems. Danger assessments are conducted for every work operation in order to have the affiliated offices prepare for the dangers, while frequent monitoring is conducted to ensure that the safety measures are being implemented. Also, a ‘safety permission system’, under which work can only start once the safety director has given the green light, and is conducted under active prevention and monitoring by supervisors, has been adopted. Safety education is provided for everyone from new recruits to head executives, while such policies as TBMs (Tool Box Meetings), PJBs (Pre-Job Briefings), ‘hazard’ cautious’ work orders, permission to use fire-related equipment, etc. also are implemented to prevent disasters. Continuous Safety Management for Zero Accidents KEPCO KPS’s safety management team has established a safety package in the Enterprise Portal for the efficient implementation of a health and safety and disaster-prevention-support program based on cooperation. This package includes accident case studies, reports, procedure manuals, safety-related legislative information and educational materials (including videos, PT, hwp). The company’s workplaces are working to guarantee employee safety by utilizing the optimum safety education materials for different jobs, and by improving the eleven cardinal rules of health and safety, as well as implementing safe work procedures in daily operation. Also, field visits for safety inspections/guidance along with education is supported. In particular, communication and information sharing between partners has been facilitated by providing various forms of support from safety gear to workplace safety manuals.  Safe Work Procedure Major Indices for Occupational Safety  Incidents rates / No. of Incidents (unit : %/case) Industrial Incidents Rate Year No. of Incidents KEPCO KPS Construction Industry Overall Industry 2011 0.03 0.74 0.65 7 2012 0.05 0.84 0.59 11 2013 0.04 0.92 0.59 12 2014 0.03 0.73 0.53 8 ※ Incidents rate (converted disaster rates) = no. of victims/all-time workers × 100 29 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Safety Package System Industrial Health and Safety Committee KEPCO KPS operates an Industrial Safety and Health Committee composed of around nine people in each of fifty of its major offices, the labor-management union conducts this function at its smaller offices. These committees gather and implement the recommendations from each office to enhance the health and safety of workers. Each Industrial Safety and Health Committee meeting is held every quarter to deal with such issues as the current status of health and safety at company work sites, and draws up plans for the prevention of industrial accidents and hazards. The results of the meetings are disclosed to all employees, and the efforts to create a safer and cleaner working environment are revealed. Disaster Management Systems and Emergency Procedures KEPCO KPS operate a drill-based training system to respond to seasonal natural disasters including typhoons and monsoons; while considering the time for construction. Also, closer communication among the Ministry of Trade Industry & Energy, power plants, and KEPCO has resulted in enhancing the company’s capacity for information exchange and the drafting of situation  Safety Implementation System and Activities reports, thereby strengthening disaster response capabilities. Zero safety accidents by instilling safety awareness Also, the role of control leaders is being strengthened by providing supervisors with control leader education for disaster situations, while the distribution of the Major Disaster Response Manual enables a systemized, efficient response to hazards. Consolidate workers’ safety awareness Reinforce management supervisor’s safety management mindset Health Management KEPCO KPS appoints a health manager at its twenty-two major offices to take responsibility for the provision of on-the-spot OHSMS activation first aid and worker welfare, while its fifty other offices entrust the service to health management agencies. The management of individual workers’ health data has enabled KEPCO to carry out improvements and implement more effective healthcare •KOSHA 18001 •Operation of safety patrol policies. •Operation of procedures/safety work standards In addition, employees undergo special annual checkups deafness, while workers who are exposed to chemicals undergo •Execution of threestrikes-out system •Safety guidance inspection liver and blood checks, etc. Also, workers’ medical fees for comprehensive medical testing are covered, and nuclear plant Safety training substantiation workers are given annual radiation tests. Workers diagnosed with illnesses can consult with the relevant agencies or health managers who compile workers’ health •Specialist training by hierarchy and power generation source •Application of training center’s practical training on standard records, allowing regular checkups of workers’ health. In-house education is carried out for the prevention of musculoskeletal safety procedure disorders, including stretching exercises and activities to help workers to increase the flexibility of their joints and muscles. •Activation of safety experience training •Computerization of safety training data In addition, detailed customized excercise prescriptions are given to workers to increase their levels of stamina, while monthly “Sports Day” is designated to improve the health and fitness of workers. Safety culture establishment •Devising safety brand and catchphrase •Making the 11 basic health and safety rules a habit •TBM/PJB operation NEXT STEP •Observance of Safety Inspection Day •Team leader’s letter on safety KEPCO KPS will continue its efforts to develop its safety management practices by publishing its Major Disaster Response Manual, and settling an MOU with the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency (KOSHA). In addition, we will focus on Fortification of accident safety management creating an infrastructure that strengthens safety education and allows employees to work in a safe and heathy environment. •Prevention measure for seasonal accident •Ensuring preparedness against natural disasters •Participation in government’s emergency training (Safe Korea Training) •Execution of training to respond to crisis, organized by management  Major Disaster Response Manual 30 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Enhancement of Quality Management  Quality Management Master Plan CONTEXT Quality policies NEW & BEST 2016 KEPCO KPS is aiming to ‘lead customer value’ through VISION 2020 and the quality management master plan, and thereby Consolidation of competitiveness •Generator maintenance better meet management environments and customer needs. Back to the basics •Nuclear maintenance •Transmission & transformation of electricity V I Expansion of Globalization S OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS •Global businesses •Propose nuclear export I •Develop overseas nuclear power O Quality Innovation Strategies service N Lead in novation KEPCO KPS has declared its quality policies on the master plan as ‘leading consumer value with the best service quality’. In Diversification of linked industries •Facilitate engineering based businesses 2 order to realize this, detailed plans such as “back to basics,” “innovation of quality,” and “improving service quality” derived •Develop and run businesses abroad 0 •Set basis for entry into nuclear 2 from the opportunities and threats of the company’s SWOT analysis, while utilizing BIS* activities as the main means of disassembly market 0 implementation. Enabling System Establishment •Improve organizational management * BIS Campaign (Basic, Innovation, Service): As an activity to innovate service quality, this campaign is combined with guarantee work (Basic), Improve the service •Develop competitive human resources •Establish progressive atmosphere improvement work (Innovation), and customer satisfaction work (Service) Creative KPS-Way TPM Activities  Quality Policies In order to lead the power plant maintenance market, KEPCO KPS has improved upon the existing TPM and created the 5-step KPS-Way TPM, which consider companies without equipment. To spread the KPS-Way TPM, To spread the KPS-Way TPM throughout the company, we devised “strengthening capacity through TPM implementation” as a regular training curriculum. We also operate a mandatory training program linked to the personnel management system. The KEPCO KPS-Way TPM is divided into the following five steps: Step 1. Basic Compliance; Step 2. Procedural Compliance; Step 3. Regular Maintenance; (predictive/preventative maintenance); Step 4. Overhaul (OH); and Step 5. Improvement.  Implementation of KEPCO KPS TPM Establishment of Quality-TPM Spread Results KPS-Way TMP 1 Step Basic compliance •5S in maintenance •Establishment of •Development of 5S tools 2 Step Procedural compliance •Flawless maintenance training programs •Standardization of basic 3 Step Regular maintenance based on compliance •Mandatory HR procedure boards 4 Step OH with the basic rules and education •Circle/recommendation 5 Step Improvement procedures (4th /149 persons) /6-Sigma (effect 10%↑) •Improvements Invention of Standardized 5S Tools KEPCO KPS conducts the M-Area (M: Maintenance Area, My Machine Area, My Area) activities as a form of TPM, i.e. the securing of individual areas of work and the keeping of liability for maintenance and 5S activities. This is a 5S activity that considers the fluidity and flexibility of the workplace, which requires ‘mobility’, ‘storage’, and ‘convenience’. Also, ideas  KPS-Way TPM Steps contests have been held, and test groups in offices are pilot testing experimental products. Step 5 (improvement) Also, four types of frequently used 5S tools were manufactured and distributed (2,513 tools), and are now under the loss manag ement •Itechnique : 5WAY, FMEA, FDM, PM •Ianalysis : trend analysis, quality process of implementation in the work sites through monitoring. The “Plywood stickers” has been patented and secured as •Imethod : work group, 6sigma, suggestions, Practice performing joint ta난 with customers, quickintellectual property. win tasks •Achievement creation Step 4(planned prevention) •Overhaul(OH) Step 3 (routine maintenance) •Prevention, prediction, refueling, vibration, unexpected maintenance educa tion Step 2 (procedural observance) •Mandatory compliance according to procedures A P •KPS regulations, manuals, procedures in each field C D Step 1 (basic observance) •5S, service manual 31 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Patent for 5S Tools Creative Improvements The original improvement procedures including circle activities, recommendations, and 6-Sigma activities were inadequate for KEPCO KPS’s unique environment, created organizational friction, and made it difficult to achieve positive results. After compiling the results of various tests and collecting diverse opinions, KEPCO KPS completed the KPS-Way of Improvement, an internally-created method that combines and simplifies three traditional methods, and which uses the five steps of 6-Sigma (DMAIC) and the five steps of NEW & BEST. In this way KEPCO KPS was able to achieve solid results, as well as winning prizes (ranging from 1st~3rd) in numerous competitions. It also was elected as the representative in international competitions, and received an “Excellence Award” for two consecutive years at the International Convention on Quality Control Circle in 2013 and 2014.  Standard Equipment for 5S Activities Fences for Maintenance Area Parameters 5 Steps of 5 Steps of 5 Steps of Circle 6-Sigma NEW & BEST Activities Self-assembly Recycling Bins Selection of Subject Confirm Current Status Begin Improvements N Define Assessment of Situation Measure Data gathering Conduct Fundamental Analysis B Plywood Stickers Analysis of Cause Data Analysis/ Information collection Detect Causes E Analyze Planning/ Execution Improve Create Knowledge and Improve it Make Improvements S Equipment protection mats Analysis of Effect / Control and Continuation of Control Continue Management T Standardization and Management Creating Knowledge KEPIC* Quality-based Establishment KEPCO KPS carries out mock design, purchase, creation, construction and inspection procedures to participate in the  International Convention on Quality Control Circle 2014 manufacture of nuclear safety products. It has also acquired the certification of all its procedures and documents from the Korean Electricity Association based on KEPIC compliance tests in 2012 and 2013, thus securing the basis for future development activities at KEPCO KPS including participation in the disassembly of nuclear power plants. * KEPIC (Korea Electric Power Industry Code) : Specific conditions that stipulate the technical requirements (design, manufacture, construction, inspection) concerning the safety and quality of electric facilities and equipment  KEPIC Certificate NEXT STEP KEPCO KPS conducts 5S activities in the workplace at all times, which includes establishing the KEPIC quality base, etc. We plan to continue as the company with the highest rate of customer satisfaction with our quality by conducting internal diagnoses and pursuing continuous innovation and improvement. 32 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction Management  Customer Charter CONTEXT In order for KEPCO KPS to become a fully sustainable company, customer satisfaction is the most basic priority. To that end, KPS has established a service performance process, pledged to fulfill the Customers’ Charter, and set the service identity(SI) to “Feel the Master’s Touch!” This allows consumers to feel the world-class quality maintenance service offered by KEPCO KPS. Furthermore, the phrase is designed to appeal to the emotions and further enhance the company’s image. OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS Establishment of the Service Practice Standards KEPCO KPS’s customer service system consists of the Customers’ Charter, the core service performance standard, and the standards for the customer service process. The core services standard includes a promise to provide only the finest service to customers, encompassing information on maintenance quality, technological quality, contracts, and customer service. Customer Service Activity KEPCO KPS has implemented a system of customer service that includes basic manners (communication), a responsive attitude (politeness in responding to consumers), participation and recommendations of the customers, service encounter standards (manners and appropriate attitude and responses during encounters), and the handling of andprovision of compensation for inadequate customer service.  Service Encounter System ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ Maintenance plan consultation Secure maintenance materials Daily maintenance operation report Move to workplace Facility check and Start maintenance prep. consultation ▶ Service Customer maintenance route analysis encounter ◀ Finish Maintenance result report filing and DB input of report Job completion report Maintenance check Maintenance ◀ ◀ ◀ ◀ “Service encounters” covers the maintenance route of the customer and the handling of problems and complaints that can  Service Practice Standards arise during maintenance, by providing the standards and the methods of responding to such situations. This system has Service Practice Standards shown positive results in terms of “customer satisfaction scores, cautions, and service tips.” Customer Charter Core services Customer service In this way, problems can be resolved and KEPCO KPS can state its opinion, while keeping the position of the public firm with •Basic manners the highest customer satisfaction rates. •Responsive attitudes Information of: •Customer participation / •Maintenance quality recommendation •Technological quality •Standard for service Maximization of Service Quality Manual Performance •Contracts encounters •Customer service •Treatment and KEPCO KPS has labeled the service quality manual (based on the service performance process) mandatory for all employees, compensation for inadequate service and enhanced the accessibility of service encounters. The performance of the manual has been maximized by conducting quality audits, and is being used on a real-time basis through the development of a smart-phone app for employees.  Smartphone ‘App’ Development 33 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Results of CS Quick-Win Improvements Unique Deployment of CS Activities Category 2013 2014 KEPCO KPS has formed Customer Consultation Committees, operates Joing Company-Customer Workshops, pursues CS No. of Improvements 255 275 Quick-Win Goal Improvements, and fosters CS Masters through perfect maintenance service activities that enhance the value Resulting Cost Efficiency \227.749mil. \497.809mil. of both the company and the customers. It achieved the highest-ranking results of 2,207 VOC actions in 2014, 53 joint workshops, and 275 improvements under the CS Quick Win plan. Understanding customer needs, Customer Joint Innovation activities that practice open sharing information, and improving Consultation Company-Customer management through cooperation in management policies of both parties Committee Workshops solving problems related with both through the regular operation of parties, maximizing synergy in a CS committee. improvement IMPROVE THE SERVICE Activities that set a base for CS and improve customer service through understanding customer needs and CS QUICK WIN Foster CS Fostering field masters of CS that can short-term goals that develop Improvement MASTERs lead in service encounters, the entire company. and lead employees. Customer Satisfaction Monitoring and Information Protection  Customer Satisfaction KEPCO KPS conducts CSI and SQI research on a regular basis to monitor and improve customers’ satisfaction with its service. Category 2012 2013 2014 avg The company’s goal is to obtain a score of 90, which represents the highest level in the business. KEPCO KPS has consistently CSI 92.8 93.0 93.1 92.9 achieved a score of 93 for the past three years, which is the highest level in the industry. SQI 9.16 9.21 9.23 9.20 In order to understand customer needs, KEPCO KPS has to utilize its customers’ information. As a result, customer information is stored on ERP (under The Act on the Protection of Personal Information) only after receiving the customers’ consent to the use of their personal information. Such information is protected by restricting the collection of data to names and contact information, while access to that information is restricted to authorized personnel. CS Management Innovation Results KEPCO KPS has achieved a “Grand Slam” in the area of quality management innovation by winning the National Quality Grand Prize, the National Hall of Fame for Service, and the National Quality Award a first for a public firm.  Grand Slam for Product Quality Innovation KEPCO KPS is fulfilling its duties as an adventurous and benchmarking firm, earning designation as “the company with the highest quality satisfaction index” for three consecutive years. Recognizing that customer satisfaction cannot be achieved in a day, KEPCO KPS is working tirelessly to become a leading company in the field of CS management innovation. NEXT STEP KEPCO KPS has also established and deployed a “customer satisfaction management system” with a one-stop service to “lead customer values.” It is also aiming for a customer satisfaction score of 90 by 2015, by monitoring and improving customer satisfaction, establishment an emergency restoration service, and conducting a capacity diagnosis in order to create customer value. 02 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Globalization Expansion The Reason Why the Globalization Expansion is Important for KEPCO KPS As the domestic power generation maintenance market remains saturated and global interconnectivity continues to increase, winning more business opportunities in global markets has become a matter of paramount importance. In order to win more overseas project contracts, KEPCO KPS is systemizing its organization of department responsible for overseas business, forming strategic partnerships, and doubling its efforts to build infrastructure. KEPCO KPS’s Efforts to Accomplish the Globalization Expansion Our midto long-term strategy, which consists in integrating our overseas business, leveraging our market dominance to expand into existing markets, and focusing on new countries with promising power industries, has enabled us to build a form base for stable expansion of our revenues. We are currently commercializing our core technologies, including our EPC+O&M packaging, plant performance analysis and improvement, lifespan analysis, and lifespan extension technologies. In the mid to long term, we will develop our strategic overseas businesses, such as ROMM, and produce tangible results for our efforts to expand our pursuit of globalization. Globalization of markets, competitors, and supply chain Key Material Increasing interconnectivity of the world Issues Stagnant condition of the domestic power generation maintenance market  Interview Min, Young-Jin Senior Manager, Affiliated Company Management Team, Power Market & Policy Department Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO) As the domestic power generation market makes the transition to a competitive market system, KEPCO KPS must strive to maintain its position as the leading power generation maintenance company in order to meet the expectations of our shareholders. In the short run, we must prepare for competition in the domestic market and, in the long run, we must channel our capabilities into expanding our overseas business. This calls for substantial investments in R&D and human resource training. In addition, a public institution has to consider the public interest as well as the bottom line, which is why we need to think deeply about ways to contribute to the local community. With the relocation of the main office to Naju, I would like to see KEPCO KPS progressing together with the local community. 1,006 Enrichment of New Business & Overseas Business • KEPCO KPS won an O&M contract from Bhavnagar Energy Company • Overseas business sales 931 of India and renewed the existing O&M contract with Chanderiya (KRW 100 million) • KEPCO KPS pursued a rehabilitation contract with Angat Hydroelecric Plant in the Philippines (Dec. 2014) 2013 2014 Stabilization of UAE Nuclear Power Plant Maintenance Business • KEPCO KPS signs a fuel charging service contract with • Stabilization of the BNPP trial-run project Angra NPP of Brazil (managed by the best team) • KEPCO KPS signs an O&M contract with a US 17 people nuclear power plant (RCP O&M contract, fuel charging O&M contract) (100% achievement rate) • KEPCO KPS signs joint venture agreement for UAE nuclear power plant service (May 2014) 36 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Enrichment of New & Overseas Business  Significance of the Bhavnagar Energy Company O&M project CONTEXT KEPCO KPS won power plant O&M contracts with Indian state governments for two consecutive years after KEPCO KPS is pushing ahead with its overseas business as a new engine of growth due to the saturation of the domestic successfully bidding for the ATPS O&M business. market and its transition to a competitive market system. To overcome the growth limits of the current O&M market, we aim to diversify our business by forming strategic partnerships. Globally speaking, there is increasing demand for the rehabilitation These successful projects have provided KEPCO KPS with a servicing of old power plants, and we are pouring our resources into building up our ROMM* business as our core overseas stable operating base, enabling it to weather the shrinking market for privately owned power plants in India resulting from business strategy. the general economic malaise currently affecting the country. * ROMM (Rehabilitation, Operation, Maintenance, Management): Performance rehabilitation and operation business Client Bhavnagar State Government Power Plant Category Coal-fired power plant OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS Facility Size 500MW Contract Amount KRW 190 billion Status of Overseas Business Development Project Duration 15 years and 3 months KEPCO KPS overseas business began with the ‘Iraq BSPS Thermal Power Plant OH’ project in 1982. We began to consider Operation, maintenance, material our overseas operations as a full-fledged part of our business upon signing an O&M contract with a GMR diesel power plant Services supply, trial run support in India and realizing KRW 100 billion in sales. Indeed, our overseas business sales have gradually come to account for 10% of our total sales, and we are steadily expanding overseas business as our core strategic business.  Status of Long-Term O&M Contract (as of Dec. 31, 2014) Contract amount Facility Size Host Country Project Name Project Duration (KRW 100 million) (MW) Chanderiya O&M 2004~18 (14 years) 741 248 Jharsuguda O&M 2008~16 ( 8 years) 846 1,215  New Overseas Business India Wardha O&M 2010~20 (11 years) 765 540 Trial Run Project for Jorf Lasfar, Morocco ATPS O&M 2013~27 (15 years) 910 250 Facility Size 350MW×2 (Coal-fired power plant) Bhavnagar O&M 2014~29 (15 years) 1,900 500 Project Duration Aug. 2012 – Apr. 2014. Jordan Al Manakher O&M 2013~39 (26 years) 11,000 573 Contract Amount KRW 13 billion Bangladesh Meghnaghat O&M 2013~19 ( 6 years) 208 335 No. of project workers 66 workers Madagascar Ambatovy O&M 2009~17 ( 8 years) 428 135 The company’s first turn key-based Illijan Maintenance 2002~15 (13 years) 518 1,200 Performance The Philippines trial run of a coal-fired power plant Puting Bato O&M 2014~20 ( 6 years) 251 270 O&M for Afsin-Elbistan, Turkey Pakistan Daharki comprehensive O&M 2009~27 (18 years) 822 175 Facility Size 2,55MW Contract Amount KRW 1.3103 trillion Scope of Service Power Plant O&M and O/H Diversification of the Overseas Business Model Progress to date Currently under discussion A. Business Package Diversification Two forms of service models have come to dominate overseas markets. EPC+O&M is the current trend in maintenance  Overview of Mauritania Project servicing, but in developing countries with financial limitations, the BOO+O&M form of maintenance service remains popular. Client SPEG KEPCO KPS is diversifying its business model to meet the needs of both types of service models. Name of Power Plant Nouakchott Facility Size 120MW 1) Development Status Contract Scheduled in 2015 Contract Amount KRW 557 million Business Model Business Performance Remarks Project Duration 8 years and 3 months •Won the comprehensive O&M contract for 532MW Tigre of Uruguay. EPC+O&M Packaging Business Formed a partnership EPC+O&M packaging •Won the comprehensive O&M contract for a 120MW plant (Nouakchott, Mauritania Project) with a Korean EPC company in Mauritania. KEPCO KPS Hyundai Rotem Hyundai Corporation O&M EPC Coordinator Government •Won the O&M contract for a 250MW ATPS in India. Owned by commissioned project •Won the O&M contract for a 500MW BECL in India. the Indian government A consortium in which the advantages of different •Won the rehabilitation project contract for Egbin power companies could be integrated organically Performance Analysis plant no. 4 in Nigeria. Service package + ROMM •Won the rehabilitation project contract for Egbin power plant nos. 1 and 5 in Nigeria. Strengthening of national competitiveness 37 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  ROMM Business B. Strategic Considerations Behind our ROMM Business Acquisition of Operating Rights of Aged Power Plant KEPCO KPS is realigning its resources to target the overseas Retrofit and ROMM markets for strategic reasons because •Investment and rehabilitation project competition is heating up among current overseas O&M and trial-run businesses. By placing greater emphasis on Retrofit •Power plant performance enhancement and ROMM, KEPCO KPS expects to increase its revenues while simultaneously raising its competitiveness in overseas •Operate for a period of 15~20 years •Revenue generation markets. KEPCO KPS has set itself a specific overseas sales target under its VISION 2020 plan and is directing its resources •Transfer Power Plant BOT toward achieving that goal. (Build-Operate Transfer) business R Rehabilitation 1) Infrastructure Buildup •Partnerships with investment, EPC and engineering companies O Operation Pursuit of MOUs with EQ partners and domestic engineering partners Progression of M Maintenance ROMM infrastructure •Raising internal capabilities buildup Hiring people for internal positions and training of internal human resources, M Management external recruitment of experts in the legal and purchase areas Client 2) Business Performance Plant Management Capital investment License Project Business Scope Main Non-Quantitative Performances Finance Rehabilitation Naga, Philippines Turbine, Generator, Boiler •Accumulation of experience in the design and assessment of rehabilitation projects by participating in Morupule, Botswana Turbine, Generator Implement Plant the bids Services Egbin, Nigeria Turbine, Generator, Ancillary Equipment •Procuration of domestic/foreign materials suppliers O&M Main Quantitative Performances Signs contract for project to rehabilitate Egbin No. 4 plant, Nigeria Contract Details Contract Amount: KRW 7300 million, Project Duration: 45 days (End of 2014~) Work Scope Materials supply, lifespan diagnosis, turbine/generator/boiler OH, generator recoiling  5S Quality Certification from Jharsuguda, India Development of New Overseas Markets Using detailed market analysis and systematic marketing, KEPCO KPS has diversified its overseas business away from its original focus on India, the Philippines and Australia to include South America, the Middle East and Africa, three regions where the company currently has long-term project engagements. In addition, KEPCO KPS is now engaged in an active sales campaign to diversify into Southeast Asia and Eastern Europe. Global Success Stories Since launching its overseas business, KEPCO KPS has won contracts worth 100 million KRW in 2007 and 150 million KRW in 2008. In 2012, the company completed a trial-run project for a thermal power plant in Morocco and won a KRW 1.1 trillion O&M project for an IPP3 600MW diesel power plant in Jordan, which was the largest ever overseas project to date at that time. In 2014, KEPCO KPS won an O&M project for India’s Bhavnagar power plant and is continuing to build a stable business base in the global market. In 2012, our O&M office in Jharsuguda, India, one of the company’s flagship countries in terms of its overseas operations, was awarded the Grand Prize by India’s Central Electricity Authority in recognition of its energy-conserving thermal power generation. In 2014, the company was awarded the 5S Excellence certification, the most prestigious recognition of quality in India. In the Philippines, KEPCO KPS won an O&M project for the Puting Bato thermal power plant in 2014, which, following on from the Illijan maintenance project, fully confirmed the company’s maintenance quality and technological superiority. The preventive maintenance project for the Bataan thermal power plant, which the company won in 2012, is still underway and is contributing to the solid reputation that KEPCO KPS enjoys in the Philippines.  Bird’s-Eye View of Puting Bato Power Plant, Philippines NEXT STEP KEPCO KPS is developing new business models in response to rapid ongoing changes in the overseas power plant market. We are preparing business plans and laying the foundation for proceeding with the ROMM technologies business and commercialization of core technologies such as plant performance analysis and improvement, plant lifespan analysis, plant lifespan extension, etc. We are also forming networks with key material supply companies for the procurement of important materials and equipment. 38 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Stabilization of UAE Nuclear Power Plant Maintenance Business  Main Phases of the UAE Business CONTEXT Unit -2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 As competition in the domestic nuclear power plant maintenance market is expected to intensify, KEPCO KPS needs to Category #1 Trial Run Trial Run Completion OH Normal OH develop differentiable technologies in preparation for competition with private maintenance companies. The company is Main Trial Run Trial Run Completion OH Normal maximizing its efforts to retain its leadership of the Korean plant maintenance industry by continuing to rack up maintenance Preparation phases of #2 each plant #3 Trial Run Trial Run Completion OH experience by enhancing its maintenance technologies and by investing in new technologies. unit #4 Trial Run Trial Run Completion OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS  Overview of BNPP Trial Run Promotion of Overseas Nuclear Power Plant Maintenance Business KEPCO KPS will manage the trial-run maintenance of the APR 1400 nuclear power plant until 2020. The company is currently Client Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Company Location UAE Barakah negotiating a long-term routine maintenance agreement (LTMA) which will kick off when the plant begins commercial operation. Construction Period April 1, 2015 – May 1, 2020. For the maintenance business of nuclear power plants currently in operations, the operations center at KEPCO KPS for small Project Duration August 1, 2013 – May 1, 2020 nuclear power plants is responsible for selecting the strategic nations for business expansion considerations. Last year, KEPCO KPS was awarded the project for refueling Brazil’s Angra nuclear power plant unit 1 and inspecting its nuclear control rod. The project, which will run until 2017, will set a good precedent for successfully developing the market for the maintenance  Selection and Training of HR of newly operating plants. Internal: Maintenance terminology provided in English Language External: Language training is outsourced to UAE nuclear power plant project Overseas nuclear power plant operation business an English education institute Category Long-term routine Maintenance of operating Trial-run maintenance Education project APR1400 System Training maintenance nuclear power plant Certification upon completion of Project cost derivation / Cost derivation / Job Training the JQC course HR deployment planning / Establishment of execution plan Analysis of customer needs Development & management of Cost derivation / Formation of HR pool Participation in the OJT maintenance of Establishment of execution plan Establishment of operating plan subcontract / Standardization of Creation of local information DB a nuclear plant Related Establishment of proposal condition maintenance Establishment of base for overseas sales Organizations HR qualification requirement and Tasks BNPP Trial Run Project Center Development & management of Nuclear Plant Maintenance Center Nuclear Power Training Institute subcontract Conduct project onsite Project support Schedule design and course development Build of local infrastructure Process management and reporting Procurement of required technologies Curriculum & education material development Training & certification Local HR management Education program management Local 3rd party vendor management •Opening of the Trial Run Project •Launch of JQC course for OJT •Implementation of educational courses Center •Pre-determination of strategic materials 2014 instructors on BNPP and IAT •HR training & deployment •Enlistment of overseas agents UAE Project Preparation Performances •Launch of skills enhancement course •Development of new educational •Development of procedure manual •Conduct related construction for UAE project workers programs and trained instructors and translation into English Participation in a reference nuclear plant project to gain real field experience on APR1400 maintenance prior to UAE project Stabilization of UAE Nuclear Power Plant Maintenance Business KEPCO KPS is setting up a midto long-term plan in two stages in order to stabilize the operation of BNPP nuclear power plants. In the 1st stage, KEPCO KPS will complete the flawless implementation of the trial-run maintenance project in order BNPP Trial Run Project Center to make possible the successful completion of the first government-led nuclear power plant export business. For successful Safe completion ensured by employing workers with implementation of the project, KEPCO KPS has set up an SAT-based training and certification scheme, accumulated experience gained through the reference nuclear plant. experience in the maintenance of the old APR1400 nuclear reactors, defined high-quality maintenance procedures, and completed all other relevant preparations. In November of last year, KEPCO KPS opened the BNPP business center and began operating the company’s trial maintenance business in the UAE. BNPP Routine Task Center Under the 2nd stage, routine plant maintenance will begin in 2017. The goal of KEPCO KPS is to raise plant operational efficiency to the same high levels of Korean domestic power plants based on systematic routine maintenance of the facilities. Provision of high-quality maintenance techniques capable of achieving early stabilization of the plant. Routine maintenance should act as the catalyst for the development of a domestic nuclear power plant maintenance infrastructure, one of the requirements of the UAE government from the outset. At the same time, through the routine maintenance project, KEPCO KPS would be able to create a business base in the UAE and gain access to a stable maintenance market for a significant duration. This in turn should result in the realization of a business model that meets the needs of both countries. 39 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Measures for Effective Implementation of the UAE Nuclear Power Plant Maintenance Project Localization HR Structure Cost Analysis Review Requirement of UAE Optimal allocation of HR Overhead cost reduction Sustainable Gradual localization Measures for reducing labor costs Cost expenditure distribution management strategies Entry to new markets Effective Project Implementation Using Feedback Achieve business viability in advance through proper localization and HR allocation Devise a WIN-WIN (business base for KPS, infrastructure for ENEC) strategy capable of producing the optimal business model  Overview of Nuclear Power Plant Fuel Charging Project at Angra Pursuit of New Overseas Nuclear Power Plant Projects Client Electronuclear (ETN) KEPCO KPS began its overseas plant maintenance business in the mid-1990s, and gradually applied the lessons learned Date of Contract March 24, 2014 from its overseas business experiences to the implementation of a process aimed at expanding its nuclear power plant Location ETN main office, Rio de Janeiro maintenance business. In 2014, the company made a successful bid for the refueling and nuclear reactor inspection project During a five-year period, four precontract for the Angra nuclear power plant unit 1 in Brazil, which until that time had depended on foreign companies for its scheduled preventive maintenance services involving the disassembly and maintenance. Last year, KEPCO KPS completed a 1-year refueling of the Angra plant, and this year the company is scheduled Project reassembly of the nuclear control rod will to conduct a 2nd-year refueling project. Description be provided. Refueling of the nuclear power generator In addition, KEPCO KPS is steadily promoting and marketing its education program for plant maintenance experts, a key and visual inspection of the nuclear strategic business for the company. We are methodically pursuing contracts for the maintenance of nuclear plants in South control rod. Africa, one of our strategic markets. A. New Businesses in Strategic Markets Brazil South Africa Taiwan  Implementation of an Overseas Business Process for •Evaluation of maintenance technology required for •Formation of partnership with Rotek, a local •Conclusion of a partnership contract with a local Sustainable Management ETN (Electrobas Electronuclear co), market analysis maintenance company agent (March 2014) •Development of nuclear power plant maintenance •Holding of information sessions at the Koeberg •Reviewal of the outsourcing record of the Taiwan Building up of the nuclear power plant maintenance education business, receipt of orders plant in South Africa (June 23~27, 2014) Power Company (TPC) and participation in bidding business / Conclusion of contract with overseas agent / Successful completion of nuclear power plant maintenance in the UAE and overseas. B. Pursuit of More Overseas Nuclear Power Plant & Related Businesses ▼ ▲ Networking with overseas clients / Network building Since 1993, KEPCO KPS has provided refueling and RCP maintenance services for nuclear power plants in Brazil and the through sales activities / Development of positive brand image U.S., and continues to actively seek out new projects. We will continue to seek out projects opportunities by keeping abreast ▼ ▲ of the prevailing trends in major countries, and will continue with our sales activities and increase communication with our Intelligence gathering for newly-commissioned projects / customers in our pursuit of new orders. Development of plan for raising competitiveness required to win more projects / Expansion of the overseas market for nuclear plant maintenance Category Project Description Plant Name Project Duration ▼ ▲ Indian Point February -March 2014 RCP maintenance service Project contract award and successful completion / U.S.A. Davis Besse March – April 2014 Higher chances of winning bids Analysis of bidding strategies / Nuclear plant maintenance project Vogtle March – April 2014 Establishment of global talent training system Refueling maintenance service ANO April – June 2014 Category Project Name Date of Contract Remarks  BNPP Maintenance Expert Training Course Certification ENEC*Summer Training Program August 2014 •Additional contract awarded after successful completion of the first project Award Ceremony (26.12.2014) UAE •Localization of maintenance technology in the UAE is a step towards Training Familiarization Orientation Training Course December 2014 creating a sustainable business model Project •First education project conducted in an overseas nuclear Brazil INB*Refueling Training Course September 2014 generation plant → New business model *ENEC(Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation): UAE Nuclear Power Plant project, The BNPP construction project is currently in progress *INB (Industrias Nucleares do Brasil): Brazil’s state owned commercial nuclear fuel supplier Mechanism Section (Hanbit 3 Business Center) NEXT STEP KEPCO KPS is working hard to stabilize its UAE nuclear power plant maintenance business by standardizing its maintenance procedure, training the personnel of the UAE nuclear power plant, improving the job requirement classification scheme, and Instrumentation Section (Shin Go-ri Business Center) establishing a system for managing the strategic materials needed for maintenance of the UAE nuclear plant. 03 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries The Reason Why the Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries is Important for KEPCO KPS The power generation maintenance market is faced with accelerating competitiveness – the advance of producers of power generation facilities and construction companies into the O&M market is being actively pursued. Consequently, KEPCO KPS is preparing to advance into new business areas by bolstering the capabilities of its core technologies, and is making efforts to secure unique competitiveness in order to consolidate its status as a pioneers of the domestic power maintenance market KEPCO KPS’s Efforts to Accomplish the Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries As part of its efforts to accomplish the horizontal/vertical diversification of the related business areas, KEPCO KPS is planning and executing the acquisition of core maintenance technologies, the revitalization and commercialization of R&D, and the diversification of businesses related to generation facilities. In addition, it has created synergic effects by localizing core GT components, developing original maintenance technologies, expanding orders for regular maintenance of power generation facilities in the private sector, seeking to improve the capabilities of power generation facilities and expanding orders regarding them. In the future, KEPCO KPS will strive to develop new business models consistently through the commercialization of intangible assets such as its know-how and intellectual properties in order to increase its recognition as a technological company. Key Increase in demand for advance into new areas of the power generation business domain Material Issues Increase in costs of compliance with regulations  Interview Hak-Moo Lee Senior Analyst, Korea Research Center Mirae Asset Securities From the perspective of an investor, the saturation of the domestic power generation maintenance market and the increasing competitiveness of the power generation market have compelled KEPCO KPS to respond actively to the market. As the power generation market is directly affected by changes in the number of power plants, it is important to understand the consequent positive and negative effects beforehand and to prepare for them. In this respect, the closing of power plants is a good example of pioneering new business fields within ongoing businesses. It is felt that preparing a method of reusing components obtained from the intermediate process would also address the issue of the environment, which is being heavily emphasized these days. We expect KEPCO KPS to become an exemplary company and a pioneer of the industry. Related Issues Performance Index Establishment and operation of an ideas bank program to identify the need for technological development Core Technology 2013 13 No. of core maintenance technologies Acquisition 2014 17 2013 214 No. of intellectual property rights 2014 274 R&D Promotion and R&D investment (KRW 100 million) 2013 561 Commercialization 2014 539 Sales from maintenance center (KRW 100 million) 2013 811 Generation 2014 772 Facility Business Diversification Sales from foreign businesses 2013 1,555 2014 795 42 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Core Technology Acquisition  Sensor for Examining Boiler Tubes CONTEXT KEPCO KPS selected three areas of core maintenance technology in order to respond to changes in the domestic and foreign environments, including increased competition in the domestic and foreign power maintenance markets and changes in governmental policy on national energy consumption, in order to ensure consistent expansion of the market share of existing businesses. We also aim to bolster our technical competitiveness by undertaking consistent improvements in these areas. OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS Development and Securement of Core Maintenance Technology for Producing Growth Engines  Domestic Development of SMS 501D5 Blade In order to solidify the existing business and to acquire the maintenance technology for latest models, KEPCO KPS has taken actions to develop the following areas: 1) “maintenance technology for facilities with large-capacity energy and combined cycle power facilities” in order to consolidate its existing business lines and acquire maintenance technologies for new devices; 2) “gas turbine regeneration maintenance technology and component development” in order to secure independence from foreign producers in the gas turbine sector and improve technological autonomy; and 3) “development of automated machine for power plant maintenance” in order to improve the maintenance reliability of power plants currently in operation and reduce radioactivity. Also, professional training is being carried out in order to secure core maintenance technical capabilities in each field, producing a synergic effect with private companies and group of corporations by promoting cooperation. A. Process for Securing Core Technical Capabilities Study on technological demand Discovery of target technologies Securing of performance and outcomes •Validity check and discovery •Quarterly performance reviews and encouragement •Investigation and data gathering on technology •Discovery of core technologies in three areas •Participation in domestic and foreign training demand at the beginning of each year 2013: 13 cases 2014: 17 cases •Fulfillment of research tasks Business department and research organization •Cooperation among the related institutions B. Major Core Maintenance Capabilities in 2014  Test Robot for Nuclear Reactor Head Tube Technological Area Development Outcomes Maintenance technology Development of technology for boiler tube test sensor design Patent registered (Oct. 2014 -2014-0155653) for energy and Development of technology for standard power combustion analysis combined cycle power Development of application for the operation of digital protective relay Gas turbine regeneration Development of technology for producing the SMS 501D5 blade cooling system maintenance technology Installation of Dongseo power generation Ilsan combined cycle power plant (verification test ongoing) and component development Development of reverse-design and localization technology for DLN-B type combustor basket components Production of nuclear reactor head tube test robot Development of Production of a test device for secondary manual visual inspection of power plant steam generators automated machine for power plant maintenance Development of a cleaning system for first heat transfer pipe of steam generators Physical Cleaning End Effector 43 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Professional R&D Organizations Establishment of Infrastructure to Reinforce the Competitiveness of Maintenance Technology Name Major tasks KEPCO KPS is making diverse efforts to develop the workforce, establish an R&D system, and develop technologies, etc. with Technology Research & Development of robot and the goal of becoming a “creative leading company the world’s best plant maintenance service.” Development Institute automated technology KEPCO KPS selects outstanding company employees to run a professional R&D organization in order to nurture experts in Technology Development of generation Solution Center facility for Retrofit technology each area of generation facilities. For consistent improvement of the capabilities of its personnel, KEPCO KPS gives them Development of power plant priority for participation in research development and overseas training, and is making efforts both to secure the technology Nuclear Power maintenance technology such as it lacks and to spread its own technology by employing skilled experts from outside. Technology power plant decontamination, Service Center To ensure the efficient performance and management of R&D, KEPCO KPS is pursuing advancements in the research task disassembly, etc. Development of gas turbine process. In April 2014, it improved its research task management system to minimize the reduction of efficiency and other GT Technology Service Center component reverse-design and errors that arise during the management of personnel-based research tasks, and unified the outcome management system localization technology based on the research tasks. In addition, it established a research outcome management system to obtain measurement of objective utilization method and to protect its technological assets.  Research Task Management System In order to provide its high-quality maintenance service promptly, KEPCO KPS created a comprehensive system for managing its major maintenance materials and technological information. In 2013, it created a workforce group to solidify the company’ s concept of technological classification, operating system, security, etc. In 2014, it accepted opinions from personnel throughout the company for reflection in its detailed plans, with the goal of completing the system by the first half of 2016. In order to nurture global human resources prepared for expansion into foreign markets such as the UAE and India, KEPCO KPS began planning the R&D Complex in 2013 with the goal of completing it by 2017. KEPCO KPS also aims to respond actively to changes in the technological environment by creating synergic effects through organic connections between R&D and HRD*. * HRD : Human Resources Development Improvement of Nurturing a professional workforce research task management system (2014) >>>> <<<< •Operation of professional organization, Improvement of work efficiency• recruitment of skilled workers Creative leading Systematic management of outcomes• •Provision of consistent opportunities company providing for self-development the world’s best plant maintenance service System for R&D Complex (2017) managing maintenance data (2016) >>>> <<<< •Formation of organic connections Comprehensive management of• between R&D and HRD maintenance information and •Nurturing of global leaders technological information Provision of a high-quality management service•  R&D Complex NEXT STEP Location Naju-si, Jeollanam-do With the goal of enhancing the system of technological development by 2020, KEPCO will make consistent efforts to ensure Size 129.344㎡ the efficient operation of power generation facilities and to provide a stable supply of electricity. These initiatives are reflected Budget Approximately KRW 59.8 billion in the internalization of technology planning and process improvement by 2014, the establishment of a comprehensive Date of completion: May 2017 management system for maintenance data and technology information by 2016, and the construction of an R&D complex by 2017, etc. 44 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 R&D Promotion and Commercialization  Mid-term Plan for Technology Development CONTEXT National R&D policies are shifting from supplier-centered to consumer-oriented policies, and from closed strategies to open strategies based on cooperation. Consequently, improvement of the system is called for in order to maximize R&D performance. OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS Mid-term and Long-term Technological Development Plan and Reflection of Need for Technological Development KEPCO KPS modified its mid-term and long-term technological development plans by adding the three strategies of “R&BD”, “order-type R&D”, and “cooperation with professional organizations” to its existing R&D strategies for the revitalization and commercialization of R&D.  KEPCO KPS R&D Strategy R&D → R&BD* R&D not solely for research purposes but for economic benefits such as personnel reduction and reduction of duration Order-type R&D Improved applicability of outcomes by reflecting the needs of end-users and on-site needs at the planning stage of tasks Cooperation of Creation of synergic effects by connecting and integrating the operation of R&D, solutions, training, business, etc. professional organizations Major Content Period Aug. 2013 ~ Dec. 2012 (10 years) Produce results in the minimum amount of time by introducing basic research outcomes in and out of the country, Mid-entry strategy taking into consideration industry, budget, acquired resources, etc. Tasks 115 Development costs 59,039 Amalgamation and Reduction of unit costs through amalgamation and convergence of traditional maintenance technologies, operating convergence of technology technologies of electric facilities, and IT technology Technological cooperation 1,360 Budget Software 1,174 Mutual association of various plans such as budget, training, devices, workforce, as well as consistent policy (KRW 1 million) Advance of technological planning improvements Training 2,467 Equipment purchase 14,488 Securing of original technologies through cross-licensing with producer companies armed with original technology for Roadblock patents core patents * R&BD (Research & Business Development) : Research and business development  Idea Bank By establishing the “Ideas Bank System,” a means of identifying technological development needs customized for consumers, Participated by all employees Submission of needs KEPCO KPS reflects the technological development needs of all its employees from the planning stage. As a simple operating R&D operating department Reception and distribution system, all personnel can participate in the “Ideas Bank.” Technological development needs thus identified were developed by professional research organizations from each field in order to improve the on-site applicability and utilization rate of the R&D professional organization Review and development outcomes. •Response from the department that submitted the needs In addition, to objectively measure the utilization of research outcomes, a utilization evaluation is being conducted on tasks •Database input of records for which the research ceased three years ago. According to the results of the evaluation, factors of success or failure are •Derive new tasks analyzed with feedback when planning new research tasks, in a drive to improve the utilization of research outcomes. •Applicability of outcome, improvement in quality  Result of Utilization Evaluation of Research Tasks (unit : cases) Category Outstanding Satisfactory Fair Unsatisfactory Poor Total 2013 9 4 1 3 17 2014 1 2 2 5  Utilization evaluation process •Selection of evaluation committee members Development of a Higher-value Added Business Model •Evaluation by the evaluation table •Evaluation : topic 8 topics including accomplishment rate of In the wake of the Fukushima catastrophe, the stable operation of power plants became a huge social issue, and utilization plans for R&D outcomes, economic performance opportunities to participate in the power generation facility project ‘Retrofit’ have been increasing, as manifested by the resulting from utilization, etc performance improvements and facility replacements etc due to the aging of domestic generation facilities. Accordingly, 45 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Robot for Secondary Manual Visual Inspection of KEPCO KPS departed from its personnel-based maintenance service model, encompassing device examination, simple Steam Generators and Removal of Foreign Substances replacement, etc., and opted for a higher-value added business model based on engineering. First, to revitalize the automated service business for the maintenance of power plants, automated examination, manufacturing, and welding technologies for highly radioactive locations are developed. Also, existing technologies have been utilized to conduct examinations aimed at securing the safety of major facilities in domestic power plants and at removing foreign substances.  Performance of KEPCO KPS’s Automated Power Plant Service Year Performance 2013 Kori Plant 2 Steam Generator Lancing and Projection Hanvit Plant 2 Steam Generator Foreign Substance Removal 2014 Hanvit Plant 3 Stream Generator Sixfold TSP Foreign Substance Examination Regarding the Retrofit, the power generation facility, professional Retrofit personnel for turbines, power generators, and boilers such as the engineering team in 2013 and the Retrofit team in 2014 were created in order to acquire design, interpretation, and evaluation technologies, and consistent investments in R&D, training, and equipment purchase were made. Notably, in 2014, a technological cooperation contract for power generator Retrofit was signed with an outstanding small business in Korea, establishing a unified system for businesses such as the development of non-metal materials, the manufacture of components, sales, etc. In addition, a device supply contract was signed with SEL, a producer of high-quality digital protection relays, resulting in tangible accomplishments such as the establishment of a stable supply chain for devices required for Retrofit* electrical facilities. * Retrofit (Replace minor equipment that is worn or faulty) : Construction to regenerate power plants by replacing and improving major devices  Fixed Coiling of Power Generator with the aim of increasing their output, efficiency, and lifespan or converting the fuel  Performance of Generation Facility Retrofit (2013~2014) Area Performance Generator 26 generators including Boryung Fire Plant Unit #4 stator rewinding Boiler 19 boilers including quality improvement works on Seoul Thermal Power Plant Unit #5 Also, thanks to the technological transfers and mutual patent registrations it has carried out on behalf of blue-chip small businesses, KEPCO KPS is emerging as a renowned engineering service company by seeking joint growth with small businesses and profits from (their) technologies.  Performance of Technological Transfer Category Name of technology Subject company •Impedance test device for generator rotor (10-1039175) Daimyung Scada •Bolt heating-induced system (2 cases including 10-1447106) DIK •Nuclear reactor stud bolt cleaning device Moojin Keeyeon Patent (3 cases including 10-1173818) •Steam generator secondary dual-type lancing device E2S (3 cases including 10-1103820)  Contract for Technology Transfer •Metal tower reinforcement technique (10-1319784) Youngjin Construction NEXT STEP KEPCO KPS is focusing the capabilities of all of its departments on developing technologies with the potential to lead the future power generation maintenance market. By seeking cooperation with related institutions, KEPCO KPS will take initiative to create synergic effects through sharing of newest technological trend and prevention of overlapping prevention in R&D. 46 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Generation Facility Business Diversification  Roadmap for Disassembly of Power Plants CONTEXT Due to the aging of domestic power generation facilities, opportunities for participating in new businesses such as performance improvement, facility improvement and replacement, and the disassembly of power plants are increasing. Accordingly, strategies for fostering new growth engines and addressing various needs for the status of facilities, devices, the nurturing of a professional workforce, and skills-based businesses are needed. OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS Preparation for the Power Plant Disassembly Business The future nuclear reactor generation market is expected to see expansion in the disassembly sector rather than the new construction sector. Thus, as a future growth engine, increased competition in terms of seizing market shares is predicted. KEPCO is establishing a mid-and long-term roadmap in order to prepare foundations for the power plant disassembly business. Category Implementation Strategies Mid-term •Treatment of large-scale radioactive waste strategies Signing of MOUs with experienced foreign companies (~2023) Formation of relationships based on business cooperation with domestic companies and local governments. Long-term •Power plant disassembly business strategies Formation of relationships based on business cooperation with domestic and foreign companies as well as local governments.  Process for Disassembling Roadmap (2023~) Participation in the operation of a comprehensive treatment system for the disassembly of power plants. Waste recycling Recyclable Waste Site reuse D. Environmental restoration A. Decontamination   Nuclear reactor facilities Strategies for C. Waste treatment    disassembly/planning   High radioactive facility B. Cutting/removal Refurbishment Disposal Facility reuse KEPCO KPS selected 11 major agendas and 34 detailed technologies for engineering, decontamination, cutting, and waste management. As of December 2014, a reactor coolant system and a machine decontamination technology are being  Siemens W501D5 Localized Blade developed under the “agreement for carrying out national tasks for the design of a power plant disassembly technology.” Furthermore, an MOU for cooperation on comprehensive research on reactor disassembly was signed with Gyeongsangbukdo, and cooperative relations with foreign professional reactor disassembly companies were established. In January 2014, a reactor disassembly team was formed, and various domestic and foreign training programs as well as the relevant technology workforce are being developed. Secure Global Competitiveness in the Gas Turbine Sector In order to become a leading company in gas turbine generation maintenance and production, KEPCO KPS has consistently conducted its own R&D in-house. As a result, it has succeeded in localizing the core component of the W251B gas turbine rotor; achieved technological independence in the field of examination; and conducted the soundness check for the W251B rotor by itself for the first time in Korea. Also, by forming a consortium with a number of power generation companies and small businesses, it has succeeded in producing single, double, and triple blades, the core components of the W501 D gas turbine, and laid the foundation to advance into the components market which previously relied solely on foreign producers. Consequently, an expansion of the engineering business based on production as well as a foreign currency reduction effect worth approximately KRW 6.6 billion is expected. 47 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix A. Production of Siemens W501D5 Dec, 2010 Established of long-term and short-term •Research period/development costs : business for business sites Sept. 2011~Oct. 2014 / KRW 1.93 billion (KEPCO KPS:KRW 1.43 billion / STXKRW 500 million) (localizaton of 501D5 GT component) •Participants : KEPCO KPS (production), STX Heavy Industries (casting), June. 2011 Composed consortium for component East-West Power (verification test),Korea Electric Power Research Institute (quality check) development ※ Verification test : Nov. 2014~Nov. 2016(2 years), Ilsan Complex #5, two single~triple blades (KEPCO KPS, East-West Power, STX, Korea Electric Power Research Institute) Jan. 2013 Completed detailed casting of single, double, and triple blades (KEPCO KPS-STX Heavy Industries) Jan. 2014 Completed detailed machine manufacturing of single, double, and triple blades (KEPCO KPS) B. Reduction of Foreign Currency Spending Aug. 2014 Discussed installation verification test (KEPCO KPS – East-West Power) •Soundness Check of the W251B Rotor (for one rotor) Oct. 2014 Examined balanacing initiation after installing Category Reward Notes blade (GT Maintenance Center) Technology service fees KRW 375 million •Payment of technology service fees for similar devices Self-development production blade, rotor installment Localization of components KRW 216 million •Unit price from producer: KRW 528 million / localized unit price : KRW 312 million •Expected Foreign Currency Reduction Effect for Core Components of 501D KRW 224 million/component x 27 components = 6.05 billion/year Enforcement of Renewable Energy Business  Examination of W251B Gas Turbine Rotor KEPCO KPS is making efforts to expand the supply of green energy facilities, and is making efforts for ‘low-carbon green growth’ in line with the national policy of nurturing renewable energy businesses and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Currently, a comprehensive supply chain consisting of the planning energy (solar power, wind power, etc.), design, examination, construction, review, and maintenance of renewable energy facilities is also being established. In addition, KEPCO KPS is carrying out proactive business along with local governments due to the relocation of its headquarters to Naju; while its participation in government’s project for “the construction of an energy-independent ecofriendly island” is being reviewed. A. Major Performance in the Renewable Energy Business Sector 1) Construction and operation of a 25MW Solar Photovoltaic Power Plant in Geogeum 2) Construction of a 40MW Solar Photovoltaic Power Plant in Yeongwol B. Renewable Energy Business Performances by Year (unit : KRW 1 million) Category(sales) 2012 2013 2014 Total Solar power 4,675 81,436 3,710 89,821 Hydropower 216 280 352 848 Total 4,891 81,716 4,062 90,669 C. Construction in Geogeum Construction site Module installment Construction completed 48 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Development and Operation of External Businesses Based on the technical capability of its existing maintenance business, KEPCO KPS is establishing a system of O&M business development and cooperation for existing and new IPP businesses in accordance with recent entries by domestic construction companies in the power plant industry. In addition, participation through IPP shares is being reduced due to the government’s policy of normalizing public institutions, which was implemented in 2013. Accordingly, KEPCO KPS is developing various business methods. A. Major Performance 1) Order for regular maintenance works of the Dongducheon Dream Power generation facility (Oct. 2014, KRW 33.3 billion) 2) Order for Daewoo Pocheon CCPP O&M (March 2015, KRW 41.8 billion) 3) Order for the Songdo Resources Environment Center’s incineration heat power generation EPC and O&M (June 2013) EPC business: Construction fee of KRW 7.8 billion O&M business: Contract period of 12 years, construction fee of KRW 6.1 billion Mutual supply agreement with GS Power Contract with Daewoo Pocheon Retrofit Construction KEPCO KPS has selected facility improvement works, whereby the performance of aged power plants (efficiency, output, lifespan) is improved through facility repair and maintenance, as its future-oriented higher-value added business. To that end, KEPCO KPS is converting its business system into a technology-centered engineering system, and possesses competitive advantage through its differentiated technical skills with private maintenance companies. A. Major Performance 1) Generators : Conducted fixed recoiling construction for Boryung Unit #4 (Stator rewinding 500㎿) (2013) Received order for core lamination construction for Bucheon ST for the first time in Korea (2014) 2) Boiler : Performance improvement works for GS E&R Banwol Unit #1 boiler (2014) 3) ECMS : Advanced to business in the performance improvement sector (2013) B. Business Performance (unit : KRW 100 million) Category 2013 2014 Total Generators 79 128 207 Turbines 25 31 56 Boilers 24 63 87 ECMS 5 0.1 5.1 Speed regulators 5 8 13 Total 138 230.1 368.1 49 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Comprehensive Service Center Business for New Growth Engines and Strengthened Capabilities Location Gyeongju-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do KEPCO KPS established the SHOP service system with the emphasis on on-site power plant maintenance and the production Size 33,000㎡ and construction of various facilities, in order to establish future growth engines and to strengthen its capabilities. It plans to Office building: 6,477㎡ (Gross area) construct a comprehensive service center by 2016 as a strategic headquarters to prepare for the needs of mid-term and longMajor facilities SHOP: 9,091㎡ (Gross area) term technology as new growth engines. Through the comprehensive service center, KEPCO KPS plans to conduct specialized Investment scale Approx. 35.6 billion businesses, and is carrying out its operation with the goal of discovering fifty new businesses and expects to generate new Date of completion Nov. 2016 revenues of KRW 166 billion by 2025. In addition, the EPC concept of design, delivery, and construction was added to the existing maintenance system. In order to secure a platform for autonomous EPC, KEPCO KPS acquired the KEPIC constructor’s (machine, electricity, structure, climate control device) certificate in 2012, the producer’s (machine) certificate in 2013, and quality verification for regular-size goods by the Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Company, to facilitate the delivery of a total service. Before After [Registered as a comprehensive maintenance company] [Certified with KEPIC] Engineering CGID Maintenance Machinery • CLASS 1 pressure container ▶ ◀ COMMERCIAL GRADE DEDICATION •Goods with safety check of •CLASS 1 pipeline Power Plant •Machine, electricity, I&C Power Plant Service Procurement ▶ ◀ Construction Machinery •Supply of metals, non-metals, and welding materials Machinery •All CLASS 1 items Power Plant •Production and supply of CLASS 1 containers Structure •All CLASS I devices Service and pipelines Machinery •Grade A resistance and containerss Structure •Production and supply of metals and nonmetals Structure •All safety-related items material NEXT STEP KEPCO KPS is diversifying its business portfolio into the power generation maintenance business to lay foundations for sustained growth and to emerge as a global service that reflects the national reputation and technological competitiveness in the power generation maintenance industry. As well as strengthening the competitiveness of its existing power generation maintenance business, KEPCO KPS is committed to discovering future growth engines by developing renewable energy and overseas business. Furthermore, based on these business foundations, KEPCO KPS aims to realize sustainable growth as a single-cycle service supplier encompassing construction, device production, facility improvement and replacement as part of its maintenance business. 04 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Establishment of Enabling System The Reason Why the Establishment of Enabling System is Important for KEPCO KPS Among the internal and external changes, including globalization and increased competition among corporations, the importance of employing and nurturing human capital with the required capabilities in order to become a sustainable company is increasing. Furthermore, along with managerial activities, recognition of corporate responsibility for minimizing corporate impact on the environment, which our future generation will inherit, is increasing. In order to respond to these requirements, KEPCO KPS intends to establish the enabling system with the aim of improving its human capital, labormanagement relations, ethics management, and eco-friendly management, thus fulfilling its role as a corporation for the people that leads the sustainable power generation maintenance industry. KEPCO KPS’s Efforts to Accomplish the Establishment of Enabling System KEPCO KPS has set itself a number of strategic tasks for establishing responsible management, fulfilling its social responsibility, and creating a happy workplace in order to realize sustainable management. As well as introducing a system of ethics management for operation of the “Crystal KPS” program and promoting a voluntary culture of ethical workplace practices, we pushed ahead with ethics management practices in connection with individual stakeholders. In addition, mid-term and long-term plans for the development and utilization of eco-friendly maintenance technologies have been established, along with the development of technology for minimizing the environmental impact and the effects of technology on communities situated near power plants. Market Presence (Wages, Purchases, Employment) Diversity and Equal Opportunity Non-discrimination Increased Importance For Recruiting and Employment Training High-Quality Human Resources (Gender, New recruits, Temporary Employees) Key Enhanced Employee Welfare Training and Education Material and Human Rights Issues Corruption (Strengthening of Internal Control Labor-Management Relations and Protection of Whistleblowers) Increased Demand for Transparency Climate Change (Emissions) Related Issues Performance Index Employment of Female Human Capital 21 Percentage of Disabled Employees 3.36% Nurturing of Re-employment of Retired Persons 92 Global Human Capitals Total Education Budget KRW 9.1 billion Total No. of Education Recipients 22,015 Establishment of Close Analysis of Satisfaction with Total Score of Labor-management Relations Labor-Management Communication 4.2 (5-point scale ) Evaluation of Integrity by First in ‘Other Public Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission Institutions Type I’ Ethics Management No. of Recipients of Internalization 28,260 Education on Ethics/Anti-Corruption/Integrity Disciplinary Actions Taken on Corruption 100% Eco-friendly Investment in Environmental Issues KRW 41 million Management Expansion Rate of One Trouble-Free Cycle 97.6%  Interview Gwon, Yong Gyun Assistant Director, Electric Power Division, Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy As a public institution, KEPCO should seek both profitability and publicity when conducting its business. As a result, it needs to perform activities aimed at strengthening ethical management, such as establishing a system for preventing corruption, in order to earn the trust of the general public. Also, it should not settle for being the best public institution within the industry, but should prepare for competition with private institutions, which will become more intense in the future, by developing its core capabilities. I hope that KEPCO KPS will rise from first in the nation to first in the world by improving its corporate value from the long-term perspective and by pursuing sustainable development. 52 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Nurturing of Global Human Capitals  Average No. of Working Years (unit : years) CONTEXT 16.6 A more efficient and systematic operation of personnel and organization is essential if KEPCO KPS is to maintain its status 16.1 as the nation’s best power generation maintenance company. Therefore, KEPCO KPS is targeting efficiency in its business operations, the establishment of a more effective system of mid-term and long-term personnel management, the recruitment 13.5 of outstanding human resources, the nurturing of a professional workforce, and the strengthening of its personnel policy under a company-wide and multidimensional initiative. OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS 2012 2013 2014 Composition of Employees As of the end of December 2014, KEPCO KPS had 4,948 employees, with an average employment record of 16.1 working years. The number of employees is consistently increasing thanks to the expansion of our business lines overseas due to  Turnover Rate (unit : %) globalization, the expansion of new businesses through business diversification and so on. The turnover rate has remained at around 1% thanks to our efforts to help new employees settle at the company under a mentoring policy, the provision of 1.4 1.4 opportunities for self-development in diverse areas, and the operation of a rational welfare system. As of 2014, there were no 1.3 local workers*. * Local workers: Individuals who are born in the vicinity of a local business site or have legal rights of permanent residency (naturalization or permanent visa)  Current Employees and New Employment (unit : persons) Category 2012 2013 2014 Total no. of employees 4,621 4,714 4,948 2012 2013 2014 Female 18 34 21 ※ Turnover rate=(No. of employees who take voluntary retirement/Total no. of employees) Disabled employees 4 10 6 Local employees 145 294 187 New High school graduates 71 156 86 employment Specialized high schools 17 44 28 Natural sciences or engineering 142 246 197  Employees by Gender (unit: persons) Total 207 425 275 4,512 4,585 4,793 Diversity and Equal Opportunities A. Open Employment KEPCO KPS prohibits discrimination based on individual characteristics such as university background, gender, age, religion, Male etc. It also employs high school graduates with limited competition, accords advantages for disabled people, those subject to employment protection, and local people, in order to recruit an outstanding workforce and to practice open employment. Notably, in order to expand employment opportunities for disabled persons, who are usually disadvantaged in terms of 109 129 155 employment, they are granted extra points when recruiting new employees. Thus, the employment rate of disabled people is increasing steadily and currently exceeds 3.0% in accordance with the law. Female  Employment of Disabled People (unit : persons/%) Category 2012 2013 2014 4,621 4,714 4,948 No. of disabled employees (person) 161 176 201 Employment rate of disabled people (%) 2.88 3.17 3.36 Total ※ Mandatory employment rate for disabled people in 2014: 3.0% (including dayworkers and contracted workers) 53 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Status of Maternity Protection Policy (unit : persons/%) B. Protection of Human Rights and Gender Equality Category 2012 2013 2014 Currently, KEPCO KPS employs 155 female workers, accounting for 3.2% of the entire workforce. KEPCO KPS has established Perinatal holidays 11 10 11 fair employment criteria and does not discriminate with regard to employment, promotion, and wage calculation for female Maternity leave 10 10 10 employees. In order to ensure gender equality, KEPCO KPS practices various policies such as increasing the number of female Flexible work arrangements 35 62 employees, assigning female workers to core departments, and strengthening the leadership training for females, etc. Reinstatement rate KEPCO KPS complies with the child labor and forced labor prohibition regulations of the Labor Standards Act and the 100% 100% 80% after maternity leave ※ For female workers International Labor Organization (ILO). It fulfills its corporate social responsibility and protects the human rights of the native workforce by complying with the local laws and regulations. Thanks to these efforts, zero cases of human rights violations, child labor, and forced labor have been reported. In addition, KEPCO KPS ensures that all of its employees receive regular  Regular Retirement and Reemployment (unit : persons) biannual education sessions on the prevention of sexual harassment in order to raise employees’ awareness of human rights and to protect their human rights. Category 2012 2013 2014 Retired people 66 67 86 Reemployed people 41 38 13 C. Maternity Protection Policy KEPCO KPS has implemented a perinatal holiday and maternity leave policy to prevent childbirth and childcare from interrupting the career of female employees. Starting in 2013, flexible work arrangements were introduced in order to create  The Right People of KEPCO KPS a more flexible and convenient work environment that allows women to work and to nurture their children. G Protection of Temporary Workers KEPCO KPS makes diverse efforts on behalf of its temporary workers, such as improving the employment system for Global temporary workers, strengthening welfare, consistent raising of the standard wage for temporary workers so as to provide A ACE E good remuneration without discrimination, operating a rational and fair wage system that follows that of the company’s regular workers, operating online education for developing business capabilities, making incentive payments (KRW 900,000 C per year), and distributing optional welfare points (worth up to KRW 300,000 per year). Support for Retired People KEPCO KPS endeavors to improve its employees’ satisfaction by assisting them in designing a new post-retirement life •Globally Advanced : through the retirement preparation program. By offering education/training on re-employment, business startup, and selfSecure competitiveness ahead of the competition with continuous innovation. development, we conscientiously support retirees’ second life preparations. Meanwhile, through the Senior Master system •Customer-centered : (operated since 2009), KEPCO KPS has re-employed excellent employees armed with valuable technological competencies Think from the customer’s perspective in advance and from among retired people to maximize HR utilization, boost their pride as permanent members of the KEPCO KPS family, meet the customers’ needs. and assist them in leading a stable post-retirement life. •Expertise : Secure top-tier expertise and professionalism in the plant service field with incessant learning and technological Fostering of Global Talents refinements. A. System for nurturing human capital and desirable human resources KEPCO KPS has developed and established a process for nurturing the workforce in order to accomplish its vision as a “creative  System for Fostering of Global Talents of KEPCO KPS leading company that provides the world’s best plant maintenance service” by nurturing its Global ACE. Also, in order to discover and nurture global human resources armed with passion for business and consummate professionalism, it has Creative leading established a model for acquiring the right people, namely, “Global ACE” (Globally Advanced Customer-centered Experts), company that provides and is making efforts to implement this model by improving employees’ know-how, business aptitude and capabilities. world’s best plant maintenance service Global ACE  Process for Enforcing Competitive Workforce Nurturing System Strengthen basic capabilities >>>> Continually enforce corporate core value, ethics, safety, and quality education Company Management∙ Company Export qualification supervision qualification course on Continuation of self-development >>>> Encourage basic character education, language education, and support acquisition of on leadership administration on exclusive professional professional certificate, and degree course jobs jobs jobs Enforce focused growth by jobs >>>> Conduct management/supervision leadership course, introduce company qualification policy for administrative jobs, upgrade company qualification policy on exlusive jobs, Self-development enforce expert couse on professional jobs Language∙Professional certificate∙degree∙characeter Basic capabilities Actualize the model for Contribute to becoming world’s bet plan maintenance service company by >>>> Core value∙ethics∙safety∙quality right people and accomplish vision nurturing GLOBAL ACE 54 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 B. Fostering of Core Global Talents for Each Professional Field 1) Mid-term and long-term plans for education and training In accordance with its mid-term and long-term plans for technological development and its plan for operating the workforce, KEPCO KPS has re-estabished its mid-term and long-term education and training plan (7th edition, 2014) in connection with its corporate strategy, and is also nurturing the important human capital necessary for accomplishing its management goals. 2) Training system KEPCO KPS’s education and training system comprises 455 courses designed to nurture professional technicians. The courses are categorized into business capabilities, basic capabilities, leadership capabilities, and self-development. Business capabilities Category Basic capabilities Leadership capabilities Self-development Administration Technology Executive Course on capabilities for CEO PROFESSIONAL Life/liberal arts course(Smart learning, book learning) Leadership course for persons promoted Education on internalizing core values Rank 1 CEO. Advanced course on leadership Master’s and doctoral course Bachelor’s degree course Group vitalization education manager Course on acquiring expert qualification Course on improving language skills Corporate Ethics ·Safety development Rank 2 Engineering course in Education in professional Business practice course on Business practice course on ADVANCED Business practice course on Diagnosis course in Rank 3 v training institute Female leaders training institute manager domestic and foreign institute development office administration work technological administration Business practice Nurturing training institute On-site OJT course in training institute for equipment experts course training institute BASIC Rank 4 Basic businesses/development course for new employees 3) In-House Qualification System KEPCO KPS has introduced a government-accredited in-house qualification system which it operates in conjunction with training on maintenance quality and the systematic fostering of maintenance personnel based on the job performance of qualified personnel at each power generation facility. Lower Career Training factors Physical Qualification Years Grade qualification requirements OJT Training at training center requirements examination required Garnering80 points in LEVEL IV Level III (1), Level II (3) screening assessment 15~ Level III Professional Eyesight: Scoring 70% per LEVEL III LEVEL II 1 year Qualification program question 9~14 awarding OJT 0.8 Normal Level II Practical work physical Scoring70% on the LEVEL II LEVEL I 2 years Qualification program condition average 5~8 awarding OJT Joining the company Level I Basic LEVEL I (Trainee) 1.5~2.5 years Qualification program 2~3 awarding OJT 4) New Job Qualification Card (JQC) System In order to strengthen employees’ maintenance professionalism with the emphasis on practical business and to develop skilled workers on a consistent basis, the company’s Level I businesses have been diversified into 98 areas in order to establish a system for nurturing technicians equipped with diverse skills. In addition, the company operates an in-house qualification system based on JQC. 55 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Certification of ISO18436 Training Institution 5) Career Development System KEPCO KPS has established a systematic career development system according to each position and job. Office workers are promoted to generalists, and technicians are promoted to supervisors or to professional positions, or they can advance to the position of technology manager via promotion. Career path (office work position) Career path (technical position) Skilled Technology manager Grade 1 worker Generalist Professional multi-functional technician (supervisor) Professional position holder Grade 2 Grade 2 Planning, finance, HR, support Skilled personnel by field (5 or more years’ experience)  Training Time per Employee by Year (Unit : time) and 3 positions and 3 positions 2012 2013 2014 Total Total Total Grade 4 Grade 4 Acquisition of knowledge and technology on Section Average Average Average Multi-functional personnel organizations and facility maintenance while performing number of MD number of MD number of MD position position employees MD employees MD employees MD maintenance works in several organizations Female 162 1454 8.98 191 1514 7.93 225 1387 6.16 Gender Male 4974 40476 8.14 4959 35008 7.06 5167 39225 7.59 Executive C. Employee Education Performance management 5 57 11.40 5 54 10.80 5 23 4.60 board The 2014 education budget amounted to KRW 9.1 billion, showing an increase of 23% over the budget for 2012 (i.e. KRW Intermediate manager 296 3156 10.66 312 2108 6.76 336 2254 6.17 7.4 billion). The number of people receiving education increased by 101.4% from 10,932 in 2012 to 22,015 in 2014, while Professional the total number of education courses increased by 24.5% from 339 to 422. KEPCO KPS will continue doing its utmost to Employment range 104 1121 10.78 109 752 6.90 118 1275 10.81 job Technical job 3740 33285 8.90 3807 30282 7.95 4025 34334 8.53 nurture creative human resources. Office job 272 3497 12.86 276 2623 9.50 293 1809 6.17 Special Establishment of a Reward System Based on Employees’ Capabilities and Performance government 204 613 3.00 205 579 2.82 171 567 3.32 service A. Fair Performance Evaluation System Contracted 515 201 0.39 436 124 0.28 444 350 0.79 worker KEPCO KPS runs a fair performance evaluation system by evaluating its employees’ performance of their tasks and business operations in an objective way in order to reward them in a just and equitable way. The performance evaluation system largely consists of a group evaluation and an individual evaluation. For the group evaluation, the KPI (Key Performance Index) is calculated based on the BSC (Balanced Score Card). According to the rate of accomplishment, an individual employee’s contribution to the group is evaluated and reflected in the reward system.  Performance Evaluation and Career Development For the individual evaluation, individual accomplishment goals are set at the beginning of the year using the MBO method, and the process of goal accomplishment is managed within the year. The performance evaluation is conducted in KEPCO KPS performs regular performance evaluations and career consideration of the importance and difficulty of performing a goal or target by the end of the year, and the result is reflected development evaluations for all its employees in order to encourage and promote systematic career development. in the basic wage. To improve the reception of the performance evaluation and assists its stable establishment, a policy of formal objection which allows employees to raise an objection after being notified of their evaluation result is in place. Various monitoring systems such as the survey personnel system and the task force for improving the policy, etc. are also being operated. B. Rational Reward System In order to strengthen the reward system, consistent policy improvements such as the improvement of ranks, and the increased weight of performance rewards, all of which are based on the evaluation of business value are being carried out. The initial wage for new college graduates was KRW 29.057 million in 2014, and it was 222% higher than the domestic minimum wage. NEXT STEP Based on KEPCO KPS’s philosophy that human resources are its future, KEPCO KPS is dedicated to employing and nurturing the appropriate human resources. To that end, the company will strengthen its education courses designed to nurture creative human resources and realign the system of fair rewards. Furthermore, KEPCO KPS will strengthen its internal capabilities in line with its aim of becoming a ‘top global power generation maintenance company’ by consistently expanding its professional workforce. 56 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Creation of a Happy Workplace CONTEXT Employees’ happiness in the workplace is returned as increased motivation and productivity throughout the entire company. KEPCO KPS has devised and implemented various policies aimed at increasing the happiness of its employees, and is encouraging its employees by improving its welfare infrastructure.. OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS Program to Increase Employees’ Happiness In order to boost employees’ pride, the practice of complimenting and encouraging the employees has been established throughout the company. The Human Resource Development Center runs a number of programs designed to increase employees’ happiness, such as the “7 principles for an effective life class,” with the aim of improving employees’ sensitivity to themselves. The company also holds various events including the “Remembering Special Anniversaries” and “Secret Santa” programs in order to promote friendship and improve employee relationships within the company. Improvement of Welfare System In order to improve the infrastructure of the working environment, gyms have been set up in the headquarter and at 23 business sites in order to contribute to improving employees’ physical health after work. There are also a non-smoking clinic and non-smoking funds, as well as the EAP (Employee Advice Program), which is designed to alleviate and manage employees’ stress and manage their health. Meanwhile, subsidies, accommodation, vehicles, and extra vacation days are provided to employees who are working diligently at our overseas business sites in order to provide a better working environment. Publication of Welfare Guidebook and Guidebooks for Retirees The Welfare Guidebook, which contains a detailed explanation of the overall welfare policy and the provision and use of business conveniences, and “The Guidebook for Retirees” which offers guidance to retiring workers on how to live a stable post-retirement life have been published. Furthermore, the company’s retirement pension policy, which aims to secure and stabilize the life of retirees, has been introduced in order to improve their satisfaction with the welfare offered by the company. A Welfare Program for Happy Families  Defined Benefit (DB*) Retirement Pension (unit : KRW 100 million) Various family-friendly welfare programs such as the Happy Family Day (which allows employees to spend time with their family after leaving work early every Wednesday), the expanded operation of flexible working arrangements, and annual 58 holidays have been implemented in order to promote employees’ family happiness and to improve their work-life balance. 46 Retirement Pension Program 42 KEPCO KPS’s severance pay system was converted to a retirement pension system in 2011. With the mandatory retention rate of external contributions, we uphold employees’ right to receive retirement benefits. Under this system, KEPCO KPS has laid solid foundations for the fund in the future. Since 2012, KEPCO KPS has operated a defined benefit retirement pension system and expanded the options (defined benefit, defined contribution) of system operation. 2012 2013 2014 NEXT STEP * Defined benefit retirement pension: Policy of accumulating the financial resource for payment of retirement pension to The most important resource of KEPCO KPS is its human resources. By maintaining an effective and generous welfare system, an external financial institution so that a pre-determined KEPCO KPS will increase the happiness of its employees and their families and strengthen the foundations for consistent retirement pension will be paid to a retiring employee in growth. consideration of working years, etc., by the financial institution in the form of pension or lump sum allowance 57 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix Establishment of Close Labor-management Relations  Strategy for Advancing Labor-management Relations CONTEXT Establishment of a new labor-management Strategic goal culture that opens the doors to a new future Recently, distinct forms of labor-management relations have emerged, along with the consequent occurrence of social issues, 4 strategic directions, 8 strategic tasks making the establishment of future-oriented labor-management relations that focus on growth and creativity a critical factor. Cooperative laborRational laborLabor-management Field-oriented laborKEPCO KPS has established strategies for advancing labor-management relations and is conducting various activities aimed management relationship management relationship relationship with trust management relationship at further developing its unique corporate culture of win-win relations between labor and management. •Strengthening of •Advancement of •Practice •Smooth settlement for labor-management labor-management transparent exemption of labor partnership relationship system management time and double labor union system •Establishment of field-oriented •Establishment of reward system with •Promote information•Strengthening of OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS relationship with emphasis on skills sharing capacity to manage communication and performance program labor-management Establishment of a New Labor-management Culture Based on the Advancement of Labor-management relationship Relations  Conference on the Union of Labor and Management KEPCO KPS develops and implements strategies for advancing labor-management relations by reflecting changes in the managerial environment. It has established four strategic directions for cooperative, rational, trustworthy, and field-oriented labor-management relations, and is endeavoring to establish a new labor-management culture by holding a conference on the union of labor and management, expansion of diagnosis of satisfaction with communication between labor and management, and the provision of feedback. Establishment of Legal and Rational Labor-Management Relations KEPCO KPS has been establishing legal and rational labor-management relations in accordance with various labor-related  Joint Labor-management Briefing Session on laws and group agreements such as the Labor Standards Act and the Labor Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act, Management Issues under which all of the employees of KEPCO KPS are guaranteed labor rights, the right to form a labor union, and freedom of assembly. As of December 2014, 3,994 employees, or 80.7% of the employees, had joined the labor union, and there are two active double labor unions. Guarantee of Participation in Major Changes in Business KEPCO KPS guarantees the participation of labor unions in major changes in business with the potential to influence the employment of employees. According to a collective agreement, major changes in the working quota or in the group itself  Survey on Satisfaction with Communication between have been given the green light following discussion with the labor union. If an employee has to be dismissed from work due Labor and Management to inevitable managerial reasons, the relevant information and the criteria for avoiding dismissal must be given in writing and should be notified to the labor union 60 days before the date of dismissal, to allow for sincere discussion of the matter, as 4.30 4.20 4.20 4.20 specified in the collective agreement. Such is part of the huge effort to stabilize the employment of the company’s employees. Major Performances Trust Cooperation Participation Performance Thanks to its consistent efforts to secure win-win labor-management relations, KEPCO KPS obtained an outstanding score Diagnosis name Topic of 4.2 out of 5.0 for its company-wide diagnosis of employees’ satisfaction with labor-management communication. KEPCO Trust Sharing goals Cooperation Cooperation KPS provides feedback by conducting the labor-management partnership program based on the results of the diagnosis Participation Communication according to each business site. Such a diagnosis of labor-management relations has become a norm form every year, for Performance Fulfillment, Evaluation which the relevant data is preserved via systematic management in the database. In addition, the chairman of KEPCO KPS’ s labor union has been awarded with a commendation for labor-management cooperation by the Ministry of Labor in  Governmental Commendation for Labor-management recognition of his contribution to win-win and cooperative labor-management relations. Cooperation in 2014 NEXT STEP KEPCO KPS plans to expand its unique corporate culture of seeking communication and cooperation. Also, in accord with the government’s policy for sustainable growth, KEPCO KPS will establish a culture of productive negotiations and consistently strengthen the competitiveness of its labor-management relations. 58 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Ethics Management Internalization  Ethics Management Brand CONTEXT Based on the Public Service Ethics Act, KEPCO KPS was designated as a public service-related institution as of December 31, 2012. Accordingly, it seeks to practice global-level ethical management by recognizing that creating a transparent corporate culture based on the promotion of ethical awareness and a culture of integrity as a public institution is a necessity for sustainable development of the company.  System for Enforcing Ethics Managementt Enforcement norms Training program OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS Ethics Charter, behavioral charter for Education for integrity administrator, employees, behavioral charter for education on life-cycle (new employees, Ethics Management System affiliates, integrity regulation on manager, etc.), integrity academy contracted operation for employees (business sites with poor performance, etc.) KEPCO KPS conducts its ethical management activities under the ethical management brand known as “Crystal KPS.” We have enacted the Code of Ethics, the rules of conduct, and practice guidelines as ethical standards that must be observed by Enforcement group Reporting system all of our employees. We operate ethical management organizations whose role is to propagate systematic company-wide [Decision-making] Reports on irregularities, report on committee of ethical management inconveniences of companies in ethical management, and we systematically execute ethical management education in order to form bonds of sympathy with [Supervision]  transaction, whistle-blowing, online audit agency, chief officer of behavioral charter ethics center (dilemma consulting, etc.) regard to ethical management and to improve ethical awareness among our employees. [Practice]  planning center, ethics keeper, etc. Major Ethics Management Activities and Achievements A. Ranked first in the integrity evaluation carried out by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission  Result from Integrity Evaluation by the Anti-Corruption In the integrity evaluation of public institutions conducted by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission in 2014, and Civil Rights Commission KEPCO KPS ranked first out of nineteen I-type public service-related institutions including Korea Electric Power. This is a 1st place out of “other public institutions” evauated under the jurisdiction of Ministry of Industry reflection of KEPCO KPS’s consistent efforts to improve managerial transparency and integrity, and is the best result achieved Institution name Overall integrity rating by any organization in its first year as a subject of evaluation. KEPCO KPS 8.73(Grade 1) A 8.52(Grade 2) B. Ethics Program by Stakeholders B 8.41(Grade 3) All our employees have confirmed their willingness to practice transparent management by taking an oath to engage in C 8.23(Grade 3) ethical behavior. KEPCO KPS is actively seeking to establish a culture of integrity and ethics by running various programs for D 7.80(Grade 5) stakeholders such as the conference on integrity resolution, and discussion with trading companies, etc. E 7.67(Grade 4) F 7.65(Grade 4)  Program for Ethics Management by Stakeholders Internal (employees) External (trading companies, etc.)  Online Ethics Center •Oath to practice ethical management by all employees (Jan. 2014) •CEO makes oath at the B.E.S.T. Forum (March 2014) •Campaign to discourage the acceptance or provision of gifts on national holidays •Discussion with trading companies (May 2014) •Briefing session on anti-corruption and integrity policies (May 2014, 27 sites) •Oath for fair transactions and mutual growth with suppliers (June 2014) •Operation of anti-corruption and integrity days (monthly) •Disclosure of anti-corruption and integrity data on the company website (56 cases) •Hosting of conference on integrity resolution (Sept. 2014) C. Ethics Management Website and Ethics Management Counseling Center We operate an ethical management home page through which both internal employees and the general public can easily understand our ethical management policy, ethical norms, achievements, and status. As part of an active solution to employees’ ethical conflicts, we run an Ethical Management Consulting Center and provide solutions to any breaches of  Result of Ethical Awareness Diagnosis (Unit : scores) ethical management and ethical dilemmas. In this way, we are strengthening our status as a company that practices ethical management. 4.85 D. Ethical Awareness Diagnosis 4.38 4.41 In order to analyze employees’ awareness of the company’s overall ethical management, KEPCO KPS identifies and analyzes vulnerable areas and determines appropriate means of improvement. It has also analyzed the ethical awareness of its employees since 2012 in order to actualize Crystal KPS. The analysis is conducted by rank, department, and working year, and the results thereof are reflected in the company’s methods of enforcing ethical management, thereby raising ethical 2012 2013 2014 awareness throughout the entire group. 59 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Education on ethics Management and The analysis will be performed annually in order to pursue the consistent growth of ethical awareness, based on trend Anti-corruption/Integrity (unit : times/persons/hours) analysis and the improvement of weaknesses. Category 2012년 2013년 2014년 Number of training 146 226 540 E. Customized Education on Integrity and Ethics Total no. of education recipients 7,504 16,677 28,260 Executives and major managers have received integrity and ethics education in order to establish leadership with integrity No. of hours of education per person 5.50 6.05 6.74 and to internalize ethical awareness within the group with top-down management. In addition, an online ethical education program has been launched for all of the company’s employees. The amount of ethics education provided at our business sites has increased significantly, showing that the interest in overall ethical-integrity education at KEPCO KPS is increasing consistently.  Outcome of Evaluation on Anti-corruption Policies 1st place out of “other public institutions” Anti-Corruption Policy evauated under the jurisdiction of Ministry of Industry KEPCO KPS is consistently strengthening the criteria for its anti-corruption activities by improving its anti-corruption policy. Institution name Comprehensive evaluation We make it a rule not to offer money, gifts, or entertainment to influential people, public officials, or politicians in the hopes KEPCO KPS Outstanding (Grade 2) that they will do something for us. We make it obligatory for employees not to receive or give special benefits to a specific A Average (Grade 3) person in connection with the company business. We make employees sign contracts honestly and fairly and fulfill our B Average (Grade 3) contractual obligations faithfully. Finally, we make it a rule not to offer illegal political funds to a political party or a politician. C Average (Grade 3) Additionally, in the event of a breach of the ethical norms, KEPCO KPS operates a punishment system according to the D Unsatisfactory (Grade 5) reward/punishment regulations. In this way, KEPCO KPS calls its employees’ attention to the results of corruption and strives to prevent the recurrence of corrupt activities. Furthermore, an integrity ombudsman has been created along with the participation of external experts in vulnerable points of corruption. KEPCO KPS has joined domestic and foreign anti-corruption initiatives such as the UN Global Compact and the B.E.S.T. CEO Club in order to manifest its anti-corruption policies, and is discovering exemplary cases for use in its anti Appointment Ceremony for Integrity Ombudsman corruption activities. Reporting Policy and Countermeasures We operate an internal tip-off system and the e-Complaint Center (Shinmungo, Customers/Suppliers’ Inconvenience Reporting Center, Irregularity Tip-off Center) as channels for the reporting of unethical and corrupt acts. The system can be used by anyone including both our employees and external stakeholders. In addition, the K-Help Line, an anonymous tip-off system for corrupt activities has been established, and a protection policy for public reporters has been introduced in order to improve the situation of the reporters and to encourage reporting activities.  Operation of Reporting System (unit : cases)  K Help Line Category 2012 2013 2014 No. of reports to the e-Complaint Center 30 23 22 No. of cases addressed 31 23 22 KEPCO KPS guarantees a strict response to all suspected cases of corruption. In 2014, three cases of corruption were discovered, and disciplinary actions were taken on each occasion.  Disciplinary Actions (unit : cases) Category 2012 2013 2014 No. of cases of corruption 1 3 Disciplinary actions 1 3  Sinmungo NEXT STEP Refusing to settle for being the best only in the integrity evaluation conducted in 2014, KEPCO KPS will continue striving to be the top-ranked institution in future evaluations of anti-corruption policies, thereby leading the practice of ethical management and spreading awareness of the importance of public ethics in accordance with its role as a public institution. 60 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Eco-friendly Management Expansion  Certificate of Environmental Management CONTEXT The exacerbation of global environmental problems such as global warming and destruction of the ecosystem requires a proactive responses on the part of major corporations. KEPCO KPS has established a company-wide environmental management system in order to increase its efficiency and objective reliability. Furthermore, it is rising as an eco-friendly management company that practices leading environmental management based on the proactive participation of its employees and improvement of the related regulations such as responding to climate change by minimizing greenhouse gas emissions, and realizing eco-friendly management through technological development, etc. OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS Environmental Management System KEPCO KPS has acquired the relevant certification for its integrated quality environment management system (ISO 9001 & 14001) at the enterprise-wide level to comply with the Low Carbon, Green Growth Basic Act. KEPCO KPS develops various activities including campaigns for the recycling of scrap paper, handling of toners, separate collection of rubbish, and collection of waste paper in keeping with its corporate culture. The GT Maintenance Center where it has its facilities has built and implemented an environmental management system independent from the customers, while KEPCO KPS has acquired the international EMS, ISO 14001 certification for the GT Technology Service Center.  Comprehensive Information System on National GHG Response to Climate Change Emissions http://gov.gir.go.kr/index.html KEPCO KPS has set goals for energy consumption and greenhouse gas reduction in order to respond to internal and external demands and to fulfill its responsibility for future generations with sincerity. With the announcement and enactment of the Guidelines on Public Sector GHG and the Energy Target Management System in January 2011, pursuant to the Low Carbon, Green Growth Basic Act, KEPCO KPS posted the figures for its GHG emissions and energy consumption on the GHG General Information System (concerning the fuel consumption of all its vehicles and company buildings) for proper management. In addition, KEPCO KPS draws up implementation plans and reflect them in the internal management assessment in order to achieve our GHG and energy use reduction targets. Furthermore, having set the reduction target for the GHG emissions of our vehicles and company buildings, KEPCO KPS makes efforts to monitor, manage, and improve those targets. Based on the mean data for three years (2007~2009), KEPCO KPS implements the target it has set, i.e. to mitigate GHG emissions by 4 percent each year for five years from 2011 to 2015, aiming for a total reduction of 20 percent by 2015. Although the company’s performance concerning the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has improved steadily since 2012, the magnitude of the reduction is diminishing, raising the need to diversify our methods of reduction by departing  Environmental Information Notification System from the initial policy which emphasized mere improvement. Thus, KEPCO KPS plans to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions consistently by actively adopting new technologies, expanding the purchase of electric cars, which emit only half the amount of CO2 compared to petrol-driven automobiles, using rechargeable batteries that use renewable energy sources such as solar power, and using V2G, etc.. *V2G (Vehicle to Grid) : Service industry that resells the electricity stored in electric automobiles 61 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Energy Consumption (Buildings) Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Name of business sites Head office, Busan, Daegu, Gwangju, Kerosene (Indoor) L 4,917 5,024 5,973 center for internaitonal policy Head office, Busan, Daegu, Gwangju, LNG (City gas) ㎥ 7,895 6,478 Direct center for internaitonal policy energy Head office (department, room), Gasoline (Automobile) L 91,799 64,612 71,831 fire power (1,2,3,4,district) Nuclear power (districts 1 and 2), Diesel (Automobile) L 837,360 1,031,996 838,986 electrical power transmission center Head office, Busan, Daegu, Gwangju, Electricity MW 3,751 3,021 3,216 Indirect center for internaitonal policy energy Head office, Busan, Daegu, Gwangju,  Energy Use and GHG Emissions by KRW Steam TOE 843 582 631 center for internaitonal policy Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Total GJ 3,904 4,462 3,754 Energy use GJ/ 0.39 0.40 0.35 by KRW KRW 100 million  GHG Emissions Greenhouse gas tCO2eq/ 0.44 0.40 0.36 Category 2012 2013 2014 emissions by KRW KRW 100 million ※ The value by KRW was calculated based on the sales for each year CO2 2,423.57 2,872.80 2,369.82 (KRW 100 million) Direct GHG emissions CH4 3.98 4.11 3.64 (Scope 1) N2O 42.94 49.18 41.47 Subtotal 2,470.49 2,926.09 2,414.94 CO2 1,850.60 1,478.40 1,496.31 CH4 58.15 40.21 0.36 Indirect GHG emssions N2O 97.22 67.51 2.69 (Scope 2) Subtotal 2,005.97 1,586.12 1,499.37 Total 4,476.46 4,512.21 3,914.30 ※ No emission of HFCS, PFCS, and SF6 Minimization of Environmental Impact A. Management of Waste and Harmful Substances The household and industrial wastes generated by KEPCO KPS are treated according to the legal disposal procedure, i.e. based on volume reduction and separate collection in the waste generation process. Regarding the use of harmful chemicals, KEPCO KPS only uses them after registering them on the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)* at the procurement stage. KEPCO KPS also registers the remaining volume. In this way, KEPCO KPS practices thorough management of harmful substances according to the established controls and procedures of environment control personnel. As a result, no accidents involving leaks of waste, oil or harmful substances from KEPCO KPS’s business sites have been recorded in the past two years. * System of Material Safety Data Sheets, MSDS : Data sheets for recording the names of chemical substances or materials that contain  Use and Recycling of Scrap Iron (Unit : kg/%) chemical substances, their physico-chemical characteristics, hazardousness, method of treatment in the event of fire/explosion, environmental impact, etc 5,360 5,400 Recycling B. Use of Raw Materials 100% KEPCO KPS does not use raw materials procured separately, and only uses the raw materials provided by its customers. 4,100 C. Recycling KEPCO KPS commissions a specialist recycling company to the handle its scrap iron to ensure the full recovery of scrap iron generated by its business. It also operates a system wherein the materials provided by its customers are returned to them for recycling. In addition, the chips and replacement goods for maintenance processed by its GT Technology Service Center are 2012 2013 2014 recycled as scrap iron. ※ All KEPCO’s scrap iron is recycled and reused 62 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014  Emission of Air Pollutants (unit : tons) D. Substances That Cause Air and Soil Pollution KEPCO KPS’s power generation facility maintenance service is its flagship business, targeting six power generation 9.88 9.87 companies and privately-funded power plants. As a “type four” atmospheric control workplace, the GT Technology Service 9.85 Center operates a dust collection facility to minimize the discharge of materials into the atmosphere during work processes. The center systematically measures and controls the working environment on a biannual basis. D. Water Use Regarding KEPCO’s water usage, no water supply sources are affected by our water intake via public waterworks; and the Dust 2012 2013 2014 wastewater discharged at our business sites is treated by us directly at the site. Any wastewater that cannot be treated by 0.02 0.02 0.02 KEPCO is treated by a professional treatment company. Also, the quality of the discharged water discharged its treatment as wastewater is measured and managed every half year by a professional water quality measurement agency. The quality of the discharged water is managed to ensure that it remains below 80% of the legal allowance for discharge. Substances that destroy the ozone layer, such as CFCs, are not used at all, while waste materials regulated by the Basel Accord are not NOx 2012 2013 2014 discharged. No violations of the environmental regulations were reported in the period covered by this report. ※ The emission of air pollutants will be ascribed only to the GT Technology Center, which has its own plant ※ Zero emissions of soil pollutants Costs Related to Environmental Issues  Cost of Evaluating Ex Post Management for the ISO 9001 & 14001 Certifications (unit : KRW)  Use of Water Resources (unit : tons) Category 2012 2013 2014 Expenditure 4,280,000 4,708,000 8,415,000 26,765  Cost of Treating Environmental Waste (unit : KRW) 19,490 Category 2012 2013 2014 19,440 Expenditure 231,325,966 41,610,305 33,472,901 ※ Company-wide treatment costs Eco-friendly Management 2012 2013 2014 A. Mid-term and Long-term Plans for Technological Development ※ The water consumption shown in the data is limited to that used by Among the many types of power plants, it is the highest priority of nuclear power plants to protect workers from radiation the head office and the GT Maintenance Technology Center and to minimize the leakage of radioactive substances to the outside. Accordingly, KEPCO KPS has established its “KPS 2020 mid-term and long-term plans for technological development,” and has either finished or is working on 48 areas of  C onstruction of Renewable Energy and Eco-friendly Facilities automated technology for power plant maintenance, thus contributing to the reduction of working hours in highly radioactive Category Specification regions, the prevention of exposure to radiation, and the improvement of maintenance reliability. Used for providing underground Solar Thermal Power Plant hot water Solar Photovoltaic Reduces 10 % of the total  2020 Mid-term and Long-term Plans for Technological Development – Power Plant Maintenance Automation (Unit : cases) Power Plant electricity usage Small classification Heat Storage-Type Used for air-conditioning system in Large classification Medium classification Geothermal System* summer and heating system in winter New Plans In progress Completed Total Underground Replaces twelve 40W lamps 1. Reactor 3 3 6 4 16 Daylight Duct System* per system 2. Steam Generator 7 2 3 3 15 Used for providing landscaping trees Rainwater Reuse System Automated technology for and eco ponds 3. Primary maintenance of other power plants 4 0 2 1 7 power plant maintenance Reduces 60% of energy compared to 4. Chemical, decontamination, closure 2 3 1 0 6 LED Lighting System fluorescent light 5. Secondary maintenance of power plants 0 1 2 1 4 Hybrid Security Used for the company’s landscape Lighting System* lighting at night * Heat Storage-Type Geothermal System: This system produces and stores cold water at nighttime and uses water for air-conditioning in daytime * Underground Daylight Duct System: This system provides natural lighting to underground at sunrise *Hybrid Security Lighting System: This system stores solar light (sunlight) at sunrise and converts the sunlight into self-charged electricity to be used for landscape lighting after sunset 63 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  CO2 Emissions by Plant Category (Unit : g/kWh) B. Enforcement of Business for Renewable Energy Category Emission Amount KEPCO KPS constructed the solar power plant at the Geogeum Energy Theme Park, located in Goheung, Jeollanam-do. Coal 991 Having developed a muck field that lay fallow for thirty years into a complex for developing renewable energy, the power Gas 549 plant contributes to vitalizing the regional economy and reducing carbon emissions. In consideration to the situation of Korea, which lacks natural resources, KEPCO KPS makes consistent efforts to prevent damage to mountains in the small national Oil 782 territory and to improve the exploitation of the national territory by using wild land. Water Power 8 Solar 57 C. Contribution Effect for Eco-friendly Maintenance Photovoltaic Power 14 KEPCO KPS minimizes the environmental effects of environmental facilities at power plants while guaranteeing the Nuclear Powe 10 maintenance reliability of power plants by securing advanced maintenance technologies and a professional technical ※ Source: IAEA, 2006 workforce, and by using high-tech maintenance equipment as a labor saving measure. In order to reduce the failure of power plant facilities and to optimize their maintenance, KEPCO KPS has acquired an advanced maintenance management system  Building Dedication Ceremony for Solar Energy Power to stabilize the operation of power plant facilities. Also, it minimizes failures and improves the utilization rate of power plant Plant for the Geogeum Energy Theme Park facilities by improving or overhauling poor or antiquated facilities. As a result, the rate of ‘one cycle trouble free’* for one cycle of 2014 stood at 97.6%, showing a 5.0% increase over 2012. *One Cycle Trouble Free, OCTF: All facilities from the power plant, including environment-related facilities are operated without failure from the time an overhaul is completed until the next overhaul NEXT STEP KEPCO KPS aims to achieve its targets for reducing waste and greenhouse gas emissions at its business sites by applying an eco-friendly management system to the overall business, improving employees’ awareness of environmental issues,  Rate of One Cycle Trouble Free (unit : %) and encouraging their participation. In addition, the ongoing development of automated technology for power plant maintenance is due to be completed, and will further contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions based on the safe Category 2012년 2013년 2014년 operation of power plants. This will also expand the companies technological developments and businesses in the field of Fire power 92.3 100 100 Nuclear power/water 93.8 81.8 87.5 renewable energy, ultimately accomplishing the goal of making green growth possible. Total 92.6 96.6 97.6 05 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Sharing Value Expansion The Reason Why the Sharing Value Expansion is Important for KEPCO KPS The competition is expected to become even fiercer following the opening of the power generation maintenance market. Acquiring industrial competencies beyond our existing power plant servicing capacity and leading the marketplace require us to build on our various competencies by strengthening our relationships with suppliers and realizing growth through them. Also, developing credibility in the local community through pro bono social contribution activities will play the role of strengthening our business competency while raising awareness about and improving the reputation of the company. Therefore, mutual cooperation with the suppliers of KEPCO KPS and contributions to the local community are more important than ever. KEPCO KPS’s Efforts to Accomplish the Sharing Value Expansion Under the goal of “realizing systematic win-win growth through mutual cooperation” in the power plant facility servicing market, KEPCO KPS has set strengthening the basis for win-win growth and promoting win-win growth projects as its two major strategic areas, while carrying out various initiatives to lead win-win growth based on thirty specific agendas. In addition, an initiation system for social contribution activities that factor in the characteristics of the company has been established, and policies aimed at integrating partnerships with expert institutions and encouraging employee participation are being carried out. Anti-competitive Behavior Local community (social contributions) Key Material Issues Strengthening the importance of Local community (potential influence) human rights of suppliers  Interview Seo, Dong-Hyuk Senior Manager, Instrumentation & Control Team, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., LTD (KHNP) Wolsong nuclear power site Thanks to the know-how it has developed from its long experience in power generation maintenance and its competent human resources, KEPCO KPS is already recognized as a holder of world-class prowess in the servicing of power plants. However, as a leading company in the industry, it should not become complacent about its current status, but should rather lead the standardization of the maintenance process. In addition, one of the most important factors for the growth of companies in the power generation industry is honest communication with the local community. KEPCO KPS must set and execute policies that pursue harmony with the community while actively utilizing the talents of the company to proactively carry out social volunteer work activities. The company must also strive to fulfill its social responsibilities by facilitating emotional communication with the local community. Related Issues Performance Index No. of Registered Suppliers 253 No. of MOUs for Cooperation in Overseas Business 5 Ratio of Products Purchase Manufactured Win-win Growth 82.1% by SMEs Amount of Products Purchase Manufactured KRW 36.3 billion by women owned company 13 companies / Mutual Entry with High Performing SMEs KRW 2.54 billion No. of Private Sector Jobs Created 3,141 1,963 participants / Fun Donation Activities KRW 1.1 million Social Contribution Pro Bono Activities 742 /21,113 hours Making Livelihood of Hope 133 66 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Win-win Growth CONTEXT The maintenance of a power plant requires many strengths ranging from power generation facility parts, maintenance technology, and talented people. These strengths come together which in turn becomes an endless light shining on the world. KEPCO KPS walks alongside its suppliers today for the light that we can benefit from each other. OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS Mutual Growth Initiation Strategy KEPCO KPS has established five major initiation strategies in the categories of technology development, sales channel support, fostering of human resources, financial support, and performance sharing; and has been carrying out specific execution agendas to achieve the goal of systematically initiating mutual growth on the basis of mutual cooperation. The progress of these agendas is monitored through meetings with suppliers, briefing sessions for mutual growth, review and analysis of support projects, and surveys. Goal Systematic Initiation of Mutual Growth through Mutual Cooperation Initiation Strategy Technology Development Sales Channel Support Fostering of HR Financial Support Performance Sharing •Joint entry to local and global •Transfer of technology in •Cooperative R&D •Quality guarantee training •Granting advance payment markets possession •Support for acquiring •Technology transfer to private •Support for loans Execution Agenda •Support for participation in •Approval of patent rights certification companies •Mutual cooperation fund exhibitions •Designation of products to be •Technical materials escrow •Support in fostering experts management •Extension of public purchasing developed Monitoring  Technology Support Agreements (unit : cases) Strengthening the Basis for Mutual Growth Every year, agreements for mutual growth and fair trade are signed with around forty suppliers that are operational maintenance subcontractors in order to exchange ideas, promote mutual understanding, and reach a consensus. In addition, 5 through briefing sessions for mutual growth (with approximately 40-50 companies) and meetings with companies we do business with (approximately 300 companies), the support projects are introduced and an opportunity to hear about the difficulties experienced by SMEs is provided. The basis for mutual growth is being strengthened by identifying new projects 2014 through ideas competitions and such like. 8 Strengthening the Capacity of SMEs to Become Independent 2013 A. Joint R&D Cooperative R&D is being carried out to facilitate the success of research and development by working together with SMEs with excellent design and manufacturing technologies. In 2014, we were able to achieve KRW 2.94 billion by signing 110 contracts with 46 companies to manufacture various products such as an IPB inspection robot status surveillance system. Through such measures, we are augmenting the insufficient technology capacity through SMEs’ participation in R&D to bring about optimal results.  HR Development Education Performance (unit : persons) B. Education Support Quality education | 162 Quality education is carried out on an annual basis to support SMEs’ efforts to acquire quality competitiveness and to Private company | technology transfer education | 46 strengthen their competency. Since 2014, education related to the latest issues in the maintenance market such as the Telecommunication education for current status of the external environment and a special lecture on the fabrication of purchasing-related documents Power generation and distribution engineers 4 have been provided, and measures to prevent such issues from occuring have been implemented. Also, we are enhancing 67 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  F inancial Support Performance (unit : cases/KRW 1 million) the SMEs’ practical competencies by signing agreements for technology support and interacting with and transferring No. of Amount of maintenance technology to SMEs. In addition, support is provided to enhance their expertise through cyber-education Category cases support and thereby enable them to acquire professional certifications, to enable them to acquire the ISO and safety and health Support for advance payment 9 1,198 management system certification, and to apply for intellectual property rights. Public purchasing loans 6 632 Loans for suppliers 4 1,546 C. Financial Support Operation of mutual cooperation fund 44 To resolve SMEs’ financial difficulties and improve management security, we have implemented a policy aimed at supporting them with up to 50% of advance payment and set up fund loans such as public purchasing loans and loans for suppliers. In addition, through the mutual cooperation fund, investments have been made in small and medium-size venture companies in the electric power and electricity industries, thereby contributing to developing the foundation of the electric power  Extension of Opportunity to Register as Suppliers industry. (unit : case/KRW 100 million) Mutual Cooperation Efforts 253 957 A. Increased Opportunities to Register as Suppliers 237 In order to increase the opportunities for companies to register as our partner companies, we have allowed applicants to register on a rolling basis since February 2014. Also, by extending orders to registered suppliers, the amount of orders 873 increased by 9.6% from KRW 83.7 billion in 2013 to KRW 95.7 billion in 2014. B. Joint Local and Global Business Entry We are contributing to enhancing SMEs’ global competency by jointly entering global markets with companies that possess excellent technological competency but which experience difficulties in tapping into overseas markets (11 companies in 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013, KRW 2.34 billion / 13 companies in 2014, KRW 2.54 billion). Through joint participation in the domestic maintenance No. of Amount of Suppliers registered orders to Suppliers business, we are supporting the practical growth of SMEs. (5 companies in 2013, KRW 64.73 billion / 6 companies in 2014, KRW 41.08 billion) N  uclear Energy Related Company Joint Exhibition of C. Support for Local and Global Exhibition SME Products During the 19th Pacific Basin Nuclear Conference 2014, we jointly exhibited products made by SMEs with nuclear energyrelated institutions. We supported four companies and provided them with opportunities to interact with experts in the nuclear energy industry. Around 150 buyers visited our expo, enabling us to negotiate contracts amounting to KRW 2 billion. D. Increase of Purchases from Socially-Disadvantaged Companies We are carrying out activities to promote an increase of public purchasing as well as to conduct in-house and external training throughout the year. In 2014, the purchase of products made by companies run by women increased significantly, amounting to KRW 36.3 billion worth of products.  Record of Purchasing from Socially Disadvantaged Companies (unit: KRW 100 million) 2014 58 2014 363 2014 9 2014 43 2014 8.5 Y-o-Y Y-o-Y Y-o-Y Y-o-Y Y-o-Y Increase Increase Increase Increase Increase 22.3 176 3.2 12 6.1 Tech Women Disabled Green Social 68 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Establishment of Performance Sharing Culture In order to develop a culture of mutual cooperation based on fair performance sharing, we have been gradually establishing a performance sharing culture ever since we implemented our performance sharing policy in 2012. In 2014, we carried out a total of three agendas including the transfer of technology in our possession (registration and patent rights applications), and the joint application of intellectual property rights, etc. On the basis of these efforts, we are promoting technology cooperation with SMEs and are striving to strengthen their corporate competency through commercialization in the related fields. Creating a Fairer Society By limiting purchase of the business site to under KRW 500 million, we have succeeded in restricting certain regional corruption factors in advance. In order to enhance the transparency of contracts concluded through negotiations, we have set the standard whereby over half of the proposal assessment committee must be composed of external committee members. Furthermore, we disclose the latest bidding information via Alio, a public institution management information disclosure system, on a daily basis. Meanwhile, through our website, we transparently disclose related information such as the status of all the private contracts we make at the beginning of each month. As a result of such efforts, there was not a single case in which KEPCO KPS received legal sanctions for actions related with unfair competition or monopoly in 2013 and 2014. Creation of a High Quality Workplace KEPCO KPS has established a system of creating jobs in the private sector which is integrated with the purpose of business establishment as well as its mid-to-long-term management strategy. By expanding the outsourcing of non-core maintenance tasks, increasing the orders for investment projects and strengthening private sector partnerships, we are inducing the creation of high-quality jobs in the private sector. Furthermore, in 2014, 289 new jobs were created through the construction of Youngheung corporate housing and the new headquarters building. By jointly winning orders for power generation facilities and entering global markets together with private companies, we improved our performance by 15% over 2013 through the creation of 38 jobs at the Egbin thermal power plant in Nigera, etc.  Job Creation in the Private Sector (unit : persons) Category 2012 2013 2014 Outsourcing 2,905 3,033 2,648 Investment project orders 75 139 289 Private sector partnerships 18 94 204 Total 2,998 3,266 3,141 NEXT STEP By extending its cooperation system, KEPCO KPS is increasing the opportunities for SMEs to cooperate with us, while also planning to increase the purchase of products made by SMEs and by companies run by women. In addition, by identifying non-core tasks and outsourcing them, we will create new jobs in the private sector and actively correspond to social issues, thereby fulfilling our responsibilities as a public institution. 69 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix Social Contribution  Hanmaum Volunteers CONTEXT Director Recently, corporate social contributions have seen a switch from the distribution of economic performance to the creation of CEO/ Labor union shared values (CSV) within the value chain through activities integrated with corporate characteristics. president KEPCO KPS has developed social contribution programs specialized in maintenance technology which help facilitate mutual Assessment group Bureau cooperation with the local community. Synergy is being created by building credibility among the local community and labor-management cooperation PR Team of Planning Dept. undertaking joint efforts. Offices Head Office (58 Volunteer Group) (Director: Deputy head / Chapter committee chairman) (Office head / OUR APPROACHES & PROGRESS Chapter committee chairman Execution Strategy and Initiation System for Social Contributions As a public company that efficiently manages and provides high-quality maintenance services for electric power facilities,  Hanmaum Campaign Activity Structure global and local power generation facilities, facilities for the transmission and transformation of electric power, and industrial facilities, among others, KEPCO KPS carries out social contribution activities in order to fulfill its social responsibilities. KEPCO Maintenance technology KPS founded the Hanmaum Volunteers in 1995, and now runs diverse social contribution programs across 60 business sites possessed by the company located nationwide, under the slogan ‘Sharing Love, The World Becomes One’, to support neighbors and local communities in difficulty. Furthermore, it carries out various social contributions activities that utilize the company’s maintenance technology Welding Electricity Machinery Power Heavy prowess, including pro bono volunteer work, fund sponsoring, education and cultural activities. transmission equipment  Social contribution activity strategy •Installation of electrical facilities, replacement of Building Infrastructure Using available resources Building partnership old wires •Repair tools for agriculture, weld depreciated stairs •Fund Angel fund, Mathcing grant •披 Electrical/Machinery •Goverment Engagement with disabled •House repair, paintwork •Institution Mandatory volunteer service •物 Rental of vehicle and equipment, •Customer Joint organization of business •Removal of snares around power lines system, Reward system for Rental of auditorium •NGO Volunteer service center, volunteers •財 Angel fund, Mathcing grant Children’s Foundation •System ERP systerm •人 Professional engineer, volunteer •Community Brokening regional product, •Organization Hanmaum Volunteers Forging sisterhood relations Pro bono activities that utilize maintenance technology Contributing to community development through social responsibility  Making Livelihood of Hope Specialized Social Contribution Activities A. Making Livelihood of Hope ‘Making Livelihood of Hope’, a project initiated by KEPCO KPS and the Children’s Foundation, is aimed at improving the environment of children’s facilities, including electricity, heating, and the installation of safety facilities with the various maintenance technologies possessed by KEPCO KPS, in order to give hope to and nurture the dreams of children, who are our hope for the future. From 2010 to the end of 2014, KEPCO KPS raised a total of KRW 1.138 billion in funds and completed environment improvement projects in 419 children facilities located nationwide. B. Affiliation Campaign (Fun Donation) KEPCO KPS encourages its employees to take an interest in children who need help and is actively promoting sponsorship  Fun Donation Activity Status campaigns. Nine sponsorship programs including ‘Meal Alone’ are currently in operation. Under the sponsorship program (unit : persons/KRW 1 million) in which participants can voluntarily choose the amount of their donation (i.e. KRW 5,000 or more per account), 1,771 Category 2012 2013 2014 participants raised a total of KRW 96 million in 2012; 1,786 participants raised KRW 101 million in 2013; and 1,963 No. of participants 1,771 1,786 1,963 participants raised KRW 110 million in 2014. The funds thus raised were used to support children from low-income Amount of fund 96 101 110 households in Korea and overseas. 70 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 C. Pro Bono Activities KEPCO KPS’s pro bono activities are a type of volunteer work in which its maintenance technologies and the knowledge of its employees are used for public purposes. The company’s pro bono activities, which are delivered through talent donation activities by the employees, and utilization of its maintenance technologies for power generation facilities and the equipment in its possession, are the very foundations of ‘Making Livelihoods of Hope’, a representative social contribution program of KEPCO KPS.  No. of cases for pro bono activities (unit : cases)  Hours spent on pro bono activities (unit : hours) 21,113 742 608 547 14,068 13,374 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014  Hanmaum Volunteeers Rice Scooping Event Education and Cultural Activities Among the company’s education and cultural activities is a program titled ‘Nuclear Energy One-day Lecturer,’ which aims to enhance children’s understanding of nuclear energy and provide safety training in relation to electricity. Furthermore, we provide scholarships to students from socially-disadvantaged backgrounds in the local community and help local children to achieve their dreams through a power plant experiential learning program, as well as providing support for books in remote island areas. Strengthening Ties with Local Communities KEPCO KPS is striving to strengthen its ties with local communities. We lead the integration and development of local communities by forming sister affiliations and sponsoring welfare facilities located near our business sites in order to protect vulnerable groups such as senior citizens, the disabled, and children, and by operating various volunteer work programs  Talent donation integrated with the local government’s volunteer work center. As part of our ecology recovery activities, we are not only carrying out a mountain fire prevention campaign and other activities designed to protect the sea, mountains and rivers, but are also carrying out activities to remove traps and snares in mountainous terrain. Fund Sponsor Our fund sponsoring program consists of financial support activities that contribute to resolving the economic problems of underprivileged neighbors and to developing the local community. The collected funds are transferred to welfare centers, local government volunteer work centers, agricultural villages and schools. The funds are collected from the voluntary participation of employees (Angel Fund), donations from the company (matching grant), regional cooperation project fees, and the Children’s Foundation’s sponsorship program (Fun Donation) on a personal level. Heart volunteer work Call Healthcare Service delivered by  Social contribution activities initiation performance (unit : cases/persons/hours/KRW 1,000) in-house nurses and activities to improve the surrounding environment for senior citizens living alone Category 2012 2013 2014 No. of activities (cases) 3,669 4,039 4,512 No. of participants in the activities (no. of persons) 14,995 17,577 21,857 Activity hours (hours) 49,109 49,398 71,607 Activity hours (no. of hours/no. of volunteer workers) 9.7 9.5 13.1 Amount raised by activities (KRW 1,000) 1,137,721 1,178,220 1,259,499 71 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal/Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix  Installation of electrical facilities at India Jharsuguda  Construction of Bethany School  Bethany School entrance ceremony Special School for the Disabled in Madagascar  Free meal (rice scooping) event Global Social Contribution Activities KEPCO KPS operates fourteen overseas business sites in India, the Philippines, and South Africa among others. Pro bono activities which utilize the professional maintenance technologies of the company including the inspection of electrical facilities near power generation centers and the installation of electricity supply facilities are carried out at these overseas sites. These activities enable us to communicate with the local residents, and to spread the sharing culture of Korea. Just as it does in Korea, KEPCO KPS strives to become a company that gives hope to and nurtures the dreams of its neighbors at its overseas business sites. Problem Action Fulfillment of corporate social •Problems associated with food, Local employment Sponsoring goods responsibility clothing and shelter Global CSR •Unstable power supply Expansion of •Insufficient facilities Electrical facility inspection Construction of new facilities sharing culture  Pakistan Daharki Sponsorship of Goods Case of global social contribution activity: Installation of electrical facilities at the Jharsuguda Special School for the Disabled, India The region of Jharsuguda in India lacks a stable supply of power, leading to frequent blackouts. Special schools for disabled children also have weak electrical facilities in the classrooms and dorms, making school life inconvenient due to the lack of an emergency power supply in the event of a blackout. KEPCO KPS has installed additional lighting in the Jadeswari Special School for the Disabled, and has also carried out the maintenance of wiring and electrical facilities. Furthermore, emergency power supply facilities were installed to cope with blackouts. In addition, we supported a special school for the mentally disabled (Asha Kiran) with specially made beds for the disabled in order to resolve the inconvenience of disabled children sleeping on a concrete floor. Case of global social contribution activity: Support for construction of new classrooms at Bethany School, Madagascar This project consisted in building new classrooms for Bethany School, which is located near an overseas business site in Ambatovy, Madagascar. By constructing three new classrooms with a combined floor space of approx. 264.5 square meters, we helped to create a better environment for the children to study in. Also, through a free meal (rice scooping) event in which local field staff from the overseas business site and staff from the headquarters participated together, we enjoyed a genuine experience of sharing together. Case of global social contribution activity: Providing goods to India, Pakistan and Jordan KEPCO KPS strives to co-exist harmoniously with the local residents of overseas business sites. When the local mosque at Nani Cher Village (located near the power plant in ATPS, India) was modified, we supported the community by providing tiles, cement, and vehicles used at the business site, as well as labor. At our business site at Daharki, Pakistan, we supplied cooking materials including flour and cooking oil to the local residents. In Al Manakher, Jordan, we sponsored goods to the orphanage in the neighborhood. NEXT STEP KEPCO KPS is planning to constantly identify and initiate social contribution activities that will enable us to utilize our corporate characteristics while simultaneously carrying out our ongoing social contribution activities including those of the Hanmaum Volunteers. Furthermore, by identifying the needs of the local communities around the world in which we operate, and by contributing to regional development, KEPCO KPS will spread the culture of sharing. 06 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Appendix Financial Information Third-Party Assurance Statement ISO 26000 Implementation Level Diagnosis Report GRI G4 Index UN Global Compact Major Awards and Associate Members Glossary Reader’s Opinion Questionnaire 74 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Financial Information Financial Statements Comprehensive Income Statement (unit : KRW) Category 31st 30th Sales 1,078,525,831,068 1,121,717,251,936 Cost of goods sold 803,975,266,293 881,971,705,998 Gross profit 274,550,564,775 239,745,545,938 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses 61,483,669,839 56,711,402,397 Operating income 213,066,894,936 183,034,143,541 Non-operating income 14,634,455,013 18,842,477,516 Non-operating expenses 9,266,871,648 3,845,215,175 Earnings before tax (expenses) 218,434,478,301 198,031,405,882 Income tax expense 51,587,118,141 46,507,697,166 Net income 166,847,360,160 151,523,708,716 ※ 31st period as of December 31, 2014 / 30th period as of December 31, 2013 Statement of Financial Position (unit : KRW) Category 31st 30th Current assets 461,749,549,513 438,271,262,436 Non-current assets 461,093,846,983 400,795,401,320 Total assets 922,843,396,496 839,066,663,756 Current liabilities 181,870,880,098 182,871,384,979 Non-current liabilities 44,902,632,011 34,532,858,742 Total liabilities 226,773,512,109 217,404,243,721 Capital stock 9,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 Capital surplus 687,069,884,387 612,662,420,035 Total capital 696,069,884,387 621,662,420,035 Total assets and capital 922,843,396,496 839,066,663,756 ※ 31st period as of December 31, 2014 / 30th period as of December 31, 2013 75 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix Consolidated Financial Statement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (unit : KRW) Category 31st 30th Sales 1,085,530,566,527 1,125,801,668,803 Cost of goods sold 807,862,253,855 884,960,205,599 Gross profit 277,668,312,672 240,841,463,204 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses 61,862,318,096 56,863,614,900 Operating income 215,805,994,576 183,977,848,304 Non-operating income 14,689,167,174 18,852,200,301 Non-operating expenses 9,337,299,807 3,863,734,339 Earnings before tax (expenses) 221,174,240,950 198,962,456,048 Income tax expense 52,878,633,146 46,922,969,569 Net income 168,295,607,804 152,039,486,479 ※ 31st period as of December 31, 2014 / 30th period as of December 31, 2013 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (unit : KRW) Category 31st 30th Current assets 465,362,071,141 440,887,701,624 Non-current assets 460,181,975,427 400,214,264,485 Total assets 925,544,046,568 841,101,966,109 Current liabilities 182,620,500,959 184,504,389,773 Non-current liabilities 44,902,632,011 34,532,858,742 Total liabilities 227,523,132,970 219,037,248,515 Capital stock 9,000,000,000 9,000,000,000 Capital surplus 689,033,512,136 613,177,859,879 Other capital (12,692,406) (113,173,112) Capital belonging to the owner of the dominant firm 698,020,819,730 622,064,686,767 Non-dominant capital 93,868 30,827 Total capital 698,020,913,598 622,064,717,594 Total assets and capital 925,544,046,568 841,101,966,109 ※ 31 period as of December 31, 2014 / 30th period as of December 31, 2013 st 76 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Third-Party Assurance Statement To the Management and Stakeholders of KEPCO KPS: Introduction The Korean Standards Association (“KSA”) has received a request for independent assurance of the KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 (“the report”) from KEPCO KPS (“KPS”). Therefore, KSA reviewed the data, performance results, and evidence and feasibility of the relevant systems as contained in the report drawn up by KEPCO KPS to offer an independent third-party assurance opinion. KEPCO KPS is responsible for collecting, analyzing, and organizing the information and performances required to generate the report and all the claims made therein. Independence Other than offering third-party assurance on the report, KSA is independent and autonomous from any influence and businesses of KEPCO KPS and its stakeholders. It does not have any relationship with KEPCO KPS, which might affect its independence or association for profit-making purpose. Assurance  Standards KSA has performed the assurance by applying GRI G4 guidelines and ISO 26000, focusing on the AS1000AS 2008 assurance standards. According to the and Level assurance requirements of AA1000AS (2008), KSA has checked the scope of adopting the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness and reliability of this report. The credibility of the information in the KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report has been verified with a moderate level of assurance. Assurance  Type and KSA has performed assurance that falls under Type 2 in compliance with the AA1000 assurance standards (AA1000 AS). Type 2 assurance means that the Scope accuracy of the claims of KEPCO KPS and performance information in the report has been assessed. The assurance scope has been based on the period Jan. 1, 2013 ~ Dec. 31, 2014. KSA has carried out assurance focusing on systems and activities such as sustainability management policy and goal, business, standard, and performance. Likewise, KSA has conducted assurance on environmental and social data and financial data on economic performance in a broad sense. The intervention of the assurance provider (KSA) in stakeholder engagement has been limited to reviewing the materiality analysis process. Methodology KSA has collected the necessary information, data, and evidence related to the assurance scope and performed assurance using the following methods: •Investigation and analysis of reported media articles with regard to the sustainability management of KEPCO KPS for the past two years •Investigation of related reported issues of the company as selected through the discussion with KEPCO KPS •Visit to KEPCO KPS head office, interview with the staff in charge of sustainability management and issue manager •Review of the management system and process used for improving sustainability management performance and drawing up the report •Review as to whether the audit report and disclosure data match the financial performance data and financial statements •Track review of internal documents and basic data  Findings and Opinions KSA has reviewed the draft report and presented opinions on it, with the report revised as necessary. Based on our assurance activities, major errors or [on the assurance inappropriate descriptions have not been found in the details of the report. KSA presents the following opinions on the KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014: principle/process Inclusivity Has KEPCO KPS included stakeholders in the strategically responding process on sustainability? dimension] KSA has checked and found that KEPCO KPS recognizes the importance of core stakeholder engagement in implementing sustainability management and makes an effort to acquire and operate various channels of communication. Furthermore, KSA has not discovered any significant stakeholder that has been omitted from this process. KSA recommends that KEPCO KPS strengthen the role of the supreme governance group for sustainable development in order to reflect the needs of the stakeholders on the strategies and activities of KEPCO KPS for sustainable management, including reporting specific cases on how the reflection of opinions by the management board and the decision-making process have been conducted. Materiality Does the report contain material issues for the wise judgment of stakeholders? KSA judges that KEPCO KPS has not omitted or excluded information material for its stakeholders. KEPCO KPS has identified the issues of stakeholders through internal and external environmental analyses and made reports based on this result. KSA recommends that KEPCO KSA continue discovering issues that reflect its industrial characteristics and establish a management system that enables clear reporting of business opportunities and risks of the company on the discovered issues with significance. Responsiveness Has KEPCO KPS properly responded to stakeholders’ demand and interest? KSA has confirmed that KEPCO KPS has reflected the opinions of stakeholders in order to make efforts to reflect the requests of stakeholders and to respond to their interests. Moreover, KSA did not find any evidence that the response activities by KEPCO KPS on significant issues for stakeholders have been reported inappropriately. KSA recommends that KEPCO KPS strengthen its system so that the KPI for managing significant issues by stakeholders will be diversified, and strategic tasks and detailed assignments for sustainable management will be carried out systematically in the pertinent departments. 77 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix Review on GRI G4 K SA has confirmed that this report was drawn up in accordance with the comprehensive option of GRI G4, and that the following contents on general standard Application Level disclosures and specific standard disclosures are true based on the data provided by KEPCO KPS: General Standard Disclosures KSA has confirmed that this report is in accordance with the requirements of general standard disclosures of comprehensive option and has reviewed the following indicators: G4-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58 Specific Standard Disclosures KSA has confirmed DMA on the material aspects that have been derived through the decision process of reported areas and has reviewed the following indicators: G4-EC1, EC2, EC3, EC4, EC5, EC6, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21,LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA5, LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9, LA10, LA11, LA12, HR3, SO1,SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5, SO7, PR3, PR4, PR5, PR6, PR7, PR8, PR9 Opinions  in Each Area KSA recommends a review of the following so that KEPCO KPS can lay the foundation for responding consistently to issues through the consolidation of and Recommendation sustainability management strategies at the enterprise-wide level: for Improvement [Execution Results/ Economic Issues] Stable financial structure is the outcome of qualitative growth that accompanies the consistent operating profit of KEPCO KPS. Likewise, KEPCO KPS seeks to achieve its midto long-term financial plan (VISION 2020) by consistently discovering new business areas and proactively pioneering foreign markets through the development of core human capital and technological management. Such growth should be pursued with consistent risk management so that growth accompanying stable financial structure such as the present will be accomplished, not just quantitative growth. Environmental KEPCO KPS shows outstanding result in sections reflected on the internal management evaluation, since it has established and operated a company-wide environmental management system in accordance with global standard and has established specific goals and fulfillment plan for reducing the emission of greenhouse gases. In the future, KEPCO KPS should fulfill its responsibility of explanation by making reports on specific improvement activities such as efforts by employees with regard to energy reduction, replacement with high-efficiency facilities, use of alternative energy source, etc., and by clarifying why any huge difference compared to the previous year has occurred. Social KEPCO KPS has taken the initiative in creating shared values within the value chain by carrying out social contribution activities that utilize the industrial characteristics and professionalism through the establishment of specific strategies and executive tasks for accompanying growth with partner companies, establishment and operation of a monitoring system, creation of a shelter of hope for the participation and development of the community, and running of pro bono activities as well as global social contribution activities. In the future, corporate activities are expected to be accompanied by criteria for measuring the impact on the community so that the activities by KEPCO KPS for creating shared values will be maximized through consistent measurement, management, and improvement. May 2015 KSA Chairman Baek, Soo Hyun The Korean Standards Association is a special corporate body established pursuant to the “Law on Korean Industry Standardization” enacted in 1962. As an intelligence service institution that supplies and expands industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, and KS/ISO accreditation to companies, KSA is also a national administrative organization for ISO 26000, a designated educational institution for GRI guidelines, an AA1000 assurance institution, and an operational institution of the Korean Sustainability Index (KSI). It is an organization that runs the UN CDM, an assurance institution that controls the objective systems for greenhouse gas energy; in other words, it is an institution that fosters our society’ s sustainable development. 78 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 ISO 26000 Implementation Level Diagnosis Report Standard is because “integration within the company-wide strategy for sustainable management and KSA has developed a checklist to diagnose the level of social responsibility implementation improvement of strategic system for enabling integration,” a task for improvement derived based on an international standard, ISO 26000, for social responsibility as part of the from the 2013 diagnosis of the social responsibility process, has been reflected actively. project undertaken by the Korean Agency for Technology & Standards affiliated with the For the integration of company-wide strategy and strategies for sustainable management, Ministry of Knowledge Economy. This diagnosis report is the result of diagnosing the seven KEPCO KPS established the foundation for sustainable growth by re-establishing midcore themes in KEPCO KPS’s sustainability management processes and performance term and long-term plans for strategic management in March 2014. “Expansion of Sharing according to KSA’s diagnosis checklist. Value,” a strategy for sustainable management, has been added to company-wide strategy; “strengthening of accompanying growth,” “participation in the community,” and “expansion Scope of eco-friendly management” were selected as related issues for this. The selection of KSA has diagnosed processes and implementation performance with regard to the social detailed executive tasks for each issue and assignment by pertinent departments had responsibilities of KEPCO KPS. Toward this end, KSA has diagnosed the midand longbeen completed as well. Such activities are expected to make a huge contribution to the term strategies and activities, stakeholder engagement, and social responsibility activities. settlement of the system for sustainable management of KEPCO KPS. On the other hand, KEPCO KPS needs to improve its “executive” part, where it shows relative weakness. Methods In order to increase the executive power of sustainable management, improvement of KSA has conducted the following activities to collect appropriate data based on standards awareness on the materiality of social responsibility by not only the pertinent departments for ISO 26000 implementation level diagnosis: but also employees and all members of the company needs to be accomplished. The Review of internal data on the activities and performances of socially responsible contents of social responsibility management activities being conducted by individuals and management pertinent departments need to be shared throughout the company. Only when a bond Interview with the staff in charge of issues regarding socially responsible management of sympathy on its materiality is shared will a truly socially responsible management be accomplished. KSA recommends that KEPCO KPS conduct regular education and seminar Diagnosis Results of Each ISO 26000 Social Responsibility Program on socially responsible management so that all members of the company will understand The diagnosis results in the process sector show overall improvement compared to 2013. the importance of socially responsible management and practice it. KEPCO KPS shows noticeable improvements in the areas of “recognition of social responsibility” and “priority setting and establishment of executive strategy and plan.” This Diagnosis Results of the Seven Core Subjects of ISO 26000 Organizational Governance | The “Sustainable Management Committee” under the executive group for sustainable management should be materialized, and its 2013 Recognition of social responsibility activities should be regularized. It is hoped that committee activities being conducted at Stakeholder 2015 100 80.0 identification and individual levels by the board of directors, committee of ethical management, customer Improvement 80 engagement advisory board, etc., will be operated within an integrated platform of the “Sustainable 60 68.0 86.7 80.0 Management Committee.” 40 73.3 68.0 20 Analysis of core Human Rights | Because of the saturation within the domestic power generation market, Assurance 73.3 0 80.0 80.0 subjects and issues KEPCO KPS is operating foreign business as its new growth engine. KEPCO KPS should go 86.7 63.3 beyond understanding labor-related regulations in foreign countries and local corporate 60.0 bodies when advancing into foreign countries and conduct due diligence based on human 90.0 60.0 76.7 rights risk when carrying out businesses in foreign business markets. Moreover, policies for Communication 95.0 Establishment of priorities and respecting human rights should be established within the group, and policies of respecting implementation strategies human rights in partner companies should be supported. Implementation Recognition of Review the current status of organization based on the top management’s Labor Practices | Citizens’ demands with regard to safety are increasing nowadays. social responsibility commitment Stakeholder identification Review stakeholders’ interests and needs and establish an engagement In accordance with the demands by the citizens and the government, KEPCO KPS has and engagement strategy expanded the safety department of the head company from team-oriented organization Analysis of core subjects Draw up a dispute list based on dispute review and analysis of and issues organizational internal capacity to executive organization and created professional groups called safety administration Establishment of priorities Establish priorities of disputes to be resolved, goals, departments at each business site. In addition, the range of applying safety rules within and implementation strategies and implementation plans considering the organizational capacity the company includes not only those within the company but also contractors and onExecute strategies, goals, and plans and cyclically monitor social responsibility Implementation site laborers. KEPCO KPS also monitors and manages the hazard rate of subsidiaries performance Communication Communicate with stakeholders by drawing up a performance report consistently. For foreign business sites, KEPCO KPS exercises socially responsible Assurance Activities and report to enhance reliability of performance management in a passive range, i.e., merely following the local regulations. Considering Improvement Cyclically review performance and link it with continual improvement the poor working conditions in the foreign business sites of KEPCO KPS such as India, Bangladesh, Philippines, and Pakistan, KEPCO KPS should use a stricter standard than 79 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix the local regulations in order to minimize safety accidents in foreign business sites and but also the dispatched laborers within the company, and that the code of conduct for establish advanced labor customs. partnering companies has included the employees of the company as well as agents and contractors. It is requested that KEPCO KPS show outstanding customs so that related Environment | All scrap metals generated from businesses (100%) are recycled. As a small organizations will conduct fair operation of management and provide consistent positive aspect, the amount of wastes, source of pollution, amount of water consumption, support in order to improve their awareness and to prepare related policies. and energy consumption are consistently monitored and reported. Also highly laudable is the fact that harmful chemical substances are used by recording them on MSDS from the Consumer Issues | KEPCO KPS created and amended policies on personal information in stage of purchase, with even the remaining substances managed. Note, however, that the 2013. That same year, it separated the business network and the Internet network within substances used by each business site are different, and their types are varied. Therefore, the company in order to prevent leak of personal information through strict management there is a need to reorganize the current situation wherein each business site sets its of personal information. According to the business characteristics, although the direct chemical substances and manages them independently. The chemical substances used by customers of KEPCO KPS are power generation companies, the final customers of power the organization need to be managed in accordance with domestic and global laws at the generation and maintenance service are the citizens who are supplied with electricity. level of the head office as well as the level demanded by stakeholders, and the contents of Therefore, KEPCO KPS should make consistent efforts to provide factual and impartial the management should be disseminated to all employees through education. information to citizens regarding electricity and to ensure the safety of the citizens by performing faultless maintenance. Fair Operating Practices | In 2014, the committee of ethical management discussed the “amendment of code of conduct for employees and partner companies,” “evaluation Community Involvement and Development | KEPCO KPS conducts active on anti-corruption policies,” and “policies on integrity incentive” through five management community service activities through its “one-heart community service group” and meetings and materialized related items. Furthermore, the section on “ethics on rival provides direct help such as examination of electric facilities and installation of electricity companies and trading companies” has newly been added in the ethics charter. Laudable supply facilities near the business sites. KEPCO KPS should be commended for providing is the fact that the code of conduct for employees has included not only the employees active help in resolving problems of food, clothing, and housing for the local community as it expands its business areas to foreign regions. KSA recommends that, when KEPCO KPS conducts social contribution activities and participates in the activities of the local 2013 Organizational governance community, it make plans by first investigating the potential effects on the local community 2015 100 90.0 -alleviating the negative effects and optimizing the positive effects. Community involvement and development 80 Human rights 60 70.0 82.8 Conclusion 87.5 84.4 40 75.9 As a result of diagnosing the ISO 26000 response level of KEPCO KPS, the company scored 20 290 points out of a total of 360 points in the process aspect and 580 points out of a total 0 of 640 points in performance. With total score of 870, KEPCO KPS has been assessed to Consumer issues 94.7 87.5 Labor practices fall under the IV level. KEPCO KPS has diagnosed the organization through consistent 100.0 95.3 ISO 26000 diagnosis and has revised and improved its weak parts proactively. At this point, KEPCO KPS needs to share and expand its well-prepared system of sustainable 84.2 82.8 94.7 85.9 management throughout the company in order to internalize it within the group culture. Fair operating practices Environment Along with this, KEPCO KPS is expected to perform its role as conveyor of socially responsible management to various organizations that it deals with through its business Organizational Activities that uphold social responsibility principles and integrate them into activities. governance existing systems, policies, and practices May 2015 Activities that respect, protect, and realizing human rights within the Human rights organization and organization’s sphere of influence KSA Chairman Baek, Soo Hyun Policies and practices affecting workers’ labor environment targeting KEPCO Labor practices KPS and partner firms Activities carried out in an integrated manner considering the organization’s Environment decisions and activity’s meaning to reduce the organization’s impacts on the environment Activities promoting ethical acts between KEPCO KPS and other The Korean Standards Association is a special corporate body established pursuant to the “Law on Korean Industry Fair operating practices organizations such as KEPCO KPS and partners and suppliers Standardization” enacted in 1962. As an intelligence service institution that supplies and expands industrial Consumer rights protection activities including consumer education, fair and standardization, quality management, sustainability management, and KS/ISO accreditation to companies, KSA is Consumer issues transparent marketing information and contracting, sustainable consumption also a national administrative organization for ISO 26000, a designated educational institution for GRI guidelines, promotion an AA1000 assurance institution, and an operational institution of the Korean Sustainability Index (KSI). It is an Community involvement Activities aimed at recognizing, respecting community rights and maximizing organization that runs the UN CDM, an assurance institution that controls the objective systems for greenhouse and development support and opportunities gas energy; in other words, it is an institution that fosters our society’s sustainable development. 80 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G4 Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOUSURES General Standard Disclosure Page Omissions External Assurance Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the G4-1 4-5 ● organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4-5 ● Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization 6 ● G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 6 ● G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 7 ● Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant G4-6 7 ● to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 7 ● G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 6 ● Report the scale of the organization, including: Total number of employees Total number of operations G4-9 7,52 ● Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally 52 ● recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 57 ● G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 67 ● G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. Cover ● Organizational Profile: Commitments to External Initiative G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 14 ● G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. Cover,11,84 ● G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization. 85 ● Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 Cover ● b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 18-19 ● b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 18-19 ● For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: * Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization * If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: G4-20 18-19 ● The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material * Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: * Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization G4-21 * If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. 18-19 ● In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified * Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. Cover ● G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Cover ● Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 16-17 ● 81 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOUSURES General Standard Disclosure Page Omissions External Assurance Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 16-17 ● Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of G4-26 16-17 ● the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, G4-27 16-17 ● including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. Cover ● G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Cover ● G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Cover ● G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Cover ● Report Profile: GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-32 Cover ● c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Report Profile: Assurance a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 76-77 ● c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. G4-34 13 ● Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. 10 ● Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and G4-36 12 ● whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to G4-37 10 ● whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: Executive or non-executive Independence Tenure on the governance body G4-38 Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments 12 ● Gender Membership of under-represented social groups Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts Stakeholder representation Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer G4-39 12 ● (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: G4-40 Whether and how diversity is considered 12 ● Whether and how independence is considered Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. G4-41 12 ● Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders. Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, G4-42 12 ● strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. 12 ● a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. G4-44 13 ● b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. 82 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G4 Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOUSURES General Standard Disclosure Page Omissions External Assurance a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. G4-45 12 ● b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. 12 ● G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 13 ● G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. 10 ● G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 12 ● G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. 13 ● a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration. G4-51 13 ● b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of G4-52 13 ● management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. 13 ● Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation G4-54 13 ● for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median G4-55 Not Reporting ● percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 58 ● G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. 58-59 ● Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, G4-58 59 ● such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOUSURES Material Aspect DMA and Indicators Page Omissions External Assurance Category: Economic Generic DMA G4-EC1 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED 9 ● G4-EC2 FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS AND OTHER RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE ORGANIZATION’S ACTIVITIES DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE 60 ● Economic Performance G4-EC3 COVERAGE OF THE ORGANIZATION’S DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN OBLIGATIONS 56 ● G4-EC4 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENT 9 ● Generic DMA RATIOS OF STANDARD ENTRY LEVEL WAGE BY GENDER COMPARED TO LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE AT SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS G4-EC5 55 ● OF OPERATION Market Presence G4-EC6 PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY AT SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION 52 ● Category: Environmental Generic DMA G4-EN15 DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) 61 ● G4-EN16 ENERGY INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) 61 ● G4-EN17 OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3) It is not managed by KPS. ● Emissions G4-EN18 GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS INTENSITY 61 ● G4-EN19 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS 62 ● G4-EN20 EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (ODS) 62 No ozone-depleting substances ● G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS 62 ● Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practice and Decent Work Generic DMA G4-LA1 TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION 52 ● Employment BENEFITS PROVIDED TO FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES THAT ARE NOT PROVIDED TO TEMPORARY OR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES, BY G4-LA2 56 ● SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION 83 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOUSURES Material Aspect DMA and Indicators Page Omissions External Assurance Employment G4-LA3 RETURN TO WORK AND RETENTION RATES AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE, BY GENDER 53 ● Generic DMA Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 MINIMUM NOTICE PERIODS REGARDING OPERATIONAL CHANGES, INCLUDING WHETHER THESE ARE SPECIFIED IN COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS 57 ● Generic DMA PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKFORCE REPRESENTED IN FORMAL JOINT MANAGEMENT–WORKER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA5 29 ● COMMITTEES THAT HELP MONITOR AND ADVISE ON OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAMS TYPE OF INJURY AND RATES OF INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, AND ABSENTEEISM, AND TOTAL NUMBER OF Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 28 ● WORK-RELATED FATALITIES, BY REGION AND BY GENDER G4-LA7 WORKERS WITH HIGH INCIDENCE OR HIGH RISK OF DISEASES RELATED TO THEIR OCCUPATION 29 ● G4-LA8 HEALTH AND SAFETY TOPICS COVERED IN FORMAL AGREEMENTS WITH TRADE UNIONS 29 ● Generic DMA G4-LA9 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER, AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY 55 ● PROGRAMS FOR SKILLS MANAGEMENT AND LIFELONG LEARNING THAT SUPPORT THE CONTINUED EMPLOYABILITY OF G4-LA10 53 ● Training and Education EMPLOYEES AND ASSIST THEM IN MANAGING CAREER ENDINGS PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS, BY GENDER AND G4-LA11 55 ● BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Generic DMA COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYEE CATEGORY ACCORDING TO Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 53 ● GENDER, AGE GROUP, MINORITY GROUP MEMBERSHIP, AND OTHER INDICATORS OF DIVERSITY Sub-Category: Human Rights Generic DMA Non-discrimination G4-HR3 TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN 52 ● Generic DMA Sub-Category: Society Generic DMA PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS WITH IMPLEMENTED LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, AND G4-SO1 69-71 ● Local Communities DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS G4-SO2 OPERATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES 69-71 ● Generic DMA TOTAL NUMBER OF LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR, ANTI-TRUST, AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES AND THEIR G4-SO3 59 ● OUTCOMES Anti-corruption G4-SO4 COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 59 ● G4-SO5 CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN 59 ● Generic DMA TOTAL NUMBER OF LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR, ANTI-TRUST, AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES AND THEIR Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 68 ● OUTCOMES Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Generic DMA TYPE OF PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION REQUIRED BY THE ORGANIZATION’S PROCEDURES FOR PRODUCT AND G4-PR3 SERVICE INFORMATION AND LABELING, AND PERCENTAGE OF SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT AND SERVICE CATEGORIES SUBJECT TO 31 ● SUCH INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS Product and Service Labeling TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND VOLUNTARY CODES CONCERNING PRODUCT G4-PR4 No Violation ● AND SERVICE INFORMATION AND LABELING, BY TYPE OF OUTCOMES G4-PR5 RESULTS OF SURVEYS MEASURING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 33 ● Generic DMA G4-PR6 SALE OF BANNED OR DISPUTED PRODUCTS No Violation ● Marketing Communications TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND VOLUNTARY CODES CONCERNING G4-PR7 No Violation ● MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING ADVERTISING, PROMOTION, AND SPONSORSHIP, BY TYPE OF OUTCOMES Generic DMA TOTAL NUMBER OF SUBSTANTIATED COMPLAINTS REGARDING BREACHES OF CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND LOSSES OF CUSTOMER Customer Privacy G4-PR8 No Violation ● DATA Generic DMA MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE It is specified by business Compliance G4-PR9 ● PROVISION AND USE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES report. 84 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 UN Global Compact KEPCO KPS joined the UN Global Compact, the UN-led international agreements on corporate social responsibility and is fully complying with its ten principles in the four areas of human rights, labour standard, environment and anti-corruption. Principle Page Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 5, 11 Human Rights Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 5, 11, 57 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 57 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 53 Labour Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 53 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 52 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 60~63 Environment Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 60~63 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 62, 63 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 59 85 Introduction Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business Globalization Expansion Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries Establishment of Enabling System Sharing Value Expansion Appendix Major Awards and Associate Members Status of External Awards Received and Qualifications Acquired Date Content Institution Nov. 2012 Received the Silver Pagoda Industrial Medal in the 38th National Quality Management Convention Korean Standards Association Korea Evaluation Institute of Sustainability Nov. 2012 Won the Labor and Employment Minister’s Prize in the labor-management cooperation sector during the 2012 Korea Sustainability Management Awards Management Sept. 2013 Selected as the best KS-QEI public institution for the 2nd consecutive year, the first among Korean public institutions Korean Standards Association Oct. 2013 Selected as the most outstanding company for DJSI KOREA for the 5th consecutive year Korea Productivity Center Jul. 2014 Awarded the CEO Award during the 2014 Korea Service Grand Prix Korean Standards Association Sept. 2014 Selected as the best KS-QEI public institution for the third consecutive year, the first among Korean public institutions Korean Standards Association Oct. 2014 Awarded the financial structure grand prix in the 15th Korea Financial Management Grand Prix New Industry Management Academy Oct. 2014 Selected as the most outstanding company for DJSI KOREA for the 6th consecutive year Korea Productivity Center Nov. 2014 Awarded the CEO Award as one of the internationally certified outstanding companies Korean Standards Association Dec. 2014 KEPCO KPS, 1st in the 2014 integrity evaluation among public institutions Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission Membership of Organizations and Associations Year of Membership Society/Association Name Purpose of Membership 1984 Korea Electric Association Propelling promotion and development in the electricity business 1984 Korea Atomic Industrial Forum Knowledge and information exchange on nuclear power generation 1996 Korea Co-Generation Association Order taking increase and new business expansion through information exchange of combined cycle thermal power plant facilities 2004 Korea District Heating Association Contribution to the government’s embodiment of collective energy industry policy including energy savings and environmental conservation 2005 Korea New and Renewable Association Exchange of information on intellectual property market needs and trends Business Ethics and Sustainability 2006 Ethical management dissemination and corporate culture establishment through learning from best practices of ethical management Management for Top Performance 2008 Korea Powerplant Maintenance Association Research on measures to consolidate the power generation maintenance industry’s competitiveness Korea Nuclear Association for Analyses of Korean-style nuclear power plant export and overseas nuclear power plant trends; mutual collaboration and information exchange in 2011 International Cooperation the nuclear power generation industry Korea Nuclear Equipment 2012 New technology information exchange and training engagement related to nuclear power generation materials and equipment Advancement Association Korea Engineering Asset Contribute to cooperation for promoting the proper development and expansion of technology and learning as well as establishment of upright 2013 Management Association government policies 2015 Korea Temporary Equipment Association Contribute to the development of temporary industries by ensuring the safety and economic effects of temporary works. Korea Railway Electrifications Contribute to the development of railway electrification technology by fostering talented technicians and performing periodic inspection of electric 2015 Technical Association railroad-related facilities 2015 Public Audit Forum Share the direction of the government’s policy and support to accomplish the business goals of the organization 86 KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report 2014 Glossary •APR1400 (Advanced Power Reactor 1400) Advanced Power Reactor 1400 •BOO (Build, Own, Operate) One type of power generation project wherein private companies in foreign countries are utilized through consistent process from construction to operation, with transfer of facilities not conducted even after the contract •DB (Defined Benefit) Policy wherein a company accumulates the resources for paying pensions at an external financial institution so that the financial institution will operate the fund and pay the predetermined amount in the form of pension or lump sum by considering the working years, etc., of the retiring laborer •EPC (Engineering, Procurement, Construction) A turn-key method wherein the contractor manages all stages from purchase of engineering materials to construction •ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) A new type of risk management method for minimizing the loss of a company by integrating the management of tangible and intangible risks •GT (Gas Turbine) Gas turbine •IPP (Independent Power Producer) Independent licensee of power generation •JV (Joint Venture) A method of foreign investment wherein companies, individuals, or governmental agencies from more than two countries participate in the joint operation of business •KEPIC (Korea Electric Power Industry Code) Detailed requirements that provide comprehensive technical information regarding design, production, construction, examination, etc., in order to ensure the safety and quality of the facilities and devices from the electric power industry •MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) Sheet that records information necessary for using and managing chemical substances safely •O&M (Operation&Maintenance) Operation & Maintenance •PJB (Pre-Job-Briefing) Briefing (meeting) before work starts •Retrofit Construction for replacing and bolstering major devices and vitalizing the power plant for the purpose of increasing output, improving efficiency, increasing the lifespan, or converting the fuel of power generation facilities •RCMS (Real time Cash Management System) Real-time Cash Management System for research cost, administered by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy •R&BD (Research & Business Development) Research & Business Development •VaR (Value at Risk) Cost that predicts the maximum expected loss in case of risk occurrence under certain condition •V2G (Vehicle to Grid) Service industry that resells electricity that has been stored in the electric vehicle Reader’s Opinion Questionnaire We welcome your invaluable feedback on our Sustainability Report 2014. Rest assured that your opinions and suggestions are reviewed and fully reflected on our next sustainability report. You can e-mail (sustainability@kps.co.kr) or fax us to present your candid opinions. To Fax. 061-345-2133 KEPCO KPS Business Management Team of the Corporate Planning Dept. From Name Gender Occupation 1. To which of the following groups do you belong?  Customer  Investors/Shareholders  Business Partners  Local Citizens  Civil Organizations  Employees of KEPCO-Affiliated Companies  Research Institutes  Government Officials  Media  Employees of KEPCO KPS  Others ( ) 2. How did you learn about KEPCO KPS Sustainability Reports? Cut Line  KEPCO KPS Corporate Website  Seminars/Lectures/Exhibits  Newspapers/Magazines  Other Websites  KEPCO KPS Employees  Others ( ) 3. Which of the following did you find most interesting in this report?  Introduction  Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business  Globalization Expansion  Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries  Establishment of Enabling System  Sharing Value Expansion 4. Which of the following do you think should be improved in this report?  Introduction  Competitiveness Consolidation of Existing Business  Globalization Expansion  Horizontal / Vertical Diversification of Related Industries  Establishment of Enabling System  Sharing Value Expansion 5. How do you evaluate this report? Ease of Understanding  Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Average  Dissatisfactory  Highly Dissatisfactory Amount of Information  Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Average  Dissatisfactory  Highly Dissatisfactory Overall Satisfaction  Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Average  Dissatisfactory  Highly Dissatisfactory 6. Please feel free to give your comments about the KEPCO KPS Sustainability Report. A New Wind! Postage will be paid Unfolding Tomorrow with Hope by the addressee KEPCO KPS Sender Recipient Bitgaram-dong, 221 Munhwa-ro, Naju-si, Jeollanam-do, 520-350 Republic of Korea Business Management Team of the Corporate Planning Dept. TEL.061-345-2133 FAX.061-345-2109 www.kps.co.kr Apply glue on this section
