1 Y E 13 R E1 2 20 TUP 20 F UGC CO UN FUTUREYE 2 CO NT EN 01 M TS DI AN ST RE AG AT C T I N EM O G EN R’S T AB 03 FU O TU UT RE Y E 3 E TH G TO E IN M NT ES NC S E’ LE T IR ME PL NY A EY AB EN FF T CI PA R M 1 3 09 A MI IN 11 M FO 20 UR IN M RE M R CO R 20 7 T TA O P E CO P PE 1 FU S EL TIV 10 20 SU V IA DE IT FUTUREYE IN 1 M DI AN ST RE AG AT C I N T EM O G R EN ’S T A member of the United Nations Global Compact since its inception in 2002, Futureye’s work has always focussed on generating shared benefits for its clients, society and the environment through taking innovative approaches and finding real solutions to the dilemmas facing the world we live in. This year we have continued to work with clients to build transparency and communicate more openly with the communities they operate within. We believe that this is a crucial element in adressing issues related to corruption, human rights, labour, and the environment in a way that is meaningful to stakeholders and beneficial to all involved. We have also begun work on a sustainable development initiative, which we believe could create a pilot model for a new apporach to sustainable development which puts the community in the centre of the decision-making process. I am proud to confirm Futureye’s continued support for the UNGC and to renew its ongoing commitment to it and its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Katherine Teh-White Managing Director FUTUREYE 2 3 AB F to utu FU O e t re as nga he ye un sis g pr is a Fu de ts em ivat sp in tu rs or en e ec As no re tan gan t, , pu ial g va ye d is su b ist TU UT Ri oal suc tio ’s th a st lic c gh s h, n vi e i tion ain an ons ts of ou tha sio mp s ab d ult ,L t r t n t i g i ab he s tra i act o a lity ov ng e s s ou U rv ns o ss a er fir r, nit ice fo to n t ess nd nm m th En ed s rm c he t c e a RE vi N bu s rea ir he orp nt t p ro a i ou t pe ir o se ro nm ti ld r e on c cl w rfo beh rate cto vid en s ap ie o rm a r e t o G a nt rld a vio re s, o s ad c s n s r A lob ity ’ b -ch c ur po n a vi YE nt al fo us an e a s, r ns ll ce a i-C C r in g nd is ib as n or om cli ess ing re ks ilit pe d p ru p en , s p a y c r pt ac t oc su uta nd str ts o act io t, or ia sta ti o at f ica n. w ga l l in on pp eg st l s he ni ice a . or y. ake up th sat nc ble tu F h p er io e ni ut ol or in ns an ev d tie ur de t t d ar o r lo e s ey r an e ea a ep p d s ch ut m of iev at en H e ion t um th . an e A L E AT CI NC ER G SO CE P IN LI O IN TO A TR E In 2012-2013, Futureye worked with a number of companies to deliver social licence to operate training workshops. A social licence to operate is the set of conditions society places on a service, company or industry which it requires them to fulfil in order not to place sanctions on it. As global awareness of social and environmental issues continues to grow, the expectations society places on organisations to reach higher standards is also elevated. Futureye’s social licence training assists organisations in understanding what a social licence is, where the gaps lie between current performance and community expectations, and how to earn a social licence through building transparency and trust between them and the communities within which they operate. 2012-2013 saw Futureye conduct social licence training for clients ranging from major resource and extractive companies to agricultural organisations and fishery industry associations, building capacity for positive change through transparency in a number of areas. FUTUREYE 4 T EYE OU UR AB T FU E AG IS T R LY S OU A AN Futureye’s outrage analyses provide insight into the emotional factors that are impacting on organisations and their right to operate. ‘Outrage’ is the emotional element of risk which cannot be determined in terms of a technical hazard. By including this element of risk in an assessment of hazard, organisations can see the issues more clearly from a human perspective and assess and address what truly matters to the stakholders. Following on from work with the Australian Bankers’ Association in the previous year, Futureye worked with one of Australia’s leading banks to analyse the negative public reaction to interest rate adjustments. This was beneficial to staff in shifting their understanding of stakeholder engagement and allowing them to see the problems through the eyes of the consumer, helping to bridge the gap between corporate and personal perspectives of the issues. 5 T EYE OU UR AB T FU R DE T OL EN EH EM AK AG ST G EN Futureye continues to work with numerous organisations in the area of stakeholder engagement and community consultation in order to establish shared vision and collaboration, as well as build transparency and accountability. Our methodology encourages clients to build transparency and to openly acknowledge dilemmas and issues in a way that builds trust. This creates a platform for them to work together with their stakeholders to create a shared vision and solution. For example, this year we started work with a clean energy company to resolve the concerns the community had and build transparency to create a shared vision for co-existence. We also worked on a customer market engagement strategy for a major infrastructure company. The project aimed to reposition the company into a world class company that undertook stakeholder and customer engagement more effectively. FUTUREYE 6 7 FU SU T DE S UR I N V TA E Y IT EL IN E IA O AB ’S TI PM L VE E E NT In 2012-2013, Futureye began work on a sustainable development initiative to align with the upcoming post-2015 sustainable development goals. Despite previous attempts at creating an integrated development plan through initiatives such as the Millennium Villages Project, there has been relatively little success in creating lasting change in developing communities. Futureye’s vision is a rural sustainable development initiative aimed at bringing together the nexus issues of Food, Energy and Water to build resilience and generate prosperity in developing nations and communities. The approach differs from previous initiatives in that it is community-centric, involving the community at every step in the process to ensure their needs are met, and that their capacity to maintain the project in the long-term is grown throughout the development process. The proposed setting for the flagship process is Atauro Island, an island off the north coast of Timor-Leste, where malnutrition, preventable disease and a lack of safe drinking water are commonplace. Futureye has begun to develop a platform to facilitate the collaboration of the private sector, multilateral organisations, government and major industries with the Atauro community at the core, proposing that through integrated planning, needs assessment and capacity-building, a post-2015 sustainability model will create a new generation in development. Atauro Island presents an ideal setting for a breakthrough approach to community-led, integrated development. The isolation of the island provides a controlled environment where efforts will begin from the ground-up, integrating social, economic and environmental obstacles to sustainable development. Having generated interest from a number of parties, Futureye is continuing to seek support and partnership opportunities from the private sector, multilateral organisations, government, and major industries to further develop this landmark project. FUTUREYE 8 9 RE CO A TO M FF F U utu PR T M IR or NG re ga C ye ni th re I sa ro a tio ug ffir IN HE TM MI n. h ms st i ra ts te c gi o c m CI T E NG in m iti itm at e iv n es t PL E NT N th to at th ar e e 1 em 0 be Pri ES dd nci ed ple w so ith f in th th e e Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery FUTUREYE 10 11 CO PE M F ou utu 2 0 R PA p r re F as rin ow ye th p cip n st An em art le pe rive b t s o s o rf s re een i-Co elv f o f t orm to s in ma i rr es ur he an up 12 O NY th in n H up ag cl U ce p e im u ti a ie N R o co p m on in nt GC an rt a m o an . A st w i d nd in rta R lt all or s ou i g n ig ho fo k. ev r m ye t, a h u u W id sp pl ar n ts gh r a o en h em -2 M . d an t re rk t er e th d h a i in es n e e n t ai En m s o so ou of the m vi ai f H c tc in p is ro n u ial om flu rin to nm ar m lic e e c in e ea an en s b nce ipl 01 AN cr nt s o R c o . es ea , L f ig e th O o se ab in hts he in ur f t Fu ou flu , L lps ter co he tu r en ab c na m UN re Rig ce o om lly m G ye h in ur p a itm C ’s ts t , E an nd e th 3 CE in a he nv ie e nt ro flu nd i s x t u en A pa ron to ter o t gh n s ce t t me as na he in i-C yea nt se lly th orr r an ss es u ha d e pti ve ar o ea n s E NC 20 NY A PA R M 1 3 M FO 20 CO R 2ON OR F PE 1 SS S RE AL 12 OG GO 20 PR R 1OU 1 20 Futureye’s 2011-2012 Communication on Progress report identified three major goals for the coming year: 1. Promote a post-2015 development flagship project 2. Build greater transparency and engagement opportunities in the WikiCurve platform 3. Sponsor the Castan Centre for Human Rights Law Progress: 1. This year saw Futureye begin development and promotion of the Atauro Island project, as outlined above. A basic plan has been developed and Futureye is in the process of seeking partnership opportunities to further develop the project. 2. WikiCurve, a social media platform that centralizes all data and content on an issue and hosts a narrative on collective views, has been used to host a number of discussions on issues including the Green Economy, Action and Concern on Biodiversity, and Action on Climate Change. The WikiCurve platform has enabled and facilitated discussion and feedback on these issues. In the coming year, Futureye is further developing the concept to enable even richer engagement and socialisation of ideas. 3. Futureye continues to sponsor the Castan Centre for Human Rights Law at Monash University, which seeks to promote and protect human rights through the generation and dissemination of public scholarship in international and domestic human rights law. Futureye plans to continue its support indefinitely. FUTUREYE 12 E NC 20 NY A PA R M 1 3 M FO 20 CO R 2HU PE 1 Pr in ple ci M 1 & Pr in AN ciple 2 RI GH TS Futureye continues to support the promotion of Human Rights through everyday actions, as well as through professional services. By assisting clients in community engagement and social licence strategy, Futureye has built capacity to respect the social rights of the communities in which its client’s operate. Assessment, Policy and Goals • Futureye pledges its full support of the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights • Futureye’s ‘code of conduct’ kit specifies behavioural and ethical standards that all employees must adhere to • The company’s aim is to continue contributing to the advancement of human rights globally, as indicated in the company goals (see below) Implementation • Futureye’s work regularly seeks to support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights • When possible, Futureye sources fair trade products for office use • Futureye encourages open communication within the office to air grievances and concerns 13 Measurement of Outcomes • Futureye’s work in assisting companies in community and stakeholder relations has led to an increased capacity for its clients to listen to community concerns and operate collaboratively to improve practices that protect stakeholder communities • Futureye applies the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to all applicable business practices, and also consults client organisations on their human rights policies and practices • Futureye is a sponsor of the Castan Centre for Human Rights Law Goals • Continue to consult organisations on their human rights policies and practices • Work with organisations on the management of possible human rights abuses in their supply chains • Continue to sponsor the Castan Centre for Human Rights Law FUTUREYE 14 E NC 20 NY A PA R M 1 3 M FO 20 CO R 2PE 1 PrLA in ple ci BO 3, Pr in ciple UR 4, Pr in ple ci 5 & Pr in ci ple 6 Futureye supports the rights to freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, and is opposed to discrimination in the workplace in all forms. Although they are not issues directly effecting Futureye’s sector, Futureye is fundamentally opposed to all forms of forced and compulsory labour, including child labour, and has an ongoing commitment to build awareness and responsibility in organisations in which these are issues. Assessment, Policy and Goals • Futureye is an Equal Opportunity Employer, and abides by the Victorian Equal Opportunity Act of 2010, which makes it unlawful to discriminate against a person on the basis of such things as disability, sex, sexual orientation, religion, race, political orientation or marital status, amongst other criteria • Futureye’s Equal Opportunity and Harassment policy applies to all business activities and outlines a commitment to creating a diverse and harassmentfree work environment • A comprehensive Occupational Health and Safety Policy and systems ensure the provision of a safe and secure work environment for all staff • Futureye’s People Policy details general staff employment conditions that take into account Principles 3-6 15 Implementation • Futureye recognises all employees’ rights to associate freely and participate in collective bargaining • While forced and child labour are not identified as issues within Futureye’s business sector, there is full support for Principles 4 and 5 • Where Futureye works with clients in geographies and sectors that are impacted by child and forced labour, Futureye has an ongoing commitment to work with those companies to monitor and eliminate labour violations in their supply chains Measurement of Outcomes • Futureye allows all staff members the freedom to bargain collectively and does not impinge on freedom of association • Futureye is committed to uphold its opposition to all forms of forced and child labour and will only engage with other businesses that, to the best of its knowledge, hold themselves to the same standard • Futureye maintains its record for having no noteworthy accidents or incidents that contravene its strict OH&S standards • Futureye is and will continue to be an equal opportunity employer • Futureye’s Managing Director Katherine Teh-White continues to contribute to thought leadership in the area of supply chain management, and contributed to HCA magazine’s cover story on Corporate Social Responsibility in an offshore world Goals • Build capacity and experience to assess and manage labour rights issues in supply chains, particularly in relation to child and forced labour, and help organisations to become accountable for and eliminate forced and child labour FUTUREYE 16 E NC 20 NY A PA R M 1 3 M FO 20 CO R 2PE 1 PrEN in ciple 7, VI Pr in cipl RO e 8 & Pr NM in ciple EN 9 T Futureye is committed to continual improvement in sustainability and environmental outcomes for both its own practice and those of its clients’ practices. Part of this work is understanding the trade-offs between environmental impacts and societal needs and concerns. Recently, these trade-offs have been tested by Futureye and its clients with health concerns over artificial hormone use in dairy cows being balanced with environmental benefits. Assessment, Policy and Goals • Futureye has in place Green Office, clean-desk and IT policies that provide purchasing, recycling and waste minimisation guidelines • Procedures are in place to retain a higher proportion of records in electronic format, rather than paper copies, facilitate the reduction of consumption of paper and other environmentally impactful materials 17 Implementation • Double sided, black and white printing is set as default on all office printers • The majority of our staff walk, cycle and catch public transport during daily commutes and staff that are challenged by distance are supported to telecommute when convenient • Futureye purchases carbon offsets for company vehicles and air travel at the end of each year • Futureye’s electricity contract takes advantage of the GreenEarth carbon offset programme available from our supplier • All Futureye’s client work is firmly focussed on all areas of sustainability, including sustainability of the environment and the management of climate issues Measurement of Outcomes • All paper used in office equipment is 100% recycled • All plastics and aluminium are recycled in designated recycle bins • Computers are switched off each night, along with all non-essential lighting • Goals • Attend the Nexus 2014: Water, Food, Climate and Energy Conference in Chapel Hill, USA • Reconfiguration of electronic data storage system to facilitate a continued shift towards electronic record keeping, communication and reporting • Invest in improved video-conferencing systems to reduce reliance on air travel FUTUREYE 18 E NC 20 NY A PA R M 1 3 M FO 20 CO R 2PE 1 PrAN in ciple 10 TI -C OR RU PT IO N Whilst exposure to corruption is low, Futureye assists organisations in this area through its client work. Recently, this has included ethics or human rights audits, as well as building organisational capacity through Social Licence to Operate training. Assessment, Policy and Goals • Futureye’s Code of Conduct outlines boundaries of expected and accepted behaviour in the areas of conflicts and interests and ethics. • Futureye has a zero tolerance policy in regards to corruption, including extortion and bribery • Futureye supports the UN Convention against Corruption, supporting ethical business practices and the prosecution of those who engage in illegal practices • Futureye adheres to financial reporting and auditing requirements under the Australian Commonwealth Corporations Act 2001. 19 Implementation • Futureye complies with national standards for reporting and auditing • Much of its client work focusses on building transparency, an essential element in combatting corruption • Futureye has a purchase order system in place which is used to ensure all company funds are being used for legitimate purposes only Measurement of Outcomes • Futureye is compliant with national requirements for auditing and reporting • To date, there have been no incidents of corruption or extortion Goals • Consider new technologies and systems to ensure the most effective and efficient practices are in place for monitoring and ensuring legitimate use of company funds • Seek out and advise on issues affecting supply chain within client organisations that may be easily compromised FUTUREYE 20 Designed by Lai-Ling Soo @ Futureye Marketing All images from Compfight.com © 2013 Futureye 21
