Global Compact: Communication on Progress Participant Oriental Fastech Manufacturing Sdn Bhd Published 2015/11/17 Time period December 2015 – December 2016 Format Stand alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Level Active level Self-Assessment 1. Includes a CEO statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles 2. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights 3. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour 4. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment 5. Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption 6. Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Oriental Fastech Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve and integrate the Global Compact’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Yong Chan Cheah Managing Director Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals ORIENTAL FASTECH MANUFACTURING SDN. BHD. (OFMSB) is committed to ensuring that our working environment is free from discrimination and harassment. Discrimination and harassment in our workplace will not be tolerated under any circumstances and disciplinary action will be taken against any employee or subcontractor who breaches this policy. Any breach of policy by a non-employee directed to an employee shall be handled in a similarly appropriate manner. Discrimination and harassment occurs when a person is victimized in the workplace on the basis of but not limited to the following criteria: Race, Color, Gender, Religion, Disability, Sexual Orientation, Pregnancy or Age and shall include exposure to racial or ethnic jokes, offensive profanity, intimidating behavior and exposure to unwanted sexual flirtations. We strive to achieve a working environment where all members of staff are treated with dignity, courtesy and respect. Any employee who believes that he or she has been the subject of, or has witnessed, an incident of discriminant and harassing conduct should report the matter promptly. OFMSB employees should report instances of discriminant and harassing conduct either to a person in the reporting employee's supervisory chain, or to the plant Operation Manager or Group General Manager. All complaints shall be treated in a sensitive, fair, timely and confidential manner and complainants shall be guaranteed protection from any victimization or reprisals. It is an important fundamental of company policy that the reporting of behavior in breach of policy is encouraged in order to correct and promote appropriate standards of conduct at all times. Human Rights Implementation Each newly recruited employee will undergo job orientation briefing which educate the employee on company’s rules and regulation. This job orientation is aim to standardize, create mutual understanding and reduce confusion between the company, existing employee and new employee. Organization chart is also brief to all employee to create easy access to company representative in the event of escalation of an incident. At the same time, our customers requires us to comply towards Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) code of conduct. This is to safeguard our employees rights and benefits. Lastly, we have an exit interview to understand employee resignation reasons and identify area of concern for further improvement. Human Rights Measurement of outcomes There’s no report filed on human rights violation for the past 3 years. Labour Assessment, policy and goals ORIENTAL FASTECH MANUFACTURING SDN. BHD. (OFMSB) supports Global Compact’s Fundamental and Principles on Labour Rights. This including non-discrimination, prohibition of child and enforced labor, and freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining. Labour Implementation Our group Audit Committee will hold 2 risk assessments every year to identify the labour risk and risk at work place. The audit committee will interview direct with the employee to gather the information. The findings will be share and highlighted to other board members for timely action. Furthermore, our customer which also an Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) member conduct checks every 2 years to ensure that OFMSB compiles to the fundamental and principles of EICC. The government agency JKKP also perform regular checks on safety of labour and workplace. Labour Measurement of outcomes ORIENTAL FASTECH MANUFACTURING SBN. BHD. passed customer’s EICC audit on year 2014. No report filed on labour violation on Auditor Committee report on year 2014. No violation on JKKP findings for year 2014. Environmental Assessment, policy and goals We believe, everything is start from us. To show our responsibility towards the environment, OFMSB have implemented ISO14001. We strongly believe that implementing ISO14001 standards, we can create more environmental effort awareness to every employee. Our employee is trained to reduce energy, water and resources consumption by internal training, briefing, environmental campaigns, signage and auditing. We also initiate tree planting within the company premises to show our commitment towards the environment. Go Green Environmental Implementation Our group Audit Committee will hold 2 risk assessments every year to identify the risk to the environment. The findings will be share and highlighted to other board members for timely action. RoHS compliant and Non-Use of Hazardous or Banned Substances questionnaires is send to each supplier during registration into system. The supplier is required to acknowledge the questionnaires to show their support towards the environment. OFM also put Energy Saving signage at each switch locations to remind each employee to switch off the electricity when not in use. During the short lunch break, the lights in each room is also switch off. Environmental Measurement of outcomes No report filed on environment violation on Auditor Committee report on year 2014. All of OFM suppliers have pledge their support towards the environment of not using hazardous substances in their premises and RoHS compliance. This is a MUST requirement during the new supplier registration. Anti Corruption Assessment, policy and goals We are committed to Anti-Corruption practices as stated in our Employee regulation Handbook which include the points at below. 1. Integrity of Business Practices 2. Personal Behaviors 3. Breach of Conduct 4. Conflict of Interest 5. No gift policy Anti Corruption Implementation Each newly join employees will be briefed on the company rules and regulations which includes employee regulation handbook and business ethics. Group operating procedure is revised to reflect company strict practice of no gift policy. Complain channel is setup and the contact is published in the group’s website to allow easy contact and communication with the Board of Directors for any illegal activity reporting. Anti Corruption Measurement of outcomes No report filed on anti-corruption violation on Auditor Committee report on year 2014.
