2015 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS-COP 1 KRIBHCO, a MultiState Cooperative Society is engaged in manufacturing of Urea through its Plant situated at Surat, Hazira. The brief report on various activities undertaken by KRIBHCO showing its commitment towards Global Compact Principles is as under:1. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2 : Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The basic principle of protecting the internationally proclaimed human rights has been given due importance in KRIBHCO. Actions & Outcomes  Plant Visits: As a part of routine curriculum, regular Plant visits are organized by the organization in order to build productive relationship and enhance customer satisfaction. During this year, 85 number of Cooperative delegate’s /farmers/ others and 563 numbers of students visited our Plant at Surat.  HRD Training Programme: Human Resources Development (HRD) as a theory is a framework for the expansion of human capital within an organization through the development of both the organization and the individual to achieve performance improvement. Human Resource is the most important and vital factor of economic development or it can be said that humans are the agents of development. Training means to impart knowledge, develop skills, change attitude and behavior. Its purpose is not to entertain people and to help them forget about their daily preoccupations. On the contrary, it exists to help people understand and do something about their Preoccupations. Ideally, a training programme should aim to provide an environment that meets personal needs, reduces defensiveness and unveils potential for creativity and Training and Development. On continuous basis, KRIBHCO has made special efforts for the development of employees through various HRD activities such as In-house / External Training programs, Lectures/Presentations, Workshops/Seminars/Health Talks etc. These HRD activities are based on identified developmental & functional training needs of employees and to achieve organization growth to meet global challenges in the field of production, safety, profit and social growth. 2  In-house training programmes: In house training programs at our Plant – Surat were organized for employees on Safety, First Aid, Functional and Developmental training. Notable among the in house Development training programmes were “Power of Positive Thinking”, “Interpersonal Relationship”, “Managerial skills” and “Personal Effectiveness ”. In development training, 6 Nos. of in-house training programmes were organized in which 211 employees participated and took benefit. Functional Training was also organized for employees. The main training courses were training to “Training on control valves by Fisher”. In this programme 38 numbers of employees of Instrumentation Department got benefited. HRD at Corporate Office has organized and conducted a total of 29 Training Programs (4-Talks/Lectures, 19 Outside Programs and 6-In-house Programs) for the development of over 264+ employees.  Learning Activity for female employees to Manage Stress: All around the world, International Women's Day is being celebrated every year. In day to day life, lot of problems are faced by women and hence educating them with the knowledge, skills and self-confidence is necessary to enable them participate fully in the development process. Hence, we conducted a slide show quiz on good relationship at workplace, stress at work, healthy diet, medical issues, women personalities etc for improving the presentation skills and public speaking skills in women. Women delivered a well-constructed, confident 3 presentation in form of a talk, a poem, an article in front of a group of women colleagues.  Knowledge & Skill Development of Employees: Opportunities for growth and development help employees expand their knowledge, skills and abilities and apply the competencies they have gained to new situations. Keeping this in mind, talks, trainings & Quiz were conducted for the employees on ‘Effective communication & presentation skills at the workplace, training on SAP, Improving inter personal relations etc. and many employees were sent to the programs like ‘Transformational Leadership, Strategy planning/deployment via Balanced Scorecard, 4  Effective negotiation skills, Road construction in India etc. Employees were also sent for functional trainings.  Global Exposure: Senior officials from KRIBHCO, Corporate Office, were sent to the global program for 5th Annual GPCA Fertilizer Convention at Dubai, UAE.  External Sponsorship at our Plant – Surat : Based on specific functional training needs of employees, 12 employees were sponsored to 6 nos. of external programmes. The programmes mainly were Conference on inevitable Paradigm shift for Greener Production, National Conference on Boiler and Steam, FAI Conference of Fertilizer Technology improving Productivity and Reliability of Fertilizer Plants, Best practice for steam reformer design, Maintenance and Equipments etc.  External Sponsorship at Corporate Office :63 officials were sponsored to 19 nos. of external programs. The programs mainly were on Transformational Leadership, Strategy Planning/Deployment via the Balanced Scorecard, Effective Negotiation skills, Renewable energy potential in India, Road construction in India etc.  Vocational Training:KRIBHCO is committed to fulfill its social responsibility by providing training to students of various technical as well as management institutions in the country. A total of 174 students belonging to Chemical, Electrical, Mechanical, Instrumentation Engineering, Information Technology, Personnel Management and Financial Management etc. had taken vocational training during this period at our Plant – Surat.  Productivity week celebration at Plant and Corporate Office :The nation has commemorated 57th “Productivity Week Celebration” in all sectors of economy from Feb. 12-18, 2015. The mission of ‘Productivity Week Observance” is to share knowledge and experience for Productivity improvement and all round development in all sectors of economy. This year, National Productivity Council, Delhi has selected the theme “Make in India: Zero Defect, Zero Effect”. To join in the efforts of the Government to improve awareness about Productivity, HRD department at KRIBHCO organized various activities and competitions such as Quiz, lecture & Talk on the theme “MAKE IN INDIA : ZERO DEFECT, ZERO EFFECT. Paintings, essays competitions related to environment for employees and their spouses & children, Group discussion on various topics & languages related to improvement of Productivity were also organized at plant site & township schools at Surat.  Training to Society Trainees and Apprentice trainees: HRD is imparting and continuously monitoring performance of society trainees like GET’s, Operator 5 Trainees, Fire and Safety trainees, Management Trainees etc thorough spot interview, interaction, written test and committee interviews. Presently total 29 nos. of GET,s 5 no’s of society trainees and 18 no’s of Apprentices are taking training at HRD at our Plant-Surat.  Training to faculties and employees of other companies at Plant-Surat:Ten numbers of faculties of Instrumentation department of Rajkot Engineering College Rajkot has been given 5 days industrial training by our engineers of Instrumentation Department as a part of industry institution interaction. 30 Numbers of trainees of M/S Indorama Eleme Fertilizer & Chemicals Limited (“IEFCL”) PHC, Nigeria has been given training in Operations and Production for a period of three months [ 1st March to 31st May ] 6  Tech. Library Activities at Plant-Surat :Normal Library Activities are being carried out. In addition, following value additions have also been incorporated: Technical / Management articles circulated through lotus notes: 18 & 57 Journals (These have also been added to E-library for subsequent reference by the employees).  An HRD forum at Corporate Office has been formed by which knowledge, information on different topics/themes is sent to all employees by HRD through daily e-mail.  Knowledge Imparting/Summer Training to students at Corporate Office :Summer Training in various disciplines is also being imparted through HRD Deptt. to the students sponsored by various Educational/Management/Engineering Institutes.  Focus on Employee Health: On continuous basis KRIBHCO is putting special efforts for taking care of the health of employees by organizing annual medical checkup and blood donation camps in collaboration with Surat Hospital. To enhance the health awareness many programs are being arranged for the benefit of township residents. Health talks were arranged on issues pertaining to epidemics such as Swine Flu and other diseases. To reduce the stress of the employees in day to day life, regular Meditation, Yoga, Dance, Sports event, etc are being held periodically for the Township residents including employees at our Plant-Surat. Health Clubs and Swimming Pool facility is provided to Township residents for maintaining healthy physique and reduce stress. Various Skit programmes are being organized on different burning issues of the society in order to awaken the masses of the Township at Plant-Surat. Keeping in view of the rising prices of petroleum products and to reduce environmental pollution the employees had voluntarily opted to commute from Township to office and vice versa once in a week.  Rural Development As a part of Corporate Social Responsibility, KRIBHCO carried out rural development activities in nearby villages such as providing educational aid to primary school students to encourage parents to send their wards to school and to promote educational activities. Besides, the above, school uniforms were also distributed to the 389 students of Kawas, Ichapore and Bhata to the tune of Rs 2,07,000/-. For our adopted villages – Kawas and Ichapore drinking water is provided free of cost and the approximate expenditure is around Rs 50,00,000/-. KRIBHCO in collaboration with SMC Surat has adopted 5 Anganwadis for the benefit of Children in Anganwadis, pregnant and lactating mothers as well as adolescent who are in need of supplementary nutrition. We 7 have also provided 100 benches for B.B. Avichal Arts & Commerce College, Mandavi for the benefit of students and spent Rs 3, 04,865/-.  KRIBHCO has released Rs.6.68 lacs for construction of toilets in Krishnapatnam district of Nellore, state of Seemandhra through our Gramin Vikas Trust, AS WORK IS IN PROGRESS.  Agriculture income is the main strength of farmers. A large number of them are members of our member cooperatives; KRIBHCO with its large dedicated team of agriculture professionals continued its significant contribution along with other serious players in latest farm technology transfer and other rural welfare schemes for improving the profitability of farming community. Cooperative Development Programme in Haryana  KRIBHCO started transferring improved farm technology under the head Benefit to farmers programmes since 1984, two years ahead of Hazira urea plant at Surat came into production, indicating a real concern for farmers, their cooperative societies and environment where they resides, i.e., rural areas. In the past 30 years, KRIBHCO has actively reached more than 1.20 crore farmers benefiting them directly by raising their farm income through 80 thousand tailormade programmes. 8 Farmer Education Programme in Punjab This makes on an average one programme/day/state. This is the magnitude of our transfer of technology programmes.  KRIBHCO has evolved a strong promotional strategy involving about 300 agriculture graduates and post-graduates to uplift farming community through its Farm Advisory Services. KRIBHCO has been organizing technology transfer 9 programmes in more than 15 states through highly trained field force whose skills are updated regularly Sh. Rajiv Yadav, IAS, Spl. Secretary & Financial Advisor, Ministry (Chem. & Fert), GOI visiting KKPK-Noida  Over a period of time, it was observed that farmers are hesitant to adopt new farm technology unless their whole system is likely to be benefited economically and socially. Farmers are also deeply attached to their fields, livestock and cooperative societies since these are their lifelines. They are also equally concerned about their family welfare including health and children education as well as improvement in rural areas where they spend most of their life time. KRIBHCO carefully considering the above observations adopted the Farming Model which has 5 components, viz., farmers, his fields, livestock, family and cooperative society, all located in rural environment of his village. Since KRIBHCO is a cooperative Identity governed by seven Principles of cooperation. Drinking water facility in Maharashtra 10  During 2014-15, KRIBHCO organized 4296 programmes for our farming community such as Farmers Meetings, Crop Shows, Field Demonstrations, Field Days, Cooperative Conferences, Group Discussions, Soil Testing Campaign, Seed Grower Conference etc. benefiting 2.88 lakh farmers and cooperatives across the country. Swachh Bharat Abhiyan in AP  To back up the Agriculture Technology transfer, the Society also made available 13.36 lakh technical folders on KRIBHCO products for the farmers and cooperatives.  Strengthening cooperatives and rural development always remained a top priority for KRIBHCO. In this direction, 100 Cooperative Societies were adopted, 10520 cooperative managers were trained through 74 Cooperative Conferences and workshops. Animal Health check-up campaign in Chhatishgarh 11  The society also organized 13 Income Generation Programmes and 12 Health Campaigns for livestock and humans, promoted 11 Water facilities including micro-irrigation systems for crops in rain fed areas and 10 Rural Sports programmes for integrated rural development. Storage-cum-community centre scheme started on Golden Jubilee celebration of India occasion is still continuing with 184 centers sanctioned and 170 are completed and being used fully. Human Health check-up campaign in West Bengal  KRIBHCO Krishi Pramarsh Kendra, a high-tech centre at KRIBHCO Bhawan, NOIDA continued free consultancy to farm-related problems. The centre also propagated efficient and balanced use of fertilizer by testing 4454 soil samples collected scientifically free of cost (1588 for micro-nutrients and 2866 samples for macro-nutrients & irrigation water) from 15 states. Results along with recommendations were forwarded through electronic medium to farmers at their door-steps, apart from using KRIBHCO website for display of results. 12  Pramarsh Kendra also provided latest information on weather, like rainfall, temperature, relative humidity, monsoon movement etc. for use in planning farm operations and mid-term corrections in the event of crop failure generally through KRIBHCO Kisan Helpline. Foreign delegates visit KKPK, NOIDA  All States Director of Agriculture were informed about educational programmes conducted and soil samples tested from their states along with district-wise deficiency noticed in various soil samples. 13  KRIBHCO also joined hands with ICAR, State Agriculture Universities, and State Cooperative Federations for free soil testing and technology transfer which was thankfully acknowledged and appreciated at all platforms. Income genration programme in Chhatishgarh  As a step towards modernization, KRIBHCO continued to promote Information Communication Technology (ICT) through KRIBHCO Kisan helpline using e-mail, phone, computer and KRIBHCO website for informing farmers about latest farm technology alongside with traditional tools. Information on monthly farm operations is also made available on website.  Ladies Club Activity : With a view to improve the health and hygienic conditions in the dwelling areas of Labours in KRIBHCO Plant premises health checkup and distribution of medicines being done on regular basis. Distribution of grains and other food items to contract labourers is being done as a part of charity. Morever, Jagruti Balbhawan for the benefit of the ward of contract laborers working in our Plant at Surat is also running successfully.  Socio Religious Activity : Two temples & One Mosque exists in our premises at Plant-Surat, which helps the township residents and the nearby villagers for their requirement of religious prayers. Bhandara is being arranged on the occasion of Durga Puja, Bharat Mandir Pattoutsav and SAI Mandir Pattoutsav at mandir situated at KRIBHCO premises, wherein large number of devotees take part in the festival and receive the blessings of God. The villagers from nearby villages are also invited and they participate in the Bhandaras. In order to encourage the National unity and diversity various Cultural programmes, such as Holi, Pongal, Navratri, Onam, Diwali, Makar Sakranti, Baisakhi/Lohri, Chath Puja, Durga 14 Puja, Ayappa Puja, Ganeshotsav, Dusshhera etc, are being celebrated with great pomp & show and people from all walks of life actively participate.  International Labour Day at Plant-Surat is being celebrated on a large scale by organizing Labour Day function and cultural programmes to remember the sacrifice and struggle faced by Labour force and to protect them from exploitation by recognizing the importance of their rights which forms an integral part of any establishment.  KRIBHCO day is celebrated every year in order to mark the anniversary of our organization on 14th November, wherein various sports, Games & cultural programs by internal talents as well as Celebrity artists are organized to celebrate the occasion. This also includes various programmes like classical dance, western dance, Beti Bachao slogans, Skits etc.  Safety Awareness Week: Safety awareness week is being organized at our Plant – Surat every year wherein employees were given information regarding safety norms in the Plant premises. Various competitions were held like essay, paintings, slogans wherein wards of township residents also took part enthusiastically.  Mock Drill at Plant – Surat :To create alertness amongst the employees and nearby villages, periodical mock drill is being conducted in collaboration with Factory Inspectorate, Municipal Corporation, Police Commissionerate nearby Industries so as to assess the preparedness in the event of any major industrial accidents. 15  Protection of Women at Workplace at KRIBHCO :As per the notification published by the Central Government on “The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013”, an Internal Complaint Committee has been constituted to comply with the provisions of the Act. During the last one year the committee is functioning effectively and no complaint in this regard has been received so far. KRIBHCO ensures that a safe environment is being extended to all female employees.  Blood Donation Camp: The blood donation camp was organized in collaboration with Surat Civil Hospital wherein the Additional Chief Secretary Dr. S.K. Nanda inaugurated the camp and the same was also attended by dignitaries like Surat Municipal Corporation, Commissioner, Commissioner of Police and other officials. The camp was a huge success and around 250 employees donated their blood.  EPF meet : Society facilitates the PF department to create awareness amongst contractors working in and around KRIBHCO in order to ensure Labor law compliances wherein PF related information including recent amendments if any being discussed and grievances of the contractors are being heard.  Hindi Karyashala: To promote official language Hindi in the day to day working of the office and to encourage employees to use Hindi as a medium of communication Hindi Karyashala are being organized. 16  Meritorious Students Award at KRIBHCO :Annually awards are distributed on 15th August to the wards of employees who have come in merit in 10th and 12th Board examination. To motivate creative, hardworking and sincere employees, Appreciation award is given to acknowledge their vital contribution to the Society. Awards on best Suggestion under Suggestion Scheme and best performance and contributions to the Society are given on 26th January.  Volleyball Tournament: In order to maintain sportsmanship spirit Night Cricket and Volleyball tournament was also organized and wards of employees enthusiastically participated in the same.  ACHIEVEMENTS & AWARDS  KRIBHCO has received an award from Fertilizer Association of India (FAI) for Production, Promotion & Marketing of Bio-fertilizer during 2014-15. The award was received by Shri Rajesh Kumar Aggarwal, Operations Director from H’ble Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers, Shri Ananth Kumar at New Delhi. 17  KRIBHCO has received an award from Fertilizer Association of India (FAI) for Best Production, Performance of an Operating Fertilizer Unit for Nitrogen (Urea & Ammonia). The award was received by Shri Rajesh Kumar Aggarwal, Operations Director from Sh. J K Mohapatra, Secretary (Fertilizers), Govt. Of India at New Delhi.  Fertilizer Association of India (FAI) has also presented Second Best Video film award to KRIBHCO for the film titled JAL HO TO KAAL HE. The award was received by Shri Rajan Chowdhry, Finance Director & Marketing Director from H’ ble Minister of States for Chemicals & Fertilizers – Mr Hansraj G Ahir at New Delhi.  Following employees of KRIBHCO were conferred Shram Awards by Government of Gujarat for outstanding contribution in Plant Operations. S. No. Name Award 1 Mr M M Katariya,Chief Technician(Mech)Rajya Shram Ratna 2 Mr H P Patel, Sr Technician(Inst.) Rajya Shramshree 3 Mr J T Patel, Chief Technician(Mech) Vishishth Kamgiri Puraskaar 2. LABOUR Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES  Registered Unions & Associations : We recognize the employees’ right to form associations and to participate in management. In accordance with this principle, the workmen have formed their own Trade Unions which are registered and the same have been recognized for the purpose of collective bargaining. The decisions related to the workmen are taken in consultation with the said unions. Complete industrial peace and harmony has been prevailing since the setting up of the Plant and not a single man-hour has been lost due to industrial unrest. 18  Compliance to Labour Laws : KRIBHCO does not encourage any form of forced or compulsory labour. No child labour is engaged either directly or indirectly. No discrimination is shown in employment or in extending any type of benefit/advantage on the ground of gender, place of birth, caste or community.  Women are provided a healthy and safe working environment & equal opportunities, keeping in mind the principles of equality in gender with respect of their working, development and growth. 3. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES KRIBHCO is fully conscious of its responsibility to the environment. Therefore, care for environment has always been of paramount importance to KRIBHCO. The Society recognizes its responsibility to protect environment and is committed to regulate all its activities using best available technology to mitigate adverse environmental impact, if any that may arise out of its operations. A comprehensive Environmental Protection Plan based on the principle of “Reduce, Re-cycle & Re-use” has been adopted to conserve scarce natural resources.  The society continually extends supports to the programme that sensitize environment protection and enrichment by way of organizing various campaigns like tree plantation, distribution of saplings and flower buds free of cost, adoption of new technology to reduce minimum pollution level and supporting National Campaign Like Celebration of Yoga Day. KRIBHCO also participate in Agricultural fairs/ exhibitions and other social cause regarding cleanliness like Swachh Bharat Abhiyan in order to enhance the awareness of the general public to preserve the green environment. Under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Toilet blocks were constructed at Labour Colony for the convenience of Labours. Furthermore, the discharged water retreated and reused for Horticulture purposes thereby reducing the pollution. 19  Kitchen waste biogas system at KRIBHCO, Corporate Office : KRIBHCO installed food waste biogas system at Kribhco Bhawan Noida. It has capacity to generate 2.5 to 3 kg of gas from the 15 to 20 kg of food waste. Food waste, pulp of every day (cooked food, overripe fruits and peels of banana, papaya, mango and vegetables) from Kitchen will be stored in the container & this waste will be fed into Pre-digester Tank. Water will be added into the tank to make the paste. The Bio gas will be generated in the main tank and will be taken out from top of the tank and will be sent to kitchen for use. In the process the system will generate approx 1 kg biogas from 6-7 kg of food waste. There are following benefits to the society :  Renewable energy source.  Reduced greenhouse gas emissions and mitigation of global warming.  Reduced dependency on imported fossil fuels.  Waste reduction & Uses up kitchen waste  Flexible and efficient end use of biogas.  Reduces LPG use  Is environmentally friendly  80KW p ROOFTOP SOLAR PROJECT: As a part of green initiative, Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd. (KRIBHCO) has established 80KW p (kilowatt peak) rooftop photovoltaic solar system for its Corporate Office in Noida. This solar system has grid connected MPPT inverters without batteries for captive use. The plant having 320 solar panels of capacity 250 W each, the power plant is operational during the day. The project annual generation is about 1.1 lakh unit. The complete SPV system is catering about five to six percent of the total power requirement of Corporate Office.  Environmental Protection : Care for environment has always been of paramount importance for KRIBHCO. The society emphasizes to recruit the professionally qualified environmental engineers to take care of the environmental aspect. The society also recognizes its responsibility to protect environment and is committed to regulate all its activities using best available technology to mitigate adverse environmental impact, if any that may arise out of its operations. A comprehensive environmental protection plan based on principle of “Reduce, Re-cycle & Re-use” has been adopted to conserve scarce natural resources. KRIBHCO had shown the interest of Investment as being part of “Vibrant Gujarat 2015”. KRIBHCO has made 02 (two) MOU under the category “Environment & Forest” with Government of Gujarat.  Reuse of Ammonium Carbonate solution generated by CPC blue Industries as resource :There are many CPC blue industries in state of Gujarat. During the manufacturing process, these industries are generating Ammonium Carbonate 20 solution as an effluent. Ammonium Carbonate concentration varies from 10 to 15% in this solution. Proper disposal of this effluent is an issue for these industries. KRIBHCO as a fertilizer industry and proactive towards environmental awareness, explore the possibility to reuse CPC Blue industries Effluent containing Ammonium Carbonate for manufacturing of UREA. This is a converting effluent in to resource project. If the experiment is found successful without hampering the product quality or MOC, KRIBHCO may finalize long term contract by increasing the receiving effluent quantity in step wise manner.  Reuse of KRIBHCO’s treated industrial effluent by M/s. Adani Pvt Limited :KRIBHCO has 05 Nos. of cooling towers as a part of its production process. These cooling towers are open recirculating type and operating on Zinc-Phosphate based treatment. This cooling tower blow down (CTBD) water is the industrial effluent water generated at KRIBHCO. All the parameters of cooling tower blow down water meets the stipulated norms of GPCB. At present this effluent is being stored in KRIBHCO’s lagoon, spared over a large area for natural evaporation and percolation. M/s. Adani Hazira Port Private Limited (AHPPL), had approached KRIBHCO for supply of fresh water to be used for industrial requirement at their end. KRIBHCO reviewed their requirement and suggested to use the CTBD water generated at KRIBHCO which will suitably meet their purpose and at the same time conserve fresh water. They took the sample & carried out the necessary analysis and agreed to reuse this industrial effluent at their end. With the implementation of this project, the effluent generated in KRIBHCO will become a resource for M/s. AHPPL. 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and Bribery. ACTIONS & OUTCOMES VIGILANCE AWARENESS Vigilance is an integral part of the management and it provides important instruments for improving performance of an organization. Vigilance is essential for discipline and growth of the organization and every manager needs to perform the role of vigilance officer as well. 21 There is a separate Vigilance Department in our organization. Keeping in view the importance of Preventive Vigilance in checking corruption, periodical inspections of sensitive areas are carried out. Sensitive posts have been identified in various departments and persons holding such posts are periodically rotated to maintain transparency. Procurement files are reviewed by the Vigilance Department on random basis with a view to indentifying irregularities, if any, and to give suggestions for improvement and to take corrective steps wherever required. All officers are required to submit Annual Property Returns of their moveable and immoveable properties for the period from 1st January to 31st December every year, which are scrutinized by the Vigilance Department. During 27th October to 1st November 2014 Vigilance Awareness Week was observed. The programmers started by taking oath to maintain transparency and integrity in all areas of public dealings. During the week, banners and slogans in Hindi, Gujarati and English were displayed at prominent places in the KRIBHCO Complexes. Pamphlets on anti corruption were printed and distributed to employees and other stake holders. The message contains as: “ If anybody of this office asks for bribe or if you have any information on corruption or if you are victim of corruption in this office, you can complain to ..” were distributed to all the vendors and contractors . Individuals, indulging in unethical activities for personal gains at the cost of the organization leads to wastages, losses and economic decline. There is a need to control or restrict such persons’ mis-endeavours and promote organizational interest . Our Vigilance department has adopted pro-active approach to create incorruptibility in the administration and works for systems improvement and simplification and codification of rules and procedures. The culture of taking independent initiatives and decision-making at all levels is constantly strengthened. We encourage transparency (Openness ), fairness (applying same principles to all concerned), competition amongst vendor, in the interest of the organization. It is the endeavor of our Vigilance Team to create an ethos of “Organizational Citizenship” among all the employees so that there is voluntary compliance of rules and procedures. In cases where irregularities are detected, Zero Tolerance concept is adopted and Punitive Vigilance is used as a management tool to provide positive discipline in the Society. ACTION PLAN AGAINST CORRUPTION For achievement of the vision of the society, a strategic action plant has been implemented. A. AWARENESS: Seminars, Workshops, Lecture, Debates & Power Point presentation Distribute In-house pamphlets, articles on Vigilance Awareness. 22 Giving due protection to the whistle blower/complainant. B. PREVENTIVE VIGILANCE Simplification of Rules and procedures. Plugging loopholes of systems/procedures to reduce corruption. Sensitizing employees through Group Discussions, Power point presentation, Dos’ & Don’ts at various Offices about evil consequences of corruption. Increasing Transparency & Accountability in day to day working. Effective machinery to deal promptly with complaints . Regular and Surprise Inspections. Ensuring high standard of integrity amount the employees. Exploring fresh areas of corruption resulting due to technological advancements and use of I.T. C. PUNITIVE VIGILANCE: Speedy disposal of vigilance cases and disciplinary inquiries. Steps to maintain positive discipline. ************************ 23
