THE VOLVO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 EFFICIENCY 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CONTENTS Contents STRATEGIC APPROACH 4 CREATING SHARED VALUE 40 CEO interview 5 Customer satisfaction 41 About the Volvo Group 7 Efficient solutions 42 Strategic efficiency 9 Diverse customer needs 43 Our vision 10 Supporting customer productivity 44 Sustainability approach 11 Measuring satisfaction 45 Global context 12 Skilled workforce 46 Materiality 14 Volvo Group University 47 Stakeholder engagement 17 Leadership and management 47 Sustainability goals 18 Employee engagement 48 Attracting talent and developing ­competences 48 Financial performance 50 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS 21 Societal engagement 52 Leaner and cleaner solutions 22 Traffic and site safety 53 Energy efficiency 23 Environmental sustainability 53 Electromobility and hybrid solutions 23 Education and skills development 54 Alternative and renewable fuels 26 Safer solutions 28 Vehicle safety 29 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR 55 Traffic and driver safety 30 Corporate trustworthiness 56 Smarter solutions 31 Legal compliance 56 Connected vehicles 31 Ethics and integrity 58 Transport system efficiency 32 Human rights 60 Complete vehicle combinations 34 Workplace health and safety 61 Driving dynamics 35 Risk management 62 Future transport solutions 36 Diversity and inclusion 62 Leadership 37 Value chain sustainability 64 Innovation 38 Product development 65 Research 39 Supply chain 67 Operational environmental impact 68 Distribution and service 71 Product use 72 Reuse and recycling 73 ABOUT THIS REPORT 74 Reporting scope and boundary 75 Accounting principles 75 Data collection and verification 76 Front cover: The image is taken in Chiang Mai, Thailand. The truck is the new Volvo FH16. This document is a PDF-version of the full Volvo Group Sustainability Report 2014, available online at www.volvogroup.com/sustainabilityreport. This report covers the sustainability performance of the Volvo Group from 1 January to 31 December 2014. It has not been verified by a third party. See ‘About this report’ for more detail. 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS 2014 Volvo Group sustainability highlights SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS 40 M tons less CO2 2009–2014 products AstaZero Volvo 7900 Electric Hybrid 40 M TONS LOWER 2,000,000 M2 SAFETY 60% LESS ENERGY CO2 EMISSIONS TEST TRACK OPENED SHARED VALUE Continued inclusion in New global program Volvo Group University Dow Jones Sustainability MOVING ­SOCIETY launched to develop a WORLD INDEX FORWARD SKILLED WORKFORCE RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR WWF Climate Savers program Suppliers in high risk Carbon disclosure score 2009–2014 20% LOWER ­ countries 92% OF SPEND UP FROM 73/C CO2 FROM PRODUCTION ASSESSED TO 100/B FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS NEW INITIATIVES SEK 3.5 billion NEW SCOPE OF STRATEGIC PROGRAM 2013–2015 SEK 10 billion Structural cost to be reduced by SEK 10 billion – implemented by end 2015 with full-year effect in 2016 when compared with 2012. 10 11 12 13 14 265 310 300 273 283 Structural cost reduction Market coverage Net sales growth program increased to increased in 4% TO SEK 283 BN SEK 10 BN GROWTH SEGMENTS 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH STRATEGIC APPROACH The Volvo Group has a clear and compelling vision for the future: To become the world leader in sustainable transport solutions. As we continue to implement our 2013–2015 strategy, we strengthen our business and increase our potential to realize our vision. In 2014, our strategic priority was to improve the Group’s efficiency. CONTENTS CEO interview 5 Our vision 10 Materiality 14 About the Volvo Group 7 Sustainability approach 11 Stakeholder engagement 17 Strategic efficiency 9 Global context 12 Sustainability goals 18 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH CEO INTERVIEW CEO interview In terms of sustainability, what was 2014 Another important step was the completion of the first phase of like for the Volvo Group? our commitment to the WWF Climate Savers program. We exceeded During 2014, many important steps in the area of sustainability our target by 33%, resulting in a 40 M ton reduction in CO2 emiswere taken. The Volvo Group’s commitment to sustainability sions. At the end of 2014, the commitment for the period 2015includes the environmental, social and economic dimensions and it 2020 was signed. A new component was introduced, the ‘magnifistarts with our customer offering. Our extensive product renewal ers’, where the Volvo Group will leverage its leadership position to gave us a very competitive product range, with excellent fuel effienhance environmental sustainability beyond our organization, ciency and safety solutions that support our customers in their daily products and manufacturing. work and at the same time reduce the environmental impact. During the year, we continued together with our partners, to I am convinced that the transport and infrastructure industries deliver on our societal engagement program. The program is suphave a key role to play in the development towards a more sustainporting our business growth by capturing opportunities and removable society. To meet the future need of transport solutions, cooping obstacles while simultaneously enhancing societal developeration and leadership is needed and ment. The availability of skilled after-market together with our business partners, we technicians is a key factor to our business can make a positive contribution to susI am convinced that the transport success in many countries. Based on our tainable development. During the year, I and infrastructure industries have a key experiences from the vocational training have participated in discussions with cusrole to play in the development towards school in Ethiopia, we launched a school in tomers and other business partners on Morocco in November. The launch of a a more sustainable society. the topic of sustainability. Many share our school for technicians in Zambia in early view that there is no option to sustainability for our industry. In the 2015 will be followed by a school in Indonesia as well as vocational coming years it will be critical to achieve necessary improvements. training programs for drivers in Ethiopia. Therefore, I felt very honoured when I was appointed co-chairman During 2014 the focus was on implementing measures to of the UN’s high-level panel for sustainable transport. It is my ambistrengthen our internal efficiency and reduce the Group’s costs. I tion to deliver concrete actions, in order to accelerate the transition can look back at a year of significant changes and numerous to a sustainable transport system. improvement measures that are now paying off. It was a year that required considerable efforts from the Group’s employees, who did Which were the key sustainability achievements in 2014? a very good job. Strong financial performance has a purpose as it The Volvo Group advanced within all three dimensions of sustainagives us control over our own future. This means that we can invest bility and moved our business forward at the same time as creating in new products and services that add economic, social and envivalue for the societies in which we operate. ronmental value to our customers. A pioneering product launch was the Volvo Electric Hybrid Bus, I am pleased that our stakeholders recognize our efforts and which reduces fuel consumption and CO2 emissions by up to 75 % results in the sustainability area, as confirmed by the inclusion of compared to a conventional diesel bus. the Volvo Group in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CEO INTERVIEW AVSNITT Did any 2014 performance fall short We still have a great deal of hard work ahead of us internally, but of expectations and why? we will continue to keep up the momentum to increase efficiency The mixed trend in the Group’s key markets is reflected by the and reduce costs. Our cost reduction and efficiency targets need to trucks deliveries, which in total were on the same level as in 2013. be achieved by the end of 2015 to gain the full benefit in 2016. Deliveries of construction equipment declined substantially, mainly The Volvo Group has a strong corporate culture, which has taken due to a declining trend in China. It is also reflected in our net sales us to the position where we are today. Considering how the world which, adjusted for currency and acquired and divested unites, only around us is changing, there are good reasons for us to discuss and rose by 2 % to SEK 283 billion. reflect on the values and behaviours that will secure our future comIn the EU, the Volvo Group and a numpetitiveness. During 2015 we will revitalize ber of other companies in the truck indusour corporate culture. We have a clear and compelling try are under investigation by the EuroDuring the year we will present very pean Commission regarding a possible vision for the future: to become the interesting solutions that will enhance susbreach of EU antitrust rules prior to Januworld leader in sustainable transport tainability, strengthen our competitiveness ary 2011. We are taking the allegations solutions. and take us closer to our vision. very seriously, fully cooperating with the European Commission and evaluating the implications of the StateWhat is your outlook for the next 3–5 years? ment of objections we have received. We previously announced that Long-term I see a future with a highly efficient transport system, the Group’s financial result and cash flow may be affected as a with energy-efficient solutions that are safe and secure both for result of the Commission’s investigation. humans and goods. We have already taken many innovative steps towards realizing our vision, not only with pioneering product techWhat is the long-term vision for the Volvo Group? nology, but also through collaborative programs which are rethinkWe have a clear and compelling vision for the future: to become the ing transports. Over the coming years, I foresee an increased interworld leader in sustainable transport solutions. Several of the global est for cleaner and smarter solutions from customers both in mature challenges the world faces are directly or indirectly related to the and growth markets. This goes hand in hand with the requirements transport and infrastructure industries. I believe that sustainable defined by the society. products and services will be essential in addressing challenges I am enthusiastic about the Volvo Group’s future, recognizing the such as demographic growth and urbanization, climate change as potential in our people, products and markets and I am convinced well as resource scarcity. Success in this field will therefore provide that we can reach our vision. us with a competitive edge. I hope you find this report on our CSR and sustainability achieveIt is essential for our business success that we gain trust from our ments interesting and even more importantly, I hope you will be stakeholders. We aim to keep our reputation of trustworthiness by inspired to join us on the exciting journey we have ahead of us. acting with integrity, complying with laws and regulations and upholding the norms of the UN Global Compact stated in our Code Olof Persson of Conduct. President and CEO What are the priorities for 2015? In 2015, sustainability will be in focus, with many important milestones in the UN agenda such as the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda and COP 21. I believe we need to set the longterm road-map towards a more sustainable society and the Volvo Group will support this process. 7 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 2014 2013 REPORTREPORT ABOUT THE AVSNITT VOLVO GROUP Leading the way with commercial vehicles The Volvo Group is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of trucks, buses, construction equipment and marine and industrial engines. The Group also provides complete financing and servicing solutions. Building a strong portfolio of brands Through direct ownership, licenses and joint ventures, the Volvo Group has built up a strong portfolio of iconic and industry-leading brands. We most recently increased our position with the acquisition of Terex Trucks and a 45% share of the truck manufacturer Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles. Achieving full market coverage Our brands and products address different customer needs in varied commercial vehicle markets and segments. This enables us to achieve full market coverage, from the basic to the premium segment. TRUCK BRANDS at the end of 2014 – addressing the entire market Premium segment High-end segment Japan Value segment Basic segment Demand for total solutions 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ABOUT THE VOLVO GROUP Increasing share and sales In 2014, Volvo Group sales amounted to about SEK 283 billion. AB Volvo’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Volvo Group net sales Share of net sales by market 2014 2000–2014, SEK bn 283 +118% 38% 27% 130 18% 2000 2014 Share of net sales 10% Rest of the world Trucks, 67% Construction Equipment, 19% 7% Buses, 6% Volvo Penta, 3% Customer Finance, 3% Other, 2% Developing our global presence AB Volvo – the ultimate parent of the Volvo Group is a publicly-held company head­quartered in Gothenburg, Sweden. The Volvo Group employs about 100,000 people globally, has production facilities in 19 countries and sells its products in more than 190 markets. Employees worldwide 2014 50,833 55% Share of employees 17,793 15,217 19% 16% Eicher* Mack Renault Trucks UD Trucks 2,626 6,353 Volvo 7% 3% Engines and transmissions Construction Equipment Buses Volvo Penta * Ownership ≥ 50% 9 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 2013 REPORT STRATEGIC AVSNITT EFFICIENCY Implementing strategic efficiency 2012 As part of the Volvo Group’s 2013–2015 Strategic Program, 2014 REORGANIZATION ­ was the year in which we executed our efficiency program. This  & STRATEGY involved reducing headcount, improving manufacturing productivity, 2013 ceasing activities that do not add customer value, and strengthenEXTENSIVE PRODUCT ing process efficiency.  RENEWAL 2014 was characterized by variable market conditions and internal measures to increase efficiency and profitability. Increasing our efficiency program’s scope  2014 EXECUTE EFFICIENCY PROGRAM & DRIVE ORGANIC GROWTH We implemented the Volvo Group’s planned efficiency activities throughout 2014 targeting structural cost reductions. 2015 DELIVER PROFITABILITY ­IMPROVEMENT NEW INITIATIVES SEK 3.5 billion NEW SCOPE OF STRATEGIC PROGRAM 2013–2015 10 STRATEGIC PROGRAM 2013–2015 6.5 SEK billion Structural cost to be reduced by SEK 10 billion SEK billion – implemented by end 2015 with full-year effect in 2016 when compared with 2012. Ongoing structural cost reduction initiatives. ENTER 2016 UTILIZING THE FULL ­P OTENTIAL OF THE VOLVO GROUP In autumn 2014, we identified additional opportunities to reduce our SEK 10 billion in 2016, compared to the full year 2012. Total structural cost level and announced an increase in the scope of our restructuring costs for the activities are expected to be SEK 6 bilStrategic Program. The following new activities aim to generate an lion to SEK 7 billion. additional SEK 3.5 billion of structural cost reductions: In 2014 the total cost reduction connected to the program • Reorganization of Group Trucks Sales to increase efficiency and amounted to SEK 3.3 billion compared to 2012. Restructuring reduce costs charges amounted to SEK 2.6 billion in 2014. At the end of the year, • Implementation of further cost-reduction activities in Volvo ConSEK 2.1 billion to SEK 3.1 billion in expected restructuring charges struction Equipment remained. • Review of core and non-core Group IT operations Establishing a more efficiency-focused culture Full-year cost reductions of SEK 10 billion As well as this high-level strategic program, all teams were encourOngoing activities in the Strategic Program 2013–2015 targeted aged to focus on efficiency improvements within their area of activstructural cost reductions of SEK 6.5 billion. The new activities ity and influence. As a result, we achieved some significant improvebeing initiated are targeted to generate an additional SEK 3.5 bilments in terms of environmental, social and economic sustainability, lion of structural cost reductions. Implementing all activities before which are included in this report. the end of 2015 is expected to result in full-year cost reductions of 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 2014 OUR AVSNITT VISION Realizing our vision Our shared vision strengthens the Volvo Group and improves our potential to seize new business opportunities, drive development, advance our position, capture market share, and help our customers create value. All work within the Volvo Group is based on our perspective of enviTo become the world leader in sustainable transport ronmental, economic and social sustainability, and conforms to the solutions by: United Nations’ definition of sustainable development that meets • Creating value for customers in selected segments current and future needs. Sustainable transport solutions contrib• Pioneering products and services for the transport and infrastrucute to economic productivity, improved environmental performance ture ­industries and positive social impact. • Driving quality, safety and environmental care • Working with energy, passion and respect for the individual Supporting sustainability strategically Sustainability is deeply rooted in our culture, corporate core values, long-term plans, strategic program and business objectives. Our strategic framework shows how these goals, plans and policies support us in achieving our wanted position and on: World leader in Our visi transport solutions nable vision. sustai The right ­ product or service in order to contribute to high productivity in the transport Vision system Energy Wanted position ­­efficient transport Safe and secure solutions with very transport systems low emissions of for ­people CO 2 , PM, NOx and goods Group common and noise Business specific Key focus areas & Strategic objectives Group Volvo Volvo Volvo Gov. Trucks CE Buses Penta Sales VFS Group Trucks/BA long-term plans Economic dimension Group long-term plans Environmental dimension Corporate core values, Group policies, directives and guidelines Social dimension 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Taking a model approach The Volvo Group’s approach to corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability focuses on conducting business in a responsible manner, taking stakeholders’ perspectives into account, creating value for our stakeholders and society, and contributing to sustainable development. Volvo Group CSR and sustainability model Sustainable transport Our CSR and sustainability model is based on the United Nations Becoming the world leader in sustainable transport and infrastrucGlobal Compact principles, other internationally recognized norms ture solutions is the ultimate goal of our CSR and sustainability of responsible behavior and consultation with internal and external commitment. We progress towards our vision through leadership, stakeholders. innovation and research, and the development and commercializaThe pyramid reflects our strategic framework and supports our tion of pioneering products and services that are driven by quality, business vision, wanted position, strategic program and responsible safety and environmental care. Read more on page 21. business practices. Shared value The Volvo Group moves our business forward by meeting the needs of customers in selected segments of the commercial vehicles industry, and supporting their value creation. Working with energy, passion and respect for the individual, and investing in skills development, safety programs and environmental sustainability, we help to move society forward today, while securing long-term business opportunities for the future. Read more on page 48. Responsible behavior Conducting business in a responsible manner across our organization, operations and value chain is essential for maintaining and enhancing the Volvo Group’s reputation as a trustworthy global company. Responsibility and sustainability are embedded in our corporate culture, values, Code of Conduct, policies and training. Every employee is responsible for adhering to our stated position. Read more on page 55. In 2001, the Volvo Group signed Global Compact, the UN’s initiative on socially responsible business practices. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY GLOBAL REPORTCONTEXT 2013 AVSNITT Responding to global mega trends As part of our business and sustainability strategies, we continually analyze megatrends and regional variations to assess their impact on our Group and seek new business development opportunities. From the Volvo Group’s perspective, the most significant trends The Volvo Group is actively undertaking a wide range of initiatives driving our work towards sustainable transport solutions are demoto address global sustainability challenges as well as several Susgraphic growth and urbanization, climate change, resource scarcity, tainable Development Goals (SDGs*) that are being developed by safety and security, and competition for skills. the United Nations as a way to build on the Millennium Development Goals post 2015. Turning global challenges into business opportunities VOLVO GROUP GLOBAL TRENDS CHALLENGES UN GOALS* SOLUTIONS** Transport and (11.2) Safe, affordable, City Mobility DEMOGRAPHIC infrastucture for 9 bn+ accessible and Bus Rapid Transit GROWTH AND people by 2050. sustainable transport, URBANIZATION Zone management expand public transport. technology Fossil fuel dependency (13) Take urgent action Energy efficiency CLIMATE and greenhouse gas to combat climate Alternative fuels CHANGE emissions. change and its impacts. CO 2-neutral production Earth's finite natural (12) Promote Remanufacturing RESOURCE capital. sustainable consumption Materials effiency SCARCITY and production. Lifecycle analysis 1.2M traffic fatalities (3.5) Halve deaths Vehicle safety SAFETY AND and 50M injuries each from road traffic Driver training SECURITY year. accidents. Education programs Varying interests, (4) Provide quality Academic Partner COMPETITION capabilities and education aand lifelong Program FOR SKILLS availability among learning opportunities Vocational training global talent pools. for all. Volvo Group University * Read more on https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgsproposal ** Examples of current activities 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH GLOBAL CONTEXT Examples of our innovative solutions are summarized here and The Volvo Group works consistently with lean methodologies with featured in more detail in this report. a resource efficiency focus. This includes constructing and manufacturing a number of components and materials for easy recycling 1. Demographic growth and urbanization or remanufacturing. It also involves using less material, integrating Over seven billion people currently live on the planet. The United more recycled materials, reducing waste and energy, recovering Nations Population Fund expects there to be eight billion people by heat, and assessing our water footprint. Specific initiatives include: 2025, and over nine billion in 2050. Half the world’s population • Volvo Group Reman operations. Read more on page 73. already lives in cities, and in the next decade Asia and Africa will see • New River Valley energy efficiency. Read more on page 69. a much greater rural-urban shift. As urban populations grow, cities • Product development and lifecycle analysis. Read more on face increasing social and environmental challenges, including conpage 65. gestion, noise, and pollution. This challenges industry to provide more sustainable and efficient solutions for all types of urban devel4. Safety and security opment. Every year, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), The Volvo Group works collaboratively with public transport and there are more than 1.2 million road traffic fatalities and 50 million distribution decision makers in numerous cities around the world to injuries. The WHO predicts that traffic fatalities could be among the develop and apply new technologies and urban transport solutions. top five causes of death worldwide by 2030. Low and middle income These include: countries account for the majority of today’s traffic fatalities. There • City Mobility program. Read more on page 33. is a growing trend for authorities to regulate commercial vehicles • Bus Rapid Transit systems. Read more on page 32. and to make selected safety systems mandatory. • Zone management technology. Read more on page 33. The Volvo Group invests in advanced research and development and collaborates with key partners to develop smart technology and 2. Climate change vehicle safety solutions that improve conditions for drivers, road There is widespread agreement that the burning of fossil fuels, users, pedestrians, vehicles and cargo. Key initiatives include: including conventional diesel fuel, is a major source of greenhouse • Vehicle safety technologies. Read more on page 29. gas emissions and causes climate change. The transport sector • Driver training and traffic safety. Read more on page 30. must respond by improving the fuel efficiency of products and pro• Traffic and site safety education programs. Read more duction and moving towards non-fossil fuels. This challenge is drivon page 53. ing interest and opportunities in electromobility, as well as alternative and renewable fuels. 5. Competition for relevant knowledge and skills As part of the WWF Climate Savers program, the Volvo Group has The transport and infrastructure industry requires a broad range of dramatically reduced carbon emissions from our products and competences, from engineering and technical skills to manageoperations and we have announced new activities and targets to ment, leadership and financial skills. Multiple factors influence the accelerate the development of lower-carbon emissions throughout availability of skilled employees. These include falling interest in the transport and construction sectors. Our initiatives include: science, technology, engineering and mathematics in some devel• Vehicle energy efficiency. Read more on page 23. oped countries; limitations of the educational systems in some • Electromobility. Read more on page 23. emerging markets; and the long-term decline in the proportion of • Alternative and renewable fuels. Read more on page 26. the working age population in some mature and emerging markets. • Carbon-neutral production plants. Read more on page 69. We see these challenges as an opportunity to create different ways of attracting and developing a competent talent pool, both for 3. Resource scarcity our own company and for our customers’ companies. Recent develPopulation growth, industrialization, urbanization and economic opments include: growth all place mounting demands on the use of the planet’s finite • The Academic Partnership Program. Read more on page 39. natural capital. Improved resource efficiency, reuse and recycling is • Vocational training schools in Africa. Read more on page 54. increasingly important for society and our industry. • Volvo Group University launch. Read more on page 47. 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MATERIALITY AVSNITT Developing our materiality process The Volvo Group’s sustainability strategy addresses the economic, environmental and social issues that are most relevant to our business and most important to our stakeholders. The Sustainability Report 2014 marks the start of the Volvo Group’s The workshop participants agreed on a list of key stakeholders transition from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines – customers, investors, employees, trade unions, suppliers, partto the G4 guidelines.* As part of this, we have reviewed and updated ners, policy makers and NGOs – and added further sustainability our materiality process and matrix, taking G4’s reporting principles topics likely to have a major influence on their decisions to engage and material aspects into account. with the Volvo Group. Identifying our material issues Prioritizing our material issues Building on and developing the process initiated in 2013, we began After consolidating the long list into a shortlist of sustainability with a wide-reaching scan for relevant sustainability issues. This themes and definitions, colleagues from different countries, busiincluded consideration of GRI aspects, UN Global Compact princiness areas and functions scored the topics online, rating them for ples, Dow Jones Sustainability Index corporate sustainability issues, impact on business success. and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) drafts for Colleagues closest to various external stakeholders were asked the marine and road transport sectors. to complete the survey acting as a stakeholder proxy. To validate the We held an externally-facilitated materiality workshop at AB internal stakeholder scoring, a few contacts from each stakeholder Volvo Headquarters attended by members of the Volvo Group’s group were invited to participate in a trial survey, in which they CSR Committee and representatives from the strategy, media relaranked relevant issues. The resulting stakeholder data was avertions, legal, HR, finance, investor relations functions and manageaged and weighted to reflect each group’s level of influence within ment teams. We based the workshop on the GRI definition of matethe Volvo Group. riality.** With reference to the Volvo Group’s vision, wanted position, straMapping our material issues tegic objectives, enterprise risk management, financial risks, and Our 2014 materiality matrix shows the assessed importance and industry benchmarks, we identified the economic, environmental expected impact of our most material issues. As in 2013, customer and social sustainability topics of importance for business success. satisfaction, energy efficiency and emissions from products, as well as business ethics rank the highest. * Read more on www.globalreporting.org ** GRI definition of materiality Aspects that: • Reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts or • Substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH MATERIALITY VOLVO GROUP MATERIALITY MATRIX 2014 Very important 2 1 4 5 3 9 6 8 INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDER DECISIONS 13 7 10 14 11 15 12 17 18 16 19 20 Important IMPORTANCE FOR BUSINESS SUCCESS Very important Sustainable transport solutions Creating Shared Value Responsible Behavior 1 Customer satisfaction 8 Financial performance 15 Risk management 2 Legal compliance 9 Workplace health and safety 16 Transport system efficiency 3 Energy efficiency (products) 10 Innovation 17 Diversity and inclusion 4 Emissions (products) 11 Fuels (availability and quality) 18 Product use and end of life 5 Business ethics and integrity 12 Human rights 19 Societal engagement 6 Skilled workforce 13 Operational environmental impact 20 Leadership and knowledge sharing 7 Safety (vehicles and equipment) 14 Supply chain 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH MATERIALITY Defining our material issues The number of material issues has been reduced from 30 to 20 by RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR grouping and consolidating issues where appropriate. Some issues Legal compliance have been renamed since 2013. These descriptions aim to define Continuous development of our policies and practices to ensure the topline issues more clearly. adherence and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including corporate governance, taxes and duties, anti-bribery and corruption, fair competition, local content requirements, intellectual SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS property rights, privacy and data protection. Energy efficiency (products) Business ethics and integrity Leaner and smarter product and service solutions designed to reduce Creating a responsible culture built on corporate core values, trans­ energy consumption, operational costs and environmental impacts. parency, and minimum standards of responsible behaviour which are embedded in the Volvo Group Code of Conduct and applied in our Emissions (products) daily work. Cleaner transport solutions designed to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases including CO2, NO x, particulate matters, and noise. Human rights Fulfilling our obligations as signatories to the UN Global Compact, e.g. Safety (vehicles/equipment) respecting freedom of association and ensuring the absence of forced Product and training solutions designed to enhance driver and operaor child labor throughout our value chain. tor safety, traffic and site safety, and goods security. Workplace health and safety Fuels (availability/quality) Providing safe and healthy workplaces throughout our value chain, Fuel efficiency solutions designed to reduce fossil fuel consumption, and promoting employee health and wellbeing. development and testing of alternative and renewable fuel technology, and collaboration on availability and quality to enable commercializaOperational environmental impact tion. Managing and mitigating the impact of our production, distribution, dealerships, workshops and corporate functions in terms of energy, Innovation emissions, chemicals, water, waste, transport and logistics. Investing in pioneering research and development, remaining at the forefront of technological innovation, and developing innovative techSupply chain management nology, transport and service solutions. Responsible sourcing policies and practices designed to build longterm partnerships, including ethical assessment and screening of supTransport system efficiency pliers, training programs, and compliance measures. Rethinking and adapting our products and services to reduce congestion and improve the economic, social and environmental dimensions Risk management of urban mobility, distribution and infrastructure. Robust risk management systems to identify, understand, report and mitigate external, financial and operational risks. Leadership and knowledge sharing Taking a leading role on global sustainability platforms, development Diversity and inclusion goals and programs, collaborating with leading universities and Working with energy, passion and respect for the individual to ensure research partners, participating in networks and sharing knowledge diversity and inclusion through measures such as non-discrimination, with trade organizations, project partners and policy makers. gender equality, and fair and equal remuneration. Product use and end of life CREATING SHARED VALUE Promoting environmentally responsible product use, engaging with stakeholder concerns over downstream product uses, and developing Customer satisfaction remanufacturing and recycling opportunities to support environmental Enhancing customer relationships and building long-term brand loyalty and economic sustainability. and business partnerships by delivering the right products and services, understanding customer needs, and taking a total lifecycle approach to support customer profitability through quality, fuel efficiency, uptime, and aftermarket services. Skilled workforce Ensuring the optimal workforce composition, attracting and developing Continually improving our process people with required skills and competences, engaging employees, retaining talent, rewarding performance, and managing the talent The Volvo Group regards the sustainability materiality process as a pipeline. dynamic journey of continuous improvement. The materiality matrix is a useful tool to guide our reporting and to help us develop CSR Financial performance Implementing our strategies for efficiency, profitability and growth to and sustainability strategies and activities. generate strong and sustainable revenue, and distributing economic The scope of our Sustainability Report 2014 covers all compavalue to various stakeholders. nies fully consolidated in the Volvo Group, as listed in our Annual Societal engagement Report 2014. The scope and boundary of specific case studies and Taking a shared value approach to corporate citizenship designed to projects are described throughout this report. move our business and society forward through partnerships, proWe aim to continue developing and strengthening our materiality grams and employee engagement that support environmental sustainability, traffic and worksite safety, and skills development. process in the future to further define and validate the scope and boundary of material issues, and to extend stakeholder involvement. 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Engaging with key stakeholders Stakeholder engagement enables us to better understand the All stakeholders are invited to use the contacts listed on www. internal and external expectations of the Volvo Group, and helps to volvogroup.com to raise questions or share opinions with the Group ensure that our business operations build value both for the comon any issue, at any time. pany and for society. In addition to shared platforms, we maintain ongoing contact with To help us identify and prioritize corporate social responsibility different stakeholder groups, as detailed below. and sustainability issues for the Volvo Group, we pursue ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders. Stakeholder group How we engage 2014 materiality assessment by stakeholders Customers • Interaction in daily operations Product emissions, fuel efficiency and legal compliance were considered to have the • Customer satisfaction surveys highest impact on customers • Dialogue forums, such as product development ­customer focus groups • Brand image surveys • Dialogue via social media • Joint initiatives Employees • Regular review of Personal Business Plan Employees taking part in our most recent materiality assessment ranked customer • Employee engagement survey satisfaction, business ethics and integrity, and legal compliance the highest • Team meetings • Intranet • In-house magazines • Videos and webcasts Trade unions • Representation on AB Volvo Board Health and safety, human rights, diversity and skills were considered to have the of Directors highest impact on trade unions • Volvo Group Dialogue • Volvo Group Works Council Meetings Potential employees • University career days Health and safety, energy efficiency, innovation and skills were considered to have • Industry conferences the highest impact on potential employees • Academic Partner Program Suppliers • Regular face-to-face meetings Responsible supply chain, legal compliance and innovation were considered to have • Online supplier portal the highest impact on suppliers • Training sessions • Dedicated supplier days Capital market, sharehold• C apital market days Financial performance, legal compliance, and customer satisfaction were considered ers, investors, analysts • Regular investor meetings to have the highest impact on financial stakeholders • General Meetings • A nnual and interim reports • Press releases Policy makers • Membership of industry organizations Legal compliance, business ethics and integrity, and product safety and emissions •D  ialogue were considered to have the highest impact on policy makers • Joint initiatives • Regular meetings NGOs (Non-Governmental • Dialogue Emissions (products), environmental impacts (operations) and societal engagement Organizations) • Joint initiatives were considered to have the highest impact on NGOs Academic/research • Academic Partner Program Innovation, energy efficiency, emissions and skills were considered to have the ­partners • Various forums ­highest impact on partners Sharing knowledge and best practice • European Round Table of Industrialists (ERT) The Volvo Group is a signatory of the UN Global Compact, • International Road transport Union (IRU) a member of the WWF Climate Savers Program and participates • International Transport Forum (ITF) in many trade and industry forums including: • International Union of Public Transport (UITP) • Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association (JAMA) • American Bus Association • National Marine Manufacturers Association • American Public Transport Association • Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) • American Trucking Associations • Swedish Leadership for Sustainable Development (SLSD) • Association of Equipment Manufacturers in the US • Truck and Engine Manufacturers Association (EMA) in the US • Committee for European Construction Equipment (CECE) • UN High-level Advisory Group on Sustainable Transport • European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA) • World Economic Forum (WEF) •E  uropean Association of Internal Combustion Engine ­Manufacturers (Euromot) 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Making progress on our goals The Volvo Group has several long-term CSR and sustainability ambitions. We set, measure and report on shorter-term goals, which act as indicators of our progress towards long-term sustainability. Long-term sustainability ambitions Based on our vision, our long-term environmental, economic and social ambitions include: • Proven innovators of energy-efficient transport and infrastructure solutions • Amongst the most profitable in our industry • Our customers’ closest business partner • A contributor to societal development, globally and locally • An employer of choice with a global, diverse team of high-­ performing people • Recognized as the leading supplier of sustainable transport ­solutions • Zero accidents involving Volvo Group products Shortto medium-term sustainability goals Each year, the Volvo Group reports on its progress on various goals set internally (see table). We also aim to fulfill our obligations under the UN Global Compact, maintain our listing on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and continuously improve our CDP performance scores. 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Material issue Sustainability goal linked to material issues ranking Target date 2014 progress SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT Emissions and energy-­ Volvo Penta to improve average fuel efficiency of its com2020 New: WWF Climate Savers commitment efficiency (products) mercial heavy duty engines 2015–2020 Reduce total lifetime CO2 emissions of the Group’s prod2014 Achieved: 40 M tons reduced between ucts by 30 M tons (2008 baseline) 2008–2014 Reduce total lifetime CO2 emissions of the Group’s prod2020 New: WWF Climate Savers commitment ucts by a cumulative saving of 40 M tons (2013 baseline) 2015–2020 Safety (vehicles/equipment) Become the leading supplier of safe transport solutions Ongoing On track: Automatic Emergency Brake System already fulfills 2018 legal requirements for coaches Alternative/renewable fuel Research and develop vehicles and construction Ongoing On track: Volvo FE CNG truck launched in ­drivelines ­equipment powered by alternative fuels for a range of Europe, methane diesel snow sweepers applications commercialized Transport system efficiency Start up the City Mobility concept in at least five cities 2020 New: WWF Climate Savers commitment 2015–2020 Leadership / knowledge Develop truck prototypes with substantially lower fuel con2020 New: WWF Climate Savers commitment sharing sumption compared to corresponding 2013 trucks 2015–2020 (Magnifier role)* Volvo Construction Equipment to develop and demonstrate 2020 New: WWF Climate Savers commitment technologies with considerable efficiency improvements 2015–2020 (Magnifier role) compared to a standard 2013 model Hold Construction Climate Challenge summit as part of 2015 New: WWF Climate Savers commitment program to promote sustainability across the construction 2015–2020 (Magnifier role) industry value chain CREATING SHARED VALUE Customer satisfaction Be the leader in customer satisfaction by delivering Ongoing On track: Positive trend for the Volvo ­pioneering products and services for the transport and Group portfolio recorded in Customer infrastructure industries Satisfaction and Brand Image surveys Skilled workforce Be among the high-performing companies in the Employee Annual Action needed: Volvo Group scored 72% Engagement Index (EEI) of the employee survey in 2014, 9% off the high-performing sector (Global norm 2014: 70%) Financial performance Reduce the Group’s structural costs by SEK 10 bn 2016 On track: 2014 structural cost reduction compared to 2012 amounted to SEK 3,3 bn Societal engagement Develop a new shared value CSR program 2014 Achieved: Moving Society Forward program finalized Roll out Moving Society Forward program globally 2019 New: Implementation to begin 2015 Introduce vocational training schools in 10 African 2018 On track: Vocational schools launched in ­countries Ethiopia and Morocco RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR Legal compliance Complete the compliance journey from awareness to Ongoing On track: Awareness and acceptance acceptance to embedding phases completed All white-collar employees to complete anti-corruption 2014 On track: Magnifier role – achievements e-learning that enhance environmental development across the transport and infrastructure sector. 84% completed between 2013– 2014 All white-collar employees to complete competition law/ Ongoing On track: 60% completed between ­­­anti-trust e-learning 2012–2014 Business ethics and integrity Train all employees on Code of Conduct (2012 update) 2015 Action needed: 47% of white-collar employees had completed training by end of 2014 Human rights Customer CSR Assessment pilot for Africa and Middle East 2015 New: Pilot is up and running. Decision on next steps during 2015 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Material issue Sustainability goal linked to material issues ranking Target date 2014 progress Workplace health and safety Increase the number of plants with zero lost time accident Ongoing On track: 13 plants (2013: 11) rate Operational environmental Achieve ISO 14001 certification for all major production Ongoing On track: 98% certified by end 2014 impact plants Reduce CO2 emissions from Group production plants by 2014 Achieved: CO2 emissions reduced by 0.4 0.2 M tons (12%), compared to 2008 M tons (20%) Implement energy saving activities, reaching a level of 2020 New: WWF Climate Savers commitment 150 GWh, corresponding to 8% energy saving with current 2015–2020 production volumes Reduce CO2 emissions per produced unit from freight 2020 New: WWF Climate Savers commitment transport by 20% (2013 baseline) 2015–2020 Supply chain Encourage and support 10 selected suppliers to improve 2020 New: WWF Climate Savers commitment energy efficiency 2015–2020 Assess 100% of automotive products suppliers in high risk Ongoing On track: Self-assessments equivalent to countries 92% of spend completed Ensure all automotive products suppliers are certified to Ongoing On track: More than 94% of spend ISO 14001 Face-to-face CSR training for all purchasers 2015 On track: Majority is trained. Gothenburg and Lyon to complete 2015 Diversity and inclusion Attract and retain a diverse and gender-balanced Ongoing Action needed: 18% of global workforce workforce and 21% of senior executives are women (2013: 17% and 19%) Train all managers to CEO-3 in diversity and inclusive 2015 On track: 39% of managers trained by leadership end 2014 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SOLUTIONS AVSNITT SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS VOLVO GROUP MATERIALITY MATRIX 2014 Very important 4 3 7 INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDER DECISIONS 10 11 16 20 Important IMPORTANCE FOR BUSINESS SUCCESS Very important SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS 3 Energy efficiency (products) 10 Innovation 16 Transport system efficiency 4 Emissions (products) 11 Fuels (availability and quality) 20 Leadership and knowledge sharing 7 Safety (vehicles and equipment) Sustainable transport solutions: our m ­ aterial issues urbanization continues at pace in developing economies. Globally, For the Volvo Group, sustainable transport solutions support eco1.2 million people die every year in road traffic accidents and 50 nomic productivity, reduce environmental impacts and have positive million sustain injuries. social benefits. We acknowledge that transport is part of the problem today, but Road freight accounts for around one third of world transport oil the Volvo Group believes that we can lead the way and deliver susdemand and is responsible for about 4% of total greenhouse gas tainable, future-focused solutions that effectively address our emissions. Half the world’s population already lives in cities and material impacts. CONTENTS Leaner and cleaner solutions 22 Traffic and driver safety 30 Future transport solutions 36 Energy efficiency 23 Smarter solutions 31 Leadership 37 Electromobility and hybrid solutions 23 Connected vehicles 31 Innovation 38 Alternative and renewable fuels 26 Transport system efficiency 32 Research 39 Safer solutions 28 Complete vehicle combinations 34 Vehicle safety 29 Driving dynamics 35 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS LEANER AND CLEANER SOLUTIONS Delivering energy-efficient and low ­emission solutions The Volvo Group has already proven its ability to produce carbon-neutral transport solutions and we continue to actively research and develop technologies that ­operate on renewable or alternative fuels. We believe that renewable and low-carbon fuels have the long-term Regulations and incentives would help to drive the transition to potential to substitute a significant part of diesel fuel and signifilow-carbon societies, and we continue to work for these through cantly reduce transport-related greenhouse gas emissions. the appropriate channels. Equally, we push for policy decisions enaRight now, the availability, quality and cost of renewable and bling technological infrastructure advancements. alternative fuels in different parts of the world are the main chalEnergy efficiency, emissions and fuels are among the most lenges to commercializing the cleaner technologies that the Volvo important product-related material issues for our business and Group has developed. stakeholders. Our priority focus areas for more efficient and cleaner As there is no single solution that satisfies all customer and marsolutions are: ket needs, we continue to develop a wide range of solutions. These • Fuel and vehicle efficiency include the optimization of complete vehicle combinations, technol• E lectromobility ogy and infrastructure developments, and enhanced construction • Alternative and renewable fuels site efficiency. 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SUSTAINABILITY SOLUTIONS REPORT LEANER 2013 AND AVSNITT CLEANER SOLUTIONS Driving fuel and vehicle energy efficiency Going beyond legislation on fuel efficiency As part of our new WWF Climate Savers 2015-2020 program, the The Volvo Group is one of the leading companies in fuel efficiency. Volvo Group has set fuel efficiency targets across our range of We are also working on solutions for complete vehicle combinations products and brands, with specific targets for 15 product categothat add value to our customers and reduce the lifetime environries. 14 of these go beyond current or scheduled legislation and mental impacts of our products. regulations. Read more on page 37. During 2014, we brought various fuel efficient solutions to market, continued road testing pioneering concepts, and set challenging new targets across our range of products and brands. Extending the advantages of electromobility Fuel-saving commercialization in the US Last year’s introduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) 2014-certified Electromobility offers cleaner transport solutions by reducing engines for Volvo Trucks’ VN series offered our North American exhaust emissions and noise. It can also significantly improve customers fuel-saving potential of up to 3%. energy efficiency and reduce running costs. In August 2014, we announced further fuel-saving enhanceThe electromobility market includes fully electric vehicles and ments for the 2016 series of highway tractors, including: machines, as well as hybrids, which have two sources of power. The • Aerodynamic sculpting to reduce air turbulence around the Volvo Group is at the forefront within the electromobility bus market. vehicle exterior and improve airflow under the truck resulting in We are also at the forefront of developing electromobility technolimproved fuel efficiency (miles/gallon) of up to 3.5% ogy for trucks and construction equipment. • New XE-Adaptive Gearing and Torque Management SoftFollowing extensive field testing, we launched the Volvo Electric ware options that enable customers to program the specific Hybrid bus featuring electric hybrid technology in 2014. We are currequirements of operations that go out loaded and return empty or rently testing electric hybrid truck technology and we will launch a light loaded, providing fuel efficiency improvements (miles/gallon) fully electric bus service in Gothenburg in 2015. Sunwin Bus, our of more than 2.5% Chinese joint venture, has already sold 1,400 fully electric buses in this key market for sustainable transport solutions. Road testing fuel-saving concepts in Japan Read more about our: In Japan, UD Trucks has been road testing its laboratory on wheels • Electric and hybrid buses Page 24. – the Quon Fuel Demonstrator. The demonstrator focuses on three • Electric and hybrid trucks Page 25. main areas designed to improve fuel efficiency: 1. E  ngine downsizing from an 11 to an 8-liter engine enables Understanding fully electric and hybrid solutions reduced engine and chassis weight and an increased payload. Fully electric vehicles are powered or propelled solely by an electric Combining the engine with a mechanical automatic transmission motor. They emit no particulate matter, nitrogen oxides or carbon achieves similar performance to an 11-liter engine with higher dioxide during use and have very low noise levels. This makes them fuel efficiency highly suitable for use in densely-populated city centers, especially 2. A  erodynamic solutions developed to reduce drag by matching at night. the heights of the wind deflector and van, as well as wheel covers Hybrid technology is one of the most promising and competitive to reduce wind resistance during driving technologies for commercial vehicles. Because of its potential for 3. A  DAS (Advanced Driver Assistance Systems) technology that saving fuel, hybrid technology means lower operating costs for cususes GPS and road data to predict upcoming gradients and curves tomers and significantly reduced environmental impact. on the road to help truck drivers to drive in a more fuel-efficient way The most appropriate vehicles for hybrid drivelines are those operating in continuous stop-go conditions, such as city buses and Calculating and reducing environmental footprints in refuse or distribution trucks. Europe The Volvo Group’s hybrid vehicles and machines are powered or In 2014 Renault Trucks launched its online EcoCalculator, which propelled by two different power sources that are able to recover makes it possible for hauliers to quickly calculate: and store kinetic energy from the vehicle. Since their introduction in • CO2 and pollutant emissions for each assignment 2010, our hybrid buses have been very successful, with customers • Potential fuel and emissions savings and benefits in more than 20 countries. • Lifetime costs of pollutant and CO2 emissions for EU tenders Electric hybrids are fitted with a small diesel engine and a battery-powered electric motor that can be fully charged by connecting During 2014 we also launched an Optifuel version of the Renault to an external electrical power source. This technology enables Trucks T-range with aerodynamic equipment, intelligent technoloemissions-free operation and fast charging in urban areas, with the gies and d ­ edicated services. Together, these enhancements enable capacity to cover longer distances. customers to benefit from fuel savings throughout the vehicle’s lifetime. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS LEANER AND CLEANER SOLUTIONS Extending the advantages of electromobility Meeting all city needs Fully electric and electric hybrid vehicles are dependent on the For the Volvo Group, hybrids, electric hybrids and fully electric buses availability and efficiency of battery charging solutions. To underall have their natural place in the city. The quiet, wholly emisstand how different systems affect our products and how we can sion-free, electric bus is suitable for the city center. The fast-chargbest support our customers in choosing a system solution, the ing electric hybrid for slightly longer routes and diesel hybrids for Volvo Group is working in several collaborative partnerships explorcommuter services into cities. ing different charging technologies. Our approach is based on internationally accepted standards and enables efficient re-use of existing e-mobility technologies, thereby ensuring a more rapid and cost effective deployment of urban electromobility. Under one agreement, signed in 2014, Volvo Buses will supply electric hybrid and fully electric buses to customers and our partners will supply open standards-based fast charging systems. We are also working in collaboration with partners on electric road systems (ERS) where we are exploring possibilities for continuous charging of vehicles as they drive along. ERS could take the advantages of electromobility beyond urban static recharging points and open up opportunities for electrification of long-distance bus and heavy trucks, as well as future public transport solutions. • In Sweden, the One system, has two power lines built into the surface of the road. Each section becomes live as the vehicle Launching the Volvo Electric Hybrid passes over it, and electricity is transferred to the engine via a In September 2014, we achieved a major milestone in our city cuscurrent collector at the end of the vehicle. The solution is currently tomer offer with the launch of the Volvo Electric Hybrid bus. The being tested on a heavy duty truck and the results are encouragVolvo Electric Hybrid shares the same technology as our welling. The Volvo Group is also taking part in a pre-commercial proproven Volvo Hybrid, ensuring customers of high uptime and availacurement initiative with the Swedish Transport Administration. The bility. aim is to evaluate the opportunities for realizing dynamic charging Compared to a conventional Euro 5 diesel bus, the new electric as a solution for city buses. hybrid bus: • In the US, the eHighWay initiative is due to begin tests on loca• Reduces energy consumption by 60% tion in California from November 2015. This ERS is an adaptation • Reduces CO2 emissions by up to 75% of existing tramcar technology and will charge the vehicle from an overhead wire. The Volvo Electric Hybrid is highly flexible and can run as an electric bus in selected areas and as a hybrid on any route. It runs in electric DELIVERING ELECTRIC AND HYBRID BUS SOLUTIONS mode on average 70% of the route, silently and emissions free, and The city bus market globally is moving away from diesel-powered takes six minutes to charge at end stations. vehicles towards a future where electromobility is the dominant The first Volvo Electric Hybrid went into commercial operation in solution. Volvo Buses are at the forefront of this technology and Hamburg in December 2014. In Stockholm, electric hybrids will have electromobility solutions to meet all public transport needs. operate on the public transport system in 2015. We have also CITY BUS MARKET – VOLVO GROUP VIEW received orders from Edinburgh, UK. 100% 20% Hybrid 80 60 Electric THE VOLVO 7900 ELECTRIC HYBRID BUS FACTS 43% Hybrid The bus is equipped with an electric motor that is powered by lithium 40 batteries. It also has a small diesel engine Fully • The bus is charged quickly at charging stations via an overhead 20 24% Electric power connection. Recharging takes appr. 6 minutes at end stations. • The bus can be driven about seven kilometres on electricity alone, 13% Diesel 0 covering the distance silently and entirely without exhaust emissions. 2010 FUTURE • Enables indoor bus stops • 75% fuel saving • 60% energy reduction • 75% CO 2 reduction In a recent survey* of authorities, municipalities and bus opera• Passenger capacity: 95 tors in 24 countries, the majority plans to introduce more electro• Electrical motor: Volvo I-SAM • Gearbox: Volvo I-Shift mobility into their future systems. Of those, 70% are considering • Lithium-ion battery hybrids, nearly half are thinking about fully electric solutions and around a third electric hybrid technology. *source: UITP FP7 framework program 3iBs Project 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SUSTAINABILITY SOLUTIONS REPORT LEANER 2013 AND AVSNITT CLEANER SOLUTIONS On track for fully electric bus service Within the framework of ElectriCity, the Volvo Group and a number of stakeholders from industry, public authorities and academia continue to cooperate on the shared objective of increasing the attractiveness of public transport. The outcome will be an electrified bus system in Gothenburg that acts as a live demonstration for developing and testing new public transport solutions. We are on track to commence commercial services scheduled for June 2015. Our fully electric bus model will deliver: • Silent transport • No local exhaust emissions • 99% CO2 reductions • 80% energy savings The Maxity Electric can carry a payload of around 1.5 tons. It is powered by the latest generation lithium-ion batteries, which can be World leader in hybrid bus market recharged in seven hours at a cost of around EUR 2 per day. The Our comprehensive range of hybrid buses includes the two-axle ­batteries in the new trucks have been scaled to enable the vehicle Volvo Hybrid and the Volvo Articulated Hybrid, a three-axle high-cato cover around 100 km a day on a full charge. pacity bus with space for up to 154 passengers. Chassis with Volvo hybrid powertrains form the basis for British double-deckers and Researching sustainable distribution the buses used in South American BRT (bus rapid transit) systems. As part of collaborative research with another customer, Renault Compared to conventional diesel models, our hybrid buses offer Trucks is currently testing an experimental all-electric 16 ton vehisignificant fuel savings: cle delivering supplies to boutiques in Paris over two years. • Up to 39%: Volvo Hybrid city bus and Hybrid double-decker The 100% electrically-driven Renault Trucks D-range generates • Up to 30%: Volvo Hybrid Articulated no polluting emissions or noise and will be tested on regular, demanding delivery rounds of over 200 km. Operating over such a The technology functions equally well in congested traffic situalong route is a first for any electrically-driven vehicle, and the truck tions and where there is greater distance between bus stops. The will recharge its battery several times during each 24 hour operatdiesel engine only starts when the bus reaches 15–20 km/hour, ing cycle. Its route has been planned so that it can carry out two ensuring a quiet and exhaust-free environment at bus stops. partial recharges during the day and a total recharge between 7pm Sales of Volvo Hybrid bus models continue to pull ahead in cities the and 2am. world over that are aiming to improve the quality of life for commuters. The test is scheduled to run until the end of 2015. In 2014, orders for more than 475 new buses were signed by customers in countries including the UK, Germany and Switzerland. Testing electric and hybrid truck technology In Switzerland, Renault Trucks is testing two groundbreaking conTESTING ELECTRIC AND HYBRID TRUCK SOLUTIONS cept ‘e-Trucks’ that combine an all-electric Renault Midlum with a The Volvo Group has been successfully road testing and operating refrigerated body powered by electricity. fully electric trucks and electromobility technologies for European The e-Trucks are able to carry 3 tons of ice cream and refrigercustomers for several years. ated products. They supply between 30 and 50 sales outlets every Fully electric trucks emit no particulate matter, nitrogen oxides or day, over a distance of between 60 and 100 km a day. During opercarbon dioxide emissions during operation and have very low noise ation, they produce no exhaust emissions or CO2 and run almost levels, making them suitable and popular with customers for city completely silently. distribution, operations at night and use in restricted low-emission The vehicles can reach a maximum speed of 90 km/h and have zones. a system for recovering energy during braking. The two lithium-ion battery packs have a total capacity of 170 kWh, giving them an Proving the benefits of electromobility operating range of around 140 km, with recharging taking eight Since 2011, a fleet of 10 Renault Trucks Maxity Electric vehicles hours using a standard power outlet. Trials are ongoing until 2016. has covered over 220,000 km in Paris and its suburbs for one of our customers. These all-electric vehicles fulfill local authority requirements on limiting polluting emissions and noise disturbance and support commercial clients’ sustainability commitments. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS LEANER AND CLEANER SOLUTIONS • In Sweden, tests of a Volvo FE electric hybrid truck started in Renewable fuels: assessment of important criteria Stockholm in June 2014 as part of a city distribution project Met ther ha n ) involving commercial, local authority and academic partners. The ol Etha nol thyle Biog l project, called Off Peak, aims to test nightly deliveries with dies as e Biog as + ime Biod reduced noise and emissions, at the same time as increasing effiHyd roge iese l Biod Elec n+ B ioga iese E (D tricit s ciency in the transport system. The tests and evaluation will conl HVO y Syn (Hyd r thet DM vege otreate tabl d tinue until 2016. ic e oil) Minimized climate impact ePTO – quieter, cleaner and more efficient Energy efficiency A truck that incorporates electric power take-off (ePTO) technology is Efficiency of land use currently being developed in a partnership program involving the Volvo Fuel potential Truck Center. The Volvo FH features a hydraulic crane system designed with an ePTO that is completely battery powered. Vehicle adjustment This means that all crane operations are done with the combusFuel costs tion engine switched off. This allows quiet handling of goods in senFuel infrastructure sitive environments or during restricted hours, as well as indoor work. The system is very flexible and can replace conventional Optimal Less preferable equipment such as a sky lift or forklift. The chart depicts the results of a detailed assessment of a variety of fuels produced from renewable sources against a wide range of criteria. Ratings may vary for a particular fuel depending on the specific production pathway. We have developed a very clear position on alternative fuels, which we updated during 2014. We support the Volvo Group strategic objective of efficiency by prioritizing our research and development in the following areas: • Long distance applications: liquid methane and Dimethylether (DME) are our main prioritized alternatives. Dynamic electric charging is an additional long-term alternative • Medium distance applications: compressed methane and DME are our main prioritized alternatives. Dynamic electric charging is an additional long-term alternative Taking a strong position on alternative • Urban applications: electricity and compressed methane are and renewable fuels prioritized The Volvo Group believes the use of alternative and renewable fuels is essential for achieving sustainable transport solutions. Finding Bringing a new gas-powered truck to market ways to reduce fossil fuel dependency and climate impact, and In Europe, the Volvo Group is currently operating 600 gas-powered secure diversity of supply is crucial for environmental, social and Renault Trucks for distribution and refuse collection. economic sustainability. In 2014, we launched a new gas-powered truck for the European Following years of study and prototype truck trials running on difmarket: the Volvo FE CNG (Compressed Natural Gas). The new ferent fuels, the Volvo Group recognizes that there is no single solumodel runs entirely on methane gas and is equipped with a new tion to meet all needs. Conventional diesel fuel, with increasing 9-liter gas-powered engine featuring spark plug technology and renewable or synthetic content, will remain the dominant fuel for all automatic transmission compliant with Euro 6. When run on biogas, types of transport for many years. this truck reduces CO2 emissions by up to 70%. Spark plug technology is particularly suitable for driving cycles where the truck covers short distances with a lot of start-stop traffic, and the automatic transmission gives faster driveline response. The Volvo FE CNG has been primarily developed for operations involving short driving cycles with repeated starts and stops such as refuse collection and local distribution. Sales started in August 2014, with series production scheduled for 2015. We are ­ continuing to develop liquefied natural gas (LNG) products for the European market. 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS LEANER AND CLEANER SOLUTIONS Continuing field tests and trials Continued demonstration and collaboration are key aspects in our development of vehicles that can run on alternative and renewable fuels. The Volvo Group previously stated our intention to commercialize our DME offer in the US. We have now decided to await developments in the market before committing to an exact date. The Volvo Group continues to believe that DME holds promise as a heavy-truck fuel and our customer field tests of DME-powered vehicles will continue. In Sweden, we have also been successfully running field trials on Euro 5 Volvo trucks using hydrotreated vegetable oils (HVO), which the Volvo Group believes is a better alternative to biodiesel, as there Commericalizing methane diesel snow sweepers is a larger raw material base to produce it from. We have successfully commercialized the methane-diesel snow sweeper concept that won the 2012 Swedish Institute for Quality Volvo Group Energy and Alternative Fuels Network ‘Innovation of the Year’ award. To succeed in bringing our innovations on fuel to market, we must Volvo Construction Equipment has delivered hauler front units to work in close partnership with customers and providers of infraits project partner for rebuilding into snow sweepers. Volvo Penta is structure and alternative fuels. Renewable energy solutions are also supplying the engines for the hydraulic system propelling the brush an important magnifier of our WWF Climate Savers 2015-2020 and blow function. commitment. The two snow sweeper engines have a methane diesel function In support of this, we set up the Volvo Group Energy and Alternative powered by diesel and biogas. The combination of the diesel engine Fuels Network in 2014. Its mission is to provide and maintain a comefficiency and the environmental benefits from the biogas makes the mon fact-based high-level strategy and position for the Volvo Group engine significantly more energy efficient compared to spark-ignited on energy and alternative fuels. gas engines. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SUSTAINABILITY SOLUTIONSREPORT 2013SOLUTIONS SAFER AVSNITT Enhancing sustainability through safety Road traffic and work site safety is both a global sustainability concern and a material area for the Volvo Group to adress. We cannot achieve sustainable economic or social growth if regions are crippled by congestion or failing to stem the rising number of fatalities and injuries. The global cost of traffic accidents to society is estimated at over Building on our long safety expertise half a trillion US dollars a year – on a par with the total GDP of SweOur work on safer transport solutions is based on a deep underden.1 Unless serious action is taken, the number of people killed or standing of accidents gathered through decades of in-house seriously injured in traffic is estimated to increase to 1.9 million a research and expanding collaboration. year by 2020. By 2030, it is expected to be the fifth leading cause • In Scandinavia, the Volvo Group’s in-house Accident Research of death.2 Team has looked at heavy truck accidents for over 40 years. The There is a huge imbalance between industrialized and developing team has developed an advanced, in-depth accident analysis economies. Fatalities are decreasing in western markets thanks to methodology and built up a unique bank of knowledge about improvements made over many years in vehicle safety, infrastruccauses and consequences of heavy truck accidents. Combining ture, policies, and training. But they are fast increasing in emerging accident data analysis with the Group’s own research and test and developing countries. programs gives us solid insights into the causes of accidents and injuries. This work provides important input into our future product Handling safety issues strategically plans, advanced engineering and research. As a leading player in the global transport industry, the Volvo Group • In China, traffic safety has emerged as an increasingly important recognizes that we are part of the problem related to traffic acciissue for both the Chinese government and the general public. dents. Equally, we are determined to become recognized as: The Volvo Group is one of five partners behind the new Chi• The leading supplier of safe transport solutions na-Sweden Research Center for Traffic Safety (RCTS) in Beijing. • A leading contributor to a sustainable society in the Its vision is to deliver world-class traffic safety research that domain of safety reduces traffic accidents and casualties in China, with the ambition of establishing traffic safety as a core value for a sustainable Safety is one of our corporate core values and we constantly work society. One of the problem areas currently being looked into towards our vision of zero accidents in everything we do. includes the minimum requirements for drivers to take breaks. In The Volvo Group aims to achieve our vision by focusing on: 2014, the Volvo Group also extended its partnership in the Chinese • Vehicle safety. Read more on page 29. In-depth Accident Study (CIDAS) for three years. CIDAS aims to • Traffic and driver safety. Read more on page 30. develop accident research capabilities and a database of road acci• Traffic and worksite safety education. Read more on page 53. dents. 1. Global Status Report on Road Safety: Time for Action, WHO (2009) 2. Research paper # 3035: Traffic Fatalities and Economic Growth, World Bank (2003) 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS SAFER SOLUTIONS Actively improving vehicle safety AEBS is an example both of the Volvo Group’s proactive approach to road safety and its strategic approach to efficiency. New bus The Volvo Group’s ambition is for zero accidents involving our vehiregulations come into force in 2015 and 2018. Instead of developcles or equipment. Although our products range from basic and ing two systems, we have a single innovation that easily fulfills the value machines, trucks and buses to premium products, our comlower requirements of the 2015 regulations, while efficiently placing mitment to safety is universally applied. the Volvo Group ahead of the legal requirements due in 2018. We focus on both active and passive safety features: • Active safety features and technology, such as vehicle stability, The world’s first full-scale safety test track emergency braking and visibility support, aim to prevent or mitigate the consequences of crashes • Passive safety components, including airbags and body protection in the cab, aim to protect the occupants in the event of a crash Safety studies show that the vast majority, more than 90%, of all traffic accidents involve human factors.* Loss of concentration on the road, resulting from fatigue or inattention, is one of the most common causes. Technological safety systems Over the years, the Volvo Group has pioneered a variety of driver assistance systems, including Driver Alert Support and Lane Changing Support, that enhance awareness and alert the driver before a situation turns critical. Collision Warning with Emergency Brake system is one of our most sophisticated systems and was launched with the Volvo FH AstaZero, the world’s first full-scale test track for active automotive truck in 2013. safety, was launched in 2014. Located in Borås, Sweden, the Volvo Trucks has developed new technology which dramatically 2,000,000 square meter testing area simulates cities and rural can reduce the risk of accidents caused by a limited field of vision. roads as well as a multilane and high-speed motorway. It enables a vehicle to do a 360 degree scan of everything in its The site is owned by the SP Technical Research Institute of Swesurroundings. The vehicle evaluates information from multiple den and Chalmers University of Technology. The AstaZero proving sources simultaneously, functioning much like the human mind ground has been built and developed in close cooperation with the does, and suggests actions to avoid any incidents. The technology Volvo Group, with the aim of testing active safety innovations in fullis now in the test phase and may become reality in a few years’ time. scale test environments. The testing areas include nearly six kilometers of rural road with Improving public transport safety intersections, street lights and bus stops, as well as a city environBuilding on Volvo Trucks’ experience in automatic braking systems, ment where vehicles can be tested in authentic scenarios involving Volvo Buses developed a new Bus AEBS (Automatic Emergency other vehicles in heavy traffic, cyclists and pedestrians. The infraBrake System), which was launched in 2014. It uses both radar and structure enables also connected vehicles to communicate with camera technology to detect vehicles in front of the coach and to each other as well as with the surroundings. activate the forward collision warning and emergency braking functionality. * Volvo Trucks European Accident Research and Safety Report (2013) 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS SAFER SOLUTIONS Increasing safety through awareness and training Vehicle safety systems play an important role in preventing accidents and reducing their impacts. But with 90% of accidents involving human factors, the Volvo Group believes the most effective way to increase safety is to complement technological solutions with awareness and training for drivers and society. We run traffic and site safety programs all over the world, including, for example: • The TransFORM program in Brazil has been runned since 1998 and has been replicated in Peru • Driver training programs run jointly with Eicher in India have trained more than 110,000 drivers • Educational programs in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Russia, Latvia, Estonia, the US, India, Singapore, China and South Korea have taught more than 100,000 children about road safety • Operator training run by Volvo Construction Equipment in India trained close to 2,300 operators in 2014 and the total trained since start is above 8,600 • Volvo Driver Academy is a demo project initiated in China. It is a platform for safer and more efficient driving. Over two weeks, 30 drivers received comprehensive training to drive safer and more efficiently. The project will continue in the coming years and is an important initiative for the Volvo Group to participate in the development of China’s logistic industry. Read more about the Volvo Group’s traffic and work site safety education initiatives on page 53. 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS SMARTER SOLUTIONS Optimizing outcomes with smarter solutions Sustainable transport solutions solve customer problems, optimize operations and take the environment into consideration at the same time. The Volvo Group’s enabling technologies, customer and dealer services, and integrated solutions aim to increase revenue and reduce costs for customers throughout the product lifecycle. Solving problems with innovative approaches Benefiting from connected solutions The Volvo Group is presently active in a variety of programs that There are multiple business benefits of connected services, including: address different problems using smart technology, integrated • Decreasing operating costs and improving fleet utilization for transport systems, advanced engineering, and pioneering vehicle fleet operators and drivers combinations. • Improved vehicle uptime and customer management by shiftFor example, the combination of telematics, advanced IT soluing from reactive to proactive dealer and workshop processes. tions and communication technology providing real-time traffic • Increasing the understanding of our product development, call information, remote monitoring and communication between vehicenter and warranty departments about how a vehicle operates in use cles and the infrastructure, offers major opportunities for increas• Minimizing the risks for insurance and leasing companies ing safety and reducing congestion and environmental impacts. through better understanding of vehicle usage and its operational status • Opening up opportunities for content and service provider Transforming Technology into intelligence partnerships Telematics is an area of technology based on vehicles being wireAs well as the opportunities that smart services and big data offer, lessly connected. Telematics and connected services are changing we are aware of the sensitivities involved and we are committed to the way the Volvo Group can enhance existing services and deliver developing our services responsibly. new and sustainable solutions that support customers and maximize efficiency. Increasing uptime with remote diagnostics There are currently around 300,000 Volvo Group vehicles around the Traditionally, servicing intervals are set by a group of fixed parameworld with connected services in operation. Our connected services ters and scheduled months in advance. Until then, the vehicle is include remote diagnostics, fuel management, and driver coaching. driven and no issues are noticed unless something results in an Connected services are not limited to commercial transport, society unplanned stop. as a whole is becoming more connected. The Volvo Group focuses With Vehicle Remote Diagnostics, the truck sends a warning sigstrategically on telematics and connected services to increase our nal to us as soon as an issue occurs. This enables us to schedule a understanding of roads and infrastructure, mobility, emissions, and service appointment before the problem becomes serious and accidents. This will enable us to contribute positively to the concept and leads to a breakdown. development of sustainable, connected societies. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS SMARTER SOLUTIONS Combining telematics with real-time customer care Pioneering integrated solutions In the US, Mack Trucks launched a new and advanced version of its existing on-board remote diagnostics tool in 2014. The latest The Volvo Group aims to be in the forefront of developing more Guarddog Connect technology is combined with a telematics netefficient transport systems that take account of and integrate the work, a real-time customer care and service network to: economic, environmental and social dimensions of sustainability. 1. Identify fault codes, diagnostic needs, maintenance milestones We are actively involved in a number of initiatives to deliver and solutions smarter public transport solutions in urban areas: 2. Alert decision makers, the OneCall customer service center and • Bus Rapid Transit systems service providers • City Mobility program 3. Schedule repairs, availability of parts and prompt repairs • Zone management. If something happens to a truck out on the road, Guarddog Connect We are also participating in several pioneering partnership projects alerts the driver. If the issue needs immediate attention, it automatto explore and assess the viability of integrated freight and conically contacts Mack’s OneCall customer center to diagnose the struction systems, including: problem remotely. After diagnosis, OneCall contacts the decision • G reen corridors. Read more on page 33. maker, orders parts and schedules a call at a service center near • Platooning trials. Read more on page 33. the truck’s location. On arrival, our technicians get to work right • Autonomous machines. Read more on page 34. away to resolve the issue and get the truck, and the customer, back on the road. SMARTER PUBLIC TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS In numerous cities around the world, the Volvo Group is working Saving fuel by remembering the road collaboratively with public transport and distribution decision makI-See is the technology platform in the new Volvo FH trucks that ers to develop and apply new technologies and transport solutions. aims to deliver fuel savings of up to 5% by the vehicle ‘remembering’ As cities spread and their populations grow, an expansion of public the topography of the road. The first time a truck is driven up a hill, transport systems is necessary to deal with the logistical problems information is stored in the truck’s on-board memory. The next time that arise. Most cities now want to implement solutions that are as the route is travelled, this information is used to maximize fuel effienvironmentally, economically and socially sustainable as possible. ciency. Skilled drivers can achieve the same results as I-See, but this Pioneering BRT bus provider system enables them to do it repeatedly, which is especially benefiThe Volvo Group has been a pioneer in the development of Bus cial for long haul driving. Rapid Transit (BRT) systems around the world. There are currently I-See Extended is the latest development of this technology and around 250 BRT systems globally and we supply products and serhas two additional advantages: vices to more than 30, including Bogota’s Trans-Milenio BRT sys1. The cruise control now functions across a small range, tem – the biggest in the world. Volvo Buses is also supplying buses instead of a fixed speed. This enables the vehicle to automatically to BRT systems in Brazil, Chile, Mexico, India, South Africa and accelerate when it knows it is approaching a hill, and when to Sweden. ease off and use the angle of the road to save fuel The key elements of BRT are: 2. The new telematics – I-See Extended – enables us to • High-capacity buses share the recorded road information with other trucks. • E xclusive bus lanes Once a single truck has travelled along a road, all I-See Extended • Offboard ticketing trucks will benefit from the knowledge gained, without having to • Level boarding travel it first themselves • Priority at intersections • Traffic control This is an efficient way to help customers realize fuel savings more • Passenger information quickly. BRT systems with high-capacity buses running on dedicated roads Targeting driver training more efficiently or lanes offer the same performance as commuter trains yet require Volvo Trucks’ Dynafleet management system helps fleet managers much less capital investment. to support their drivers in driving more safely and fuel efficiently. The technology provides real-time feedback to the driver, helping Boosting capacity on Brazil’s BRT them to adjust their behavior and driving style. Improved driving also In Brazil, we have been a partner within the BRT system for over 25 lowers the lifetime maintenance and repair costs of a fleet. years. Most recently, in 2014, we delivered 124 new articulated buses Dynafleet can also highlight which drivers may need more supfor a new BRT line in Rio de Janeiro. The buses offer 20% higher port, such as face-to-face training with a professional instructor. capacity than most similar buses operating the BRT lines there. This targeted approach is more cost effective than mass training. 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS SMARTER SOLUTIONS This higher capacity allows for increased access to public transDEVELOPING SMART FREIGHT SOLUTIONS port and a reduction in the number of vehicles operating in the corThe idea of a Green Corridor is to concentrate freight traffic ridor, which consequently increases the average speed of the sysbetween major urban areas along specially adapted routes that protem, reducing the emission of pollutants, and operating costs. vide efficient links between highways, sea routes and railways. This will result in safer and more efficient transport, less traffic congesSustainable benefits of City Mobility tion and overall lower environmental impact. The City Mobility program pioneered by the Volvo Group brings Smart solutions including strategic trans-shipment points, infortogether key stakeholders to develop and implement integrated and mation sharing and intelligent transport system (ITS) are all inteinnovative sustainable transport pilot projects that are suited to grated into a Green Corridor solution. each individual city. It is being deployed in several cities including Gothenburg, StockTesting C-ITS with a living laboratory holm, Hamburg, and Montréal. During 2014, agreements on cooperation were signed with the cities of Shanghai and Curitiba, with Mexico following in early 2015. The Volvo Group works collaboratively with public transport and distribution decision makers in numerous cities around the world to develop and apply new technologies and transport solutions, such as hybrid and electric vehicles. As well as supplying vehicles, the Volvo Group assists cities more and more in planning the infrastructure required for the introduction of electric and hybrid buses. This typically includes discussions about: • Bus route options • Low-emission zones • Q uiet zones • Charging station quantities • Locations for charging stations City transport requirements drive further development of our inteIn the EU, the Volvo Group is participating in a new Green Corrigrated system solutions and sales. City Mobility is one of our new dor project stretching from Rotterdam to Vienna, passing through 2015–2020 WWF Climate Savers magnifier commitments, and we ­Germany. aim to start up the concept in at least five cities. The aim is to: • Build a test site for connected vehicles Introducing Zone Management technology • Apply state-of-the-art vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infraIn 2014 we introduced our innovative new Zone Management techstructure communication technology nology service, which simplifies safe, emissions-free city driving. • Increase highway efficiency and safety More and more cities are introducing restrictions on the vehicles • Reduce the environmental impact of long-distance freight transport permitted to operate in different urban areas. Some zones are com• Provide a basis for standardized, international cooperative ITS pletely emissions free, while others impose special noise or speed (C-ITS) for the future regulations. Volvo Bus Zone Management is a service that enables compliWe are contributing with technical vehicle expertise, knowledge of ance with restrictions in various kinds of sensitive areas. The techthe transport system, and participation in field tests. nology regulates automatically how the bus operates in specific The program began in 2013 and is due to be completed in 2017. zones along the route. GPS is used to determine exactly where along the route the bus should run on electricity or diesel, and also USING WIRELESS TECHNOLOGY TO CONNECT how fast it may drive in the various zones. The technology contribVEHICLES utes to a cleaner, safer and quieter urban environment. Platooning is the US term for road trains, which the Volvo Group has successfully tested over a number of years in projects in the EU, US and Japan. Platooning uses wireless technology to link a lead truck, operated by a trained driver, and control a convoy of vehicles in a road train. Tests indicate that driving in a close-formation convoy could reduce accidents, improve traffic flow, lower fuel consumption and carbon emissions while offering greater comfort to drivers. 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS SMARTER SOLUTIONS However, there are challenges regarding legislation, responsibilPioneering high capacity transport ity and communications standards, which must all be resolved before platooning can be adopted as a sustainable transport soluThe Volvo Group has been actively involved in the development of tion. The Volvo Group actively participated in dialogue with the US, High Capacity Transport vehicles (HCT) since 2007, participating in EU and Swedish stakeholders during 2014 on issues surrounding projects funded partly by the Swedish Strategic Vehicle Research platooning. and Innovation program (FFI). Many initiatives are ongoing until 2016, with the Volvo Group conGetting the latest trial on the road tributing to products and solutions. The United States Department of Transport awarded a USD 2 M contract to a multi-stakeholder team including the Volvo Group, Announcing the latest improvements University of California Berkeley, CALTRANS, Los Angeles Metro During 2014, several improvements were targeted, achieved and and other partners in 2013. verified. These included evaluations of fuel efficiency, optimized The Partial Automation for Truck Platooning project began in driveline for complete combinations, lane change stability, brake 2014 and will run until 2016. The aim is to develop and demonstrate functionality, weight reductions, and air and rolling resistance. We a system in which three heavy-duty trucks are connected in a plaare also supporting authorities working on the development of rules toon in order to increase roadway capacity and decrease fuel conand regulations, both in Sweden and internationally, for multi-vehisumption. The main demonstration will take place around the ports cle combinations. in Los Angeles. • The One more pile (VETT) aims to develop a modular system for forest transport. Compared to standard 60-ton combinations, FULLY INTEGRATED AUTOMATED SITE SOLUTIONS the high-capacity 90-ton combinations have so far achieved a Volvo Construction Equipment is planning the future of construction 22% reduction in fuel consumption and CO2 emissions, while the sites by developing, evaluating and testing smart solutions that sup74-ton combinations have reduced CO2 by 10 to 15% per ton/km. port zero unplanned stops, increased uptime, reduced environmenAll aspects have been thoroughly investigated and addressed and tal impacts and enhanced site safety. the overall safety has been improved. Approval has been gained Watch the video of Volvo Construction Equipment’s future solufor certain road networks in Finland and Sweden. Sweden is contions on youtube. sidering approval of the 74-ton on a limited road network and the 64-ton on a major road network. Investigating autonomous excavation in Europe • The DUO2 project is testing a truck that is longer and heavier During 2013 and 2014, Volvo Construction Equipment and the than those available in Europe today*. For the DUO2 project, we Robotics Research Laboratory at Kaiserslautern University of have special permission to test a 32 meter long truck weighing up Technology participated in a publicly-funded project focusing on: to 80 tons, travelling between Gothenburg and Malmö in Sweden • Software that makes autonomous excavation tasks possible and – a journey of approximately 300 km. The vehicle combination automatically adapts to changing environmental conditions or shows a 27% reduction in fuel consumption, compared to standunexpected situations ard combinations and that volume and load distribution may play a • E nvironmental data management that is fast, accurate and more significant role than weight restriction. efficient, to cope with the mobile equipment’s high environmental interactions • A stability observer that provides immediate information about the stability of the machine and is capable of predicting machine instability thereby enabling automatic or human intervention The project was completed in April 2014. Negotiations about its continuation are ongoing. * Under EU legislation, trucks are permitted up to a maximum of 18.75 meters in length and 40 tons in weight, except in Sweden, Finland, Norway, Denmark and the Netherlands where the limit is 25.25 meters and 60 tons. Tests with combinations up to 25.25 meters are ongoing in Germany. 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS SMARTER SOLUTIONS Improving the driving experience with smart dynamics Official figures from the Swedish Work Environment Authority reveal that truck drivers are over-represented in occupational injury statistics. Improving the driver’s working conditions and overall experience results in more relaxed, safer and healthier driving. Elevating heavy vehicle steering to a new dimension Volvo Dynamic Steering combines conventional hydraulic power steering with an electronically regulated electric motor fitted to the steering gear. The result is precise steering that gives the truck driver a safer, more controlled, comfortable and relaxed working environment. The technology helps to address the most frequent occupational injuries suffered by heavy duty vehicle drivers. It can be described as two gearboxes linked together. When one gearbox is active, the next gear is preselected in the other gearbox. Adapting car technology for heavy duty vehicles During gear changing, the first gearbox is disconnected at the same In autumn 2014, the Volvo Group was the first company to bring to instant as the second gearbox is connected. market a dual clutch system for heavy duty vehicles. Our advanced With I-Shift Dual Clutch, gear changes take place without any engineering process successfully adapted the technology used for interruption in power delivery, which is especially beneficial on hilly cars to offer a similar solution for series-produced trucks. The and winding roads. It is also effective in cities with frequent roundaI-Shift Dual Clutch is now available on the Volvo FH. bouts and traffic lights. Overall, it makes for a smoother journey, particularly when transporting livestock or liquids. This results in more relaxed and therefore safer driving, while also reducing wear on the driveline and the rest of the vehicle. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS FUTURE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS Rethinking the future of transport To become the world leader in sustainable transport solutions, we need to understand the industrial, technological and societal challenges and opportunities in the world around us and how the Volvo Group can address these through leadership, innovation and research. The main challenges facing our business include increasing: Pioneering leadership, innovation and research • Demand for road transport coupled with limited investment in Our work to become the world leader in sustainable transport solunetwork capacity tions is based on our understanding of our customers’ needs, the • Requirements for long-haul and distribution transport to reduce technological challenges and opportunities in the world around us. environmental and social impacts The Volvo Group therefore focuses on leadership, innovation and • Need to keep road transport costs at levels that do not impact research. economic growth or social mobility • Demand for productivity, safety and environmental care in the ­construction equipment industry Developing future solutions The Volvo Group believes that our products and services are one piece of the transport and infrastructure puzzle. To maximize the long-term environmental, social and business benefits, we need to consider the bigger picture and understand how our products and services are, and can be, integrated into society. Instead of offering single products or services, we will deliver complete transport and site solutions with added customer value. For example, we have developed our City Mobility program in collaboration with partners to provide a complete solution for participating local authorities. Instead of buying and owning electric hybrid Our work starts with the desired outcome, instead of focusing solely buses and procuring charging systems, they pay per kilometer of on the drivetrain or the vehicle. In the example shown, enhancing specified transport capacity. customer efficiency and concentrating on efficient delivery of the mission is the goal. We can reduce customer downtime with intelliIncreasing efficiency through complete solutions gent, connected systems for efficient traffic and freight scheduling. The example featured here shows how the Volvo Group’s innovation This is supported by vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure focus goes beyond individual products and services to the complete technology that reduces accidents, congestion and improves traffic consideration of every inter-linked aspect. The same mindset is applied flows at the same time satisfying the customers’ overall needs. when developing truck, bus and construction equipment solutions. 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS FUTURE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS Taking the lead on sustainability Sustainable transport solutions are of increasing importance to our 30 M tons 40 M tons less CO2 less CO2 business and our stakeholders. The Volvo Group regularly takes an active part in sustainability programs, meetings with business leaders, government and authorities as well as other stakeholders globally, regionally and locally. 2009-2014 2015-2020 The Volvo Group was the world’s first automotive manufacturer to be approved by WWF to participate in their Climate Savers program We also delivered on our commitment to develop prototype trucks back in 2010. In 2014, Olof Persson, the CEO of the Volvo Group, with improved fuel efficiency. During the 2009-2014 program, we was appointed co-chairman of the United Nations (UN) High-level launched three demonstrators. Our field tests show that combining Advisory Group on Sustainable Transport for three years. the techniques piloted could achieve 20% lower fuel consumption. These platforms are a validation of our vision and our achievements to date. They also extend the scope of the Volvo Group’s Committing to even more challenging targets work on sustainable transport solutions to the highest levels of At the end of 2014, we agreed on a new 2015–2020 commitment influence and to all parts of the world. with WWF to: • Save energy and reduce CO2 emissions in our production by Contributing to sustainable transport solutions 8% and freight transport by 20% (baseline 2013). Initiated by UN General Secretary, Ban Ki-Moon, the Advisory • Reduce total lifetime CO2 emissions from products by 40 M Group serves as an independent voice in the global promotion of tons. safe and sustainable mobility, transport and infrastructure systems • Act as a magnifier to enhance sustainable development within that contribute towards UN sustainable development goals. the transport and infrastructure sectors. This initiative aims to unleash the full potential of transport to The reduction of lifetime CO2 emissions is to come from fuel effienhance inclusive economic growth and social development while ciency targets on 15 product categories in total – ranging from the reducing emissions, pollution and accidents. Over the next three Volvo FH truck to the Volvo Construction Equipment wheel loader. years, the Advisory Group will work with governments, transport For the first time, Volvo Penta will be included in our Climate Savproviders, industry, financial institutions, civil society and other ers program. Its ambition is to improve average fuel efficiency on its stakeholders to: portfolio of industrial and marine commercial heavy duty engines and develop a prototype engine application with hybrid technology. • Facilitate economic growth through affordable and reliable Volvo Penta’s fuel efficiency commitment adds nearly 10% to the access to mobility and goods transport Volvo Group’s total carbon footprint included in our new target. • Reduce the negative effects of transport on the environment and key ecosystems, including the effects of carbon dioxide and Becoming a magnifier for sustainability other greenhouse gases on climate change The most significant introduction to our Climate Savers 2015–2020 • Support social inclusion and equitable growth through program is the new focus on so-called ‘magnifiers’, where the Volvo enhanced public health and improved road safety as part of the Group will leverage its leadership position to magnify environmental sustainable development agenda to alleviate poverty. sustainability far beyond the boundaries of our organization. In the short-term, the Advisory Group will provide the General Secretary with recommendations on sustainable transport, develop innovative policy and multi-stakeholder partnerships for sustainable transport and launch a ‘Global Transport Outlook Report’ by 2016. Read more on the Volvo Group solutions responding to the global mega trends and UN Sustainable Development Goals on page 12. Exceeding on pioneering climate commitments In 2014, the Volvo Group completed our pioneering commitment to the WWF Climate Savers program. One of our objectives was a 30 M ton reduction in CO2 emissions Our magnifiers within the program include hybrid solutions, our over the total lifetime of the trucks, construction equipment and City Mobility programs and the new Construction Climate Chalbuses we manufactured between 2009-2014, compared to the lenge. Our ambition is to expand our commitment beyond our own baseline year 2008. operations, products and services to activities that push sustainable Final audited results will be available in late spring 2015, but the development in the transport sector in the right direction, more latest figures indicate that total lifetime carbon dioxide emissions quickly. Through this, we can efficiently achieve far greater reducof the Group’s products were reduced by 40 M tons by 2013. These tions in greenhouse gases than we can alone. We believe this is the savings have been achieved through improved fuel efficiency. right way to develop our environmental efficiency and support WWF in making its Climate Savers program even more powerful. 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS FUTURE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS The Volvo Group Sustainability Forum speed to market. AIT benefits include early interaction with customThe Volvo Group Sustainability Forum aims to stimulate greater colers, reduced administration and quick decisions. laboration between companies, governments, civil society and the It is built upon a model used for coaching and supporting small UN, to accelerate actions and decisions towards sustainable develstart-ups, and involves a handful of dedicated people with a passion opment. Held in November 2014, this year’s Sustainability Forum for what they do exploring the idea from several perspectives. AIT is brought together more than 300 international leaders and stakepart of the Volvo Group’s growing innovation network of dedicated holders – including many of our academic and research partners – innovation coaches. to explore: • Private sector contributions to the development of UN postEngaging with future innovators 2015 development agenda INVOLVE is an open innovation platform that helps the Volvo Group • Sustainable transport that develops societies to engage and interact with the external global community to explore and solve challenges together. Students at selected univerThe Volvo Group’s ambition is for the Sustainability Forum to be sities are invited to come up with new and innovative ideas for difan annual event. ferent areas of challenge that are important to our business. The 2014 INVOLVE challenges included: Swedish Leadership for Sustainable D ­ evelopment • France: a 24-hour nonstop innovation jam to create the most The Volvo Group is a member of the Swedish Leadership for innovative urban transport solution Sustainable Development network. Read more in the societal ­ • US: Penn State University students submitted ideas relating to engagement on page 12. intelligent vehicles and automation • China: students from Tongji University and Tsinghua University participated in a competition to generate creative and innovative Delivering innovative customer solutions ideas around electromobility, connected vehicles and environmental urban mobility Delivering integrated solutions that add real value to our customers, the environment and society requires us to thoroughly understand Investing in innovative transport solutions all market needs. Founded in 1997, Volvo Group Venture Capital is an investment company owned by the Volvo Group. Its ambition is to be a leading Innovative business practices corporate investor in sustainable transport solutions. Each investOur innovation starting point is to create added value for our cusment should have a positive return in itself while also contributing to tomers. Transforming knowledge into a pioneering solution and getprofitable growth and competitiveness of the Volvo Group. ting it to market is a long process involving many phases, criteria Successful investments include: and stakeholders. • C argomatic: in 2014 Volvo Group Venture Capital invested in In order to boost our innovation capability, the Volvo Group uses Cargomatic – a software platform that enables local truck drivers the Innovate process, which has two parts: to get offers for unutilized capacity on their trucks in real time. • Ideate is a creativity generation stage that includes innovation The solution offers additional freight capacity based on a truck’s labs, global innovation jams, creativity workshops and customer location and route, resulting in higher fill rates, reduced mileage co-creation activities and a more efficient and cost-effective logistics, distribution and • Accelerate works to reduce time to market for innovation contransport network. For further information, visit: cepts, efficiently driving development in cross-functional incuwww.cargomatic.com bated projects, or through internal and external start-ups or ven• Lytx: is an investment to further strengthen the Volvo Group’s tures continued leadership in safety. Lytx helps commercial drivers become safer drivers through coaching. The DriveCam powered Gathering knowledge and generating ideas by Lytx™ program uses in-vehicle video technology to capture Creatively adapting technology is another way to innovate. For data on driving behaviors, which can be used to correct risky drivexample, the collision warning and active brake solutions used as a ing behavior and reduce the risk of a crash. Independent evaluasafety feature in some Volvo and Mack trucks is an adaption of tions show a reduction in safety-critical events of up to 50% folradar technology that was first introduced a decade ago. lowing the introduction of DriveCam’s behavior-based safety As part of our technology development process, we thoroughly program, thereby reducing collision-related costs for the fleet by gathered knowledge through cooperation with European partners up to 50%. In simple terms, this means fewer accidents on the on radar development programs. This understanding was necessary roads and less cost for the customer and society. For further inforbefore transferring the new technology into our product developmation, visit: www.lytx.com ment process. • RidePal: offers companies an efficient way to set up tailor-made sustainable commuting systems for employees, enabling them to Accelerating construction innovation switch from car travel to taking a luxury coach. RidePal uses an For the past three years, Volvo Construction Equipment has been advanced software platform to optimize routes, keep track of payexploring a new way to accelerate innovation. Accelerate Innovation ments and deliver route information. Several companies can pool Teams (AIT) aims to foster internal entrepreneurship and increase together to share the cost. Every bus takes 30-40 cars off the 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS FUTURE TRANSPORT SOLUTIONS road, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and congestion. The There are two types of partnerships: Preferred Research PartWifi-equipped coach enables the commute to become productive ners and Preferred Talent Partners. work time, and helps companies attract and retain talent. For furHaving preferred research and talent partners is an efficient way to ther information, visit: www.ridepal.com. develop and implement long-term research and innovation agendas • Steelwrist: is a fast-growing manufacturer of tiltrotators with a and to enhance employer attractiveness with leading universities. strong product portfolio focused on supporting customer productivity. Our business relationship with Steelwrist enables Volvo ConInvesting in future urban transport and safety struction Equipment to factory fit tiltrotators and innovative quick Each year, the Volvo Research and Educational Foundations (VREF) couplers that can improve customer efficiency by up to 30%. make major investments in dedicated research projects supporting These products take safety to the next level while maintaining a the development of sustainable transport systems in large urban compact design for fuel efficiency and productivity. For further areas worldwide. We also devote extensive resources to traffic information, visit: www.steelwrist.com safety research, partnering with key industry players, universities and governments for greater efficiency and effectiveness. The vision of the Future Urban Transport (FUT) program is susSustainable transport solutions research tainable transport for equitable access in urban areas. Ten Centers of Excellence across the world are integrated within universities and We have a clear vision of where we are heading and we invest in technology institutes and cooperate closely with key stakeholders pioneering research and technology development to ensure the responsible for urban transport systems. achievement of our vision. The FUT theme ‘Urban Freight’ involves leading universities, We believe that bringing together the best minds, cooperating on industry partners and cities in more than 10 countries in Europe, projects of joint interest and sharing knowledge are some of the Asia, North and South America. most efficient ways to achieve sustainable innovation. FUT highlights 2014: Reducing environmental impacts and enhancing the benefits of • Publication of ‘Access and Mobility in Cities’: the first 10 years of our products and services is a priority of our internal research and the FUT program advanced engineering teams. External research partnerships and • VREF Workshop in New York on the theme of: Transforming participation in public programs are other key factors for realizing Access, Mobility and Delivery in Cities – Turning Knowledge into our vision. Action • New Urban Freight initiatives in Delhi and Gothenburg Extending our Academic Partner Program The basic principle behind our Academic Partner Program (APP) is During the year, preparations began on a new FUT theme under the long-term strategic thinking in areas of mutual interest. The APP is working title of ‘Mobility and Access in African Cities’. The new a highly exclusive program for selected universities working in areas theme, due to launch in 2015, will address resource-efficient, that support the delivery of the Volvo Group’s vision and wanted socially and culturally inclusive transport systems that improve position. We have partners in Sweden, France, the US, China, India access in cities. It will have a geographical emphasis on rapidly and, since 2014, in Japan. changing urban environments in Southern and Eastern Africa. 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VALUE 2013 AVSNITT CREATING SHARED VALUE VOLVO GROUP MATERIALITY MATRIX 2014 Very important 1 6 8 INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDER DECISIONS 19 Important IMPORTANCE FOR BUSINESS SUCCESS Very important CREATING SHARED VALUE 1 Customer satisfaction 8 Financial performance 6 Skilled workforce 19 Societal engagement Creating shared value: our material issues competitive, sustainable and profitable by investing in the Group’s For the Volvo Group, creating shared value involves efforts to move employees. We aim to move our business and society forward by both our business and society forward – enhancing our competitivealigning our CSR programs with our business needs and knowledge. ness while simultaneously advancing the economic, environmental and social conditions of the societies in which we operate. Addressing material issues in our everyday business We create economic value for our company and shareholders by Sustainability is embedded across our business and so we can delivering transport and infrastructure solutions that meet the address many of the material issues relating to creating shared needs of our customers. We support our customers’ value creation value simply by working towards the Volvo Group’s strategic priorithrough efficient products and world-class services. We remain ties and objectives. CONTENTS Customer satisfaction 41 Skilled workforce 46 Financial performance 50 Efficient solutions 42 Volvo Group University 47 Societal engagement 52 Diverse customer needs 43 Leadership and management 47 Traffic and site safety 53 Supporting customer productivity 44 Employee engagement 48 Environmental sustainability 53 Measuring satisfaction 45 Attracting talent and developing Education and skills development 54 competences 48 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Creating value by satisfying customers Organizations that capture customers´ needs best and translate them into tailored products and services will be the leaders in any market or segment. Organizations with the highest levels of customer satisfaction will gain market share and thereby build a platform for economic sustainability. For the Volvo Group, customer satisfaction is a key factor in building Understanding customer satisfaction customer loyalty and becoming our customers’ preferred business For the second year running, customer satisfaction was the highpartner. Our success is based on understanding and delivering on est-ranked area in the Volvo Group’s materiality matrix. Customer customers’ needs and strengthening their operational performance. satisfaction covers various customer touch points and material topCustomers want solutions, not just products and services, so it is ics, including quality, fuel efficiency, productivity and uptime. Cusvital to understand our present and potential customers’ needs in tomer responsiveness, after-market service and long-term relationorder to develop competitive and beneficial features. ship management are closely linked to brand image and loyalty. The Volvo Group considers all of these attributes in our approach to growing customer satisfaction. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Delivering a full range of commercial Buses The product range includes complete buses and bus chassis for solutions city, intercity and coach traffic. Our total offer includes a global serAll of the Volvo Group’s products and services have been developed vice network, efficient spare parts handling, service and repair conto contribute to efficient transport and infrastructure solutions in all tracts, financial services and traffic information systems. The offer parts of society. also comprises complete transport systems for electromobility including charging infrastructure. Trucks All brands in the Volvo Group’s truck operations have a unique and distinct brand-specific character that attracts customers in their market segments. All our brands offer customers a broad range of products and services for efficient and economic transport. Solutions for marine and industrial applications Volvo Penta manufactures engines for boats and industrial applications. The offer for both leisure boat and commercial craft markets include an engine range of 10 to 900 hp, and a global service network of approximately 4,000 dealers. Volvo Penta also supplies industrial engines ranging from 75 kW to 655 kW for a variety of Construction equipment industrial applications such as container handling, mining equipVolvo Construction Equipment develops, manufactures and marment and power generation. kets equipment for construction and related industries. Its products are leaders in many world markets, and include a comprehensive range of wheel loaders, hydraulic wheeled and crawler excavators, articulated haulers, road machinery and a wide range of compact equipment. In the fall of 2014, it was decided to discontinue Volvo branded backhoe loaders and motor graders. In future, these products will be manufactured by SDLG instead. 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Meeting globally diverse customer needs The Volvo Group brand portfolio is well positioned within all market segments – from the basic to the premium segment – and every brand within the Group focuses on meeting specific customer needs. Our global presence enables the Group to offer a wide range of brands, products and services customized for different markets and customer needs. Each brand within the Volvo Group is a strong asset and is assigned a unique position, differentiated in terms of core target customers, price, and solution level. Each brand represents different values, conveys different characteristics, and has a different visual appearance. However, all brands aim for the highest level of customer satisfaction for their targeted customer. • In Asia, we took an important strategic step during 2014, with the Adapting to different needs introduction of a UD Buses range specifically for growth markets. While retaining its core attributes and strength, each brand must be Building on the brand’s success in Southeast Asia, we have able to adapt to market expectations in its prioritized segments, meetadapted the product for the Indian market, combining Japanese ing customer requirements and behaviors to deliver customer value. craftsmanship and reliability with fuel efficiency. Production For example, our new UD Quester truck range has been designed started in India to serve the domestic market as a first step. to meet specific needs of customers in growth markets in Asia and beyond. Growth markets are drivers of long-term global growth and offer Specific segments and customers great potential, especially in the so-called value segment, where At a global level, Volvo, Mack and Prevost represent our premium customers want products that offer quality, reliability, service and brands, aimed at customers who choose a holistic view of the brand support, but at an adapted cost level. The Volvo Group aims to be a and associated product and service offer. significant player in this segment and we have invested in targeted Renault Trucks is positioned in the high-end space addressing product research and development. customers who value total operational cost and network support. Outside of Japan, UD Trucks addresses the value segment, a new focus area for the Group, while UD Trucks in Japan is in the highend segment. Our joint venture with Eicher Motors provides the Group with a strong presence in the Indian truck market. Eicher will form the basis of the Group offering in highly cost-competitive market segments. The recent strategic alliance announced with Dongfeng Group fundamentally changes the Volvo Group’s opportunity in the Chinese truck market. TRUCK BRANDS at the end of 2014 – addressing the entire market Premium segment High-end segment Japan • In Africa and the Middle East, we have announced plans to Value segment launch the new Renault Trucks range following stringent testing Basic and extensive customer consultation. The range has been specifsegment ically adapted to operate under the most extreme weather condiDemand for total solutions tions and in the regions’ challenging terrains. During market presentations in South Africa and Qatar, customers were able to take SDLG addresses the value space for construction equipment – part in various workshops and drive the new trucks, enabling them primarily in China. The acquisition of Terex Trucks allows us to offer to become more familiar with the vehicles and their specific chara full line of construction trucks and opens up new possibilities in acteristics. construction and mining. Nova Bus is a leading North American provider of transit solutions, including buses, high-capacity vehicles and integrated intelligent transport systems. Sunwin Bus is our joint venture in China. It is a leading bus producer and one of the world’s largest manufacturers of fully electric buses. The Sunwin brand is sold primarily in China. UD Bus is a new bus range specifically designed for growth markets. 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Volvo Penta is a world leading supplier of engines and complete Opening the Uptime Center in the US power systems for marine and industrial applications. Our new North American Uptime Center has been operational since October 2014. The center physically pulls together over 600 Volvo Special purpose vehicles and Mack Trucks personnel and service under one roof, with 180 Customers of special-purpose vehicles include governments, armed people working in roles directly related to uptime services. forces, police forces, peace-keeping, relief and various UN organiUtilizing integrated services, such as Volvo Action Service, ASIST, zations. Customer procurement is an extensive process, with strict Remote Diagnostics, OneCall and GuardDog Connect, Uptime legal rules and procedures. Center professionals can now: This niche segment includes vehicles that have been developed • Monitor and respond to vehicle issues in real time specifically for use by the armed forces, such as armor-plated spe• Help dealers troubleshoot difficult cases and cial vehicles for troop transport, surveillance and support. It also • Find the necessary parts for repair includes commercial trucks and variants with bullet-proof cabs, as Using ASIST to provide service management structure, agents well as construction equipment and buses. communicate with the customer, dealer and, if necessary, other Governmental Sales is a relatively new business area for the Uptime Center colleagues, to ensure problems are resolved with as Volvo Group covering all sales we have in the areas of defense, little inconvenience as possible. safety and international relief collaboration. The Volvo Group’s sales As the Center continues to improve and advance, we see a future of defense material, as defined in the Swedish Military Equipment where it acts as an advisor and consultant to fleet owners and manOrdinance (1992:1303) section A, amounted to 0.41% (0.55%) of agers. We will be able to increase uptime by predicting the lifetime net sales in 2014. of components and anticipating when they will break or come to the end of their life. It is one more step in our quest to make our trucks Offering a wide range of supporting services and the most productive in the industry. solutions Volvo Financial Services (VFS) designs and delivers competitive Providing 24/7 support in Europe financial solutions which strengthen long-term relationships with By proactively informing customers that their vehicle needs to be the Volvo Group’s customers and dealers. VFS conducts customer repaired, The Volvo Action Services increase uptime, reduce warfinancing in 43 countries in the world. ranty costs and improve customer satisfaction. We are using new Financial solutions are offered exclusively with the sale of Volvo technologies, such as telematics, to provide feedback on the perGroup vehicles and equipment, and are available with other soft formance of our products. Using technology in a proactive way enaproducts. This approach of seamless integration at the point of sale bles us to diagnose early indications of faults and actively contact delivers a convenient one-stop shopping experience for customers. customers before a fault occurs. In all VFS markets, and particularly in developing markets, downIf something happens on the road, 24/7 support reduces the turn preparedness is a key objective, regardless of the current busicustomer’s downtime and associated costs. ness cycle. Enhancing customers’ value creation Our customers’ needs and profitability are our number one priority. The Volvo Group places great emphasis on supporting our customers to be successful in their business. We focus on high product quality, safety, reliability and fuel efficiency. Our support services – including servicing, maintenance, repairs and assistance – aim to increase customer uptime and improve their productivity. When a truck is down, a customer’s business stops. Our North American Uptime Center estimates that unplanned downtime can cost up to USD 2,000 per day per event, taking into consideration the loss of cargo and revenue and the additional pay for drivers and other associated costs. 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Getting a better understanding of Responding to customer feedback All our businesses and brands have strategic targets by markets. ­customer needs The data from various global image and benchmark surveys is used The Volvo Group tracks customer satisfaction and brand image perto produce a brand KPI dashboard that informs and supports conceptions in surveys worldwide. Performance is integrated into the tinuous improvement work. Volvo Group’s KPI reporting and is used to increase our underOnce a customer satisfaction interview is completed, the market standing of customer needs. research company informs the dealer of any alerts. The dealer will Studies are carried out by leading international research organicontact the customer to follow up on any dissatisfaction within 48 zations. Interviews are conducted with decision makers among hours. We have systems for handling complaints, market quality Volvo Group customers and non-customers. Our research moves requests and dealers’ quality requests for each brand and business from general awareness and brand perceptions through to more in the Group. Issues registered in the customer database are also detailed questions about customer service and recent purchases. fed into product development, where relevant. Using market research results strategically Awards are a useful indicator of satisfaction Our brand image surveys measure perceptions, such as quality, Finally, external awards are a useful indicator of satisfaction and can safety and environmental care, against key competitors. Among our be a powerful argument for winning over customers. satisfaction measures, we ask customers about various brand attrib• International Truck of the Year 2015: in September 2014, a utes that drive purchases and overall opinion, such as customer care, jury made up of 25 journalists from the international trade press uptime, fuel efficiency, driver productivity and innovation. voted the Renault Trucks T-range the ‘International Truck of the There are a number of image and benchmark surveys conducted Year 2015’. The prestigious title was won on the basis of multiple in different regions globally on behalf of each brand. Overall, the criteria, including on-road performance, fuel savings, and total latest research shows that the Volvo brand occupies a leading posicost of ownership – criteria which mirror our definition of customer tion, or is among the best, in terms of quality, safety and environsatisfaction. In total, the Renault Trucks T-range collected 129 mental care, in all global markets and for all our business areas. points – 48 points ahead of its nearest rival. Within one year of its launch, the truck was judged to have made the greatest contribution to road transport efficiency during 2014. • Quality innovation of the year: Volvo Trucks was awarded the ‘Quality innovation of the year’ prize, by a number of quality institutes in Europe, for the I-shift Dual Clutch. It represents industry-leading product innovation with strong improvement indicators that positively impact on drivers, transport companies, cargo owners and society. • Red Dot 2014 award: The EC380E excavator was awarded the Red Dot 2014. This is one of the first excavators from the new generation of redesigned Volvo Construction Equipment machines. This heavy-duty production machine is built from the same DNA as previous models, but has a completely new exterior and interior. It is designed especially for work on tough job sites. Red Dot awards were also won for Volvo Construction Equipment’s merchandise that meet customer needs and enhance site safety. 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE SKILLED WORKFORCE Developing high-performing global teams A knowledgeable and skilled workforce is a crucial factor in fulfilling the Volvo Group’s vision. To outperform our competitors and achieve agreed objectives, we need people with the right competences across all of our businesses. Restructuring for Group-wide efficiency Building for the future The Volvo Group had 92,822 permanent employees and 11,749 In a difficult year for our colleagues, levels of measured engagetemporary employees and consultants at the end of 2014, comment inevitably dropped. The new workforce composition does, pared to 95,533 permanent employees and 14,794 temporary however, put the Volvo Group in a stronger position to build on for employees and consultants at the end of 2013. the future. We announced our Group-wide structural cost reduction proWe have high ambitions and we are committed to developing a gram in autumn 2013, with approximately 4,400 white-collar high-performing global team that acts with passion, energy and employees and consultants affected by personnel reductions. The respect for the individual. To this end, we continue to invest considmajority of reductions were implemented during 2014. erable resources into our global workforce of today, and the future. A substantial number of blue-collar employees were also Read more on page 48. affected by the Group’s restructuring measures. The restructuring and reorganizations were carried out in close dialogue with unions and local authorities. This was important and enabled the necessary structural changes to be carried out efficiently and as positively as possible for all parties involved. 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE SKILLED WORKFORCE Launching our own university Chief Executive Officer With employees in more than 190 markets working on everything from product development and assembly to finance, marketing and Corporate Human Corporate Finance, IT & Resources Financial Services sales, the competence level and further education of all employees is a crucial success factor. Corporate Strategy & Financial Services Brand Portfolio We also know that our employees value opportunities for further education during their professional lives. Every year, we allocate Corporate Communication Corporate Legal & Sustainability Affairs & Compliance approximately half a million training days to our employees and GROUP TRUCKS retail organization worldwide. Opening the Volvo Group University in April 2014 is a major mileGroup Group Trucks Group Trucks Group Trucks stone in supporting the development of a highly-skilled workforce. Sales Technology Operations Business Areas From now on, it will be the center of further education and competency activities for our entire global operation. The university is currently comprised of five academies: Construction Volvo Penta Equipment • Volvo Group Fundamentals: group-wide knowledge for all employees Governmental Buses • Leadership and Management: training and education for manSales agers and leaders • Project Management: to support major projects and people involved in new product launches The key changes are: • Operations: safety, environment and quality training in manufac• One global organization for Group Trucks Sales instead of the turing ­previous three • E ngineering and Purchasing: knowledge sharing and compe• Fewer members in the Group’s executive management team tence development to support efficient product development • Transfer of the purchasing function from Group Trucks Technology to Group Trucks Operations Having our own university is an efficient way to ensure that training: • Merging of two staff units into Corporate Communication • Supports our corporate strategy and transformation & Sustainability Affairs • Builds the expertise that will help us achieve our vision • Increases the quality of courses offered within the Group Consolidating into Group Trucks Sales Following the change, the Volvo Group’s truck operations will be The university is now running regular ongoing training and the new gathered into the following three global organizations: learning management system is up and running. • G roup Truck Sales, with global responsibility for all marketing We are also establishing several local offices to improve the supand sales of trucks, plus associated products and services port to employees with training facilities in Greensboro in the US, • G roup Truck Operations, with global responsibility for all proLyon in France and Bangalore in India. duction, logistics and purchasing linked to truck production Three more academies are due to open during 2015: Process • G roup Truck Technology, with global responsibility for the Volvo and IT Academy, Sales and Marketing Academy and a Business Group technology research, engine development, product design Administration Academy. and all the technology and product development linked to truck operations Enabling more efficient management Managing leadership capabilities In an increasingly competitive environment, one of our main focus In conjunction with the release of the Q3 figures, a reorganization of areas is on managing our leadership talent and developing leaders the Volvo Group was announced to bring us closer to customers, from within the Volvo Group. Diversity is key to our future and facilitate swifter decision making and create a smaller, more effibeyond our continued focus on gender, emerging and Asian marcient management team. kets are expected to see strong development of our leadership The changes came into force on 1 January 2015, creating opporpipeline in the years to come. tunities for a more cost-effective global structure with an even The Volvo Group’s leadership pipeline has been set up in collabclearer focus on customers, brands and product offers, enabling us oration with research institutes to develop and prepare current and to match the competition and be a market leader. potential leaders for future roles. It is divided into four levels, each with a specific development program. Two new programs were launched in 2014: the Foundation for leading people advanced level, and the Individual Development Compass. 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE SKILLED WORKFORCE Engaging employees to improve Attracting talent and developing ­performance­ ­competences We expect all Volvo Group employees to have a personal business The Volvo Group’s ambition is to offer interesting opportunities and plan that translates our corporate strategic objectives into individual a unique company culture that help us attract and retain the best objectives and contributions. It includes business-related and compeople, whoever they are and wherever we do business. petence development targets, and provides essential feedback for Multiple global challenges influence the availability of talent. both short and long-term individual development. All employees These included diminishing interest in science, technology, engireview their plan annually with their manager to ensure everyone neering and mathematics in some developed markets, limitations in clearly understands their role in the team and what is expected of the educational system in some emerging markets and the longthem. term decline in the number of people of working age in developed markets. Measuring engagement and performance We regularly map out strategic competence needs, and annually We have carried out the Volvo Group Attitude Survey (VGAS) every aggregate findings on a Group level to identify our most important year since 1999, with the exception of 2010. The overall VGAS future needs. Our reduction in personnel numbers during 2014 was 2014 result shows lower employee engagement compared to the a strategic measure to improve efficiency, achieve the right workforce year before. Engagement has dropped four percentage points, from composition and improve our competitiveness for the long term. 76% to 72%. The performance excellence index (PEI), which indicates whether Attracting the best talent in the world the Volvo Group has the right structures and processes to support • International Graduate Program: in September 2014, a group customers, fell one percentage point to 74% (75). The 2014 leaderof 26 graduates from Sweden, China, Japan, Belgium, Brazil, Thaiship effectiveness index also fell to 70% (71). land and the US, selected from a pool of 2,500 applicants, The Volvo Group measures itself against an international data­ embarked on the latest round of the Volvo Group International base of approximately 15 million employees, representing over 80 Graduate Program. This 12-month training program aims to countries, and our results remain above the global norm of the develop future leaders through a variety of avenues, such as job 400+ companies that use this survey. Our target for 2015 is to be rotation, international work experience, common training modules one of the world’s top 25% companies and we plan to do our utmost and project work. to achieve this objective by implementing targeted action plans. • International Internship Program: a third round of the Volvo Group International Internship Program started up during autumn Rewarding performance 2014, as part of the Preferred Talent Partnerships under our AcaSubstantial progress was made during 2014 in implementing a hardemic Partner Program with selected top universities. monized approach to job evaluation and developing salary structures on a country level. Eighty-five percent of white collar positions Recognizing and valuing specialists across all the businesses have been evaluated using a common The objective of the Volvo Group’s Specialist Recognition Program methodology, and linked to market data. This has resulted in a is to raise visibility and offer career opportunities to engineers with global, common job evaluation and locally-competitive pay strucextensive experience and expertise in their field. Specialists are tures. These are being finalized and implemented during 2015. appointed for three years with the aim of developing their field of In addition, an automated system for administering perforexpertise, supporting the Group’s strategies and transforming dismance-related pay has been selected to provide a common streamcoveries into increased business value across the Group. Speciallined process that supports better control and reporting. It is curists take a lead role as an internal and external technology consultrently being piloted in Sweden. ant, partner and mentor, and are encouraged to give lectures, Bonus schemes have been available for several years for employseminars and training courses in their field of expertise. ees in different organizational categories. These are based on variable financial criteria, such as operating margin and cash flow, and on improved business performance. 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE SKILLED WORKFORCE Benefitting from mentoring • Female Mentoring Program: our new mentoring program for Mentorship is strongly encouraged at the Volvo Group and is conthe top 100 positions held by female managers was launched in sidered an important development tool for leaders. Mentoring is May 2014. Sixty-six female leaders chose to participate in the proused as a long-term, tailored development aid for an individual, gram, meeting with male and female internal mentors. Over 95% which also benefits the organization. It builds a visible talent pool, report that the program has been beneficial. increases loyalty and commitment and supports organizational • Talent Talks: as part of our key talent development activities, development. The Group has published an online guide to support 35 Talent Talks have been organized for a selected group of talboth parties. The mentor is, in general, senior in the organization ented leaders since 2013. A Talent Talk is an informal meeting and helps a mentee outside their normal line management duties by between a senior leader and an assigned Group Executive Managesharing his or her professional and personal knowledge, skills and ment Team (GET) member, creating an opportunity for more visibilexperience. ity and exposure to the GET, discussion of viewpoints and experience, and a broader perspective on the Group’s key challenges and opportunities. 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Generating and distributing economic value The Volvo Group is dependent on various stakeholders and economic factors to develop our competitiveness and generate revenue. At the same time, a great number of stakeholders are dependent on the value that the Group creates and distributes to them. The Volvo Group Sustainability Report 2014 contains summary Key ratios 2014 2013 information relating to key financial performance indicators. Full Net sales, SEK M 282,948 272,622 financial data and information for the year ending 31 December Operating income excl. restructuring charges, SEK M 8,393 7,854 2014 can be found in the Volvo Group Annual Report 2014. Operating margin excl. restructuring charges, % 3.0 2.9 Restructuring charges, SEK M (2,569) (715) Operating income, SEK M 5,824 7,138 Generating revenue more efficiently Operating margin, % 2.1 2.6 Following the most comprehensive product renewal program in the Income after financial items, SEK M 5,089 4,721 Income for the period, SEK M 2,235 3,802 Volvo Group’s history, which culminated in 2013, the focus in 2014 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 1.03 1.76 was on implementing measures to strengthen our internal effiDividend per share, SEK 3.001 3.00 ciency and reduce the Group’s costs. Operating cash flow, Industrial Operations, SEK bn 6.4 1.5 During 2014, net sales increased by 4% to SEK 282,948 M Return on shareholders’ equity, % 2.8 5.0 (272,622). After currency exchange rate adjustments, net sales Number of permanent employees 92,822 95,533 were up 2% compared to 2013. The Group’s operating income, Share of women, % 18 17 Share of women, Presidents and other senior excluding restructuring costs, improved slightly to SEK 8.4 billion executives, % 21 19 corresponding to an operating margin of 3%. Total income was Employee Engagement Index, % 72 76 negatively affected by a number of large exceptional items such as Energy consumption, MWh/SEK M 7.9 9.6 provisions for an EU investigation, expected credit losses in China CO2 emissions, tons/SEK M 0.8 1.1 Water consumption, m3/SEK M 18.1 21.9 and litigation in the US. However, underlying profitability improved Share of direct material purchasing spend from supplibecause we succeeded in our work to increase gross margins on ers having made a CSR self-assessment, % 80 72 both new trucks and the products and services offered in the after1) Adopted by the AB Volvo Annual General Meeting 2014. sales market. The measures to enhance our efficiency and reduce our costs implemented in our 2013–2015 strategic program also contributed to improved underlying profitability. As planned, the program generated savings at a clearly increasing rate during the year. The combined savings in cash spend on research and development and costs for sales and administration amounted to SEK 2.2 billion compared with 2013. 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Government grants In 2014, government grants of SEK 425 M (400) were received, and SEK 503 M (467) was recognized in the income statement. The amount includes tax credits of SEK 255 M (245) related to product development, which were primarily received in France and the US. Other grants were received mainly from Swedish, Chinese and US governmental organizations, and from the European Commission. Distributing value to stakeholders SEK M 2014 2013 To suppliers Purchases of goods and services 199,484 192,198 To employees Salaries and remunerations1 37,533 36,212 To society Social costs1 8,118 8,262 To society Pension costs1 4,133 4,144 To society Income taxes paid 3,304 2,823 To creditors Interest paid 1,846 2,437 To the Volvo Group Investments in tangible assets 7,093 8,281 To shareholders Dividend 6,0902 6,084 1) For further information, please see note 27 to the consolidated financial statements. 2) According to the Board’s proposal. Income taxes The Group’s Code of Conduct states that “The Volvo Group shall comply with the tax laws and regulations of each country in which it operates. Where tax laws do not give clear guidance, prudence and transparency shall be the guiding principles.” The Volvo Group does not take part in aggressive tax planning by placing subsidiaries in tax havens. The tax expense for the year amounted to SEK 2,854 M (919) corresponding to a tax rate of 56 % (20). The provision made for the EU anti-trust investigation is not tax deductible, which partly explains the high tax rate. In 2014, approximately SEK 1.8 billion or 55% of current taxes were paid in emerging markets. Creditors Net interest expenses decreased to SEK 1,666 M (SEK 2,429 M) due to lower financial liabilities and lower interest rates on outstanding debt. 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT Moving business and society forward The Volvo Group has supported various societal engagement activities for many years. Working collaboratively with key partners, we have shared our expertise, made philanthropic donations, volunteered in communities and sponsored activities to enhance societal development and create business benefits. Launching our new program of societal engagement We can also focus the Group’s expertise and resources more effiOur new program for societal engagement is called Moving Society ciently and effectively, and our clear strategy of connected activities Forward, and it is based on the principles of Creating Shared Value. will yield greater impact by maximizing the outcome from local initiThe aim is to adopt corporate policy and practices that enhance the atives in our global program. competitive advantage and profitability of the Volvo Group while simultaneously advancing social, economic and environmental conCreating strategic partnerships ditions in the communities where we operate and sell. We believe it is more efficient to work in partnership with key stakeTo create the most shared value requires our societal engageholders, and that our social impact will be increased by working ment activities to be clearly connected to our business goals, vision together with partners sharing mutual goals. Over the years, we and core competences. Our program therefore specifically aims to: have developed partnerships with customers, government officials, • Remove obstacles to future business success, turning threats non-governmental organizations, local decision makers, educainto opportunities that mitigate risks tional and community groups. • E ngage in activities with both business and societal benefits We will continue to strengthen our existing relationships with • Utilize the Volvo Group’s unique assets and knowledge organizations as WWF, Oxfam, the United Nations, the ­Swedish • Clearly support our vision and core values International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida), and the US • E ncourage employee involvement Agency for International Development (USAID). We have also developed a set of criteria for selecting new partAligning societal engagement with business strategy ners, who should share our values, be willing to contribute to our The new Moving Society Forward program will be rolled out globally vision, have a strong track record and the expertise in relevant areas during 2015. It focuses on the following three areas where our busiof activity, and benefit from using the Volvo Group’s knowledge, ness significantly interacts with society, and the highest potential capabilities and employee involvement. for mutual benefit exists: • Traffic and worksite safety Swedish Leadership for Sustainable Development • Environmental sustainability The Volvo Group is a member of the Swedish Leadership for Sustain• Education and skills development able Development (SLSD) network. Hosted by Sida, the network consists of more than 20 Swedish companies joining forces to demonBy focusing on these three prioritized areas where Volvo Group’s strate leadership in global sustainable development by integrating business naturally interacts with society, we will be able to add ecosocial, environmental and economic sustainability into their business nomic, social, and environmental value, and strengthen our reputamodels and core operations. Through the network, industry partners tion as a responsible business. commit additional resources to tackling various development challenges in countries where Swedish development and cooperation initiatives are active. 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT The SLSD is an important network for increased dialogue and • In China, the Traffic Safety Class was started in 2014 in partnercollective action that contributes to the implementation of the postship with Road Traffic Safety Research Center of the Ministry of 2015 UN sustainable development agenda. Public Security. More than 30 volunteers from the Volvo Group There is a clear correlation between economic growth and gave safety advice to over 300 primary school children in Beijing demand for transport solutions. New markets are emerging and to to increase safety awareness and reduce traffic accidents. The seize business opportunities, we need to be ahead of the projected program will gradually be expanded to other cities where the growth curve. Group is present, like Shanghai, Jinan, Tianjin, and Linyi. The Volvo Group is actively exploring new opportunities and busi• In South Africa, there are more than 30 traffic fatalities per ness models that create value for our business and society and 100,000 inhabitants. So in 2014, we used the opportunity of a support the development agenda. Conducting societal developstopover for the Volvo Ocean Race in Cape Town to hold a traffic ment projects that support economic growth, demonstrates our safety seminar with the theme ‘Working Together for Safer Mobillong-term commitment to a market, and places the Volvo Group in a ity’. Participants from private and public organizations, including strong position to maximize growth opportunities. the World Bank, USAID, the Global Road Safety Partnership and the University of Cape Town, agreed that road safety is not just a transport issue, and that partnership and concerted effort between Improving traffic and worksite safety government, civil agencies and the private sector is required to achieve a sustainable reduction in traffic fatalities and injuries. Through educational programs and sponsorship, the Volvo Group • In the US, Mack renewed its commitment to safety with continparticipates in different initiatives to increase safety and reduce the ued Share the Road sponsorship. The American Trucking Associnumber of traffic accidents in countries where we operate. ation’s program sends professional truck drivers with exemplary In various parts of the world, our award-winning safety programs safety records across the country to conduct driving demonstrafocus primarily on professional drivers as well as schools and commutions for students, motorists and other groups. The program’s drivnity safety. For more information on driver training look at page 36. ers cover topics such as safe stopping distances and potential blind spots in an effort educate the public on how best to share In Brazil, our long-running Volvo Traffic Safety Program targeting the road with large trucks. professional drivers was a key factor in the Volvo Group being named Brazil’s ‘Most sustainable company in the automotive sector.’ We stood out among 200 participating companies in the SustainContributing positively to environmental ability Guide 2014 for business publication, Exame Magazine. Alongside energy efficiency, we obtained a good score in the social dimensustainability sion thanks to our community activity and traffic safety investment. The Volvo Group’s long-standing partnership with WWF and its Climate Savers program has committed us to taking urgent action to Taking safety messages into schools and communities combat climate change. The Volvo Group conducts a wide range of traffic safety campaigns An important element of our new 2015–2020 commitment is to geared towards children and local communities in diverse countries act as a ‘magnifier’ for Climate Savers. This means focusing on including Latvia, Russia, Sweden, Denmark, the US, South Korea, activities that enhance environmental development within the transSingapore, China, South Africa and India. port and infrastructure sectors. Read more on page 37. • In South Korea, the 2014 Volvo Trucks road safety for kids program involved 13 sessions with 200 elementary school students, Celebrating 25 years of the Volvo Environment Prize sharing important road safety lessons. Another campaign used a The Volvo Environment Prize foundation was established in 1988 mobile exhibition trailer to deliver the lessons. In total, approxiand has become one of the world’s most prestigious environmental mately 600 students took part in the activities. awards. It is given annually to people who have made outstanding • In India, our innovative road safety campaign for children and scientific discoveries within the area of the environmental sustainawomen in Bangalore – launched with the non-profit HOPE Founbility. The prize consists of a diploma, sculpture and cash sum of dation during 2013 – was rolled out. Using street plays as a means SEK 1.5 M. of instruction, the campaign reached 5,000 women in low-income The 2014 winner was Professor Eric Lambin – a remote sensing groups. 13,000 children learned about traffic etiquette through pioneer who uses advanced data collection and satellite images to interactive audio-visual presentations. understand land use and man’s influence on the planet. For dec• In Singapore, Volvo Trucks participated in a road safety program ades, Professor Lambin has been developing methods for analyzing implemented to help curb accidents involving children and heavy the satellite images captured every hour, day and night, and linking vehicles. Targeting primary school children, a number of roadshows them to socio-economic data. were conducted at schools, providing information and advice to His research has effectively bridged two disciplines – remote encourage safe behaviors. The program ran in four schools during sensing and human ecology – and makes it possible for businesses, the first week of Singapore Road Safety Month and reached out to NGOs and governments to monitor in almost real-time the environmore than 700 primary school children in the initial run. mental impacts of human activities. 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CREATING SHARED VALUE SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT For example, deforestation was previously perceived as an impact of the truck market. This, combined with the country’s investment in of population growth, but Lambin’s research has demonstrated that infrastructure, makes it a strategic growth market. it is not that simple. In reality, forests and other natural resources Morocco is also a country with high unemployment among young are affected by intricate, complex and even cascade effects of people, where the existing education system focuses on theoretical human activity. education, which does not reflect the needs of industry. The conseThe understanding gained from his work will contribute to the quence is a shortage of adequate competence that is impeding UN’s proposed Sustainable Development Goals on halting and growth in the country. reversing land degradation. In 2014, the Volvo Group, UN agency UNIDO, USAID, and the OCP Foundation, jointly agreed a vocational training school for Organizing seminars focusing on the marine environment mechanics in the city of Settat, at the existing national vocational In 2014, we used our sponsorship of the Volvo Ocean Race (VOR) school, Ecole des Métiers du Bâtiment et Travaux Publics. The as an opportunity to magnify our commitment to tackling climate school is supported by the Moroccan Ministry of Education and change. Vocational Training. Working together with the Swedish Ministry of the Environment In collaboration with local authorities, we will train 150 students and WWF, we organized seminars at key stopovers on the race. from Morocco, the Ivory Coast and Senegal every year, beginning in Focusing on climate and the marine environment, we were able to 2015. discuss and address environmental issues related to VOR and the The training program will enable local manpower to develop skills UN’s proposed Sustainable Development Goals, such as the conand expertise that can be directly applied in the heavy duty equipservation and sustainable use of oceans, seas and marine resources. ment industry. The Volvo Group will gain access to the trained service technicians that we require to support expansion in Africa. We are also working on establishing schools in Zambia and IndoneEducating and developing skills sia, and extending the training delivered in Ethiopia to include drivers. The Volvo Group conducts a variety of professional training proBridging the gap between academia and industry grams in emerging and established markets worldwide that support • In India, the Resource Center for Asphalt and Soil Training AcadSustainable Development Goals, facilitate employment opportuniemy (RASTA) is a Volvo Group-supported initiative aimed at bridgties within the local community, and secure the long-term developing the gap between academic learning and industry needs, with a ment of our business. focus on the application of knowledge and hands-on experience. In many countries, the transport and construction industries face RASTA offers post-graduate and research programs in road techa shortage of people with the right skills and competencies. The nology, and master of technology programs in infrastructure and Volvo Group’s professional training for technicians, drivers, operaconstruction management. tors and factory workers increases people’s experience and equips them with the rights skills for roles in these sectors. Taking young people out of unemployment • In Sweden, the Volvo Step is a one-year, paid vocational training Pioneering vocational training in Africa program in industrial production created specifically for unemIn November 2013, the Volvo Group signed a Memorandum of ployed young people aged 18 to 22. The Volvo Step takes place at Understanding with USAID and Sida. Our aim is to work in partner13 sites across Sweden, providing both theoretical and practical ship to support achievement of key development objectives in areas learning experience. Representing an overall investment of SEK of mutual concern such as workforce development and vocational 450 M, the program is a long-term investment for the Volvo Group training, traffic and road safety, workforce wellness, and the promowhich aims, among other things, to secure access to skills and tion of sustainable economic growth. competence and awaken young people’s interest in working in Together, we aim to provide vocational training schools in 10 industry. Starting in 2012, this three-year initiative will support a countries within five years, mainly in Africa and South East Asia. total of 1,200 young people. So far, 800 participants have received Training is to be provided for around 4,500 young people, enabling professional training and work experience. Successful particithem to be employed within the transport industry as mechanics or pants receive a certificate of qualification for work in industrial drivers. production. It does not guarantee employment with the Volvo We work with local education authorities to develop curriculum Group, but it does improve young people’s chances in the labor materials. To increase the reach of the program, we share the matemarket overall. Outcomes from the first program include nearly rials and best practice with other colleges. 70% had a job six months after finishing the program. Of these, The Volvo Group has established a school for technicians in Ethiover half worked in the production industry and one in ten had opia and we are now using that experience in the development of a chosen to continue studying production-related subjects. Read new school in Morocco. We have been commercially present in more at: www.volvosteget.se Morocco since the 1950s and the Volvo Group enjoys a high share 55 VOLVO GROUP MATERIALITY MATRIX 2014 REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABILITY RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR Very important 2 5 9 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR 13 INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDER DECISIONS 14 15 12 17 VOLVO GROUP MATERIALITY MATRIX 2014 18 Very important 2 Important IMPORTANCE FOR BUSINESS SUCCESS Very important 5 9 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR 2 Legal compliance 12 Human rights 15 Risk management 5 Business ethics and integrity 13 Operational environmental impact 17 Diversity and inclusion 13 INFLUENCE ON STAKEHOLDER DECISIONS 9 Workplace health and safety 14 Supply chain 18 Product use and end of life 14 15 12 17 18 Important IMPORTANCE FOR BUSINESS SUCCESS Very important RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR 2 Legal compliance 12 Human rights 15 Risk management 5 Business ethics and integrity 13 Operational environmental impact 17 Diversity and inclusion 9 Workplace health and safety 14 Supply chain 18 Product use and end of life Responsible behavior: our material issues based on conducting business in compliance with laws and reguThe Volvo Group aims to increase trust and gain long-term strength lations, managing risks, and demonstrating business ethics and for our company by managing and mitigating risks and behaving in integrity in our daily operations. a responsible manner across our entire organization, operations and • Value chain sustainability: What we produce and how we provalue chain. duce it is at the core of the Volvo Group’s sustainability commit• Corporate trustworthiness: the Volvo Group enjoys an invaluament. Responsibility and sustainability throughout the value chain ble reputation for corporate trustworthiness around the world, are vital components at every stage of our product lifecycle. CONTENTS Corporate trustworthiness 56 Risk management 62 Operational environmental impacts 68 Legal compliance 56 Diversity and inclusion 62 Distribution and service 71 Ethics and integrity 58 Value chain sustainability 64 Product use 72 Human rights 60 Product development 65 Reuse and recycling 73 Workplace health and safety 61 Supply chain 67 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR CORPORATE TRUSTWORTHINESS Increasing trust with responsible business conduct Realizing our vision requires the trust of all our stakeholders. Trust comes from reputation earned by ­consistently conducting business in the responsible manner described in the Volvo Group Code of Conduct. For us, behaving responsibly is the only foundation upon which we The Volvo Group’s compliance journey can be divided into three can build a truly sustainable business. Strengthening our processes different steps: awareness, acceptance, and embedding. Having and increasing transparency helps to establish our company as a completed the first two steps, we are now ready to take the third, reliable business partner and good employer. We earn trust by intemoving beyond policies and processes to embedding compliance in grating corporate responsibility and sustainability into our policies our company culture so that compliance is taken into account in all and demonstrating it in our everyday business practices. business activities and decisions. PRACTISING GOOD GOVERNANCE Compliance as a driver The Volvo Group structure for governance encourages close monitoring, as well as rapid and efficient decisions and early adjustments, The risks of non-compliance include significant monetary fines, as when necessary. The structure aims to involve all employees, by clarwell as personal and financial risks for individuals. The Volvo Group ifying how each individual is important for achieving the targets. sees legal compliance as a driver of business as well as a driver of risk mitigation activities. Compliance empowers us to go out to the market and compete Fulfilling corporate governance requirements vigorously on the quality and value of our products, without fear of AB Volvo is regulated by the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. infringing competition or anti-corruption laws. It means our customThe CEO of the Volvo Group, Olof Persson, is in charge of the daily ers can be confident that we are supplying the best products at the management of the Group in accordance with guidelines and best price. It enables us to effectively manage risk and gain the instructions provided by the Board of Directors of AB Volvo. trust of financial institutions, protects our reputation and helps to For the Group’s complete corporate governance report, see the attract and retain high-performing employees who want to work for Volvo Group Annual Report 2014. In this report the focus is on an ethical and sustainable company. reporting on governance and decision-making relating to our economic, environmental and social sustainability impacts. 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR CORPORATE TRUSTWORTHINESS Demonstrating good sustainability governance members of this group co-ordinate CSR activity in their country and Throughout 2014, the Volvo Group’s corporate function Sustainabilshare experiences of their work on the Volvo Group’s societal ity and Public Affairs was responsible for CSR and sustainability engagement program. matters, including: • E stablishing strategies, direction and following up on perfor2014 performance highlights mance Highlights of the Volvo Group’s CSR and sustainability work • Supporting and developing the Volvo Group’s businesses in throughout 2014, include: areas related to its corporate core values, CSR and sustainability, • Moving Society Forward program developed. Read more on public affairs and relevant emerging issues page 52. • C SR Africa agenda implemented. Read more on page 54. The function was chaired by Niklas Gustavsson, Executive Vice • Customer CSR Assessment project piloted. Read more on President Sustainability & Public Affairs – a member of the Volvo page 71. Group Executive Team with responsibility for decisions on sustaina• Code of Conduct training continued. Read more on page 59. bility and ensuring their implementation throughout the organization. • Responsible Supply Chain management program reviewed. Following the Volvo Group’s structural reorganization, taking Read more on page 67. effect on 1 January 2015: • Stakeholder dialogues and materiality process further devel• Responsibility for the two corporate functions, Corporate Commuoped. Read more on page 14. nication and Corporate Sustainability & Public Affairs was merged into the new corporate function – Corporate Communication & Sustainability Affairs EMBEDDING COMPLIANCE • Henry Sténson was appointed Executive Vice President Corporate The Volvo Group Compliance Programs were updated during 2014 Communication & Sustainability Affairs and member of the Volvo to include policies and procedures, face-to-face training, e-learnGroup Executive Team ing, counselling and support. • Niklas Gustavsson took up the position of Volvo Group Chief Corporate Legal & Compliance are responsible for developing Sustainability Officer the programs, running the training, providing support, and taking the lead on auditing and investigations. CSR Committee The Volvo Group CSR Committee supports and develops the Complying with competition legislation Group’s CSR work. This committee focuses on work related to The Volvo Group’s work to ensure fair competition is guided by prinresponsible business practice and the implementation of the princiciples contained in our Code of Conduct. ples in our Code of Conduct into daily operations. The CSR ComOur Competition Law Compliance program outlines our princimittee is chaired by Malin Ripa, the Volvo Group’s Senior Vice ples of behavior towards competitors, distributors, customers and ­President, Corporate Social Responsibility Management. The comsuppliers and relates to both the Volvo Group’s employees and the mittee’s members include CSR managers from across the Group company. All employees in contact with the Group’s competitors are who represent different relevant processes for the implementation expected to be familiar with the policy and apply it at all times. of the principles in our Code of Conduct. Responsibility for compliance rests with line management. The Group’s Competition Law Compliance program aims to provide employees with an overall understanding of acceptable behavCSR supply chain ior, and to promote free and open competition in the markets where The Volvo Group CSR Supply Chain Steering Group oversees the the Group is present. It includes detailed guidance, handbooks and work of the CSR Supply Chain Network. The steering group is comrelated tools aimed at supporting all employees and preventing the prised of management team members from the Group’s different Volvo Group from participating in activities that are contrary to compurchasing organizations as well as the chair of the Group’s CSR petition law. Committee. The Chief Compliance Officer, under the supervision of the GenThe CSR Supply Chain Network reports to and implements the eral Counsel of AB Volvo, supports the Volvo Group management decisions made by the steering group. The network includes repreon compliance with competition law. Each division and business sentatives from all the Group’s purchasing organizations. Each reparea is responsible for following the program and complying with resentative is responsible for reporting to their organization’s decicompetition laws. The General Counsel of each division or business sion-making forums to ensure all CSR sourcing requirements are area is responsible for counseling on the law for program activities applied by each organization. in their respective area. • Training: In 2014, over 4,000 employees completed the compeCSR country manager network tition law compliance e-learning course and 630 employees were During 2014, the CSR country manager network was established to trained face to face, bringing the total trained since 2012 to ensure delivery of an effective societal engagement program. The 28,800 and 7,454 respectively 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR CORPORATE TRUSTWORTHINESS Complying with anti-corruption and bribery legislation • In the EU in 2011, the Volvo Group and a number of other compaThe Volvo Group conducts business on a global scale and consenies in the truck industry became part of an investigation by the quently operates in a number of countries where corruption risks European Commission regarding a possible violation of EU antiare higher. The Volvo Group does not tolerate corruption in any part trust rules. On 20 November 2014, the European Commission of our business. We have robust systems in place to ensure we issued a Statement of Objections stating its preliminary view that respond and adapt our business practices and activities to address the Volvo Group and several other European truck companies may higher-risk areas. have violated European competition rules. In the fourth quarter of Our work on anti-corruption is guided by the principles contained 2014, the Volvo Group made a provision of EUR 400 M (SEK 3.8 in our Code of Conduct and responsibility for compliance rests with bn as per 31 December 2014) which negatively impacted the line management. Group’s operating income. The proceedings are still at an early The Volvo Group has an Anti-Corruption Compliance program stage and we continue to fully cooperate with the authorities. that has been approved by the Audit Committee of the AB Volvo There are a number of uncertainties associated with the final outBoard, and aims to prevent the Volvo Group or any of its business come and amount of potential fine. The Volvo Group will regularly partners from participating in corrupt activities. reassess the size of the provision following the development of The program is continuously developed to detect and mitigate proceedings. emerging corruption risks faced by our business. The program is • In the US, the US Court of Appeals for the District of Colombia designed to the strictest standards and is aimed at ensuring that Circuit rendered a ruling on 18 July 2014 in the the dispute the Volvo Group meets all legal requirements in the countries where between Volvo Powertrain Corporation and the US Environmental we do business. Protection Agency regarding a Consent Decree on emission comThe majority of our sales are made through third-party distribupliance of diesel engines. It affirmed the District Court’s ruling of tors who represent the Group and our brands in the marketplace. A 2012, ordering Volvo Powertrain to pay penalties and interest of major part of our anti-corruption efforts are thus directed at ensurapproximately USD 72 M. Volvo Powertrain has appealed the ruling we choose distributors who share our views on business coning and is expecting a response from the Supreme Court of the duct. This is done through anti-corruption due diligence and similar United States on whether a review will be granted. For further measures. information, see Note 24 in the Annual Report 2014. •Training on anti-corruption is continually updated to take account of new legislation and issues. Between 2012–2014 40,447 employees completed the anti-corruption e-learning and Meeting and exceeding corporate approximately 1,700 employees had face-to-face training. requirements Reporting on compliance To become a world leader in sustainability, business must not only The Audit Committee of the AB Volvo Board monitors compliance act in compliance with all laws and regulations, but see them as with our anti-corruption program. The Chief Compliance Officer is minimum requirements. Responsible businesses go beyond legal responsible for overseeing the implementation of the program, compliance, practising ethics and integrity throughout their organileading and participating in training and audits, and leading investization. gations into alleged non-compliance. For the Volvo Group, responsible business behavior requires conThe Chief Compliance Officer reports to the Audit Committee sistently: three times a year on current incidents and investigations. In addi• Implementing the business principles contained in our Code of tion, annual reports are submitted to the Audit Committee on activConduct ities in the Anti-Corruption Program. Regular reports are made to • Working according to the Volvo Way Group management. The General Counsel of each division or busi• Bringing our corporate core values to life ness area is responsible for the program activities in their respective area. During 2014, two investigations into potential corruption Our Code of Conduct details minimum requirements and sets out were carried out. Other on-going non-compliance claims are as the Volvo Group’s principles of business ethics, human rights and follows: social justice, and environmental responsibility. It is supported by our corporate core values, company culture and a suite of policies, giving the Volvo Group a very clear roadmap for achieving our vision. The Volvo Way defines our company culture. Our corporate core values are quality, safety and environmental care. 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR CORPORATE TRUSTWORTHINESS CONSISTENTLY APPLYING OUR CODE OF CONDUCT Up to today, four cases are still under investigation, the rest were The Code of Conduct is the Volvo Group’s mandatory, Group-wide closed. policy for appropriate business behavior and responsibility towards Compliance with our Code of Conduct is included in the annual our stakeholders. Its content is based on international norms, Management Control Self-Assessment. Results are consolidated including the UN Global Compact and the OECD’s guidelines for and analyzed. The 2014 assessment concluded that the Volvo multinational companies. Group’s management teams have promoted and ensured compliThe code is adopted by the AB Volvo Board of Directors and ance with the Code of Conduct through training and information. includes the business ethics, human rights, social justice and enviWhere needed, necessary action has been planned for, or taken. ronmental principles to be applied in all our policies, decisions and activities, and outlines the Group’s principles and minimum standTHE VOLVO WAY AND CORPORATE CORE VALUES ards for conducting business in an appropriate, responsible and The Volvo Way expresses the culture, behaviors and corporate core transparent manner. values shared across the Volvo Group. It shows what we stand for and aspire to, and it lays the foundation for realizing our vision. An umbrella for best practice The Volvo Group Code of Conduct is complemented by around 20 • The Volvo Way is a fundamental Volvo Group policy that defines other policies – relating to areas such as accounting and reporting, our company culture. It addresses business critical issues, includanti-corruption, anti-discrimination and environmental care – that ing value creation, customer focus, and the way we work. Its purdescribe in more detail how to address the code’s minimum standpose is to set a standard of excellence and build high commitment ards. and performance across our organization. The values and princiOur Code of Conduct is reviewed annually and was updated in ples it contains guide everyone’s daily efforts to effectively realize 2012 to reflect internal and external changes. It is publicly available the Group’s business strategies. Every manager within the Volvo on www.volvogroup.com/responsibility. Group is responsible for sharing the Volvo Way with their team and During 2014, we continued with the rollout of the Group-wide traindiscussing how our values and principles affect their daily work. ing program that accompanied the code. The training is available in The Volvo Way is publicly avaliable at: www.volvogroup.com/ twelve languages as an e-learning course and a workshop with responsibility open discussions. We have adapted it for specific target groups, such as purchasers and new managers. Since November 2012, over 22,790 white-collar employees – from a total of ca 48,000 – have • Operational Development and Volvo Production System completed the web-based training. are complementary and reinforce each other as a complete continuous improvement system. Operational Development (OD) is a Code of Conduct compliance system with clear steps that is used by management and employCompliance with our Code of Conduct is monitored through manageees to formulate a future position, set objectives, deploy targets ment systems, audits, assessments and the annual employee survey. and define an action plan. In times of crisis, OD helps teams react All employees are expected and encouraged to report suspected quickly and can shift the focus and activities of an entire organizaviolations of our Code of Conduct to their superiors. If reporting to tion. Volvo Production System is an improvement system based on superiors is not feasible or possible, a whistleblower procedure is lean principles. It was initially used to improve the production flow available, which gives employees recourse to the Head of Corporate of the assembly line, but is now also used for many business proAudit. cesses throughout the organization, such as product developThe Volvo Group does not tolerate retaliation against a person for ment, business services, logistics flows, and dealerships. making complaints of suspected improper behavior in good faith. All incidents are investigated and appropriate action taken. Acting on our corporate core values In total, 41 cases were reported in 2014 via the Whistleblower When Volvo was founded in 1927, quality and safety were our core procedure. All cases were investigated and reported to the Audit values. In 1972 we added care for the environment. In doing this, we Committee of the AB Volvo Board of Directors. The cases cover put ourselves in the absolute forefront of our industry. It showed we different issues such as human resource matters and conflicts of took a holistic view of the world and the impact that our products interest. and production processes have on society. Our corporate core values are key to supporting the development of sustainable transport solutions, in the following ways. 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR CORPORATE TRUSTWORTHINESS Quality equals customer satisfaction and • Israel/Palestine, product misuse: for many years, the Volvo reflects our promise to deliver reliable products Group has sold standard products to Israel and Palestine. Quesand services that add economic value to our tions related to this have been raised by some stakeholders, and it customers. has been brought to our attention that some of these products have been used for destructive purposes. Wherever we do busiSafety is about protecting the wellbeing of ness, we adhere to all international laws and regulations, including anyone coming into contact with our products, boycotts and sanctions agreed by inter-governmental decias expressed in our commitment to achieve sion-making bodies. We manufacture commercial products used zero accidents with the Volvo Group products. to build and maintain communities around the world, and such products are sold openly and without restrictions. Although we Environmental care expresses our commitregret any usage for destructive purposes, such practices are ment to reducing the environmental impact of exceptional and beyond our control. our operations and products. • South Africa, minerals extraction: in 2013, a report highlighted human rights issues in the platinum extraction industry in South Africa. The report aimed to investigate stakeholder responOur corporate core values are at the heart of our business and in sibilities based on the UN guiding principles on Business and 2014, we developed a new Long Term Corporate Core Value Plan Human Rights. The Volvo Group’s responsibility as one part in the with short and long term activities. value chain was investigated. The report concluded that we have Our policies state that the Volvo Group shall be a leader in the limited opportunity to affect the human rights situation in and areas of quality, safety and environmental care to achieve our vision around mining operations, but more could be done in the form of of becoming the world leader in sustainable transport solutions. collaboration with various networks and trade organizations to try to influence the situation. The Volvo Group has since initiated activities based on these recommendations. Respecting human rights in business Practising positive labor relations The Volvo Group signed the United Nations Global Compact in The Volvo Group respects the right of all employees to join an asso2001 and supports the aims of the UN’s Guiding Principles on ciation to represent their interests as employees, to organize and to Business and Human Rights, also known as the Ruggie principles. bargain collectively or individually. An employee’s right to refrain from joining a union is equally respected. CSR-related concerns We give our employees a voice through various business platOver the course of 2014, the most common CSR concerns asked of forms, as follows: the Volvo Group related to: • AB Volvo Board: there are three ordinary members of employee representatives on the AB Volvo Board of Directors and two dep• China, Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles (DFCV) joint venuties appointed by employee organizations. ture: since January 2015, the Volvo Group owns a 45% stake in • Volvo Global Works Councils (GWC): was created in 2013 as DFCV, and the Dongfeng Motor Group Company Limited (DFMG) the global version of the Volvo European Works Council (EWC), owns the remaining 55%. This joint venture has raised concerns which had been running since 1991. The GWC is chaired by Board among some stakeholders regarding human rights in China, as Director, Mikael Sällström, and includes union representatives well as sales to the military. Many of the issues raised relate to the from the existing EWC and from wholly-owned Volvo Group comparent company’s historical business activities and are outside our panies in countries outside Europe with more than 500 regular agreement with DFCV. Regardless of country or partner, Volvo employees. This forum confirms our overall commitment to involvGroup applies similar ethical considerations and believes that ing employees in all parts of the world and treating them with the cooperation and internal influence has more impact than abstainsame respect. In addition, the EWC meets once a year focusing on ing from doing business and remaining on the outside. European issues and sharing best practices. An EWC working • Russia, armored personnel carrier: in September 2013, group is currently involved in a project to improve information proRenault Trucks Defence signed a protocol of cooperation with cesses between management and employees regarding special UralVagonZavod for a feasibility study into the development of a topics, such as restructurings. new armored personnel carrier (APC). To date, this has resulted only in a full-scale mock-up version of the APC. Due to the political situation in Russia, the agreement has been on indefinite hold and if not renewed, it will soon expire. The Volvo Group has no obligations under the protocol and no binding agreement. 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR CORPORATE TRUSTWORTHINESS • Volvo Global Dialogue (VGD): gives employee representatives Promoting health, safety and from the Volvo Global Works Council the opportunity to meet with senior Group Management. The forum is led by our President and wellbeing at work CEO, Olof Persson. It has existed in its current format since 2013 We believe that increased employee health and wellbeing leads to and is held once a year. Volvo Global Dialogue does not replace raised productivity, reduced costs and increased competitiveness. normal escalation or the Whistleblower procedures. It is a forum As part of the Volvo Group strategy, we therefore strive to eradicate for information and dialogue, and to discuss our global observance workplace risks and promote a safety culture by taking a holistic of the principles on human rights and social justice contained approach to workplace safety, health and wellbeing. within our Code of Conduct. The 2014 VGD was held on 9 SepSafety is one of our corporate core values and a strong part of our tember in Gothenburg, Sweden, and gathered together 45 reprecompany culture. We aim for zero accidents with our products and sentatives from 17 different countries. The agenda included the in our operations. Our workplace health and safety system is dediyear of efficiency, the current market situation and workforce flexcated to improving the working conditions of all employees. ibility, which led to good and deep discussion by the whole forum. Managing health, safety and wellbeing Supporting freedom of association In accordance with the Volvo Group’s Code of Conduct, all employThe Volvo Group respects recognized unions and maintains a ees have the right to a safe and healthy working environment as well close relationship with employee representatives. The Group now as access to information, support, tools and training to reduce or reports on collective bargaining agreements in 16 countries, up eradicate work-related physical and mental health risks. from 14 in 2013. The latest study covered nearly 90% of all reguManagers at all levels share the responsibility of ensuring lar employees. Overall, 77% of regular employees in these counemployee health and safety. They are responsible for adherence to tries were covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we the Volvo Group Health and Safety policy, as well as national estimate that around 50% of regular employees were members of requirements and regulations. an independent trade union. During 2014, we introduced a new structure for workplace health During 2014, less than 0.1% of available working days were lost and safety across the entire Volvo Group. Workplace health and through walkouts or strikes within the Volvo Group. Strikes related safety is now organized according to a single three-year roadmap to negotiations about compensation and benefits affected France that aims to standardize roles, responsibilities and processes. and Brazil. In Belgium, it was part of a national strike against govThe new system delivers common standards for the Group on ernmental changes. All issues were resolved through close commuergonomics, industrial hygiene and machinery, as well as mental nication and partnership with our employee representatives. health and wellbeing. We use the Volvo Production System and OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Consulting and collaborating over job losses Scheme) to assess our efficiency and effectiveness. In response to economic conditions and sales volumes, we made Prevention is our main target and we deploy various methodoloredundancies among 2,100 regular Volvo Group employees globally gies to protect employees. Whenever an accident occurs, we sysduring 2014. Compulsory redundancies accounted for less than tematically analyze it to identify and eradicate known and potential 2.4% in total. causes. In accordance with our Code of Conduct and legal requirements, The Volvo Group’s global health and wellbeing programs cover we always notify employees’ representatives and relevant governvarious initiatives including medical examinations, ergonomics and ment authorities about major changes in our operations. Labor rehabilitation support, and health promotion programs such as organizations are informed via formal forums and are also represmoking cessation activities. These programs and activities somesented in board meetings. times extend to the employee’s family members. The Volvo Group enters into consultations and negotiations with There are further initiatives in some countries on sport, eating trade unions and/or works councils about changes that affect their well, relaxation and mindfulness. Many sites provide sports facilities members, and appoints labor relations specialists in the largest for employees and have health coaches that develop wellbeing countries to support the consultations and ensure we follow all legal activities, such as half marathon participation. requirements. In accordance with the spirit of the Volvo Way and Code of Measuring health, safety and wellbeing ­Conduct, the Volvo Group works to find reasonable solutions for • OSHAS 18001: in 2014, over a third (37%) of our production employees who are laid off. This includes internal mobility forums, sites were OSHAS 18001-certified, including all Volvo Construcwhich support the establishment of new enterprises, and outplacetion Equipment plants, two Penta sites, three in cab and vehicle ment support. The Volvo Group works closely together with local assembly, four in buses, and one in logistics. The Volvo Group agencies or governmental offices to support affected employees in believes that there are many ways to measure improved workplace finding new employment. health and safety and in 2014 we took the strategic decision to 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR CORPORATE TRUSTWORTHINESS focus on achieving zero accidents. Over the year, we achieved zero Managing business risks accidents at 13 plants, compared to 11 in 2013. There are economic as well as social benefits of being accident free. For examWork is carried out daily to identify, measure and manage risk. In ple, Changwon Volvo Construction Equipment in South Korea has some cases the Volvo Group can influence the likelihood that a achieved zero lost time accident rates for three consecutive years. risk-related event will occur. In cases beyond our control, we strive As a result, it has benefitted from SEK 4.8 M annual savings in its to minimize the consequences. industrial injury insurance premium. • LTAR*: In 2014 the Volvo Group’s Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) Practising robust risk management measurements covered 85% of all employees and resulted in a The Volvo Group classifies its risks into three main categories: rate of 1.6. This compares favorably with 2013, when the meas• E xternal-related risks including the cyclical nature of the comures covered only 40% of employees and the rate was 2.0. This mercial vehicles business, intense competition, commercial vehiimprovement is due to the implementation of standard ways of cle price changes and government regulations working and increasing awareness of our employees and manag• Financial risks including currency and interest rate fluctuations, ers in our production facilities. market value of shares or similar instruments, credit risk and • Fatalities: three fatal accidents occurred during 2014, which all liquidity risk involved complete vehicles. A service mechanic at one of Volvo • Operational risks including market reception of new products, reliConstruction Equipment’s service outlets in California was killed ance on suppliers, protection of intangible assets, complaints and while working under a front loader that that fell. An audit was perlegal actions by customers and other third parties, and risk related to formed and new guidelines have since been put in place about human capital. working under raised equipment and vehicles. A supervisor in Japan was run over by a truck while he was guiding another A full description of the Group’s risks, can be found in the Volvo reversing truck into a parking position. Guidelines regarding the Group’s Annual Report 2014. movement and parking of complete vehicles have since been The Volvo Group has worked with enterprise risk management deployed. An employee in the readjustment area in our Brazilian (ERM) for many years. ERM is a systematic and structured process assembly plant was run over when a truck moved forward on ignito identify, understand, aggregate, report and mitigate the risks that tion and hit the truck that he was working under. A global audit is might threaten the Volvo Group’s strategic objectives. currently being carried out and safe operating practices regarding The aim of ERM is to improve business performance, optimize the these areas will be deployed. costs of managing risk, protect and enhance the Group’s enterprise • VGAS: the 2014 employee survey results related to Health and value, and contribute towards meeting high standards of corporate Safety dropped one point, in line with the overall VGAS results. ­governance as reflected in the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Recognition for health and safety Many locations received official external as well as Volvo Group interRecognizing the benefits of diversity nal recognition for their workplace health and safety work in 2014. • In India, a team won the ‘Health & Safety Award 2014’ for achievand inclusion ing zero accidents during the 3-year rebuilding of the entire Being an attractive employer with a global and diverse team of Hosakote plant, which involved 8000 temporary workers from 30 high-performing people, with more women and minorities in leaderdifferent agencies, working a total of 2.5 M hours. Many were ship positions, is part of our long-term ambitions. migrant workers, living and working far from their hometowns. As The Volvo Group’s aim to offer interesting opportunities and a part of the project, onsite accommodation and health and safety unique corporate culture that attract and retain the best individuals awareness was provided for workers and their families. Also, Volvo from diverse backgrounds. Our long-term target is for all levels and Construction Equipment won the India Manufacturing Excellence operations of the Group’s employee and management pool to Award (IMEA) in the ‘Breakthrough Project of the Year’ category reflect the diversity of the world in which we do business. for its project entitled ‘Safety as our Business Driver – Zero InciWe seek to recruit and retain a broad spectrum of employees dent, Zero Accident’. with different backgrounds, experience and perspectives. • In Japan, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare awarded the Ageo Plant the ‘No Accident Record Award’ for 35,000,000 hours with no fatal accidents, severe injuries, permanent damage, or plant closures between June 2008 and the end of August 2014. • In Brazil, Volvo Group Brazil in 2014 received the award for ‘Best Company to Work for’ in the automotive sector by Guide Você S/A for the fifth time. * LTAR = (number lost time injuries x 200, 000) / number hours worked The rate of accidents is measured by the number of accidents people had in the company during their working hours that required them to stay away from work. The LTAR measure enables us to compare Volvo Group figures to external companies. 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR CORPORATE TRUSTWORTHINESS Promoting a culture of diversity and inclusion On a country level, based on possibilities afforded by local legisDiversity and inclusion are promoted in the Group’s Code of Conlation, we track and have proactive initiatives to increase the includuct and in our Diversity and Inclusion Policy, which underlines sion of employees with disabilities and ensure equal opportunities managerial responsibility for working to increase diversity and crefor all ethnic backgrounds. ate an inclusive environment. Diversity is a key factor in business We use two key performance indicators to measure diversity – performance and work is coordinated on a global scale. Targets are the Balanced Team Indicator and the Inclusiveness Index: set at corporate level and broken down by division. Tailored plans • The Balanced Team Indicator is a quantitative diversity measare enacted at country and local level. ure covering nationality, gender, age and experience across differThe Volvo Group does not tolerate discrimination on the grounds ent Volvo Group companies of gender, gender identity, race, religion, age, sexual orientation, • The Inclusiveness Index is more qualitative, gauging the extent nationality, political opinion, union affiliation, disabilities, social or to which employees judge their workplace to be inclusive ethnic origin. • Diversity and Inclusion Week: the first Diversity and Inclusion The KPI results for 2014 show a need for improvement in terms of Week was celebrated across the Volvo Group in September 2014. diversity in the Group Executive Team (GET), especially with regard to Launched with a video from our CEO, management messages and nationality. In the level below the GET, average diversity scores bottom-up creativity were used to celebrate diversity within the increased. Group and raise awareness of progress. Initiatives included a conThe Inclusiveness Index was lower in 2014, showing a need for verted phone booth in France playing recorded testimonials from improvement as we complete the challenging efficiency programs employees with disabilities. Dramatizations illustrated gender initiated in 2014. issues in India. Employees in Brazil learned sign language. A guest • Gender balance: at the end of 2014, women accounted for 18% speaker highlighted challenging multicultural issues in Sweden. of the Volvo Group’s global workforce, compared to 17% in 2013. • Diversity training for managers: the Group Executive Team The share of women on the board in senior executive positions takes ultimate responsibility for diversity and inclusive leadership increased slightly. (DIL), ensuring it is part of business as usual. Our target is to train all managers down to CEO-3 level in DIL by the end of 2015. Gender diversity of the Volvo Group workforce In-house training facilitators are responsible for running internal DIL seminars and supporting our daily work on highlighting the Gender diversity 2014 2013 importance of inclusion to realize the benefits of diversity. In 2014, Share of women, % 18 17 we trained 39% of managers and an additional 36 training faciliShare of women, presidents and tators from five different countries. In total, we now have 180 DIL other senior executives; % 21 19 facilitators worldwide, including 16 additional facilitators in Asia. • E mployee diversity networks: help to empower minorities and It is a challenge for the entire automotive industry to attract women provide feedback to management on how best to improve incluin sufficient numbers. The Volvo Group has a long-term ambition to siveness and remove roadblocks. Since 2011, the number of increase the number of women in executive teams, while taking into groups has increased from eight to 11. Working either locally or account all other important diversity parameters. globally, the Volvo Group diversity networks have addressed mulThe Volvo Group believes that one way of overcoming the industi-cultural and generational issues, inclusion of women employees, try’s gender imbalance is to focus on diversity at the recruitment women managers, women in technical fields and LGBT (lesbian, stage. Group policy requires all white-collar positions to be openly gay, bisexual and transgender) employees. In 2014, the Volvo India posted for at least ten business days to prevent recruitment through Women’s Inclusive Network was created to support women and exclusive networks, and at least one woman and one man to sit on improve gender balance in our organizations located in India. In each recruitment panel. October, all network leaders met with Volvo Group’s CEO to launch a Recently we put the spotlight on our female talent pipeline and drive to increase network connections with senior management. provided mentoring opportunities to women in higher level positions. Read more on page 49. Measuring progress towards our goals On an aggregated level, we currently track gender, nationality, age and internal experience when managing our talent pipeline. We focus on adjustments and programs to ensure equitable treatment and equal career and development opportunities. 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY Taking a strong value chain approach As one of the world’s leading manufacturers of heavy commercial vehicles, the Volvo Group bears a responsibility for responsibly managing sustainability throughout our value chain. The Volvo Group takes a full value chain approach to sustainability, Close collaboration with our key stakeholders strengthens our extending our influence beyond the immediate scope of our own company and value chain, helping us to achieve our vision of becomoperations to drive economic, environmental and social sustainabiling the world leader in sustainable transport solutions. ity through our supply chain, distribution and service networks, customer base and commercial partnerships. Investments Income for the year SEK 2,235 million Product Purchasing Production Distribution Product in use Re-use development and service Shareholders 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY Considering sustainability from the start Assessing the whole lifecycle of our products We conduct whole lifecycle assessments (LCAs) for our products, The Volvo Group’s future success depends on our ability to continue taking into account all environmental impacts from the production to deliver innovative and sustainable transport solutions that can be and use of raw materials, energy and water consumption and the converted into financially viable products and services. creation of waste, as well as emissions to air and water. There are six stages to the Volvo Group product development cycle, as shown in the ‘Product development cycle’ diagram below. Each stage has different quality, safety and environmental objecEnvironmental impact Renault Trucks Model: T-range High tractor 4x2 Euro 6, % tives that need to be met before proceeding to the next stage. Developing a completely new vehicle can take up to four years, sometimes longer if a new powertrain is included. Use phase, 94% In 2014, we operated from a strong product portfolio following the Group’s most extensive product renewal during 2013. Investing in sustainable R&D 2014 investments in research and development (R&D) amounted to 49 59 28 7 SEK 16.7 billion, (15.1 bn). c k io n n s n ce tru pt sio n a R&D expenditure was lower than in 2013, but was offset by lower e um is te th ns Em ain g o capitalization, thereby contributing to an overall increase in cost. u cin e lc M od Fu The decreased expenditure level for R&D was planned following the Pr –43 launch of the new ranges for the Volvo and Renault brands, and ng li implemented cost saving measures. c yc Re To stay at the forefront on fuel economy, the Volvo Group works to improve the performance of our products and to fulfill our development objectives: Our environmental impact is calculated according to the EPS 2000 • E ach new product shall have less environmental impact than the (Environmental Priority Strategies in product development) method, product it replaces where environmental impact is calculated as the willingness for an • New products and major updates shall implement state-of-the-art average OECD citizen to pay for the damage to five safeguard subtechnologies that make them better than those they replace jects: human health, biological diversity, eco-system production, natural resources and aesthetic values. The Volvo Group’s LCAs clearly demonstrate that the vast majorAreas of focus ity of a product’s environmental impact results from its use – more Our product development is driven by the cost and availability of than 90%. fuel, environmental legislation and new technologies. We have The total weight of a truck, such as a Volvo FH tractor, is approxitherefore chosen to focus our long-term research and development, mately 7,000 kg. It is estimated that 45% of a typical Volvo truck is advanced engineering and technology on solutions that improve the produced from recycled material. Despite the high amount of recycled sustainability of our products and the transport industry, with signifcontent, virgin material is still needed to ensure quality and solidity. icant investment in: In addition, the use of scarce metals, such as platinum and palla• CO2 and energy efficiency dium, constitutes a high environmental impact during production • Vehicle and traffic safety that is offset through recycling at the end of the product’s lifecycle. • Transport solutions Read more in the Sustainable Transport Solutions section of this report. Considering all critical materials The European Commission has listed 20 raw materials as ‘critical’ in terms of risks for future supply. In the short and medium term, FOCUSING ON ENERGY AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY changes in the geopolitical economy carry the highest risks for Focusing our product development on using resources and energy market shortages, together with growing raw material demand, trigmore efficiently simultaneously reduces the overall environmental gered by growth in developing economies and new emerging techfootprint of our products while supporting our customers’ profitability. Product development cycle 1 2 3 4 5 6 Industrialization Detailed Final Pre-study Concept study and commer­ Follow-up ­development ­development cialization 1. Definition of the project’s scope 4. Development phase including building, verifying and validating the product solution 2. Choice of concept 5. Industrialization and commercialization phase to enable production 3. Technical feasibility study 6. Launch of the product and aftermarket products and services 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY nologies. Geological scarcity is likely to become an important deterEquipment and Volvo Penta were among the first to certify engines mining factor over the long term for some precious raw materials. compliant with Stage IV in Europe and have reduced NOx emisTo minimize risks related to environmental, social and supply vulsions by 80%, compared to previous regulations. nerability, the Volvo Group strives to reduce the quantity of critical • US: With the implementation of EPA 2010 in North America, and scarce materials in our products. emission levels for particulates and NOx from trucks are lowest they have ever been. Our Volvo and Mack-branded trucks are all Greater fuel efficiency by design certified in compliance. Volvo Construction Equipment and Volvo The Volvo Group believes we will contribute more to environmental Penta were among the first to certify engines compliant with the sustainability by reducing the environmental impact of our products Tier 4 final emissions regulation in the US. Volvo Penta has also during the use phase, which results in a priority for product developfinalized the introduction of engines compliant with the most strinment to focus on fuel efficiency and emissions. gent marine emissions regulation, EPA Tier 3. Renault Trucks has calculated that the fuel consumption of a typGreenhouse gas emissions ical long-haul truck has been reduced by around 30% over the past Having reached these low levels of NOx and PM emissions, regula30 years. Today, a truck that meets the Euro 6 standard can contion and product development in this area is forecast to flatten in sume up to 5% less fuel than the previous generation of heavy duty most regions. New trends in legislation are increasingly focusing on trucks. Additional fuel savings of up to 15% can be achieved by CO2 emissions that are a product of fuel consumption. using Renault Trucks’ complete package of Optifuel solutions, The Volvo Group is aligning its product development investment including; to take account of the following regulations. • Optimized drivelines and aerodynamic accessories • US: Starting with model year 2014, greenhouse gas emissions • Training for drivers and supervisors in eco-driving and fuel consumption have been regulated to target considerable • Software to measure and analyze fuel consumption and lifecycle improvements against a 2010 baseline. All of the Volvo Group’s performance truck models in the US are certified in accordance with the 2014 • Servicing and maintenance checks using genuine spare fuel efficiency and greenhouse gas regulations. parts, accessories, and eco-lubricants • EU: In May 2014, the European Commission presented a strategy for reducing CO2 emissions from heavy-duty vehicles (HDVs), Read more about the Volvo Group’s development of fuel efficiency which they calculate as representing about 25% of EU road transsolutions on page 22. port carbon emissions. A computer simulation tool for calculating of CO2 emissions from new HDVs – VECTO – has been developed REDUCING EMISSIONS FROM OUR PRODUCTS in collaboration with the Volvo Group and other manufacturers. Over the past two decades, a significant proportion of the Volvo The plan is to bring forward proposals for legislation during 2015 Group’s investment has been allocated to product development to which would require CO2 emissions from new HDVs to be certified, ensure compliance with increasingly stringent emissions regulations. reported and monitored. The overall EU target is for greenhouse gases to be reduced by a total of 20% between 2008 and 2030, and by at least 60% by 2050, with 1990 as the base year. The Emissions of pollutants target for city transport is largely carbon-neutral logistics in major Governmental regulations have focused primarily on reducing the cities by 2030. The EU plans will require the transport sector to emissions of pollutants, such as nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particuconsider new vehicle technology, engines, materials and design, late matter (PM). traffic planning and the use of purer forms of energy through new drivelines and alternative fuels. All of these are priority areas in the Reduction of truck engine emission Volvo Group. Read more on page 22. between 1990 (Euro 0) and 2014 (Euro 6) HC PM NOX CO Limiting noise emissions Noise is a growing problem in urban areas. The EU estimates that Hydrocarbons Particulate Nitrogenous Carbon some 20% of its population suffers from noise levels that scientists matter oxides monoxide and health experts consider unacceptable. −95% −97% −98% −89% The Volvo Group is continuously working to measure noise and vibration characteristics in engine and driveline components. Sound engineers use both insulation and alternative design solutions to • EU: adherence to the Euro anti-pollution standards for heavy make everything from engines and transmissions to axles, fans and commercial vehicle engines has seen the level of emissions from air intakes quieter. a truck being considerably reduced between 1990, the year of the However, at speeds above 50 km/h, noise created from the contact first Euro 0 standard, and 2014 when Euro 6 came into force, as between tire and road is higher than noise emissions from the driveline. shown in the illustration. The Volvo Group has a complete Euro 6 This means that effective control of road traffic noise requires a holistic engine program ranging from the smallest medium-duty 5-liter approach with coordinated efforts between vehicle and tire manufacengine to the heavy-duty 16-liter version. Volvo Construction turers, road builders and infrastructure architects. 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY Improving our responsible Training colleagues and suppliers on responsible sourcing During 2014, we continued the rollout of our series of CSR roadpurchasing practices shows. The vast majority of the Volvo Group’s purchasers and qualResponsible purchasing involves managing risks, encouraging cority engineers have now had training on the business ethics, social rect behaviors, and building long-term relations with our suppliers to justice and environmental issues affecting our supply chain. In early improve social, environmental and business ethics in our supply chain. 2015, we will finalize the training with sessions in Lyon and Gothenburg. In 2014, CSR training was held with suppliers in Turkey and Managing our supplier base Poland. In 2015 we will extend this training to India and China. In 2014, the Volvo Group purchased goods and services worth SEK 199.5 billion. Our suppliers can be divided into two groups: • Suppliers of automative parts and components Developing ethical assessment • Suppliers of other services and parts In line with general automotive industry practice, the Volvo Group uses a self-assessment approach to evaluate supplier performance In 2014, more than 36,000 suppliers delivered products and serand compliance with our ethical requirements. As a member of the vices to the Volvo Group, of which approximately 6,000 supplied European Automotive Working Group on Supply Chain Sustainabilautomotive products. ity, the Volvo Group contributed to work carried out in 2014 to harGenerally we source close to our production sites to ensure efficient monize automotive supplier evaluation. A harmonized process will flow of supplies. This means that most suppliers are located in Europe facilitate accuracy and transparency. We will implement the new and North America. At the same time, the Group’s expansion in Asia way of working during 2015. has led to an increased number of new suppliers located in Asia. The Volvo Group uses the Supplier Evaluation Model to evaluate As a general rule, we stipulate that sales to the Volvo Group our potential and current suppliers. An ethical self-assessment is should account for less than 30% of a supplier’s turnover. This part of the application process completed by all potential suppliers. approach decreases a supplier’s exposure when delivering to a Core suppliers and especially those in high-risk countries or segcyclical industry such as ours. ments are required to update their assessments on the Volvo Supplier Information Base before new contracts are signed. Our supplier assessment poses approximately 40 questions Pursuing responsible sourcing principles relating to the principles in our Code of Conduct, including: We believe that responsible sourcing results in high productivity • Social performance and stable long-term relationships, which benefit all parties. Our • Work environment and conditions Code of Conduct sets out the principles and minimum standards. • Human and labor rights Since 1996, our responsible sourcing program has consistently • E nvironmental care increased supplier requirements on environmental issues, business • Business ethics ethics, human rights and social issues. All suppliers are requested to appoint a senior executive as their Since 2009, most new suppliers to our company have to be contact person for the Volvo Group. approved by the Group’s Global Sourcing Committee. Potential supEnvironmentally, the Volvo Group requires most suppliers to be pliers of automotive products are also evaluated by a quality engicertified by a third-party environmental management system. More neer, using the Group’s Supplier Evaluation Model. than 94% of Volvo Group spending on automotive products comes In addition, we conduct regular site visits during product developfrom suppliers that are certified in accordance with ISO 14001 or its ment, which gives us more direct control over our existing supply equivalent. chain. In the EU, our suppliers must also comply with the Volvo Group’s position on chemicals and harmful substances, in accordance with REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) legislation. Full information of our requirements for suppliers is available on the Volvo Group Supplier Portal website. 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY Completed 2014 Passed 2014 Category Definition Scope assessment assessment 100% of Core suppliers Automotive product suppliers 80% of spend 72% of spend global spend High risk countries Perceived by internationally recognized 12% of automotive organizations to pose risks over human rights, 92% of spend 75% of spend product suppliers labor rights and corruption High risk segments Suppliers of indirect products and services 4.3% of all 1,000 high-risk segincluding: merchandise, safety equipment, suppliers of ment suppliers were 100% of spend construction services and waste management indirect products evaluated in 2014 and services 63% were approved How we deal with non-compliance Our work is governed by a common environmental policy, which The CSR assessment includes a requirement for an action plan mandates that the Volvo Group shall comply with legal and other where a supplier does not achieve a pass on a critical aspect. applicable requirements as a minimum standard. To realize our Among the most common causes for not passing are a lack of adevision of being the world leader in sustainable transport solutions, quate compliance processes, and systems to enforce the Volvo we must go beyond compliance and demonstrate best practice. Group’s CSR and sustainability requirements down to supplier’s All the Volvo Group’s wholly-owned production facilities and disown sub-contractors. tribution centers are audited by third-party assessors who have cerWe work with non-compliant suppliers to help them resolve tified the following as being in accordance with international quality issues and ensure that our requirements are met. and environmental standards: • ISO 9001 Quality management system: Minimizing our environmental footprint 100% of production facilities and 90% of distribution centers The Volvo Group has 66 production sites in 19 countries around the • ISO 14001 Environmental management system: world. In 2014, the Group delivered 203,100 trucks, 8,800 buses, 98% of production facilities and 90% of distribution centers 61,300 units of construction equipment, 17,400 marine engines and 15,300 engines for industrial applications. • ISO 50001 Energy standard: In addition to our production sites, our industrial operations Macungie, Hagerstown and NRV plants worldwide include several product development centers, and a large number of parts distribution centers and logistics centers. Key performance indicators The Group has reported detailed environmental data since 1991 Management systems and we have continually developed indicators and tools in that time. Environmental care is one of our corporate core values and is an Our full audited environmental data for 2014 will be available in May integral part of the Volvo Group’s vision, business strategy and daily 2015. The latest quantitative data is shown here. work. On the following pages, we present the latest information about the many strategies we have in place to manage and mitigate the environmental impacts of our operations. Environmental performance of Volvo production plants, Industrial operations Absolute values related to net sales 2014 2013 20121 2011 Energy consumption (GWh; MWh/SEK M) 2,176; 7.9 2,536; 9.6 2,518; 8.6 2,471; 8.1 CO2 emissions (1,000 tons; tons/SEK M) 231; 0.8 280; 1.1 235; 0.8 255; 0.8 Water consumption (1,000 m3; m3/SEK M) 4,982; 18.1 5,815; 21.9 7,372; 25.2 7,970; 26.2 NO x emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 332; 1.2 347; 1.3 413; 1.4 474; 1.6 Solvent emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 2,387; 8.6 2,221; 8.4 2,358; 8.1 2,554; 8.4 Sulphur dioxide ­emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 18.3; 0.1 23.4; 0.1 26; 0.1 34; 0.1 Hazardous waste (tons; kg/SEK M) 24,944; 90.4 28,395; 107.0 32,547; 111.4 25,943; 85.5 Net sales, SEK bn 276.0 265.4 292.2 303.6 1 Restated according to new accounting rules. 69 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY IMPROVING OUR ENERGY EFFICIENCY The Volvo Group’s ambition is to increase energy efficiency to reduce costs and lower emissions. Energy consumption The Group’s 2014 total energy consumption amounted to 2,176 8% less energy GWh, down from 2,536 GWh in 2013. This was achieved in large part through the implementation of an effective energy reduction program in truck manufacturing. Most of the recorded energy usage is for heating and production processes, with approximately 20% used at our engine and driveline production facilities. • In Brazil, the Volvo Group was named the ‘Most sustainable company in Brazil’s automotive sector’ in the 2014 Sustainability Guide published by the country’s leading business magazine, Exame. Our energy efficiency performance helped us stand out among 200 participating companies. Over the past 10 years, the operations in Brazil have cut energy consumption in vehicle production by 63%, 2015–2020 and reduced CO2 emissions by 48.5%. Several measures have helped us achieve this, including the reuse of heat generated by machinery in the Curitiba plant to produce hot water for the plant, the installation of systems that automatically shut down machines Launching our ambitious new target when not in use, improvements to lighting systems and further Our new WWF Climate Savers 2015-2020 commitment is to recycling of solid waste. improve energy efficiency in production by identifying and execut• In Sweden, we invested EUR 5 M during 2014 in a geothermal ing energy saving activities, reaching a level of 150 GWh by 2020. cooling facility at our transmission factory in Köping. It will reduce Assuming constant production conditions, our energy use will electricity and heating use by 5,000 MWh per year, equivalent to decline from 1,900 GWh in 2013 for production sites included in the annual energy consumption of around 300 homes with disthe Climate Savers commitment, to approximately 1,750 GWh in trict heating. As well as reducing energy consumption, it will also 2020. create a more comfortable working environment for employees, This is equivalent to an 8% energy saving, compared to the basewhich was a key consideration in our investment. line year 2013. In 2014, energy savings activities at truck manufacturing plants resulted in a net saving of around 38,000 MWh of energy, with FOCUSING ON CARBON AND NOISE EMISSIONS three Swedish truck manufacturing sites contributing 46% of net Emissions of carbon dioxide and noise are the two main focus areas savings. regarding our production-related impacts. We have ambitious plans • In the US, the Volvo Group holds the top three performing plants to make all our production facilities carbon neutral and targets to within the US Department of Energy’s Superior Energy Perforensure noise levels are kept very low. mance (SEP) certification program. The Hagerstown powertrain production plant joined the New River Valley truck plant and Carbon dioxide emissions Macungie truck plant at the very top of the Platinum category for In 2014, CO2 emissions from the Volvo Group’s production facilities SEP certification. Hagerstown improved its energy performance decreased from 279,900 tons to 230,700 tons. This was due to a by 21% from 2010 through 2013, New River Valley by 26% from lower energy use and the ongoing increased use of renewable 2009 to 2011, and Macungie by 42% from 2002 to 2012. energy. About 800 GWh, or almost 37%, of our total energy consumption Energy intensity and efficiency came from low-carbon renewable sources, including hydropower Reducing energy usage per manufactured unit – energy intensity – electricity and biomass heating. is a priority target, as it means both reduced costs and lower emissions. Between 2004 and 2014, the Volvo Group has decreased Carbon neutrality energy consumption in our own production processes by roughly The Volvo Group has carbon-neutral facilities in Ghent, Belgium, as 23% per produced unit. well as Vara, Tuve and Braås in Sweden. We achieved another sigOur energy efficiency index – comparing energy consumption nificant milestone in 2014, when our New River Valley (NRV) plant with net sales – was 7.9 MWh/SEK M, compared with 9.6 MWh/ in Virginia, US, switched from electricity produced with fossil fuels SEK M in 2013. The 2014 efficiency index has fallen compared to to electricity produced from landfill gas. All electricity purchased by previous years due mainly to ongoing energy efficiency programs. NRV is now 100% carbon neutral. 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY Our long-term ambition is to make all our production facilities trol measures, including registration, restrictions, prohibitions and carbon neutral. We have produced an internal guideline detailing communication requirements. The Volvo Group is continuing its the Volvo Group’s requirements for a CO2 -neutral facility and the work to streamline the internal processes for REACH compliance kind of energy sources we consider CO2 neutral, as well as other and adapt existing tools to reflect the content of REACH. related topics. We aim to use energy sources that are sustainable in the long Keeping track of harmful substances term, offer high energy efficiency and have low environmental In addition to the Volvo Group’s basic requirements on our black and impact. This means energy produced from renewable sources, such grey lists of chemicals, we are also required to comply with regulaas solar, hydro, wind and biomass. We do not regard nuclear power tions covering the automotive industry. as an energy source that is sustainable in the long term and thereIn 2009, we adopted the Global Automotive Declarable Subfore a switch to nuclear power must not be done solely to reduce stance List (GADSL), which was devised between global automoCO2 emissions. tive manufacturers and subcontractors. The GADSL list includes substances designated as prohibited and/or declarable within the CO2 -neutral Asia facility industry. Under our new WWF Climate Savers 2015-2020 program, we will Substances present in parts and components are controlled perform a study of Volvo Group sites in Asia to establish the opporthrough a system called Substrack, under which Volvo Group suptunities for switching to renewable energy use. The study will pliers can report the material composition through the International include discussions with governments about regulations and the Material Data System. Using the Substrack system, the Volvo Group availability of renewable energy. In themselves, these activities will can secure compliance with global material and chemical regulaact as a magnifier to push the development of more renewable tions. energy. Closely connected to this, the Volvo Group will also participate in AIMING FOR ZERO LANDFILL AND A SUSTAINABLE a WWF initiative to increase knowledge of the problems and possiWATER FOOTPRINT bilities in renewable energy investments. New River Valley, in the US, is one of our largest manufacturing facilities in the world and our first plant in North America to achieve Noise emissions zero landfill status in 2013. Noise levels from most of the Volvo Group’s production plants are generally very low. Permitted emissions vary between countries and Managing our waste different land use, including industrial areas. The Volvo Group’s minimum requirements on production plants Our target is to ensure that the external noise level from plant include: operations, measured at the nearest residential property, does not • Sorting and quantifying all waste at source exceed 60 dB(A) in daytime , also in areas where no regulation • Implementing measures to reduce the quantity of waste, exist. There were no reported violations in 2014. increase reuse, material recycling and energy recovery • Reducing the quantity of waste consigned to landfill MANAGING CHEMICALS AND HARMFUL SUBSTANCES To restrict the use of chemicals and harmful substances, the Volvo Waste is usually classified as either hazardous or non-hazardous, Group closely monitors all parts and components used in the vehialthough definitions vary from country to country and change over cles produced. time. The Volvo Group’s total amount of waste has decreased over Our global processes for chemicals time, although changes in definitions have resulted in an increase in The Group’s global environmental standard for production plants the amount of hazardous waste in recent years. requires processes for health and environmental assessment of all The total amount of hazardous waste in 2014 was 24,944 tons, chemicals, paying attention to our ‘black list’ and ‘grey list’. compared with 28,395 tons in 2013 – a decrease of 12%. HazardSince 1996, to restrict the use of chemicals, the Volvo Group has ous waste sent to landfill amounted to 996 tons. maintained a ‘black list’ of prohibited chemicals and a ‘grey list’ of products whose use must be limited. The lists are revised annually Measuring water consumption and emissions and serve as tools for substituting harmful substances from our proAt the Volvo Group, we have measured water consumption and duction processes. We use databases with detailed information on emissions to water since 1990. The main environmental issues more than 6,000 chemical products and aim to make it easier to include inefficient water use and industrial wastewater treatment choose chemicals. systems. The Volvo Group has a process in place to fulfill the EU REACH Water is also included in the Group’s minimum environmental (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemirequirements for production. This refers to substances in process cals) legislation, and has conducted projects to ensure compliance water, where process water with organic content must be treated with it. REACH aims to evaluate and limit the risks of chemicals to chemically or by an equivalent method. The standard also requires health and to the environment through the implementation of conall plants to address sustainable usage of water resources. 71 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY Compared with net sales, water consumption continues to decrease Rail transport efficiency every year, from 21.9 m3/SEK M in 2013 to 18.1 m3/SEK M in 2014. In Europe, the Volvo Group’s freight train makes 10 journeys per • In India, we have successfully implemented a rainwater harvestweek, travelling from the cabplant in Umeå, Sweden to the Group’s ing initiative at the Volvo Construction Equipment plant in Bangatruck plant in Ghent, Belgium. On the outbound journey it is fully lore. This will reduce demand on the local bore holes and water loaded with truck components, but only 10% of the load capacity is table, while securing our longand short-term water needs. A used during the return trip to Sweden. large-capacity rainwater harvesting tank has been installed and In 2014, we reached an agreement with our logistics partner to rainwater is c­ ollected from the roof resulting in any excess flowing sell surplus capacity in rail transport from Belgium to Sweden. The back into the local water system. It now satisfies up to one fifth of agreement will produce benefits in terms of costs and environmenthe plant’s annual water demand. The grey water is used for the tal impact. parts paint shop sludge tank, gardening, floor washing, rest room toilets and fire hydrants. Business travel efficiency The new Volvo Group Travel policy addresses the necessity to conREDUCING OUR TRANSPORT CO2 EMISSIONS sider environmental issues when travelling, and encourages use of Carbon dioxide emissions resulting from freight transport and delivthe enhanced and increasing number of on-line facilities, such as eries to customers are more than double the CO2 emissions from video conferencing. our production plants. This is something that the Volvo Group aims In 2014, the Volvo Group continued to closely monitor carbon to reduce. emissions from business travel, including flights, hotels, rental cars, trains and virtual meetings. Travel booked through Volvo Group´s Setting a new target for Group Logistics emissions online booking system informs employees about CO2 emissions for Volvo Group Logistics Services is responsible for the material logisselected flights. tics flow from suppliers to our plants, the storage and distribution of In 2014, we reduced CO2 emissions from business air travel by aftermarket products, and the distribution of new vehicles from our 32%, compared to 2013. Reasons for the decrease were a reduced plants to dealers. number of trips as well as lower average emissions per trip. ContribSeventy-five percent of the Volvo Group’s major transport suppliuting factors were the increased use of on-line tools together with ers are certified in accordance with ISO 14001, or equivalent. improved availability of rooms equipped for video conferencing. The total volume transported in 2013 was more than 18,500 milTogether with our major global car rental provider, we have an lion ton kilometers, with a carbon footprint totaling 775,000 tons. agreement regulating the type of car allocated. If an environmentalThe results for 2014 will be calculated and available in the second ly-enhanced model is available within the car group booked, this will quarter of 2015. be offered to the renter. In eight of our major European markets, the The Volvo Group’s freight transport services have been included number of environmentally-enhanced cars delivered during 2014 in our new WWF Climate Savers 2015-2020 commitments. The increased by 12% compared to 2013. majority of freight is transported between material suppliers, Volvo Group plants, warehouses and dealers by sea and road, and a smaller proportion by air and rail. By 2020, our target is to reduce Investing in dealer and workshop CO2 emissions from all modes of freight transport for the Volvo sustainability Group by 20%, compared to 2013. The Volvo Group’s customers are professionals dependent on reliable products and service, which we provide in more than 190 markets. To support the Group’s customers, we have an extensive network of wholly-owned and independent dealerships, as well as workshops available along main routes. 20% less CO 2 One of our long-term sustainability goals is to be our customers’ 2015–2020 closest business partner where success is based on being the best at solving customers’ problems and strengthening their operational performance. Customer CSR Assessment In 2014, we began a CSR Customer Assessment pilot following the Road transport efficiency and emissions introduction of stricter requirements from the Swedish Government We require suppliers of road transport to comply with minimum related to Business and Human Rights on the Swedish Export engine class requirements and have their drivers trained in fuel-efCredit Agency, EKN. The aim is to develop, pilot and implement a ficient driving. These requirements are followed up by an annual Customer CSR Assessment process to facilitate and secure export supplier survey. financing. 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY The pilot is centered on customer financing for Volvo Contruction • In North America, the inaugural Mack Masters competition got Equipment and Trucks in Africa and the Middle East. If the results underway in 2014 with 991 dealership participants making up prove satisfactory, the process will be implemented in other parts of 263 teams. It tests knowledge and requires teamwork to research the organization. and solve problems related to every aspect of the service experience: products, systems and diagnostics. Teams in five regions will Environmental product information compete in rounds of online challenges through to March 2015. Information about our CSR and sustainability performance increasWinners from each region will compete in a real-time, on-site final ingly influences customers’ decisions to do business with the Volvo at the Mack Customer Care Center in June 2015. Group, especially fleet owners. Clear and open product, marketing and sales information is essential for customers to be able to make an informed choice about our products and services. Reducing downstream Customers receive an Environmental Product Information (EPI) environmental impacts for many of our products, based on the results of life cycle assessments. Our EPI is divided into three sections: As a manufacturer of commercial transport solutions, our products • Production: information about energy consumption, emissions are important components of the transport and infrastructure sysand waste arising during production tems and play a positive role in socio-economic development. How• Use: information about fuel consumption, emissions and spare ever, their use creates negative environmental impacts. parts during the use phase Our lifecycle assessments show that more than 90% of our prod• End of life: information about the scrapping and recycling of products ucts’ environmental impacts occur during the ‘in use’ phase, with fuel consumption and emissions as the main contributors. Sustainable dealerships More than two million trucks and 100,000 buses manufactured A strong dealer network is essential for fulfilling expectations and by the Volvo Group in the past ten years operate on roads globally, providing our customers with the best information, availability, serand more than half a million units of construction equipment are in vice and parts. Significant investment in our dealership network has operation across construction sites worldwide. been made over recent years to provide tailored solutions, combinaWe strive to mitigate the environmental impacts of our products tions of combinations of products, and services that meet customer arising from their usage in multiple ways, including: needs. • Product development focused on CO2 reduction and energy All Volvo Group-owned dealers work according to the Group’s efficiency environmental requirements and towards fulfillment of the ISO • Alternative and renewable fuels 14001 standard. This means they receive, for example, detailed • Transport solutions instructions on how used oils and other fluids are to be handled. Eco-driving and fuel challenges Improving aftersales knowledge and performance We can also improve fuel efficiency and lower emissions through The aftersales support our customers receive makes a significant eco-driving initiatives and fuel challenges. After participating in a contribution towards customer satisfaction. The Volvo Group runs course on fuel-efficient driving, drivers can, on average, reduce fuel several local, regional and global competitions for our aftermarket consumption by 5 to 10%. This reduces customers’ costs and envipersonnel. The competitions increase knowledge and skills and ronmental impacts, while better route planning can also reduce the encourage the sharing of best practice. This results in higher levels risk of accidents. The societal lifetime gain from the reduction in of customer service excellence. CO2 through eco-driving a truck is estimated to be worth approxi• The VISTA World Championship for Volvo Trucks and Buses is mately EUR 10,000.* the largest competition for aftermarket personnel in the world. It is The Volvo Group has launched several fuel challenges and eco-drivheld every two years and has been running for over 50 years, ing initiatives around the world. We offer a variety of training proattracting thousands of participants globally. grams to optimize the skills of drivers and operators of our products. • Volvo CE Masters is a global competition for our construction • G lobally, we launched a new competition in 2014: the Drivers’ equipment aftermarket personnel. The competition’s goal is to Fuel Challenge. This builds on the success of the former APAC increase the interest, knowledge and skills of service and parts Fuelwatch competition and encourages maximum fuel efficiency technicians worldwide about Volvo Contruction Equipment prodwhen operating a truck or a fleet of trucks. It is also a competence ucts. The winner of the final, held in Eskilstuna, Sweden, in May development effort, providing truck drivers with the opportunity to 2014 was the team from Volco Construction Equipment GB, Engimprove safety as well as efficiency skills. land. • In Europe, more than 106,000 days of eco-driving courses have • In Europe, Renault Trucks has launched an aftersales challenge been delivered to Volvo and Renault Trucks customers since 2010. for its entire European dealer network. The Road To Excellence Championship aims to develop skills and highlight the network’s expertise in providing aftersales services to current and future customers. It also gives competitors the opportunity to compare *Data calculated from the updated EPS 2000 method, to be published, with new experiences from one country to another and share expertise. data from IPCC (2014). 73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY • In Japan, UD Trucks has been running Eco Driving Seminars since The Group has more than 50 years’ experience and seven reman2007. In total, around 20,000 drivers have been trained. The results ufacturing centers worldwide handling used components from our are usually very impressive, with improved accelerator, gearshift operwhole range of products. The first center opened in 1960 in Flen, ations and speeds resulting in average fuel savings of some 18%. Sweden. Other centers are located in France, Japan, Brazil and the During 2014, UD Trucks introduced a bus specially designed and US, with the newest one opened in Shanghai, China, 2013. The built for holding eco-driving seminars. It plans to have five custominauguration of a new Reman centre in Bangalore, India, is schedized training vehicles by 2015 up from three during 2014. uled for the first quarter of 2015. • In China, Volvo Contruction Equipment’s Operator Idol competiRemanufactured components are offered to Volvo Group custion continues its success. Participants take part in fuel-efficient tomers worldwide. Engines, gearboxes, exhaust filters and rear axle driving skills training online and at competition sites. The competitransmissions can all be renovated to the same condition as new tion’s Ultimate Fuel-saving Driving Challenge simulates actual parts, and our range continues to increase. Customers benefit from operating conditions to test operators’ construction and fuel-effithe same quality and a full warranty, delivered at a considerably ciency techniques. lower price. Environmentally, remanufacturing minimizes the need for raw materials. It also significantly reduces energy consumption and Supporting the circular economy emissions. For example, a remanufactured engine saves up to 80% of the energy needed to build a new engine and dramatically cuts Reuse and recycling minimize the need for raw materials and limit the emissions of nitrogen oxides and carbon dioxide. depletion of the earth’s resources. We offer refurbished spare parts In order to work efficiently, recycling and remanufacturing activias a way of extending the useful life of our products and resources, ties have to be considered during the new product planning phase. and to reduce costs for our customers. The Volvo Group’s remanufacturing function therefore works closely together with product developers. Growing our remanufacturing business Remanufacturing engines and spare parts is a growing industry Enabling disassembly and recycling trend and a growing part of the Volvo Group’s activities. In 2014, A truck produced by the Volvo Group is largely recyclable, since total Volvo Group sales of remanufactured components increased almost 85% of its weight consists of metal – mostly iron, steel and by 18%, compared with 2% in 2013. aluminum. The additional materials are mainly plastic, rubber and material from electronics components. The Volvo Group has manuals and other tools to assist disassembly workers extract the most material, and value, from used vehicles. 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT The aim of the Volvo Group Sustainability Report 2014 is to present our CSR and sustainability work in a transparent way. It is based on the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 reporting framework and our Communication On Progress report to the United Nations Global Compact. CONTENTS Reporting scope and boundary 75 Accounting principles 75 Data collection and verification 76 75 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ABOUT THIS REPORT Reporting scope and boundary The Volvo Group’s Sustainability Report 2014 describes how we address economic, environmental and social challenges and opportunities to contribute to sustainable development. Our aim is to present our work in a straightforward, transparent and informative way for a wide audience. This report is structured in accordance with the Volvo Group’s CSR Number of employees completing e-learning and sustainability model – visualized as a pyramid – which is based The Volvo Group has an IT-based system for providing and monitoring on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiaemployee training. The results of this training, presented in this report, tive, other internationally recognized norms of behavior, and on are collected from our internal IT system which reaches approxiinterviews with internal and external stakeholders. The model is mately 48,000 employees. Employees without access to our IT sysincluded in the ‘Strategic approach’ section of this report. tem have received training from their managers in other ways. We This report contains standard disclosures from the GRI Sustainahave not included these results in the statistics. bility Reporting Guidelines, which are listed on the web-based version of this report. The Group’s Sustainability Report 2014 provides Supplier assessment data greater detail than the Volvo Group Annual Report on our CSR and We have based our assessment of supplier performance on data sustainability progress. Unless otherwise stated, the Sustainability logged on the VSIB IT-support system (Volvo Supplier Information Report 2014 encompasses companies fully consolidated in the Base). The assessment is carried out on a plant level – on the actual Volvo Group. location to which the supplier delivers. The volume performance is calculated on the purchased value of goods used in the products, unless otherwise stated. The Volvo Group’s risk assessment is Accounting principles based on indices and data from internationally recognized institutions. The financial statement of the Volvo Group is included in the Annual Report 2014, with accounting principles detailed in note 1. In this Environmental data section, we give further guidance on some of the data described in At the end of 2014, the Volvo Group had 66 majority-owned prothe Annual Report 2014. duction plants around the world included in environmental data reporting. In addition to our production sites, our industrial operaEmployee data tions worldwide include several product development centers, and a The HR data is based on principles described in the Annual Report. large number of parts distribution centers and logistics centers. The environmental performance for industrial operation is reported in absolute values related to net sales. All environmental consumption is based on meter readings and invoices. 76 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 2013 2013ABOUT REPORT REPORT AVSNITT THIS REPORT • E nergy consumption References Energy consumption (direct and indirect) is measured on both direct and indirect supply of energy (energy produced by parties Annual sustainability reports other than the Volvo Group). We include all energy used at a The Volvo Group has published annual sustainability reports since plant, except for internally-recovered energy. 2007. The Sustainability Report 2014 was published 25 March 2015 on www.volvogroup.com/sustainabilityreport. More • C arbon dioxide emissions information on sustainability and previous reports are available on The total amount of energy – including energy used for heating the Volvo Group’s website. and cooling, processes, product testing and internal transportation – is used to calculate the energy index. Carbon dioxide emisAnnual Report sions from inbound and outbound transport and business travel The Annual Report 2014 was published on March 11, 2015 and are not included. includes the Corporate Governance Report. The report is available on www.volvogroup.com/investors. • E missions of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides These emissions are based on the use of energy and the amount of product testing in test rigs. Disclaimer • Water consumption Any links to external or third-party websites in the Volvo Group SusWater consumption includes drinking water, industrial water and tainability Report 2014 are included solely for the reader’s convensteam. ience. You make use of any links, and rely on the information contained on such external websites at your own risk. The Volvo Group does not give any representation regarding, nor accepts any liability • Hazardous waste for the quality, safety, suitability or reliability of any external websites National regulations in the countries where we operate are used or any of the content or materials contained therein. to divide generated waste into hazardous and non-hazardous. This report contains forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect management’s current expectations. Although management believes such statements to be reasonable, no assurance Data collection and verification can be given that such expectations will prove correct. Such stateThe process for collecting environmental data is audited by a third ments are subject to risks and uncertainties and such future events party and certified in accordance with ISO 14001. Due to the recould differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking organization of the Volvo Group, some data on an aggregated level statements as a result of, among other factors (i) changes in ecofor the Group is unavailable. nomic, market and competitive conditions, (ii) success of business The Volvo Group Sustainability Report 2014 has not been audited and operating initiatives, including research projects, (iii) changes in by a third party. Although we acknowledge the value of sustainability the regulatory environment and other government actions and (iv) report auditing, we have opted to give priority to developing our business risk management. This report does not imply that the comin-house process in an effort to further improve our work. Parts of the pany will revise the forward-looking statements. data in this report are also presented in our Annual Report 2014. Standards The Volvo Group’s Sustainability Report 2014 adheres to the following internationally recognized voluntary standards and principles: • Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines • United Nations Global Compact principles for Communication On Progress for the implementation and reporting of the Group’s sustainability work A table with full GRI indexing for this report can be found at www.volvogroup.com/sustainabilityreport Contact For questions about this report or the Volvo Group’s CSR and sustainability work, please contact: Eva Lindebäck Brandt, Director CSR Stakeholder Management, Corporate Communication and Sustainability Affairs, Volvo Group Headquarters. E-mail: csr@volvo.com Contact details for Volvo Group Headquarters: AB Volvo (publ) SE-405 08 Gothenburg, Sweden Phone: + 46 31 66 00 00 www.volvogroup.com Responsibility for the publication of the Sustainability Report 2014 is taken by Niklas Gustavsson, Chief Sustainability Officer, Volvo Group Headquarters.
