UN Global compact COP Statement by the CEO Driconeq develops, produces and distributes advanced drilling equipment for mining, water well drilling, construction and mineral extraction, among other applications. I am pleased to confirm Driconeq support of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. In November 2012 the Management Group of Driconeq approved our Sustainability Program, which is based on the ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues and follow our performance on these issues on a yearly basis. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders. Sunne, Sweden, February 10, 2015 David Shellhammer CEO, Driconeq Group Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment: Driconeq actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. Driconeq sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including The Global Compact Principles 1-2, the protection of human rights, health and safety. It provides the ethical and behavioral framework on which we base our decisions every day. The Code is anchored in values and beliefs and underpins all that we do. Activities: We continuously work to anchor our Code of Conduct among our employees and suppliers, including Global Compact´s Principles 1-2. Performance: In the past year Driconeq has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. No incidents on violations of the Human Rights principles have been reported to the Company Management. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment: We respect the right of workers and operate our business with safe and attractive working conditions. We respect the freedom of association and collective bargaining and have zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or discrimination. Driconeq sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 3-6. Driconeq Sweden hold an ISO 9001 certificate. Activities: We continuously work to anchor our Code of Conduct among our employees and suppliers, including Global Compact´s Principles 3-6. Performance: No incidents on violations of labour rights principles have been reported to the Company Management. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment: We recognize that our production and transports have a negative impact on the environment. We constantly work to minimize these effects. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principles 7-9. We also have an environmental policy in order to lower our overall environmental impact. Driconeq Sweden holds ISO 14001 certificate. Activities: We continuously work to anchor our Code of Conduct among our employees and suppliers, including Global Compact´s Principles 7-9. Performance: No incidents on violations of the environmental principles have been reported to the Company Management. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Commitment: Driconeq do not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. Systems: Our Code of Conduct is a clear set of standards for our business conduct, including Global Compact Principle 10. Activities: We continuously work to anchor our Code of Conduct among our employees and suppliers, including Global Compact´s Principle 10. Performance: No incidents on violations of the Anti-corruption principle have been reported to the Company Management.
