SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE — BRINGING HEALTH THROUGH FOOD TO AS MANY PEOPLE AS POSSIBLE STRATEGY & ORGANIZATION 1 Su m m a r y o r i al Edit P.4 Key Material Aspects P.10 Food to the benefit of Health P.34 Methodological details P.138 Moments P.6 Value Chain P.12 Stakeholders dialogue, Secured and Valued Strategic Resources P.56 Limited Assurance Report on the Results of the Danone Way Approach P.144 governance and organization P.14 Human at the heart External assessments P.146 Social Innovation Platforms P.24 of Danone culture P.100 GRI Index P.148 2 Editorial food can only come from Because we believe that healthy gy and raw materials that we healthy nature and that the ener planet, we continue our efforts At Danone we believe that consume change the nature of our print, reaching a -41,6% to reduce our environmental foot what we do is as important as how reduction in CO2 intensity sinc e 2007. And because we cannot we do it. tings with our Nature Key do it alone, we hold regular mee of environmental external Opinion Leaders Board, a panel So in order to fulfill our mission to bring health ge us. experts that inspire and challen through food to the largest number of people, we are Danone’s best embarked on a passionate journey towards a socially Because we believe our employees key to long-term valueresponsible growth model for a long time now. competitive advantage, and the k is our first priorityth, lost creation and since safety at wor This journey started in 1972 when Antoine Riboud set the parameters has dropped for the 10 year time injuries frequency rate of Danone’s dual economic and social project. Since then, many years 5 sinc e the ince ption of the WISE in a row, dividing by went by. We have grown and profoundly transformed our company d our Dan’Cares program, program. We have also extende while always honoring our dual commitment to business success and of the company’s total which standards now cover 70% nch ed the One Learning a Day social progress. headcount. Also, we have lau erience of digital learning for all program, thus enabling the exp Looking back, we have many reasons to be proud of what we have Finally, two employees have been of our workers around the world. accomplished in all these years but we are also conscious of Directors. appointed to sit at our Board of the great challenges that lie ahead. Indeed, in a world that is y cannot thrive in isolation growing increasingly complex, volatile and fragmented, today Because we believe that a compan more than ever before we need to resync economic performance ystem, we have continued our from its community and its ecos one social business platforms: Dan and social development. investments through our three reac hin g d and Ecosystem Fund, Communities, Livelihoods Fun rega rdin g our sup ply aries. Especially today almost 4 million benefici We need to transform Danone while chain, we published a Sustainable Agricul ture Wh ite Pap er, the remaining Danone g to kick star t an open discussion with civil society objective bein t on this field. Finally, we have carried on the issues that matter mos s, That is why in 2014 we have reaffirmed our mission, ulting more than 20 stakeholder out a materiality analysis, cons ress thr oug h our stra tegy enhancing our profound conviction that food is health’s most topics we add with the objective to ensure the soci ety. significant partner. This mission is embodied in our Danone 2020 teri al to are also the most relevant and ma plan which will enable us to strengthen our foundations for the years to come. Finally, both this mission and plan are supported by a new the power of the solutions that We believe in our mission and in nities governance where us, the Chairman and the CEO of the company between Danoners and the commu arise from co-creation processes ney . share the same passion for the Danone way of doing business you to join us in this exciting jour that surround us. So we invite Because we believe that our mission is uniquely positioned to See you on the road! address health issues in today’s society, we have put in place a Product Compliance Board, whose mission is to supervise Danone’s engagement Franck Riboud Emmanuel Faber on health and nutrition. Also, in order to systematically assess the relevance of our local offers, we have reinforced our three major research programs: Nutriplanet, Nutriways and Nutri-Impact. 5 1996 1997 1972 Key moments Appointment of Franck Riboud as Chairma and CEO of Danone n Refocusing on businesses with high health positioning Publication of the Business Conduct Policy Formalization of Danone’s values: Openness, Enthusiasm, Publication of the Humanism and Proximity 1985 1992 Environmental Charter Creation of Danone Conseils, consumer 1998 of the 1 relations department st First meeting at the European level with Creation collection in France for network ing of nd the IUF, opening an ecOnomiC ua aL and recycl g – soCial t d international social dialogue within Danone packagin ges Eco-Emb alla 1999 ual Social First Annronmental prOjec speech in Marse ’s Antoine Riboudille 1991 2005 Creation of the Managers’ and Envibility Report Responsi sar 2003 barometer, r the Ram an opinion Support fonal Convention ing Internateioprotection of Publication of the Food, survey measur on th etlands Creation of Nutritionand Health Charter adherence w to Danone’s p in the Comprehensive global policy Membershi pact of strategy on protection of underground Global Com Nations and values water resources the United 2001 Launch of the Blédina unding Danone fo r of Charter about membe ble na commercialization the Sustai itiative e In 2007 of Baby nutrition Agricultur products ay Danone W Launch of ion of th e n of Formalizat al Principles Creatio nities fund 2006 ta l So ci o m m u Fundamen e.c danon f Royal re Fo cu sIn g oF da ition o 2008 Mi ss iOn ar Ou nd Heno Ne ’S AcquNisumico NV, specia lized inn “b rI ng hE alth al th : Nutrituio und anone F tional Baby ic and Me d al N trition n of th Creatieosponsibility e M an y Peop lE asth ro Ug h fO od tO as Po ss ib Le ” im Pl em eN tati 2012 2013 2014 of the D pr Oc ur eM en t On of th e su Stai n A bl e R Creation with the Intern Nature a So ommitte efctors c ia l e o C Dir ard of In al L su bS id in It iati vE (R es Pe ct ) re of e food for Natu e Conservation the Bo d as n°1 in th Publication of the Danone Union fo r th ia Ri es Danone liste e ATNI Index, sector in th 1st time in 2012 Policy for the Marketing Danone’s t to reduce launched fo r the of Foods for Infants Commitmen int by 30% pr and Young Children carbon foot 12 of Danone’s the carbon Appointmen 08 and 20 Reduction (“Green Book”) t of between 20 r 2011 35 .2 % fo Emmanue footprint by 2 period l Fa as CEO of Da ber 2008-201 none 2009 Diﬀusion of the Danone ne’s of the Dano Management System Publicatio 2010 Publication print Policy of the “Whi n Forest Fo ot Manual for the Marketing te Pa non e nd on Sustaina per” he Da Danone Fu rnal of Foods for Infants ble n of t d the Public Agricultur Creatio ystem Fun Safety charter signed ur e to ex te Diﬀusion of licy and Young Children e Ecos by all General Managers for Nat rs Po creation nd Aﬀai partners: (“Blue Book”) Launch of e Li ve lihoods Fu of th enterprises CODE launching: the Dan’Cares First interformalization of program the Octa sem ve inar Nature’s engagements the leadership styles Launch of r for 2020 arter fo and attitudes Danone Ch ing Substitutes First d Breastfee EVE seminar 6 7 Material Aspects P.10 Value Chain P.12 Stakeholders dialogue, governance and organization P.14 Social Innovation Platforms P.24 8 9 r i a l m aspects e Danone reports on its a t impacts and performance based on internationally recognized standards. Dano ne has deve loped its Susta Development repor t so as to comply with inabl e the guidelines of the Global Repor ting Initia tive 4. The GRI reaff irms the impo r tance of communication on the relevant challenges of the business, reflec ting the econ omic, environmental, social and societal impac 1 Productio n and commercialization of safe and healthy products P.37 the organ izatio n and influ encin ts of g the 1 asses smen ts and posit ions of stake holde rs 2 Andialogue open and constructive social towards the company. In order to refine its with employees P.105 unde rstan ding of the key challe nges and confr ont them strat egica lly, Dano ne 3 Assessme nt of suppliers’ CSR has conducted a materiality assessment using performance P.59 the following contributions: 2 4 Guarante e of employees’ health and wellbeing at work P.109 a nalyz ing the availa ble docu ment ation about Danone and its environment in order 10 5 Manageme nt and protection of water resources P.69 to identify relevant challenges; s harin g these challe nges with a repre 6 Sustainab le raw senta tive samp le of stake holde rs (nine 3 materials supply P.74 9 6 internal and 13 external); 7 Guarante e of access to water for everyone P.123 r ankin g them according to their potential impac t on the activity and their impor tance 12 13 8 Fight against fraud and corruption P.133 for the stakeholders questioned . This impac t is assessed according 9 Individua l employee Key to sever al criter ia: regul atory BUSINESS 14 8 5 4 development P.113 impac t, financial impac t, impac t on reputation, on the confidence IMPACT 10 CONSIDER ATION OF CSR CHALLENGES P.12 Nutrition & He alth of inves tors, custo mer loyalt y 7 IN THE DANONE’S STRATEGY 15 and employee satisf action . The fight again st forced labor, child 11 11 Reductio n in the quantity of waste and recycling P.79 SOCIAL labor, all types of discrimination, the limiting of the number and Environment 12 Sustainab le relationships serio usne ss of work place with suppliers P.63 accidents and the promotion Communiti es of Huma n Right s within the 13Reductio n of the environmental footprint of products and activities P.84 Responsible comp any have not been includ ed in these priori ties since these are considered to t IMPORTANCE 14 Supporti ng the local economy and local supply P.127 Procuremen be fundamental challenges. FOR STAKEHOLDERS Strategy 15 Promotio n of a healthy lifestyle and nutritional education P.49 Fight against fraud and corruption 10 11 hain e’s sales c of Danon holesome e Y lu 86 % N IO ES EG Va lo n g to w be categorie s AT NG AT ER E TR ID ALl S S NS CH E’ ith pliant w ndards are com CO CSR NON 6 of sales g nutritional sta % 6 % in demand A ts have nutritio n OF H E D of p ro d u c d d ire c tl y T IN 99 tion liste informa ckaging a on the p daNone 8 10 40%aging w of pack d as te ProduCtion PubliC Local recovere Sites EmploYees AuthoRitieS PopulAtionS ConsuMers SupplIers 8 5 7 14 1 11 13 15 11 3 6 8 12 14 5 11 13 2 4 9 % 10 % 6 % 2 % 72 % 10 IndUsTriAl SalEs end of Life ProDuCtiOn TransPort and ConSuMptIon of raw MatErIals ProDuCtiOn 3 M LegEnd 0 0 4,800,000MWH 2 5,80 of wa 0 ter in , 0 ﬁnish ed pr oducts energy consumed 34,686 1 = Material aspects are located where, on the value chain, 99,927 184 thou they have a major impact 20,000 of ﬁn sand of To ished n produ s 1 cts roduc ers cing employe es prod uctio n % = Carbon footprint of Danone Milk p irect sour center) d (from collectio or mil k n 1.9 annual ra for work requiring te of freq place acc uency ide time oﬀ nts sites suPplieRs, =(typo Stakeholders harmonisée) 12 etc. 13 Dialo g u e w i t h d e r s , g o ve r n a n c e Danone’s approach is st a k e h o l to encourage the dialogue with stakeholders within and o r g a n iz a t i o n subsidiaries in order to provide the best answer to local issues. DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Identifying the stakeholders The implementation of this tool has been supported by training sessions dedicated to A Public Affairs kit was distributed in the subPublic Affairs managers (“PROUD” seminar). sidiaries. This tool presents an explanatory Listening to stakeholders is a key component overview of the field of action of a Danone of Danone’s sus tainable development Danone has also the goal of encouraging all Public Affairs correspondent. It defines the strategy in order to understand the expectasubsidiaries to integrate stakeholders into expected practices in communicating with t i o n s o f i t s c u s t o m e r s , co n s u m e r s , their own strategic thinking. To achieve this, stakeholders (elected officials, public authoemployees, suppliers, scientists, the populamethodological tools for this purpose have rities, opinion leaders, etc.) and provides tions living near its sites, representatives of been developed since to firmly include practical guidelines for supporting correspublic authorities and non-governmental stakeholders’ expectations in subsidiaries’ pondents in their day-to-day activity. organizations. Taking into account stakeholmedium-term strategic planning at local level. ders’ expectations is a foundation of the Danone Way approach initiated in 2001, and These methodological materials are inteis firmly anchored in Danone’s culture and The kit can thus be used to: grated into the Danone’s training programs social policy approach. for the Executive Committees and expert In 2014, the key topics and concerns that have been raised through the dialogue > mof local ake an inventory issues; working teams: Sustainability Land and Credibility Land. Regarding Credibility Land, this program aims to define a nutrition and with stakeholders are shown in materiality health strategy for the subsidiaries based on analysis. Danone’s goal is not only to develop > qwithualify those issues a view to prioritizing in-depth analysis of its stakeholders (consumers, public agencies, NGOs, employees, etc.). active listening with regard to the them; The dialogue may take various forms in each changing situations and expectations subsidiary (regular ‘Advisory board’ meetings of various stakeholders, but also to commit the company to partnership or co-development processes with > involved; identify the players on nutrition-health topics, for example), and the frequency depends on local situations. The company does not centrally consolidate these players, as illustrated by nume> mon ap all the actions carried out by its subsidiaries rous initiatives and projects devethem based in this area. loped in partnership with NGOs, with the support of Funds established by their position Meanwhile, at central level, regular meetings Danone: the Danone Ecosystem and influence; (five times a year) are held with certain orgaFund, the danone.communities fund nizations such asrepresentatives of the IUF and the Livelihoods Fund (see details page 24). > dwatch etermine the best mode for monitoring (International Union of Food workers) on social issues or with an Advisor y Board consisting of experts on environmental changes to these issues issues, meeting twice a year. and players’ positions. 14 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRATEGY & ORGANIZATION 15 Governance: Mandatory information about COMMITMENTS FOR GOVERNANCE Danone wished to extend these Fundamental Social Principles beyond its the company’s governance according subsidiaries to all its suppliers through Economic, environmental, ents to GRI guidelines (indicators 4.1 to 4.10) These commitm in implementation of its RESPECT program and social charters and principles are anchored es (see page 59). Since 2009, this program has is available in Danone’s Registration Danone’s valu Danone’s commitments, as defined in its been expanded to include Environmental Document. References to the relevant Business Conduct Policy, are based on certain and Ethical Principles to which all suppliers pages are indicated in the GRI principles referenced in the following internamust commit. and in s the foundation tional texts: index published on pages 148 to 154 • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; Memberships in associations of the Dan . o n e of this report. • the core conventions of the International Labor Organization; • the guiding principles defined by the Danone or its subsidiaries are members of all national food industr y associations Way approach Organization for Economic Cooperation and in European Union countries where the comDevelopment for multinational companies; pany has operations, as well as of Food & • the United Nations Global Compact. Drink Europe, which represents the industry at European Union level. Consumer protection In addition, the Seven Fundamental Social Consumer protection is based on a rigorous Principles defined by the agreements of the The company encourages its managers risk management at Danone, which relies International Labor Organization (ILO) were to actively take part in the work of these on a team of in-house scientific experts and integrated into the Danone – IUF worldwide associations at both local and central level. an e x ternal net work of international conventions in 2005. experts. These commitments apply to all employees A periodic review of risks involved in the of every company controlled by Danone key processes of mos t subsidiaries throughout the world. Danone is comensures that all proper precautions are mitted to promote these principles in all taken to reduce the impact and/or the the companies in which it holds shares. probability of risks identified. This issue is also addressed in the section ‘Nutrition and Health’, indeed this principle is the very purpose of food safety (see page 36). Danone is a membe r of more than 100 indus associations try 16 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRATEGY & ORGANIZATION 17 Evolution of the approach in 2014 ORGANIZATION Danone’s ambition is to define a referential Danone’s culture and key that addresses two essential points: • being sufficiently stable to enable a clear practices employed reading of continued progress within the in subsidiaries to ensure subsidiaries over several years; Subsidiaries are assisted throughout the sustainable development • taking into account the growing requireyear thanks to the new collaborative platments of stakeholders, the evolution of of activities form “2.0”, hosted on Danone’s internal Danone’s strategy on these themes and social network, the ‘Danone Social Network’, the characteristics of subsidiaries (size, The Danone Way approach was implemented which gives straightforward and funnier maturity and nature of their activity). in 2001, to address the goal of disseminating access to information. the culture of the dual project and the basics In 2014, the Danone Way referential remained of sustainable development throughout the This approach encapsulates the mission, stable after multiple changes in 2012. company. Every year, the Danone’s subsidiaries company values and internal codes that measure the maturity of their policies and Danone has formalized over the past years corresponding performance levels against sis it y analy through various documents. sixteen ‘key practices’ contained within five Th e m at e rial in 2014, completed e ma jorit y themes: human rights, human relationships, environment, nutrition and health and tes th corrobora of Danone Way. governance. P 66 See t he c es This assessment systematically includes, for hapter 19 of the them each of the practices, the level of inclusion of Key Mom 72-2014 stakeholders in the subsidiary: consumers, pa g e 6 o f e n t s suppliers, environmental protection associathis repo tions, employees, shareholders and local rt External audits to verify communities. Several years ago, Danone the reliability of the approach developed specific dialogue tools to assist Danone Way referential and the reliability of subsidiaries in their interaction with the results from this approach for all stakeholvarious stakeholders on a local level: they ders of the company have been subject of are invited map their stakeholders in order to It is important to note that Danone Way audits carried out by an independent thirdidentify issues, expectations and priorities in brings together all the initiatives and party since 2002. collaboration with them. approaches that have been put in place in Danone Way constitutes a lever for continued the environmental, social and societal The evaluation s of eight subsidiaries, improvement for subsidiaries, by: domains, thus providing subsidiaries with accounting for 23% of the consolidated tur• allowing the dissemination of the culture of a global vision of the Danone’s practices. nover of subsidiaries having participated in Danone’s dual project; For more information on these initiatives, D a n o n e Wa y, w e r e a u d i t e d b e t w e e n • disseminating guidelines to newly created see the chapters on the challenges of the November 2014 and January 2015. Coupled subsidiaries, particularly in emerging counenvironment (page 66), social challenges with the review of the method of consolidatries, enabling them to include Danone’s (page 104), Human Rights and suppliers relation of all subsidiaries’ results, the indestrategic priorities in respect of sustainable tionship management (page 58). pendent third-par ty confirms the 2014 development; results of Danone Way with a “moderate • facilitating the progress of subsidiaries level of assurance”. The report is published through a framework built on four levels of in pages 146 -147. maturity. 18 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRATEGY & ORGANIZATION 19 Global scores diaries that have regressed will be focus In conformity with Danone Way methodoof particular drive and monitoring in 2015 logy, subsidiaries are given a number of to enable them to recover the three stars 2014 Results In 2014, 147 subsidiaries participated stars corresponding to their performance, that Danone considers being a minimum according to the scale below: standard. Scope of the evaluation Of the 147 subsidiaries included in the in the Danone Way approach, It is clear that a significantly larger number The various divisions now have similar levels approach, 26 followed the ‘Danone Way Light’ referential, tailored for small subsidiaries and covering of subsidiaries have achieved four stars or of maturity, the Medical Nutrition division composed of a smaller number of practices assessed. It is worth noting that certain 93 % of danone’s more: these are very satisfactory results, showing that more than half of the subsihaving continued to progress well this year. However, there are large geographical deviasubsidiaries do not self-assess on all of the turnover (89% in 2013). diaries put in place innovative practices on tions, the African and Asian zones being issues related to sustained development. behind the European and American zones. key practices of the Danone Way approach, as certain evaluation criteria do not apply to them. Danone undertakes to systematically There is, nevertheless, an inflexion in the verify the conditions of non-applicability. number of subsidiaries having achieved Way represents an opportunity for Danone a score of three stars or more. These subsiSubsidiaries that apply ‘Danone Way Light’ Russia to deploy the culture and standards are the same ones that apply the “fundamenof Danone, to be aware of the Sustainable e vativ e tal points” of the internal control benchmark, Development challenges and to put in place Inno tinctiv ed is d /o r d d e ploy i.e. very small, or newly acquired subsidiaries. the tools to manage them. an s ar e late d tice s re prac ll issue able for a in ust a t. 100 Furthermore, the inclusion of Danone Russia From 12 th to 17 th September 2014, Danone to s lopmen e in 2014 in the Danone Way approach should Russia organized ‘Danone Way Days’, bringing d ev 9 6 6 be highlighted. As a reminder, this subsidiary together more than 450 participants across 90 is the result of the acquisition in 2010 45 working groups, and also included the G ood prac of Unimilk by Danone. Because of the size of directors of each region, to share their sustainable tic es relate d to this subsidiary (10,691 employees across results and their action plans. deployed, so developmen t are 80 me are inno seven divisions, as of 31st December 2014, i.e. and/or dist vative inctive. 38 47 45 11% of the total Danone workforce), Danone 70 Detailed results Note on methodolog y: where 60 results are presented in the form of Full awa reness sustaina of ble deve evolution between 2013 and 2014, issues – lopmen t most im 50 they are calculated on a constant practic e portant s implem ented. scope in order to facilitate the comparison of results. They do not 40 include subsidiaries entering or leaving the scope of Danone Way 41 32 31 during 2014. Awareness of certain 30 sustainable developmen isolated initia t issues – tives in plac e. 20 10 11 10 11 No or few awareness 5 1 4 0 2 of sustainable 0 1 development issues – 2013 like for like 2014 like for like 2014 full scope no voluntary approach. basis basis 20 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRATEGY & ORGANIZATION 21 Evolution between 2013 and 2014 In 2014 , t he to pi c s o f D i v e r s i t y a n d Suppliers’ and Business Par tners’ On the three Environmental topics, it is evident that the subsidiaries have had of the 16 key practices of Danone Way Corporate Social Responsibility progressed more difficulty in developing innovative average scores AVERAGE 2013 SCORES the most. Progress regarding diversity is solutions with external partners. Equally, most apparent in executive committees; t he s e r e s ul t s r e f le c t ch a n ge s in t he AVERAGE 2014 SCORES Danone is convinced that the setting up of Danone Way referential on two indicators SCORE ON 60 teams with varied profiles represents a whose objec tives have been reviewed key lever to performance. upwards this year: • the increase of the cover required for the Social responsibility of suppliers has proFaRMs benchmark for milk (from 75% to 56 gressed for the 2nd con secutive year 100%) – see page 63 of this document for 55 54 54 54 thanks to astronger drive of the RESPECT an explanation of this program; 52 53 51 program (see page 58 of this document). • the bringing into conformity of subsidia50 50 50 49 49 ‘RESPECT Champions’ are now in place in ries with the company undertaking to use 47 48 48 47 47 all subsidiaries that have a Procurement only paper and cardboards from sustai45 45 45 44 department, training buyers and particinably managed forests. 42 42 43 43 43 41 pating in the anchoring this program as 41 39 39 one of the fundamentals of the business. On the topics of Nutritional and Health 38 Standards of products, this year Danone On the other hand, it should be noted a introduced an objective for subsidiaries to decrease in performance on the topics of publicly declare their nutritional commitEnv ir o n me nt al Fo ot p r int (ENV 1), ment into Danone Way, a s tep w hich Environmental Impact of Raw Materials requires some time to be completely inteProduction/Supply (ENV3) and Packaging grated. Subsidiaries will be assisted in this (ENV4), and Nutrition and Health standirection in 2015. dards for products (CO2). Danone Way in 2015 DH2 DH3 RH1 RH2 RH4 RH5 ENV1 ENV2 ENV3 ENV4 C01 C02 C03 GOV1 GOV2 GOV3 In 2015, the Danone Way approach will evolve to synchronize DH2 Diversity RH5 Individual Development ENV4 Packaging Impacts GOV1 Business Ethics the referential with the materiality DH3 Safety, Health and Working ENV1 Environmental Footprint CO1 Food Safety & Quality GOV2 Suppliers’ and Business analysis results. Conditions Management System Partners’ Corporate Social ENV2 Environmental Risks Responsibility RH1 Employees Involvement ENV3 Raw Materials Production CO2 Nutrition & Health Stanand Social Dialogue / Supply dards for Products GOV3 Shared Value Creation through Community Involvment RH2 Working Time and OrgaCO3 Standards on Nutrition and nization Health Marketing and Communication 22 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRATEGY & ORGANIZATION 23 l i n n ov a t i o n socia tforms pla Danone supports three financial funds: danone.communities, The danone.communities Fund is the incubaSupporting Entrepreneurs Promoting Social Business tor of Danone’s social business and brings to inspire future generations the Danone Ecosystem Fund danone.communities also accompanies comfinance and skills to local companies aiming panies by bringing skills, particularly those In order to develop social entrepreneurship, and the Livelihoods Fund, to address social problems: malnutrition and of Danone employees who choose to get danone.communities promotes entrepreaccess to clean drinking water. Today, comwhich anchor the inclusion involved: sharing knowledge and apprenneurs and policies, which make it possible: panies supported by danone.communities ticeships between social entrepreneurs and awareness and commitment, open-mindedof the challenges change the daily life of one million people in Danone’s teams constitutes a powerful lever ness and passion, creativity, etc. Events seven countries (Bangladesh, Cambodia, of sustainable development to enrichment. From the core business enable exposure to new aspirations and China, France, India, Mexico and Senegal). (nutrition, water filtration) to crosscutting enrichment through important meetings. in Danone strategy, thereby problems (micro-distribution social markeIn this way, danone.communities actively Furthermore, employees of Danone and its giving even more meaning ting, training of entrepreneurs, etc.), the comparticipates in the dynamic of social business French subsidiaries par ticipate in the panies being suppor ted by danone. by mobilizing pioneering par ticipant s to the company mission: danone.communities project by investing communities collaborate and co-build in economic and social innovation and collain the SICAV (an open-ended collective to bring health through food solutions to their challenges. This dynamic of borates closely with communities of social investment scheme), through the danone. collaboration is also expressed during enterprise: Ticket for Change, MakeSense, SOS to as many people as possible. communities FCPE (Employee Shareholding meetings that prioritize collective intelliGroup, Global Social Business Summit, etc. Fund), in the framework of Danone Saving gence. In November 2014, danone.communiPlan. On 31 st December 2014, employees of ties organized a ‘learning expedition’ to Danone in France had subscribed to the FCPE Mexico with three social entrepreneurs danone.communities in a total cumulative Some projects supported amount of 12.5 million Euros (an increase of from danone.communities. 40 employees from Danone and other by these funds are set out around 10% compared to 2013). companie s were pre s ent on t he in this report. ground to stimulate their own initiatives and contribute to the development of EcoAlberto, supported by danone.communities since 2011 in Mexico. 24 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRATEGY & ORGANIZATION 25 Description of the Danone Ecosystem Fund Created in 2009, the Danone Ecosystem Fund is an endowment fund of 100 million Euros. To do this, each “Ecosystem” project is the from its successes, in order to build new This is how the Danone Ecosystem Fund The aim of the Fund is to generate social and fruit of co-creation between several players: models of socioeconomic businesses that are participates in the development of an inclueconomic value for the small players in the • initiated by local subsidiaries of Danone: viable and ongoing. Projects will therefore sive economy, which reconciles the longDanone local economy and Danone. The Fund addresses a challenge of general interest and • co-built with non-profit making organizations such as NGOs (Care, Askoka…) and small be audited, their impact studied (William Davidson Institute, ESSEC, etc.) and moniterm development of an international company such as Danone with that of small Ecosystem transforms the long-term practices of the players in the local economy who are the tored by a coordination team. players in the local economy who make up Fund company and its partners. Significantly, the Fund strengthens or sustai‘beneficiaries’; • financed and assisted by the Danone On December 31 s t , 2014, the total sum the ‘reinforced ecosystem’. It is a modern and open illustration Danone’s dual social nably creates employment for small players in Ecosystem Fund. employed by the Fund for projects impleand economic project which is part of its the local economy, which constitute its ecomented by non-profit organizations and DNA since 1972, because, as F. Riboud said system, i.e.: for activities of general interest led directly when the Fund was created, ”It is in the • small producers and farmers Projects supported by the Fund, audits, impact studies and interests of a company to take care of its (milk and fruits); by the Danone Ecosystem Fund monitoring by coordination teams was economic and social environment, which we • small distributors and street vendors; Today the Danone Ecosystem Fund works in 60 million Euros. Partners co-financed the can call, by analogy, its ‘ecosystem’.” • waste-pickers; partnership with more than 42 Non-profit projects in the sum of 40 million Euros. • caregivers (midwives, nutritionists etc.); Organizations on 54 projects, eight of which • micro entrepreneurs. were new projects introduced in 2014. They Thanks to the Fund, Danone transforms its are spread across 25 developed and developractices and has developed an immediate To achieve this, the Fund contributes, through ping countries. competitive advantage (through the strenits projects, to the development of skills and gthening of the business, new distribution autonomy – with a particular focus on women, The Fund has already delivered long-lasting networks, development of new sustainable and contributes to the creation of long-laseconomic and social solutions to more than milk supplies or recycled plastic, for example) ting independent economic structures, which 30,000 people, around the five main themes and in the long term (through the creation of ensure sustainable action (institutes, schools, related to Danone’s activity: sustainable sustainable solutions, rooted in the territory cooperatives). production of milk and fruits, local distribuand social domain whilst also addressing tion, protection of territories where Danone the sustainability goals of our activity). These small players in the local economy see is present, recycling and personal services. This competitive advantage is based on: their revenue increasing, in particular, as well Conceived as a laboratory of experiences • a ‘license to operate’, i.e. the economic as improvements in their working conditions, and mindful of measuring the social and and social legitimacy of Danone to operate and, consequently, their quality of life as does e co n o m i c i m p a c t o f p r o j e c t s i t h a s in the territories where it is established; that of their family. In some cases, the proco-created, the Fund has put in place, with the • a positi ve dif ferentiation bet ween jects can help people recover their selfhelp of experts (researchers, academics, socioDanone and its competitors. esteem and their dignity while (re)joining logists, economists, etc.), the assessment the formal economy. tools which will help lessons to be learned 26 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRATEGY & ORGANIZATION 27 • the restoration and preservation of natural Delivery of Carbon Credits ecosystems; • the agroforestr y and soil restoration In 2014, the Livelihoods Fund delivered its through sustainable agricultural practices; first carbon credits to investors, thanks • the access to rural energ y, reducing to two projects, verified by independent Creation of the Livelihoods Fund deforestation. auditors: Oceanium in Senegal and Naandi in India. These two projects provided a total Danone has joined forces with nine other of 141,941 credits to the Fund in 2014, which large companies in suppor t of the Investments of Danone were distributed in full to the investors Livelihoods Fund whose mission is to invest and co-investors in the same financial year. As a result of this in projects with a great environmental and in the Livelihoods Fund initial distribution, Danone received 51,641 social impact, particularly the restoration carbon credits. As a sponsor, in 2011, Danone brought of natural ecos ystems. These projects together a first group of investors, including contribute to the fight against climate Crédit Agricole (Crédit Agricole CIB and change by capturing large volumes of Livelihoods Fund for Family Farming Delfinances), CDC Climat and Schneider carbon. Electric Industries, joined, in 2012, by La In Fe b r u a r y 201 5, Da no ne a nd Ma r s , Poste, Hermès International and Voyageurs Incorporated, announced the creation of an The Livelihoods Fund also aims to have a du Monde, in 2013 by SAP and Firmenich and innovative investment fund, Livelihoods significant impact on local communities in 2014 by Michelin. Therefore the Fund now Fund for Family Farming (Livelihoods 3F), (food safety, development of new revenue has ten investors. aiming at helping companies to learn how streams, etc.) and on the environment. sustainably source the materials they need On December 31th, 2014, all of these investors from smallholders farmers whilde at the The constitution of the Livelihoods Fund had pledged to invest a total of 40 million same time delivering large-scale social and comes within the framework of the reducEuros in the Livelihoods Fund, 18 million economic impact to those famers and their tion, by Danone, of its carbon and environEuros of which have already been paid into communities. mental footprint, through the development the Fund. Of these amounts, Danone pledged of actions compensating emissions of the to bring 13.8 million Euros, 6.6 million Livelihoods 3F aims to invest 120 million Evian brand (see page 95). Indeed, projects of of which had already been paid into the euros in the next 10 years to implement this Fund allow CO2 credits to be obtained Fund as at December 31th, 2014. projects in Africa, Asia and Latin America, whilst generating a significant environmental with the goal to help more than 200,000 and social impact within the community in Carbon credits generated by projects devesmallholders farmers an two million people which the projects are located. loped by the Livelihoods Fund are certified and boosting the sustainability of their to the highest market standards and are crops. The projects will simultaneously The purpose of the Livelihoods Fund is to allocated to investors prorated to their restore the environment and put degraded invest in three types of project, which will investment. Investors can use these credits ecosystems back on track while improving fulfill environmental and social criteria in to compensate their carbon emissions or the productivity, incomes and living condiAfrica, Asia and Latin America: sell them on the market. tions of small rural farmers. 28 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STRATEGY & ORGANIZATION 29 Social ds i o n F u n Innopvoratitng Danone's dual sup s oc ial p r oj ect economic and mil K coL lec tioN coM mun iTies Egy pt laIteriE du beRger seNegal S OceA nium seNegal IrelanD NetheRland 1 millioN 10 7 m€ 7 UkrainE PolanD frAnce roMania Italy prOjectS PledgEd on CountRies Spain BenefIciarIes TurkeY ruSsia 31/12/14 InvolveD M roccO a usa AlgeriA TunisiA chinA meXico japaN baNgladesH Egypt CambodiA guAtemalA coSta ricA seNegal indiA fasO b u R k in a kenyA indOnésiE 2 millIons 54 54 m€ 25 b r A z il South afRica arGent inA BenefIciarIes prOjectS PledgEd on CountRies 31/12/14 InvolveD LegenD = danone. communities = Danone Ecosystem Fund 900000 7 40 m€ 6 BenefIciarIes prOjectS PledgEd on CountRies InvolveD ec oa lB erto me Xi co klAten inDonesiA 31/12/14 tiIpaalGa buRkina fasO = Livelihoods 30 31 Food to the benefit of Health P.34 Secured and Valued Strategic Resources P.56 Human at the heart of Danone culture P.100 32 33 Food to the benefit of Health Nutrition & Health P.36 US A Ne w yo rk Yo gu rt er ia 34 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 35 AF E utrition ND F S S N A N O CT TIO IO DU UC AT RO OD LIZ Y P PR RCIA THL HEALTHY PRODUCTS E EA & HEALTH MM H Danone’s mission remains unchanged: CO AND PRODUCTION AND COMMERCIALIZATION “Bringing health through food OF SAFE AND HEATHLY PRODUCTS to as many people as LOCALE LA PERTINENCE possible” GARANTIE PAR LES PROMOTION OF A HEALTHY LIFESTYLE TROIS NUTRI-PROGRAMMES AND NUTRITIONAL EDUCATION NCE GUARANTEED THE LOCAL RELEVA TRI-PROGRAM MEASURING BY THE THREE NU the impact on diet, nutrition, health NUTRI IMPACT NUTRI PLANET LOCAL PERSPECTIVES UNDERSTANDING ACTUAL PRACTICES the local environment related to alimentation and nutrition FOLLOWING the product quality and the market dynamics NUTRI WAYS This mission is continued and detailed in the A strategy based on virtuous “Food, Nutrition & Health Charter”, which productS categories sets out Danone’s commitments in respect of The objective: demonstrating the positive Nutrition and Health. The Charter is currently contribution towards health of Danone’s being updated to make the commitments main categories. This contribution occurs: more precise and more ambitious. • because these categories are supported by positive recommendations of health authoDanone’s strategy in respect of Nutrition rities (water, fresh dairy products); and Health is long-term and is based on a • because the products in these categories central pillar: focusing on virtuous product have to comply with stringent regulations categories and products relevant to local (infant food, medical nutrition); contexts. This relevance is documented by • because Danone is able to show that the catethe tools provided by the three major gory in question is a preferable alternative to Research and Development Programs of others (for example, aquadrinks compared to D a no ne : Nu t r ip l a ne t , Nu t r i w ay s a n d market-leading sugar drinks). Nutri-Impact. US A Ce nt ra l pa rk an d hy dr at io n Ph ys ic al ex er ci se 36 KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 37 52 The challenge for this principle is the ver y idea of a “categor y making a positive contribution”, because this has not been established; it is, for exaNutriplanet program: mple, unknown to rating agencies, which do not take it into account in a comprehensive understanding Countries covered of local contexts on all aspects their evaluations. The challenge for of alimentation by Nutripacks Danone is, therefore, to provide scientific arguments supporting this idea and to The objective of this program is to cover the 15 make stakeholders aware of it. major markets of Danone, with a dual approach: That is why, in 2014, 86% of Danone’s sales • the quantification of nutritional benefits were made in virtuous categories, namely: compared to population needs (“Nutripacks”); dairy products containing more than 50% • the understanding of practices and repremilk, water and sugar-free drinks, infant sentations in respect of food (“Food Styles”). Countries covered food (not including biscuits, rusks, juices by Fluid Intakes and teas) and medical nutrition. This figure has fallen slightly from 2013 (89%) for two Yogurt consumption At the end of December 2014, 52 countries or regions were covered by the Nutripack reasons: the “traditional” por tfolio of Unimilk, in particular butter and cream, is associated to… approach. Furthermore, 11 countries had been subject to a study concentrating on the For the coming years, the primary challenge will be updating the oldest data of the w hich Da none Ru s s ia inhe r i te d , w a s elderly population, and 15 countries had Nutripack program, which started in 2003. …lower diabetes risk included for the first time in the calculabeen subject to a specific study on fluid For example, in 2014, Fluid Intakes data was over time tion; and the growth of the aquadrinks in Spain and in the United Sates consumption (Fluid Intakes). updated in Poland. Next “Food Styles” stuportfolio, which Danone does not consider of America and in the studies of to be a “virtuous category”, even though 7 multi-countries This data was shared with the scientific dies will need to be multiplied bearing in mind that these studies require very specific they represent a low-sugar alternative to …reduce weight gain*over time community through publications or confesocio anthropological skills and that each market-leading sugar drinks. in Spain and in the United Sates of rences, carried out by Danone’s researchers study is an ad hoc survey determined on the 6 America or their academic partners. basis of a unique local problem. Danone is committed to demonstrate the …lower cardio-metabolic risk** positive contribution of these categories. in Canada, in the United States of Currently the focus is on studying food America, in United-Kingdom For yogurt, the Fresh Dairy Products division carried out a systematic study of data 5 …better anthropometric profile styles: at the end of 2014, eight countries benefited from a “Food Style” Study, two of African Meetings available from 10 countries to show the link in Canada, in the United States of which were carried out in 2014 (Early Life on Infant Nutrition between consumption of yogurt and improved diet/health. Such studies do not show a 4 America, in Mexico and in Russia Nutrition – Poland, France). Work carried out in the previous year in Africa was validated causal link but do confirm that yogurt is a …a healthier lifestyle by scientific communications at the RANI positive element in diet quality. in Brazil, in the United Con g r e s s in Novem b er 2014 (Af r ic an 3 States and in Italy Meetings on Infant Nutrition). An internal …a healthier dietary pattern network of “Food Styles” experts is being set in Canada, in Spain, in the United up, with 12 people already trained in the 2 States, in France, in Italy and in United Kingdom methodolog y and, progressively with the studies, contacts are being established …better nutritional intakes with academic experts. 1 in Brazil, in the United States of America, in France, in Italy, in Mexico, in United-Kingdom, in Russia 1. D  ata from 2014 Scorecard on a scope *BMI or waist circumference/waist-hip ratio or risk of becoming overweight, of 45 subsidieries covering 76% of Danone's **including hypertension. sales in the four divisions 38 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 39 In parallel, the improvement of products is a continuous process: in 2014, 30% of products sold had been improved nutritionally over the previous three years3 (reduced fat, Nutriways Program: products sugar, salt and/or addition of desirable of a nutritionally superior quality nutrients such as vitamins and minerals in The NutriProgress approach is part of the accordance with needs identified in the Nu t r i w ay s Pro gr am . The goal of t he country, and/or improvement in the quality NutriProgress approach is to drive, in the long of nutrients [fats and sugars]). This figure term, the nutritional quality of the portfolio shows continuity from previous years (31% of products, to offer them to specific targets in 2013 and 2012 on an identical scope in determined on a scientific basis. Furthermore, terms of product categories). the aim is to drive their nutritional quality compared to competing products, by reguThe following examples illustrate this trend: larly re-evaluating their nutritional positio• Fresh Dairy Products in Argentina: 57% ning compared to internal standards and of sales in 2014 correspond to products The second objective of the Nutriways proThis is why Danone worked in 2014 to develop 30 % competing products to be sure to which have been nutritionally gram is to be able to identify alternatives for a new tool, Nutrichoices, which allows to always be one of the best, nutritioimproved since 2012; consumption within, but also outside its identify alternatives to a given product outnally-speaking, in a given market. • Waters in China: 38% of sales of category, to demonstrate that Danone is a side its categor y and ensures that the aquadrinks in 2014 correspond to preferable alternative. Indeed, products Danone product is better than the product In 2014, 66% of Danone’s sales of products products which have been nutrifrom one category are sometimes consumed replaced. Pilots were carried out in three were products complying with demanding nutritional standards2: sold have been tionally improved since 2012; • Early Life Nutrition in France as a replacement for products in another category (for example, yogurt consumed as a countries in 2014 (Argentina, France, Poland) and will be continued in 2015 to finalize the • fresh dairy products complying improved (Blédina): 24% of sales in 2014 snack is not necessarily eaten to replace tool before a wider deployment. Scientific with Danone’s nutritional stannutritionally correspond to produc t s that another yogurt), which complicates nutritional validation of the methodology is planned for dards for daily consumption; have been nutritionally improved comparison. publication in 2015. • sugar-free water and drinks; during the past since 2012, like the “Idées de • infant food products complying three years. Maman” range which has seen its The challenge is to reconcile nutritional with Danone Infant Nutrition salt content reduced by 30% requirements and taste preferences of cus66 % standards; whilst retaining the same taste tomers in a competitive world where Danone • medical nutrition. acceptance. is faced with competitors in local markets who have not made commitment s a s This figure is stable (67% in 2013) demanding as the Company. Additionally, in despite changes in scope (entry of of products the current economic gloom, which prioriDanone Russia) and short-term tizes ‘pleasure’ products for which consumers factors (growth of sugared drinks comply do not value nutritional attributes. and indulgent dairy products) – with demanding which shows that with a constant scope, nutritional quality has standards. continued to improve on daily dairy products and infant nutrition, as defined by Danone Nutrition and Health standards. The is to reconcchallenge il requiremeennutritional consumers’ ts w taste prefeitrh e nc e s 2. Figures from Scorecard 2014 of 45 subsidiaries covering 76% of Danone’s sales in the 4 divisions 3. Figures from Scorecard 2014 for Fresh Dairy Products + Early Life Nutrition + sugared aquadrinks) 40 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 41 How to measure the diet and assess its quality How to quantify the impact of a change in diet Make a connection between food and health/ “Dietary records” quality of life A person’s diet can be precisely measured Two different tools, based on mathematical through dietary record tools, of which there modeling, are currently being developed or Establishing a connection between certain are several types suited to various uses. used by Danone Research, notably in colladietary consumption schemes and health or Expertise in this area within the Global boration with INRA (National Institute for quality of life parameters is possible thanks Nutrition Department at Danone is renowned: Agricultural Research) and Aix-Marseille to global analysis approaches such as “clusits tools are currently used in three countries, University. Both tools are based on real tering” classifications. within the “Metacardis” research project co n s u m p t i o n d a t a , o b t a i n e d d u r i n g (part-financed by the EU in the framework of consumption surveys on large populations, the 7th Framework Program for Research and which make the results relevant in a given Development). This expertise allowed subsilocal context. diaries of Danone, in 2014, access to a tool to • By nutritional simulation: intervening virThe Nutri-Impact Program: assist in choosing the most suitable method tually in the diet of one or more individuals long-term investment on impact to use, depending on the information sought. in a population to estimate whether nutrimeasurement tional intakes are improved or impaired in « PANDiet » the simulation compared to the baseline The objective of this program is to develop This diet quality index, developed in 2013 by diet; scientific tools, which allow subsidiaries to Danone Research in collaboration with • By nutritional optimization: mathematical measure the effective impact of their products AgroParisTech, allows to assess the adequacy modification of the diet to respect nutritioand their actions both on dietary quality of the whole diet compared to , in a single nal recommendations, whilst (for example) and on the health of their consumers. This is score. In 2014, several studies were carried out changing as little as possible dietary habits. achieved by accessing data relating to food in Danone subsidiaries. For example, in France as a whole and analyzing it in a global manand Italy, adult yogurt consumers had a higher ner, in different consumption contexts, PANDiet Index than non-consumers of yogurt in order to understand the effect of our pro(in other words a better-quality diet). ducts on diet and the effect of diet as -PROGRA MS: a whole on health; with a dual difficulty: the effects of a single food product are modest Some academic research teams already use SUMMARY OF THE THREE NUTRI PANDiet, sometimes as a comparison to other and difficult to highlight, and this effect may indices, to measure diet quality; the relevance change depending on the dietary of this tool will thus be reincontext. forced through independent publications in 2015. In 2014, Danone continued its UNDERSTAND MONITOR product quality MEASURE the impact work on developing methods the local contextof diet and nutrition and market dynamics on diet, nutrition, health intended to quantify the impact of its products and its actions NUTRIPACK NUTRIPROGRESS FOOD COMPILATIONS ESTABLISHED Nutritional intakes Nutritional quality on the diet and health of consuUSE Diet measurement and adequacy for needs Superiority vs category mers. This research focus takes up the major propor tion of efforts of the Global Nutrition Department over time, as well EXPANDED FOOD STYLES PANDIET Food practices as several external academic USE Diet quality and representations partners. It is organized into three sections: NUTRITIONAL SIMULATION UNDER NUTRICHOICES NUTRITIONAL OPTIMISATION DEVELOPMENT The best nutritional Nutritional impact of a change choice CLUSTERING Dietary typologies and link to health 42 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 43 At central level, the Food Safety@Danone Performance indicators relating Department defines the Food Safety Policy, to consumer needs Governance and Directives to implement. Some performance indicators are monitored The Directives are translated into daily at the production sites. The indicators Instructions, specific to each division below are analyzed at division level by the (manufacturing, processes, ingredients, Quality departments and at a central level etc.). The Quality and Food Safety Plan is for overall governance: then consolidated and executed under the • Food Safety Index, to guarantee product responsibility of each Division Quality & safety based on a set of relevant indicators Food Safety organization. The Food Safety such as good hygiene practices, good manuManagement System, Food Safety indexes facturing practices, HACCP, control and and the Key Performance Indicators are monitoring plans, biovigilance and then con sis tent acros s the dif ferent traceability; divisions. SAFE PRODUCTS • product compliance Index, to make sure Setting up a specific governance that Danone delivers products in line with to ensure consumer safety This polic y is scientifically based and expectations, in every country where it does A dual assessment process includes best practices published by WHO As of January 1 st 2014, Danone decided to business; (World Health Organization), the CODEX and Subsidiaries’ respect of commitments under reinforce Food Safety by creating a Corporate • feedback from consumers, to evaluate their on Danone’s own expertise in its products the Charter is documented in a dual process Food Safety Department, “FS @Danone”, level of satisfaction. and manufacturing processes. of annual evaluation: under the responsibility of a Chief Food To continue improving the results of these • key indicators are measured for all subsiSafety Officer (CFSO). This new department is indicators, divisions carry on different proEach Division is responsible for policy implediaries using the Danone Way approach; part of the General Secretary of Danone and jects focused on the specific needs of each mentation in compliance with local legisla• complementary indicators are measured in the CFSO reports directly to the General particular business. tion and for integration of con sumer a dedicated process, the “Nutrition & Health Secretary, member of the Danone Executive expectations into the products development Scorecard” for 45 subsidiaries in the four Committee. The Food Safety policy and process. divisions in 2014, i.e. 76% of Danone’s sales. governance are global and apply to all These two processes are subject to verificaDanone businesses. Danone’s food safety Danone implements a Food Safety policy tion by an independent third party. policy and governance are implemented in all de velop ed to fo cus i t s at tention on the divisions and in all the regions where the consumers. In 2014, a multi-function committee was put company operates. in place at central level, the “Product To bring all Danone's operations into line Compliance Board”. Among its areas with a recognized food safety standard, of expertise is the supervision of Danone’s commitments in respect This system is based on a set of criteria wherever they are based, Danone has chosen Fssc 22 000 the FSSC 22 000 standard. The percentage of of Nutrition and Health. Similar to ensure that product safety strictly committees have been set up in plants in each division having FSSC 22 000 Medical Nutrition 40 % each of the four divisions. respects compliance with: certification is given in the following table; > llocal the figures reflect acquisition of new factoaws and regulations enforced by ries and cession of some others. Fresh Dairy Products 52 % authorities and, > t(Policy, he Danone Food Safety Compliance Governance and Directives) Early Life Nutrition 18 % Waters 30 % at each stage in the distribution chain, from product design to consumption, everywhere and all the time. 44 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 45 During 2014, Fresh Dairy productucts diviThe Storechecks With the support of the Danone Ecosystem sion continued to run the “We Love Danone project relies on analyzing Fund , Care Eg y pt and Danone Eg y pt Yogurt” program in subsidiaries and at corlaunched the “Milk Collection Communities” porate level, reaching an overall 14,000 consumer experience on the project (“MCC Egypt”). The objective is to Danone employees trained. purchasing decision moment in order suppor t small milk producers through to ensures fulfillment of 100% t r a inin g , w h ich w ill e n a bl e t he m to The “Storechecks” project relies on analyimprove the quality of their milk and the zing consumer experience on the purchasing of their expectations productivity of their operations, thereby decision moment in order to ensures fulfillment of 100 % of their expectations (not Medical Nutrition division focused on deveEnsuring the quality increasing revenue and improving their living conditions. In parallel, the project only product compliance,but also products availability, presentation and position verloping a comprehensive food safety risk map and a division wide action plan to mitigate a and quantity of milk: contributes to the development of collection centers where farmers can sell their prosus competitors). An on-shelf audit informanumber of identified risks. The development improvement of skills duction. These MCCs ensure the refrigerafor small producers tion system has been developed to simplify of an end-to-end quality management tion chain and quality controls necessary the process, make the information instantly approach has been continued, with particufor the milk. Indeed, as soon as the milk available and enhance reporting capability. lar focus on strengthening risk analysis of arrives it is first weighed and analyzed in innovation & renovation projects, impleorder to guarantee its freshness and quaAdditionally, 24 subsidiaries performed the menting quality procedures and standards Since its creation in 2009, the Danone lity before being accepted. “Storecheck” in 2014. The roll-out of a new for logistics, warehousing and transportaEcosystem Fund, through its 22 milk-supply app on mobile devices allowed the capture of tion, as well as defining the scope and deveprojects, has assisted, trained and strengtheMCCs also propose complementary services, the data directly on the spot, starting a loping quality procedures for subsidiaries. ned the skills of around 19,000 people, prinwhich contribute to the quality of milk consolidated worldwide database. cipally small local farmers, in 18 countries, in and the development of the farmers (vets, In addition, improvements are driven by order to ensure the quality and quantity of animal feeding, training, etc.). Early Life Nutrition division continued the DaMaWay approach (Danone Manufacturing milk bought by Danone. deployment of the FOQUAL “Focus on Way, Danone own industrial production Quality” program, in order to consolidate model) in all factories what helps in spreaFor example, Danone Egypt buys significant knowledge and spread the Quality culture. ding a Quality culture within the teams. quantities of milk from local producers to Quality & Food Safety culture remains a key make its fresh dairy products. In Egypt, 85% pillar of the program to ensure sustainability In 2014, 33 incidents related to food safety of milk is produced by small producers who of the actions implemented. Those actions were recorded. Among them, eight were only have one or two cows and limited have led to an improvement of our Quality turned into crisis5. Danone’s crisis manageaccess to the market; and the milk quality is Excellence score of 40% in 2014. ment procedure includes blocking, witoften unsatisfactory, due to a lack of suihdrawing or even recall of products in some table structures and agricultural training. Waters improved division the store check cases, in collaboration with the relevant insresults, notably by a 30% reduction in titutions, where there is a serious or direct non-compliant suppliers . At the same time risk for consumer’s health. the subsidiaries worked on FSSC 22000 accreditation to achieve the target of 100% accreditation by 2020 (excluding the “HOD” sites in Mexico). MCCs created i n 8Uk countries: raine, Turkey, Eg Morocco, Mexico, ypt, Algeria, Brazil and India. 4. In the classification used by Danone, the concept of «incident» concerns the subsidiaries. Being of limited scope, as they do not lead to formal litigation or sanctions of any type, they are not consolidated. «Crises» however, as defined by Danone, can extend beyond the subsidiary’s scope of responsibility and have repercussions for the entire company; they are thus consolidated at central level. 46 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 47 Y LTH AL EA ION A H RIT OF UT ION D N ON OT AN ATI OM LE UC In the framework of its mission, AVAILABILITY OF DETAILED PRACTICING RESPONSIBLE Advertising that complies with relevant codes of ethics PR ESTY ED LIF Danone is committed NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION COMMUNICATION Danone is committed, for its Fresh Dairy Products and Waters divisions, to complying to exercising a positive ON ALL PRODUCTS Danone is committed to practicing reswith the prescriptions of the ICC Code (“International Chamber of Commerce Code influence on behaviors ponsible communication on several themes. f o r Re s p o n s i b l e F o o d a n d B e v e r a g e in order to encourage Danone has committed to providing detailed Communication”) as well as local codes ICC nutritional information on all of its proFocus of advertising expenses favorable changes ducts, respecting local regulations. Danone on the most virtuous products when these are more stringent. The Code in the quality of diets forbids, for example, advertising that shows includes, notably, in its commitments, to in the portfolio or promotes behavior that is contrary to a and lifestyles and as systematically indicate the recommended In 2014, 65% of advertising costs were spent healthy lifestyle, particularly a lack of physisize of a portion. a result, the health either on promotional actions in the catecal exercise and excessive consumption of gory or on the healthiest products in the of populations – whilst For Fresh Dairy Products and Waters divifood. Food for infants and medical nutrition portfolio (dairy products and infant food comply with specific, very strict regulations. respecting local sions, this commitment is set out in the complying with internal nutritional stancharacteristics “Nutritional Information Charter”, an internal dards, water and sugar-free drinks, and Globally, advertising expenses for the Fresh guide intended for subsidiaries, updated in medical nutrition)7. and always mindful 2014 to take into account changes in Dairy Products and Waters divisions were 99.7% compliant with the ICC Code in 2014.8 of consultation and alignment European regulations. This information Systematic validation of health with academic researchers, includes, amongst others, a table of nutritional and nutrition claims values per 100g and per portion and an icon experts and health authorities. on the front of the packaging indicating the Since 2002, Danone has had an internal procedure in place to guarantee the cohecontribution of one portion of the product rence, credibility and scientific validity of to the recommended daily energy intake. 2 obligations health and nutrition claims in their commuApplication of this Charter is obligatory for nications. This procedure, inspired by 99 % subsidiaries in the EU; other subsidiaries European regulations, applies to all subsifor every Danone subsidiary: have to apply this unless it would contravene local law. Natural mineral water, being diaries of the company, except in countries where local regulation is even stricter. It subjec t to it s specif ic regulation s, is applies to all commercial communications, excluded from this commitment. of products have tion including nutritional or health claims and Detail unic a ing nutritional information e nutr itio d c omm adver tis ition, which are addressed to the public, consu81 % ib le ons s of nutr At the end of 2014, 99% of Danone’s sales on the packaging inform nal Resp r ly in ter m for infant mers and health professionals. This validaati cula and east on the on par ti children ting of br carried nutritional information on the pacprodu ir d at e mar ke stitutes tion procedure includes all func tion s cts aime th sub kaging5. Furthermore, 81% of sales indicated milk concerned within the company (Research a portion size (products packaged in individual and Development, Regulatory Affairs, Legal portions and/or the recommended portion Affairs, Marketing, Sales, Medical Affairs and size indicated on the packaging). of products Public Relations). with a portion In Europe, 96.1% of sales of dairy products size guidance In addition to these obligations, and aquadrinks carried an energy icon on Danone has a three-part proactive strategy: the front of the packaging, complying with the identification, in local contexts, of priority causes; commitments made under Food & Drink the availability of nutritional education services or programs Europe6. for consumer and/or health professionals; commitments, alongside other actors, in education and awareness platforms. 6. Figures from Scorecard 2014 for 11 subsidiaries in the Fresh Dairy Products and Waters divisions in Europe 5. F igures from the 2014 Scorecard for 45 subsidiaries 7. Figures from Scorecard 2014 for 45 subsidiaries in the four divisions of the four divisions, all products except for mineral water 8. Figures from Scorecard 2014 for 24 subsidiaries in the Fresh Dairy Products and Waters divisions 48 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 49 Limiting advertising aimed Responsible marketing at children for breast milk substitutes Danone is committed to limiting advertiDanone understands the challenges faced by sing aimed at children between 3 and 12 parents in raising their children and believes years old to those products that are taithey should have access to the right informalored to their nutritional needs, in line with tion to allow them to make appropriate and Public Health priorities. To this end, Danone is a member of local and regional “pledges”. informed feeding choices for their children. In support of this, Danone acknowledges the IDENTIFICATION OF PRIORITY In mos t countries, respec t for these “pledges” is verified by an independent importance of the International Code of Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes and subCAUSES TO BE ADDRESSED auditor and the results of the audit are published. sequent relevant WHA resolutions and support the WHO's recommendation calling for IN LOCAL CONTEXTS exclusive breast-feeding for the first six monquate nutrition, b) both protecting and proEach subsidiary, after having done some In the Fresh Dairy Products and Waters diviths after birth and continued breast-feeding moting breast-feeding, and c) ensuring the research about its local (see Nutriplanet sions, advertising expenses aimed at childalong with the introduction of safe and approproper use of breast milk substitutes, when program page 39), can then identify a priority ren under 12 represented, in 2014, 12% of priate complementary foods thereafter. necessary, via the provision of adequate inforcause to which it can legitimately commit total advertising expenditure for these two Danone works alongside committed partners, mation and appropriate marketing and distriitself, because its portfolio of products is divisions.9 mobilising stakeholders to promote the long bution practices. relevant to the chosen cause. The subsidiary term benefits of ensuring the right nutrition The Blue Book, used in conjunction with the may choose several causes: for example one Danone’s commitment to limit advertising during the first 1,000 days. Green Book, helps create robust processes and cause per population group. aimed at children under 12 in the EU is consistency in application for all the Early Life audited every year by external auditors in The Early Life Nutrition division continues to Nutrition businesses. One commitment The initial challenge is to research the the framework of the “EU pledge on advertistrengthen its tools and governance procedetailed in the Blue Book, is to manage and cause using factual and quantified data; sing to children”: dures, and published key documents in 2013: report on allegations of non-compliance with when published data is insufficient, the the “Green Book” (“Danone Policy for the the Green Book. Danone has published a advice of local experts must be sought and • regarding of television advertising Marketing of Foods for Infants and Young report in 2012 and will shortly publish similar sometimes ad hoc studies may be needed in 2014, the audit covered seven Children”) and the “Blue Book” (“Management reports for both 2013 and 2014. In addition, a to o b t a in m i s s in g d a t a . T h e s e co n d countries and a total of 1,016,983 teleSystem Manual for the Marketing of Foods for report has been published in response to comchallenge is that the cause should be locally vised advertisements were verified in Infants and Young Children”). plaints from external stakeholders (of nonrecognized by stakeholders and, in particuthe first quarter of 2014 for all actors; The Green Book clarifies the standards of compliance with the International Code of lar, by health authorities: this is an essen98,8 % • regarding of websites, in 2014, the behaviour that are expected of Danone Marketing of Breast Milk substitutes) over the tial condition so that the actions of the audit covered 10 countries: a total of employees in the performance of their duties period January 2011 to December 2013. Danone s ubsidiar y for the c aus e are 326 websites were verified over a twoand supports ELN’s mission “Stand by Mums understood and recognized as legitimate, month period. Out of the 14 Danone to Nurture New Lives”, by: a) ensuring we To ensure that the Danone’s Green Book and and not as just marketing insight. sites verified, 12 were concidered contribute to the provision of safe and adeBlue Book have been effectively and correctly compliance to compliant and two not compliant to implemented, an independent third party At the end of 2014, in the Fresh Dair y the European Pledge the Pledge commitments. Corrective conducts external audits yearly. Danone has Products, Easly Life Nutrition and Waters actions were implemented to honoured its commitment of a minimum of di v ision s , 29 s ub sidiar ie s w i t hin t he on television deal with those that did not five audits each year in 2012, 2013 and 2014 Scorecard had identified at least one such advertising aimed It is no tew ort hy that no t comply. of th e no nc on for mit ies led one and will continue this practice for the forepriority cause in their local context 10. at children to co ns um er seeable future. co mp la int s or con tes tat ion . by a Pu bli c Au th ori ty. 9. Figures from the 2014 Scorecard on 24 subsidiaries of the Fresh Dairy Products and Waters divisions” 10. Figures from Scorecard 2014 on 37 subsidiaries of these three divisions. 50 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 51 COMMITMENTS ALONGSIDE ACTIONS DEVELOPED IN THESE PLATFORMS MAY TAKE DIFFERENT FORMS: OTHER PARTICIPANTS, IN EDUCATION AND PUBLIC> sscientific cientific consensus meetings, publications or events AWARENESS PLATFORMS to encourage debate Danone is committed, alongside other These actions are not limited to promoand recognition of the cause participants in collaborative platforms to ting Danone’s products but include, on a by the academic world; contribute to increasing understanding wider basis, the promotion of a balanced PROVISION OF NUTRITIONAL and promoting good dietary practices and recommended behavior. diet and a healthy lifestyle, in line with the recommendations of health authorities. > stoubmissions to health authorities encourage the issue EDUCATION SERVICES of new recommendations AND PROGRAMS For example, “Hydration for Health” is an for the population; initiative launched by Danone Nutricia At the end of 2014, in the scope of the Scorecard, 39 of 45 subsidiaries had such Glo ba lly, the re Research to increase public awareness of healthy hydration, by sharing scientific results and providing educational material > tprograms raining and educational aimed at healthcare programs in place, for example: • Russia/Fresh Dairy Products = “The ABC of ar e 199 pro gra ms and practical tools. professionals; ac tiv e wo rld wi de Nutrition”; • UK/Easly Life Nutrition = “Ten Steps for at th e en d of 20 14, wi th When local platforms already exist, created by other actors, which address the > tforhemed information the media; a pote nt ial impac t on Healthy Toddlers”; same cause, it is appropriate that the sub• Indonesia/Waters = Practical guide for docsidiar y joins the existing initiative. For tors “Hydration during physical exercise”; • Brazil/Medical Nutrition = “Cuidar é viver”, 49 0 example, Dannon Company in the USA joined “Par tnership for a Healthier > eandducational programs program for caregivers for the elderly. mil lio n peo ple America”, an independent organization, of practical tools which Michelle Obama is the honorary prefor the public or certain Globally, there are 199 programs active worldwide at the end of 2014, with a potential sident, which brings together public and private actors and NGOs to make extengroups (for example impact on 490 million people10. sive commitments and develop shared pregnant women, children) For example: strategies to fight child obesity. or intermediaries Some of these programs are communicated (schools, nurseries). externally like Diet Physic Activity & Health. 5 of them were declared as commitments in the European Platform 10. Figures from the Scorecard 2014 on 45 subsidiaries in the 4 divisions. 52 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 53 In Romania, there is a lack of doctors and midwives. Pregnant women have little information, or are even misinformed about pregnancy, motherhood and suitable infant nutrition. This is why Danone Baby Romania, BEYOND Danone ACTIVITIES, in partnership with the Red Cross and Crucea Alba (a local NGO) have co-created the ‘Stand THESE PROJECTS ARE SUPPORTED by Mums’ project. The aim is to establish a BY THE DANONE ECOSYSTEM network of perinatal assistants to accompany mothers throughout pregnaucy and …AND BY FUND… birth. Approved training has been co-created DANONE.COMMUNITIES and given to nurses and midwives who are trained in tailored nutrition and perinatal The “Programme Malin” NutriGo The Danone Ecosystem Fund assists in the In China, anaemia affects 45% of children care. They are also assisted in the creaFrom conception to age three, children go implementation of training projects for between six months and five years old in tion of their independent actithrough a unique development period, both people providing services to individuals as vity to provide this service, To dat e, physically and physiologically. It is a crucial rural zones. This is essentially due to poor well as those in charge of distribution of Danone products, so as to better fulfill the which brings them additional more than period during which their future health is dietary practices for children. To combat infant malnutrition in rural China, NutriGo company’s mission to promote a healthy income. 200 people have shaped. However, every year in France, one in five children is born in a family living has set up educational programs aimed at lifestyle and to encourage nutritional education tailored for each life stage. To improve child nutrition in benefitted from below the pover t y level. For f amilies parents and healthcare professionals, and has made available the “YingYangBao” nutriIndonesia and educate mothers on suitable nutrition, the this program in hardship, products tailored for infant nutrition weigh heavily on their budget tion al s upplement , a p owdered milk With this in mind, 13 local subsidiaries work in enriched with vitamin s, minerals and “Warung Anak Sehat” project, and advice is not always tailored to their partnership with caregiver associations, protein tailored to children’s needs. This which means “healthy child kiosks”, material, economic or emotional situation. home helps, midwives, health professionals’ product can be consumed as a drink or has been launched in essentially urban areas. The “Programme Malin” brings practical institutions and local health Ministries to help added to daily meals. The formula was Women already active in local care centers help and educational support for parents in members of the health services as well as co-developed with the Chinese government benefit from access to micro loans, as well as situations of hardship, which have children those working as individual caregivers and has had a proven effect on the reduction training on suitable nutrition, to enable them under three. The “Programme Malin” has increase their skills, particularly in terms of of child anaemia. to manage a kiosk, which will not only give two approaches aimed at target families: suitable nutrition. To this end, Danone, via the access to healthy products in urban areas, education and support in good nutritional Ecosystem Fund, is working with these partiNutriGo was launched through the joint but also enable them to give information to practices and discount coupons enabling cipants to co-develop accredited training proactions of Dumex (a Chinese subsidiary of neighboring women on healthy eating habits them to purchase Blédina products tailored v ide d t h r o u g h inde p e nde nt t r ainin g Danone), the Chinese NGO NIP, Chinese and suitable nutrition. for babies’ needs at a rate of 25 to 50% off. organizations (schools, institutes etc.) and/or health experts and danone.communities. e-learning schemes. These allow local needs The educational campaigns have reached to be addressed, particularly in terms of Since 2012, more than 2,600 children have 250,000 people and in 233 villages, 2,400 nutrition tailored for babies, children, mothers, the elderly and people in fragile This project has directly benefitted from the “Programme Malin”, through 150 local partner organizations. In babies use the product today. This is a pilot family situations. and indirectly benefitted 2015, Malin will continue to develop in five phase aiming to reach 1,500 villages and 40,000 baby beneficiaries over the next more than towns in France. three years. Today this action involves 16,000 people 13 projects in 13 countries and affects around 2,000 people 54 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 55 Secured and Valued Strategic In do ne si a Da ir y fo r Me ra pi Pr oj ec t Resources Responsible Procurement P.58 Environment P.66 56 57 of ➢ Responsible nt SR me s’C ce ess lier man Ass upp for s er Procurement p The RESPECT program Assessment of suppliers’CSR The RESPECT program launched in 2005 • sharing information through supplier self-deperformance extends Danones’ ‘dual economic and social clarations concerning their Corporate Social project’ to its entire supply chain, except Responsibility performance, using the SEDEX hips u sta in a b l e relations milk producers (addressed in the FaRMs proplatform shared by all consumer goods induss iers gram) following a specific process of: try players, in the AIM-progress association; with suppl • contracting with suppliers within the • external CSR audits using the SMETA benchmark framework of the signature; for suppliers viewed as at-risk based on this • contracts and/or general terms of procuinformation exchange, with a view to implemenrement about the respect of the Sustainable ting an appropriate action plan (see diagram Development Principles (social, environbelow): mental and ethics); “NON-COMPLIANT SUPPLIERS” ACTION PLAN “AT RISK EXTERNAL AUDIT RESPECT CONTROL PROCEDURE SUPPLIERS” RISK MAPPING via SEDEX shared with other SEDEX members REGISTRATION ON SEDEX CONTRACTUAL CLAUSE (Sustainable Development Principles) In do ne si a 0% SUPPLIERS IN THE RESPECT SCOPE COVERED 100% Pr oj ec t Da ir y fo r Me r ap i 58 KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 59 THE SEVEN FUN LES: DAMENTAL FOCUS ON ADHERENCE By accepting the General Terms of Procurement, the supplier undertakes to: SOCIAL PRINCIP TO FUNDAMENTAL RK SAFETY AT WO 5. HEALTH AND ensures that the company • comply with the Fundamental 1. CHILD LABO does not employ m pa ny R The workplace and its envi e in te ronm ent do grity or he alth SOCIAL PRINCIPLES Social Principles ; The co th e la w sets en da ng er th ce the • promote respect for these der 15. If no t ion to redu children un um w or ki ng age or of em pl oyees. Act d im pr ov e Danone’s commitment to comply with and inim s an a higher m to a higher of accident compulsor y scho ol in g is applies. ca us es nditions is the ob je ct promote human rights principles has been principles among their own suppliers, is limit that working co ms. Sanita ry defined, implemented and promoted to age, it is th og ra m s (a s w or kof on go in g pr og ra d ho using suppliers. subcontractors and partners ; Educationa l pr ed in canteens an • give Danone the right no t in cl ud ui pm en t, bu ilt linked traini ng) are eq oyees are pr ov id ed to empl co rd an ce with The Seven Fundamental Principles are the this limitatio n. and maintai ned in ac m en ts . As a basis for the RESPECT program launched in to verify the application of these gal require OR 2. FORCED LAB does not use forced or appl ic ab le le mpany mus t pr ovide 2005, which aims, among other things, principles, in particular through im um, the co er , The compa ny ning any w ork m in employees with drinki ng w at numbers, at en s ur in g t he applic ation of t he s e audits; y labor, mea in adequate principles to Danone’s suppliers. compulsor r th reat ile ts or service pe rf or m ed un de to by the cl ea n to te ventilatio n, em er gency • if non-compliance by a supplier is cess to identified during an audit, draft a ns en te d ad eq ua d ac or that is no t co lighting an In the framework of the RESPECT program, d. ex its, proper person co nc er ne medical trea tmen t. to ensure that all suppliers comply with these principles, Danone has integrated corrective action plan targeting MINATION 3. NON-DISCRI rd for applicable law, URS a specific ‘Fundamental Social Principles’ all identified non-compliance issues 6. WORKING HO must ensure that W ith due re ga ny refuses to en gage The com pa ny tions on c l a u s e i n t o i t s G e n e r a l Te r m s o f for approval by Danone; the compa es. legal restric Procurement. This clause is included in ory practic applicable plied with, in any di sc rim in m at ea ns any w or ki ng hours ar e co m k. Employee s all contracts and is compulsor y for all • if a supplier refuses to draft a io n or Discriminat io n or pr eference in cl ud in g overtime w ea ch w ee k, suppliers. corrective action plan, or if recurring exclus f distinction, un ity or le as t one day of ce s limiting eq uality of op po ba rt sed on have at pt in exceptio nal circum st an Since 2009 the scope of supplier non-compliance issues are raised in be ex ce treatment. It m ay orientation, and for a lim ited perio d. responsibility has been expanded to include several audits, recognize Danone’s sex, sexual race, color, religion, po litical opinio n, ag e, ns or othe r Environment and Business Ethics related to: right to terminate the contract lit y, fa m ily obligatio 7. PAY sures that: • practices regarding remuneration; with this supplier. nationa ns . T he company en an the • protection of resources; considerat io is lower th GH T • no wage m in imum; • chemical products; AN D RI le ga l F ASSOCIATION applicable s receive a pay slip; • climate change and greenhouse gas; 4. FREEDOM O BARGAINING • al l employee a de ce nt wage • environmental management. VE TO COLLECTI recognizes and iv e • em pl oyees rece ny country; The compa eedom of relative to e are in all ployees’ fr s for overtim These principles are thus integrated into respects em d their right to freely • w ag e ra te rmal hours. n an fo r no all agreements involving key suppliers. associatio es en ta tiv es. ca se s hi gher than r repr choose thei gnizes ny also reco ive The compa ht to co lle ct rig employees’ m pa ny ensures . The co bargaining ta tiv es do ee represen that employ sc rim in at ion. any di not suffer 60 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 61 e ith bl w na s ai hip rs st ns lie su tio pp RESULTS FROM THE RESPECT On the basis of the self-assessment of The implementation of a A GUIDE TO SUPPORTING MORE la su these 3,663 sites, 65 sites were ‘SMETA’ sustainable relationship with re APPROACH 2014 audits by external auditors having been assessed as ‘at risk’. These audits allow the suppliers is a key component of SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE Danone determines the suppliers risks identified by the pre-analysis (made Danone’s activity, within its via SEDEX and the Maplecroft tool) to be A guide has been drawn up and published in concerned by the RESPECT program using own business and throughout partnership with a panel of international confirmed or not, and actions plans to be the following criteria: put in place, if necessar y. Of these 65 its ecosystem. The supply of external experts to support practices for • a ll s u p p li e r s o f r a w m a t e r i a l s a n d more sustainable agriculture. audits, 61 were able to be closed as the sustainable materials is an packaging, except for suppliers of fresh risks were not confirmed or action plans to integral part of responsible milk , w ho a r e cove r e d b y t he FaRMs address non-conformities were put in program; place. buying, however this challenge • all call centers and temporary employis dealt with in the Environment ment agencies; section (see page 74). • all suppliers of publicity articles and gifts (of rank 1 and 2) ; RESPECT OUTLOOK • all supplier s working within Danone premises with a multi-year contract ; In 2014, the RESPECT program’s goverTHE FARMS PROGRAM •all other suppliers with whom Danone nance was streng thened. Two steering spends over 500,000€ per year. committees were formed: In the domain of agriculture and milk collec• an operational committee meeting four tion, the Fresh Dair y Products division In 2014, 4,128 suppliers’ sites were included times per year whose purpose is to resolve implemented, in 1997, in conjunction with all in the program. 89% complied with the operational problems, monitor the perforof its farmer partners, the FaRMs program. requirements of the program set out above. mance of the four divisions and draw up This program aims at improving and auditing This conformity rate is increasing since 81% action plans required for improvement of their environmental practices (water and of suppliers complied in 2013. indicators; energy consumption, use of fertilizers and • a strategic committee meeting twice a manure, waste, wellbeing of animals, etc.). This table show s the dis tribution, by year, whose purpose is to share program division, of the number of suppliers’ sites results, discusses and validates strategic It allows for producers to be helped to having completed a SEDEX self-assessment direc tion s . This commit tee a greed to deploy good practices that are respectful of A NEW CONTRACTUAL APPROACH questionnaire in 2014, in a sufficiently update the ambitions of the program in the environment and ensures systematic detailed manner to be able to conclude line with Danoner’s strategy and so as to monitoring of agricultural operations accorwhether a risk required an audit or not. better integrate the different approaches regarding suppliers. ding to nine key environmental criteria, such as waste management, use of plant health WITH FARMERS products or water and energy consumption. For example, it encourages farmers to leave Numerous initiatives in the United States, hedges and grass bands on their land, partiMexico, Brazil or Europe have reinvented the cularly close to water, so as to preserve contractual relationship between Danone and biodiversity. its farmers, in order to offer greater visibility Waters Easly Life Fresh Dairy Total and price stability in the long-term. This innoand Medical Products Nutrition The FaRMs program (Farmers Relationship vative approach applies not only to increaManagement Software) had been strengthesingly volatile milk market prices but also to Africa 2 3 48 53 ned throughout 2014 in the Fresh Dairy the production costs of the operation. América 168 65 647 880 Asia 324 301 310 935 Products division with the deployment, in Europe 299 677 819 1 795 Morocco and Algeria, of an audit methodology tailored for collection centers for small Total 793 1 046 1 824 3 663 milk producers. 62 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 63 For example, for of the four McCarty brothers, third generation milk producers in the USA, EDUCATIONAL FARMS AND The subsidiary Danone Produits Frais France (Fresh Dairy Products-France) initiated the from business relationships with large companies (subsistence farmers, rag pickers, the Dannon Company Inc. is now part of the family. The company has helped them meet COLLECTION CENTERS Reine Mathilde Project, a program aim at developping the production of organic milk street sellers, home helps etc.). In fact, the relationship client/supplier is evolving the two challenges that confronted their in the Basse-Normandie region, one of whose towards a relationship between partners, Kansas farm: price volatility and scarcity of Today around 40% of projects supported by flagship actions is to put in place an experiwhich moves around a co-creation approach water. Prices are now fixed according to the the Danone Ecosystem Fund concern the mental organic host farm. with mutual benefits and shared risks in a evolution of their production costs rather revitalization of agricultural upstream of spirit of economic and social development of than the market, which guarantees them Danone through innovative practices. These In countries where milk production techthe regions where Danone operates. stable profit margins. the condensed milk facprojects, real laboratories for studying the niques are still undeveloped, such as Ukraine, tor y built with the help of The Dannon obstacles, as well as the opportunities for China, Morocco or Turkey, educational farms Company Inc. recycles enough water to change, implement new, more sustainable (seven in total) or buying cooperatives (13 address almost all the farm’s needs. The bromodels, through co-creation with our projects underway) have been set up with thers have been able to develop their operastakeholders: farmers, cooperatives, applied the help of the Danone Ecosystem Fund, in tion, going from 3,500 to 8,000 cows and to research centers, union organizations, speorder to help producers to improve the quanconsolidate their sustainable approach. cialized NGOs, associations, inter-trade tity and quality of their production. McCarty Farm has created one hundred jobs. bodies, academia, etc. By promoting rooting The latest product of the Dannon Company operators in their local region and helping In Costa Rica, Stony field Farm and the Inc. range, the Dannon Company Inc. Creamy them develop a long-lasting agricultural Sustainable Food Lab launched the CAPE prois exclusively produced from McCarty milk. activity that is profitable, respectful of the ject (Cellular Aseptic Processing Equipment) environment and that creates social value, whose objective is to design an organic fruit the Danone Ecosystem Fund’s projects try to transformation unit tailored to small and 2014, the McCarty Farm won the give producers the means to build tomormedium operations. This project should US Dairy Sustainable row’s agriculture. In parallel, these projects create new sourcing opportunities for fruits allow farmers from the APPTA cooperative Award and the Validus (Association for the Small Producers of and milk whilst strengthening and securing Talamanca) to reduce their losses, which Certified Responsible Danone’s long-term supply. amount to 40% of today’s production of cocoa, bananas and other organic tropical Producer, an American For example, in Mexico, 86% of milk comes from family farms, which face difficult marfruit and which arise due to the distance bet ween f armer s and the produc tion certification, which is strenuous ket conditions. Danone Mexico, in factory. partnership with Technoserve and with the in terms of security, environment support of the Danone Ecosystem Fund, The Danone Ecosystem Fund has been able and animal wellbeing. developed project ‘Margarita’ to promote a to transform the way in which a company model of sustainable milk production involsuch as Danone works with these local actors ving small farmers who could thereby who are traditionally excluded improve the qualit y of their milk and increase their revenue. 40% of projects supported by the Danone Ecosystem Fund concern the revitalization of Danone’s agricultural upstream through innovative practices. 64 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 65 Environment Management and protection Nature 2020: In 2000, Danone set objectives as well as a of water resources market plan for 10 years. In 2008, the comNATURE AT THE HEART pany stepped up the pace by setting an objective to reduce the intensity of greenSustainable raw materials supply OF THE FOOD CHAIN house gas emissions by 30% over five years within its direct scope of responsibility, an uantit y objective it exceeded at the end of 2012. n in the q For Danone, healthy eating Reductio and recycling Since then, Danone has identified four of waste starts with healthy nature. essential domains around which it built a Danone’s action has the plan for 2020: climate, water, packaging, and Reduction of the environmental footprint nutrition chain at its heart. agriculture). Each of these domains brings of products and activities This extends from the together ambitious initiatives: for some, Danone is already committed, others open production of raw materials new frontiers and set new targets; and still from agriculture and use others set ambitions, the objectives for of water, to end of life products, which Danone has given itself the next few months to finalize and make operational. passing through their industrial Solutions will come through innovation. transformation, their packaging, their transportation and their distribution. F o u r p r io r it ie s b y 2020 Nature 2020 climatE Water Packaging agriculture Fr an ce Vo lv ic im pl uv iu m 66 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 67 d an ter nt wa me f ge n o es na io rc Ma tect sou GOVERNANCE ADAPTED TO GOALS Protect water pr o re Danone’s environment strategy is rooted in governance in accordance with the comresources, particularly pany’s decision-making processes. The Nature plan is managed at several levels, when scarce, and beginning with a Nature Committee comprising some of the company ’s key deciuse them in harmony sion-makers (Managing Directors, VPs for operations, research and development, prowith local ecosystems curement, etc.). The Nature strategy is sponsored by the company’s CFO, member of the and communities Executive Committee. In addition, every division has a Nature Committee and there The company focuses on four priorities: • measure water footprint; Reduce consumption are Nature managers in every subsidiary. Water is a precious and sometimes scarce • protect; • reduce consumption and waste; and waste Since 2010, Danone has involved a panel of resource that must be used in harmony with • monitor ecosystems. experts and external stakeholders to orgalocal ecosystems and communities. Danone Danone seeks to set the example by continize its strategic thinking and help define its is therefore committed to preserving this nuously reducing water consumption and waste in its plants. Results are very positive, long-term road map. This panel will continue its work as the plan is rolled out. Danone indispensable resource and to respecting its natural cycles by adopting responsible pracMeasure water footprint with the water consumption intensity also designed a Nature training module in tices at the local level. related to the production process reduced A new tool for measuring Danone’s water by 4% in 2014, and down by 39% since 2000. 2013 to raise awareness on the strategy witThe concerned area s by w ater s tress footprint, developed with Quantis, expert in hin Danone. This module will be expanded constantly increasing worldwide, the risk analysis of life cycle and environmental Danone is setting a new reduction goal of and made available to all staff in 2014. anticipation in local river basins is essential impacts, was tested in a pilot subsidiary, and 60% by 2020, and also strains to ensure that to ensure the sustainability of agricultural will be deployed in all the Waters division used water returned to nature is of adequate La s tly, to s tren g then the connec tion and industrial activities of Danone. The sussubsidiaries by 2020. The evaluation of quality for downstream ecosystems and between nature and business, Danone tainable solutions include necessarily the “water” impacts arising from agricultural users, by implementing strict corporate released a Guide to Environmental Claims in involvement of all s takeholder s on a practices has been integrated into the standards (defined in the Danone Clean 2011 in collaboration with the Futerra territory. DanRISE tool (see Sustainable Agriculture). Water Guidelines). agency, to encourage responsible communication by the different subsidiaries and br and s. This tool is now av ailable to Danone’s team s via a new interac tive That is why Danone will publish in 2015 its new water policy presenting its strategy by Protect website. 2020 on all the water cycle, from its agricultural upstream to the consumer. Protecting water sources and respecting the cycles of nature are Danone’s two priorities. Danone has always taken great care not to withdraw more water than nature is able to naturally renew, and systematically evaluates the quality of water returned to circulation after use. Danone has also developed a new method for overseeing local water management, known as “SPRING”, in collaboration with the Ramsar convention and IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature), to control the local water management. It will be deployed at every site and also made available to other users. 68 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 69 The t able b elow pre s ent s t he w ater Danone’s water consumption increased by Within the Waters division, the WaterWatcher The table below presents the quantities of consumption of Danone’s production sites in 14.3% between 2013 and 2014, which breaks tool allows monitoring of water use in the COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) discharged 2013 and 2014: down to +2.1% from rising quantities of bottling sites and helps identify areas for after treatment by Danone’s production water used for the composition of products, improvement. This tool has been rolled out to sites in 2013 and 2014: and +12.2% linked to greater quantities of every division site. The sites measure all d 31 De ce mb er water used in production processes. water consumed for every use (production, Fo r th e ye ar en de d 31 De ce mb er The table below presents water consumpcleaning, etc.) to identify the items generating losses and define appropriate action Fo r th e ye ar en de (in thousands of cubic 2013 2014 * 2013 2014 * meters) tion related to industrial production proplans for reducing these losses. The sites also Final discharge of Chemical 5.0 6.4 Total water withdrawn 43,934 44 634 cesses in 2013 and 2014: have annual water loss reduction goals, with Oxygen Demand (COD) from the surrounding area their performance published quarterly by the Net COD ratio (kg/metric 0.17 0.20 Well water 12,759 18,978 division. More than 15 billion liters have been en de d 31 De ce mb er ton of product) Municipal water River water 3,935 60,628 5,683 69,295 Fo r th e ye ar saved in this way since 2008 (equivalent to 15,000 thousand metric tons). * 2014 figures verified in the 2014 Registration Document 2013 2014 * Water consumption in the 36,055 43,469 * 2014 figures verified in the 2014 Registration Document production processes Danone continued it s water footprint research in 2014, notably with its partner Intensité de la 1.20 1.36 Quantis, as well as by contributing to the The increase of the net COD ratio is related to consommation d’eau liée au processus industriel development of European standards (PEF or the site integration of Unimilk’s former com(en m 3/tonne de produit) Product Environmental Footprint). panies in 2014. Of the 69,295 thousand of cubic meters of water withdrawn, Danone uses: This approach has served to establish a On a like-for-like basis, this indicator shows a * 2014 figures verified in the 2014 Registration Document • 25,826 thousand of cubic meters of water in water footprint evaluation methodology decrease of 12.3%. This is due in part to the the composition of its finished products, priThe increase of water consumption linked to that takes into account: launch of new wastewater treatment facilimarily at its bottling sites (compared with industrial process is related to the integra• The inventory of consumption at each proties on the site of Poços de Caldos in Brazil, 24,573 thousand cubic meters in 2013); tion of Unimilk’s former companies in 2014. duct lifecycle stage: product manufacture and to action plans implemented in the sub-b3et9we% • 43,469 thousand of cubic meters of water (in gredient s , pack a gin g , pr o duc tion , sidiaries to reduce losses in wastewater and/ for production processes (compared with On a like-for-like basis, water consumption packing), transport, consumer use and end or improve the equipment’s purification 36,055 thousand cubic meters in 2013). intensity related to the production proof life; performance. en cesses decreased by 4% between 2013 and 2014. This change is the result of a favorable • The local water stress factors (water stress is defined as a deficit of water of satisfactory 0 0 0 a nd mix effect for 3% and of efforts to improve quality to meet human and environmental 2 productivity in all divisions for 1%. needs); Of the 69.3 million 2014 • The compensator y measures directly co nsum pt io n re late d to related to product formulation (protection cubic meters of water In te ns it y of wat er (in m3 /t on of pr od uct ) policy or CSR program), which are evaluated withdrawn, Danone uses s pr od uc ti on pr oc es se in the form of water volume credits. 2.22 This methodology will be used to identify some 25.8 million cubic meters in formulating sensitive zones and methods products for 1.84 reducing impacts across the entire lifecycle, 1.67 1.48 1.32 1.31 1.27 1.36 in the Waters division in a first phase. its finished products 1.20 (not including production processes), essentially sourced from 89 bottling sites. 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 70 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 71 went on from this experience to pursue an Danone drafted a charter titled “GroundWater catchment takes place primarily innovative partnership with the NGO water protection policy” signed by Franck through drilling within a closed perimeter Banco de Bosques and implement the Riboud, Chairman and CEO of Danone, in inaccessible to unauthorized persons. “Dejá tu Huella” (“Leave your footprint”) 2004. This policy defines the commitment Catchment facilities ensure the hygiene and operation. This initiative allows consumers to sustainable management of groundwaconsistency of operations, and are adapted to participate in creating a new nature ter in terms of managing natural and herito the resource’s hydrodynamics. Danone reserve, where Villavicencio commits to t a ge r e s o ur ce s . It r e s t ate s t he cor e makes full use of experts to ensure the ratioprotect 1 m² for every bottle sold. Actions protection objectives and describes in nal and sustainable operation of its springs. are also taken to inform the public of the detail the principles of their application by For each site under operation, replacement dangers of deforestation and the imporall Danone subsidiaries. These application of the natural resource is the single essential tance of biodiversity in the local ecosystem. principles are systematically assessed for criteria. Danone never withdraws more than The results are positive, with nearly 2,200 each spring and give rise to specific action what the spring can naturally produce. The hectares (5,400 acres) protected, an active plans. Site evaluation is based on the water is checked for consistent composition public participation in the project. SPRING tool (Sustainable Protection and through regular sampling by certified exterResources managING), which defines mananal laboratories. Bottling is carried out In 2013, in partnership with the local NGO gement standards for each source of spring under strict hygiene procedures, and water Monitor ecosystems Pronatura Sur, Bonafont also developed a water bottled by the company. This tool has quality is verified daily. mangrove restoration project along the hurbeen deployed in every Waters division site, The priority aim of water management is to ricane-devastated Mexican coasts in Chiapas which has established a national and regiocontrol the risks arising from human actiand Oaxaca. A major campaign was launched nal availability map to identify pollution vity, such as pollution, deforestation and to involve consumers and raise awareness: risks and risks of water scarcity, as well as urban development. Danone therefore seeks the Bonafont subsidiary committed to invespriority action zones. In 2014, a new version to protect and restore the ecosystems ting a portion of revenues from the sale of of SPRING has been developed in collaboraconnected to water in the regions where its bottles in the project, and to replanting tion with the Ramsar convention (United Danone operates, because protecting these one tree for every new “like” on its Facebook Nations international convention for wetecosystems means protecting water, and page. One million Mexicans participated and land protection) and the IUCN. vice versa. For example, forests reduce showed their support on the social network runoff and increase evapotranspiration and over the course of seven weeks. In the Waters division, protection infiltration, while deforestation increases of biodiversity is one of the core risks of flooding and loss of fertile soil. The local communities are at the center of elements of the strategy for the project: many awareness and training protection of natural water resources. Wetlands can help regulate and naturally initiatives were carried out with residents The operation of a spring is related to its purify the water that passes through them, and 183 of them participated directly in intrinsic quality. The spring must offer as well as being home to native plants and replanting trees. The project also helped to excellent geological and natural protection. animals. Their deterioration or even destrucincrease the mangrove’s fishery resources, For example, the Evian mineral spring is protion – half of the world’s wetlands have been which contributes to securing the revenues tected by a waterproof layer several dozen destroyed since the start of the 20th century2 of the region’s 5,500 fishermen. meters thick, and with an average renewal – worsen the food supply issues faced by the period of 20 years. most vulnerable communities. Danone also Danone has set a goal of ensuring the proprotects highland drainage areas where the tection of the source area (rainwater catchEach spring is subject to intensive geological company operates and where agricultural ment), the transition zone (path taken by research as well as environmental studies to activity often predominates. the water in the rock layers) and the emeridentify risk factors in the area and implegence area (exit zone for the spring). ment measures to protect natural and rural For example, to preserve its natural source Additionally, every source area is operated in resources. Danone relies on local and natioof mineral water, the Villavicencio brand compliance with rules established by the nal legislation and on contract agreements protects a nature reserve of 72,000 hectares company, in particular with regard to longto obtain operating rights, which may (178,000 acres) and its rich biodiversity. It term sustainability of volumes stored. include restrictions (drilling prohibitions, regulation of polluting activities, etc.). 2. According to the Ramsar Convention on wetlands 72 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 73 w ra ly le pp a b su ain ls st ia Su ater Promote agriculture It should use fewer natural resources such as water and land, and less fossil energy. It To address these enormous and strategic challenges for the safety of its agricultural Danone has also been able to contribute, in 2014, to advancing these subjects within them that produces a healthy should continue fighting against global warsupplies, Danone has decided to launch a worldwide dairy sector. Indeed, Danone was ming while adapting it. It should also contiSustainable Agriculture task force in close one of the major players, alongside other nue producing food accessible to a maximum collaboration with internal and external dairy companies, in the emergence of a joint and balanced food number of people while ensuring enough income to farmers and maintaining a rural stakeholders in 2012. This important process of reflection, consultation and experimentaapproach for sustainable milk production. This framework, called the ‘Dairy Sustainable supply, is competitive, community. tion on the ground concluded in 2014 with the publication of the “Danone White Paper” Framework’ and available today on the Global Dairy Agenda for Action, sets out a creates economic While Danone honors the independence of agricultural suppliers and producers, and on Sustainable Agriculture. vision, 11 strategic challenges and a methodology to prioritize and put in place actions and social value although its milk purchases for example represent less than 1% of total global milk This reference document for Danone is available on its website, redefines the key issues with all of the other stakeholders. and respects natural supply, the company has long been committed to more sustainable agricultural of tomorrow’s agriculture and determines the key principles that must guide the comecosystems practices. As early as 2002, Danone founded pany’s agriculture supply. SAI (Sustainable Agriculture Initiative), which today unites some 50 actors in the Work is continuing in 2015 to make this agrifood sector. In 2004 Danone integrated vision operational and translate it into gloDANONE HAS SET ITSELF AN AMBITIOUS ten environmental criteria into its Quality bal indicators, both on the quality of the OBJECTIVE FOR ITS MILK SUPPLY: charter for milk producers. A methodology long-term relationship with producers and AT LEAST 75% TO COMPLY WITH Its for assessing animal wellbeing was designed the effective management of water or the The agricultural production at the heart of in 2011 in collaboration with Compassion in preservation of biodiversity or even the SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES Danone’s mission: bringing health through World Farming. In 2012, in partnership with reduction of greenhouse gases. BY 2020 food to as many people as possible. But the the University of Bern (Switzerland), Danone challenges of the 21st century make it essendeveloped a tool for evaluating farm sustai2014 has also allowed the definition of tial to rethink our yesterday’s agricultural nability that was tested in six pilot countries Danone’s position on particularly important models. Tomorrow’s agriculture must have in 2013 (in Europe, the Americas and Asia), and sensitive subjects such as soya in the the ability to feed 2 billion more people in covering very diverse agricultural models framework of its policy of fighting against 2050 while avoiding environmental impacts from subsistence farming to large farming deforestation or for animal wellbeing. These of an intensive agriculture, known today. operations. position papers are available to the public on the website. tomorrow’s agriculture should be able to feed 2 billion people additional in 2050 74 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 75 In 2014, 35% of the volume of fruits and vegetables used in the Projet “Growing Healthy” AN APPROACH ALREADY STARTED The creation of a change guide towards more sustainable agriculture The Growing Healthy program concerns raw factor ies of the Ea Nutrition division rly Life were ON THE GROUND A guide has been drawn up and published in partnership with a panel of international materials used by the Early Life Nutrition division to produce a diversified diet and has evaluated. All the indispensable foundation work to set external experts to assist in pushing practhe goal of developing sustainable supply nized in factories, long-term contracts are out the framework for these new standards tices forward towards more sustainable prac tices. Danone is convinced that a put in place and a real technical support can has led to new projects or developments on agriculture. trouble-free future for babies depends not be supplied for them. The objective is to the ground in 2014. Let us take a look at the only on healthy and tailored nutrition, but deploy this assessment to other operations The development of innovative also on the health of the environment in main ones: before the end of 2015, so that the program agricultural practices which they will grow up. Because of this, as covers 70% of the volume of fruits and The evolution of the “farms” New innovative practices are deployed from well as the food quality and security requirevegetables used. referential one country to another thanks to the global ments absolutely necessary in the producDanone network. This is the case for the tion of infant food, Danone is working to Between 2011 and 2014, the Early Life Danone has pushed forward its evaluation VACCO project deployed by Danone Canada in promote “pioneering” approaches with its Nutrition division implemented a project to grid for practices used by its dairy producers partnership with the breeders’ Federation suppliers, whilst reinforcing its relationship guarantee that the methods of catching fish to standardize it with joint referentials and from Quebec and the University of Laval. with farmers. bought by Danone does not impact the to take into account the latest knowledge in Sustainable Agriculture. This project, initially started in Europe, renewal of the stock of wild fish. enables a significant reduction in emissions For these fruits and vegetables, a grill of In 2014, environmental criteria in line with the the objective of methane from cows, thanks to the incorImproving animal wellbeing is also a part of of having 100% poration of flaxseed in their food rations. Sustainable Agricultural Initiative has been the Growing Healthy program. Once again, of fish from certified developed. Once an assessment has been Danone is wor k in g on a continuous renewable sources was carried out, an action plan, defined with the improvement basis. Danone is currently reached (MSC, Alaskan farmer, will be put in place to reduce the Seafood Responsible developing the improvement strategy for Fisheries certified, line impact of their activity on the soil, water, air the years to come. In 2014, the primary fishing for tuna). and biodiversity. The program is based on objective was reached: 100% of eggs used continuous improvement, and Danone by the division came from uncaged hens. teams carry a regular control. Furthermore, actions are in place to strengthen relationships with suppliers: open days are orga76 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 77 he e n t st ni a io f w ing ct y o cl du it cy Re ant d re The approach of Danone The company consolidates the quantities of qu an is directly related to waste generated by the production sites into four new categories: hazardous waste, non-haits vision of the food zardous non-organic waste, non-hazardous organic waste, and the sludge from treatment chain: addressing waste facilities. issues from upstream to The waste does not include returned products and whey that is generally reused by a third downstream activities. party. Danone monitors the percentage of waste For this reason, three key domains have that is recovered through recycling, reuse of been prioritized, from its scope of direct waste, composting and waste-to-energy responsibility, the industrial waste, to its transformation. scope of extended responsibility, the packaging waste and the food losses. The ratio of waste generated per metric ton of product decreased by 5.5% between 2013 and 2014, primarily because of a decrease in the BIODIVERSITY: INDUSTRIAL WASTE quantity of organic waste following the launch of action plans implemented by Danone to reduce product losses. PROTECTING ECOSYSTEMS The table below presents the quantities of waste generated by Danone’s production related to AGRICULTURE sites in 2013 and 2014: The impact of Danone’s activities on biodiversity is principally linked to upstream agriVariation on a like-for-like culture. Agricultural practices play an 2013 1 2014 1 * 2014 2 * basis 1 essential role in the erosion, fertility and humidity of soil, on the loss of organic matTotal quantity of waste generated 295 449 298 015 306 677 0,9 % (in metric tons) ter and also on the habitats whose roles are essentially protection and reproduction. A Ratio of total quantity of waste pilot study project has been launched in generated per metric ton of product 9,8 9,3 9,6 -5,5 % (in kg/product metric ton) Brazil, particularly in the domains of milk and strawberries, which won the “Exame Total quantity of waste eliminated by a Guide for Sustainability” prize in 2014 in the specific process (in metric tons) 229 413 250 974 255 595 +9,4 % Biodiversity Management category. Exame Guide is the biggest publication in this roportion of waste recovered by a specific 77,6 % 84,2 % 83,3 % +8,5 % domain in Brazil. The “White Paper” for susprocess (in %) tainable agriculture takes into account bio1. 2014 figures verified in the 2014 Registration Document diversity issues. 2. Including sludge from wastewater treatment facilities * Excluding sludge from wastewater treatment facilities 78 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 79 Ambition 2020, TRANSFORM WASTE INTO DANONE HAS DEFINED 25 % of recycled PET In 2014, the sludge from wastewater treatment facilities taken into account in the indicators relates only to those sites that discharge their wastewater directly into the A RESOURCE AND USE FOUR PRIORITIES environment following on-site treatment indicator. MATERIALS MADE FROM Reduce packaging at the source • Supporting innovation in packaging mateThe sludge from wastewater treatment faciliSUSTAINABLE RESOURCE This is a number-one priority wherever possible. Danone must optimize the weight of rials and design to make recycling easier while adapting to collection, sorting and packaging across the board, while maintairecycling systems in concerned country; ties represented 26,000 tons of sludge for 59 Packaging is essential to bringing healthy, ning product quality and the service provi• The development of recycled material has sites (namely 72% of total number of sites safe products to consumers, but its environded to con sumer s . Sever al technic al been a major objective for Danone for sevehaving a treatment). mental and social impacts are important: utiinnovations have been introduced with this ral years, through the development of waste lization of fossil resources, collection and collection or the improvement of the packaData related to recovered waste out of sludge recycling systems insufficient in many counin mind, such as removing the cardboard from yogurts sold in multi-packs and reduging end of life. In 2014, 28% of primary and from treatment facilities increases and tries where the consumption is expanding cing the weight of bottles. secondary packaging comes from recycled reaches 84.6% in 2014. In 2000, it reached rapidly, pollution of oceans and ecosystems, materials, of which 82% for cardboards. only 64.3%. impacts on forests… Ever lighter bottles: Danone has launched a Regarding plastic packaging specifically, number of initiatives for reducing the weight Danone aims to increase the proportion of In order to respond effectively and quicken recycled PET (polyethylene terephthalate) the implementation of innovative solutions, of its bottles. The initiative launched by the (rPET) used in its bottles. Several brands in The reclamation rate Danone will propose a new approach in 2015 Danone Waters China subsidiary is representative company’s policy to work on reducing the Waters division, including Volvic, Evian decreased to around 84,2 % with a packaging policy, which will take into and Bonafont are already using rPET. At endaccount all the packaging life cycle, from the weight of its packaging. The weight of the Mizone brand bottles has been signifi2014, the portion of rPET was 9% across the for the following reasons: upstream use of resources to their end of life. Solutions can be co-developed by mobilizing cantly reduced since 2004, in particular in whole division. Despite the challenges invol> the large 600 mL format whose weight ved in expanding PET bottle-to-bottle recybetter application of the the value chain to allow to a circular economy to create a positive impact. decreased by more than 25% between 2004 cling industry, the goal is to achieve a rate of 25% of recycled PET by 2020; reporting scope; and 2014, from 40g per bottle to 28,5g. > integration of sludge from treatment facilities; Waters Division 2009 2010 2011 8% 10 % 10 % 2012 9% 2013 9% 2014 8% rPET (grPET/ > decrease in recovering a portion of organic waste BETWEEN 2004 2014 and THE WEIGHT OF MIZONE BOTTLES HAS , gPET) DECREASED BY MORE THAN • Developing waste collection systems around the world. Between now and 2020, 25 % Danone will support innovative and socially inclusive initiatives for transforming waste into resources in at least ten priority target countries. Turn waste into a resource After consumption, packaging can be turned back into a useful resource. Danone is working on collection methods to prevent its packaging waste from ending up in landfills, and aims to develop a circular approach based on three priorities: 80 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 81 Danone seeks to expand collection and menting with a new supply chain model that Engage consumers recycling of its packaging and aims to: should enable it to collect 25% of packaging Packaging can help to change consumer • Continue to support efforts to increase colvolumes on the market, while also improving behavior, for example with regard to waste lection and reclamation rates for recycling in the living conditions of the waste pickers collection and sorting. Moreover, it’s a key the countries where waste collection is working in the garbage dumps. There are Danone continues its many collaborative inielement in combating food waste. alr ea d y o r g a ni ze d b y e nv ir o n me nt al thus 450 of them working on these 27 plattiatives with experts and stakeholders to agencies; forms benefiting from the project positive improve impact measurement and allow the • Where this activity is not organized, contriimpact. emergence of third-generation renewable bute to the collection of materials used in Packaging materials made from materials. FOOD LOSSES the packaging of Danone products and explore new collection systems. sustainable resources Danone is a founding member of the Danone has published a position paper on its Paper and cardboard packaging production Bioplastic Feedstock Alliance (BFA) with the approach related to food losses, from Through the Danone Ecos ystem Fund, can have a negative impact on forests. World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to encourage resupstream to downstream, in order to limit Danone supports four projects (in Indonesia, Danone’s goal is to achieve supply that is ponsible development of bioplastics. BFA losses on agricultural upstream, on its Mexico, Argentina and Brazil) that encourage 100% sourced from recycled paper and brings industr y together with the best industrial activities, and considering the recycling, and in particular PET recycling, cardboard or from responsibly managed experts, research organizations and society downstream chain issues related to distribuwhich have a positive impact on local econoforests by 2020 – and by the end of 2015 in as a whole to help guide the evaluation and tion and consumers. mies. These projects combine social and regions with a high deforestation risk such sustainable development of these new environmental goals and allow Danone to as Brazil, China, Indonesia, and Russia. materials. increase its use of recycled PET (rPET) while also improving working conditions and comDanone is also experimenting with plastics pensation for waste pickers. produced from biomass (sugar cane, sugar cane waste and corn). These initiatives show In Brazil, in partnership with that it is possible to develop new materials the INSEA (Instituto Nenuca from renewable resources. By implementing de Desenvolvemento these pilot projects in selected regions, Sustentavel) and the Danone contributes to research and deveMo v im e n to Na ci o n a l d o s lopment efforts needed to promote the Catadores de Materiais emergence of new generations of materials Reciclaveis, and with the supthat do not compete with food production, port of the Danone Ecosystem for more efficient use of resources. Fund , Da no ne Br a z il a nd Bonafont have launched the project “Novo Ciclo” that aims to organize the informal waste collection sector via the construction of a sorting platform in 23 cities in the south of Minas Gerais. With this project, Danone Brazil is experi82 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 83 of tal ion en ct nm t Measure completely du ro in ts Re envi tpr duc ties In 2014, Danone gets the rating 97A e oo o vi Fight climate Danone measures the carbon footprint of its and is part of the ten French th f pr ti of d ac entire product life cycle in every subsidiary. companies the most performing in the an change by reducing In 2008, Danone began developing and deploying a single measurement tool in all fight against the climate change, Danone’s footprint its subsidiaries: Danprint. This tool is being integrated into existing information systhanks to an ambitious program that aims at carbon emission reduction. and helping nature tems thanks to an innovative solution co-developed with software editor SAP. In REPARTITION OVER THE LIFE CYCLE sequester more carbon 8% 2014, and for the first time, data from SAP Carbone have been consolidated as a replaThis rating rewards the high degree of cement of Danprint data for 23 subsidiaries transparency and performance of Danone. 10% representing 39% of Danone’s net consoliCarbon is a key indicator dated turnover. in combating climate change and more broadly helps In 2013, Danone primarily devoted it s Reduce continuously efforts to harmonizing carbon footprint 10% 59% in evaluating Danone’s impact measurement methodologies with its main After reducing its emissions by 41.6% (organic reducing) since 2008 and successfully on natural ecosystems. suppliers of strategic raw materials. “decoupling” its carbon emissions and the The company therefore volume growth (CO2 emissions nearly stable In 2014, Danone entered t he C ar b on looks very closely at its in absolute value since 2007), Danone’s curD i s cl o s u r e L e a d e r s h ip In d e x Fr a nce , rent goal is to achieve a greater than 50% 13% carbon footprint. related to its participation in the Carbon reduction by 2020, and to stabilize CO2 emisDisclosure Project (CDP). The CDP provides sions while continuing sales growth, for a an assessment tool for institutional invesscope representing 6.6 million metric tons RAW MATERIALS tors as well as for other stakeholders. In equivalent CO2 (on Danone’s direct responsibi2014, the index included the 10 companies PACKAGING lity scope, excluding upstream agriculture). selected the most transparent and performing on the actions implemented for mitiSCOPE OF DIRECT PRODUCTION gating climate change. Danone’s total emission s in 2014 are RESPONSIBILITY LOGISTICS estimated to 19 million metric tons equivalent CO2. PRODUCT END OF LIFE DISTRIBUTION OVER THE LIFE CYCLE (IN PERCENTAGE) 304.4G CO2/KG % -29.3G -12.3G -8.8G +31G 204.4G CO2/KG -1.5G 2007 MIX EFFECT VARIATION ACTION PERIMETER VARIATION 2014 PRODUCT AND OF EMISSION PLANS OF MEASURE GEOGRAPHY FACTORS METHOD 84 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 85 Greenhouse gas emissions The table below presents Danone’s total Furthermore, certain refrigerants have a The table below presents data related to by organization greenhouse gas emissions (scopes 1 and 2) in significant impact on greenhouse gas emisDanone sites’ thermal energy consumption 2013 and 2014: sions, particularly HFCs and CFCs. In the in 2013 and 2014: Danone measures the greenhouse gas emisframework of the Consumer Goods Forum, sions by organization (scopes 1 and 2, see d 31 De ce mb er Danone has committed to cease buying Fo r th e ye ar en de description below) using the methodology refrigerators with HFCs for its own fleet by described in the GHG Protocol Corporate d 31 De ce mb er Standard. Total emissions of the end of 2015. Under a policy known as the BCool initiative, Danone began updating its Fo r th e ye ar en de 2013 2014* greenhouse gases in T eq. CO2 proprietary refrigerator fleet at points of MWh 2013 2014 The approach chosen by Danone is to Emissions scope 1 460,256 561,353 sale in 2010 to ensure that only climateintegrate all the emission sources of its Natural gas 1,683,280 2,166,381 friendly refrigerants are in use. By also selecproduction sites into its carbon footprint Emissions scope 2 778,566 860,404 Fuel oil 83,575 58,478 ting refrigerators with better energy performeasurement. Emissions totales 1,238,822 1,421,757 mance and ensuring their end-of-life recyHeating oil 137,444 97,939 Ratio total emissions in kg cling, Danone achieves both reduced energy Direct emissions (scope 1) are emissions ariButane/Propane 108,622 89,462 eq. CO2 per ton of products 41.3 44.4 consumption and a reduction in ozone-desing from consumption of fuels (natural gas, (in kg eq. CO2/ton) Coal 82,030 80,036 pleting emissions. heating oil, coal, etc.) and refrigerant leaks. Other sources 6 558 Indirect emissions (scope 2) are emissions Reduce energy intensity and Direct energy consumption 2,094,457 2,492,853 * 2014 figures verified in the 2014 Registration Document arising from the production of electricity, promote renewable energies Renewable thermal energy steam, heat or cold purchased and consu98,365 114,500 (produced on site) med by Danone. Danone has reduced its energy intensity by 46% since 2000. The goal for 2020 is a 60% Purchased steam 118,510 201,982 The table below indicates emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Danone’s reduction. Danone is also promoting the use Purchased cold 0 9 777 sites in 2013 and 2014: of renewable energies. After the Poços de Thermal energy consumption Caldas plant in Brazil in 2011, the Early Life 2,311,832 2,819,112* (with steam) Nutrition site in Wexford, Ireland, was next Intensity of thermal energy T eq. CFC 2013 2014 to invest €3.8 million in a biomass burner, for consumption (in kWh/metric 77.1 88.0 an annual reduction of 9,500 metric tons of ton of product) CFC 0.002 0.021 CO 2 . This project was supported by the HCFC 0.233 0.256 Danone Ecosystem Fund. * 2014 figures verified in the 2014 Registration Document Emissions arising from the use of refrigerants that deplete the ozone layer increased in 2014. This increase was achieved through the integration of 27 new industrial sites in the reporting perimeter representing 33% of Danone’s emissions related to losses in refrigerants. 86 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 87 Total thermal energy consumption increases On a like-for-like basis, the intensity of energy by 22% between 2014 and 2013. This variation consumption was reduced by 2.9% between is due to the addition into the scope of the The intensity of energy consumption 2013 and 2014. This improvement is primarily 25 sites of former Unimilk company. increased by 15.8% between 2013 and due to the deployment of energy manageThis results in an increase in thermal energy ment best practices in all the divisions (see intensity from 77.1 kWh/metric ton of product 2014. the SUPP EN5 indicator for more details) resulin 2013 to 88 kWh/metric ton of product ting in productivity gains for 1.3%, and a posiin 2014. tive mix effect for 1.6%. THERMAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION INTENSITY IN FACILITIES This variation is due to the addition into the The graph below presents the variation in (IN KWH/TON OF PRODUCT) scope of the 25 sites of former Unimilk comtotal energy consumption intensity at the pany and is reflected in the growth of energy production sites since 2000, for the reporting 169.3 -48% consumption intensity from 137.7 kWh/ton of scope of each of the years concerned. The product in 2013 to 149.3 kWh/ton of product in intensity of total energy consumption was 132.5 2014. reduced by 46% between 2000 and 2014. 108.6 93.7 90.0 84.4 88.0 82.8 77.1 % TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION INTENSITY IN FACILITIES (IN KWH/TON OF PRODUCT) 275.0 -46% 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 218.2 186.2 Thermal energy consumption 163.3 158.9 intensity since 2000 dropped by more 151.6 147.1 137.7 149.3 than 48% over the 2000-2014 period. The table below presents the energ y 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 consumption of Danone production sites in 2013 and 2014: MWh 2013 2014 Thermal energy consumption 2,311,832 2,819,112* (with steam) Electricity 1,817,815 1,962,911* Including electricity specifically 52,174 54,971 generated by 100% renewable sources Total energy 4,129,647 4,782,023* Intensity of energy consumption 137.7 149.3* (in kWh/metric ton of product) * 2014 figures verified in the 2014 Registration Document 88 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 89 In 2014, renewable Cogeneration thermal energy Purchase of electricity specifically Generated from 100% renewable The following table provides data related to Danone sites’ ISO 14 001 certification in represents 4.1 % of total Several sites chose to install cogeneration sources 2013 and 2014: facilities in order to produce electricity and Every subsidiary is responsible for choosing The 25 sites of Unimilk former company, that heat from a single energy source, thus improthermal energy. its energy mix. In 2014, six production sites were added to the reporting scope in 2014, ving the plants’ energy performance. Up to purchased electricity from 100% renewable were not certifed as at December 31 st, 2014. 90% of energy can be recovered with cogenesources (wind power, hydropower, etc.). This This explains why the rate decreased from ration, compared with 40% to 55% for tradirepresents 3% of Danone’s total electricity 60% in 2013 to 50% in 2014. tional systems. At the Bierun plant in Poland (Fresh Dairy Products division), this practice purchases. prevents emission of some 5,400 metric tons d 31 De ce mb er Fo r th e ye ar en de of CO2 each year. The Ochsenfurt plant in • in Russia, in the Tchekov plant, a methanizer Germany (Fresh Dairy Products division) In Germany, 100 % was set in motion in June 2013 in order to 2013 2014 * reduced its annual CO2 emissions by 7% with recover the sludge from treatment plant and Total number of sites this technology. produce biogas. The energy produced repreProduction site 161 179 sents 8% of thermal energy on the site; of electricity of the environment scope 3 German plants • a similar project was begun with external Total number of ISO Thermal energy from renewable stakeholders in 2014. Together with the 14001-certified sites 96 89 sources Association for the protection of rainwater Percentage of ISO Danone is experimenting with projects for the catchment for Evian mineral waters (APIEME), the Danone Eaux France subsidiary launched (Ochsenfurt, Rosenheim 14001-certified sites 60 % 50 % production and use of renewable energies, in particular: the “Terragr’Eau methanization” project in the Evian natural spring catchment area, with the and Hagenow) in Fresh * 2014 figures verified in the 2014 Registration Document • in Uruguay, 80% of thermal energy at the Minas plant (Waters division) is derived from support of the Danone Ecosystem Fund. The purpose of this project, which will include the dairy products division Green program (Global Risk biomass energy available locally; • in Brazil at the Poços de Caldas plant in the construction of a methanization unit, is to manage soil fertilization by recovering agriculcomes from of 100 % Evaluation for Environment) Danone defined environmental production Fresh Dairy Products division, a biomass boiler was launched in August 2011 to replace the tural waste from within the region. The project’s success is ensured locally by the renewable sources. standards for its factories (‘Green Plants Program’) in 1995, and began using internal fuel oil used in heat production. Thanks to this participation of 48 of the 54 farmers on the audits to check compliance with these stanuse of biomass, the thermal energy used by Gavot plateau, who occupy 86% of the catchdards in 1997. the plant is now generated almost entirely ment area’s farmland. The methanizer will from renewable sources (97%); produce 1,485,000 cubic meters of biogas for Number of ISO 14001 In 2006, Danone began worldwide deploy• since 2012, in Ireland, the Wexford Early Life injection into the natural gas distribution grid, certified sites ment of its GREEN (Global Risk Evaluation for Nutrition division site has been using a or 7.5 MWh; this will be the first French site to Danone bases its environmental manageEnvironment) project, a tool for monitoring wood-burning boiler that helps reduce fossil practice biogas injection into the public grid. ment policy on the international ISO 14 001 the main environmental risks relating to the energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions; This project will thus contribute to reducing standard. ISO 14 001 certification is a prereproduction sites (accident risks, reputation greenhouse gas emissions by more than 2,000 quisite set by Danone for achieving the risks and risks of non-compliance with envimetric tons equivalent CO 2 per year. The highest performance level in GREEN environmental regulations). “Terragr’eau methanization” project comprises multiple social aspects, including supronmental risk assessment audits (see following paragraph). At December 31, 2014, 61% of Danone’s producThe energy produced represents 54% port for the continuity of farming operations tion sites (Production sites environment in the region, the development of a training of thermal energy used on site. pole and the creation of around ten related scope) had undergone an external GREEN audit, namely 109 sites. jobs. 90 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 91 Transport is a major source of Rail transport Road transport Constantly streamlining and seeking new greenhouse gas emissions Mass rail transport is a major strategic focus Raw milk intake by the Fresh Dairy Products solutions for the Waters division. In 2014, the “rail/ division has improved thanks to route optiDanone’s teams seek to implement innovaWhile raw milk collection is by nature a road” ratio for departure from Evian and mization software programs now used in tive solutions to reduce carbon emissions local activity (extending a distance of 79 km Volvic plants stabilized at around 55%. Russia, Brazil, Ukraine and Turkey to reduce relating to transport while improving logison average from production sites in France), Efforts to increase the use of rail over long tran spor t dis tances. A new tran spor t tics organization. Danone seeks to develop optimal solutions distances (Germany, United Kingdom) have management software program reduces with its transporters for all of its activities. brought the “rail/road” ton kilometer ratio trip times and distances in the United In the Fresh Dairy Products division, several Transport is largely contracted out, but for Evian Volvic Sources to close to 53% in States. Danone also continues its co-logisinitiatives are emerging. Back-hauling Danone applies numerous best practices to Europe. This performance is the result of tics projects throughout the world to pool actions, for example, continue in several make it more efficient and reduce its energy various optimizations, including: transport resources with other companies subsidiaries to avoid empty truck returns. intensity. • the success of Project Quicksilver from the and improve truck loading rates: with In Chile, a back-hauling partnership created Volvic plant to Germany, which increased the Walmart in the United States, Arla Foods in with Walmart allows Danone to use this In the Fresh dairy products division, logis“rail/road” ratio from 32% in 2010 to 55% in the United Kingdom, Saputo in Canada, etc. customer’s trucks on certain routes. tics environmental best practices have 2011, and then 80% in 2012, 2013, and 2014; Danone Mexico, for example, has developed been communicated since 2011 via the • the strengthening of rail freight from Evian an efficient co-logistics model with Ferrero: In the Waters division, ongoing reflection publication of Green Supply Chain Books and Volvic springs to the Daventry platform, the subsidiary shares its logistics resources seeking dual economic and environmental now al s o s h a r e d w i t h t he Ea r l y Life which increased the rail ratio from 65% in with Ferrero, thus giving access to the more gains leads to introducing specific modes of Nutrition and Waters divisions. Initiatives 2010 to 84% in 2014; than 350,000 local points of sale through transport adapted to each line, with the proposed by the Waters and Fresh Dairy • continued initiatives to supply empty which it distributes its products in Mexico. aim of reducing the number of kilometers Products divisions are intended to improve leased pallets through rail transport from Using this same logistics resources sharing traveled and of switching from road transthe subsidiaries’ environmental and operathe Daventry platform to the Evian and and optimization approach, Danone Russia por t to more environmentally friendly tional performance on various aspects: stoVolvic plans. created a joint venture with Norber t methods. For example: rage, waste management, transportation Dentressangle dedicated to logistics ser• Evian transport towards Russia has shifupstream and downstream. In the Fresh Dairy Products division, product v ice s (tr an spor t and s tor a ge), w hich ted from road transport to a rail/shipping/ lifetime is shorter and use of rail transport is launched business activities in July 2013. road method via the Antwerp platform not always possible. Nonetheless, several (Belgium); countries have successfully implemented • in China, the Danone Waters China subsiintermodal projects, such as in the United diary has introduced a new road/rail/shipKingdom with a return synerg y to the pin g tr an spor t mix for lon g-dis tance Villefranche-sur-Saône site in France. In product deliveries. This initiative generates Canada, 60% of transport to the west coast is significant environmental and economic carried out by rail. The Dannon Company and benefits. In 2013, the Mizone brand reduced Stonyfield Farm subsidiaries in the United its logistics related CO2 emissions by more States have begun supplying their warthan 8,600 tons (on the 600 mL format); ehouses by train. • elsewhere, the Danone Eaux France subsidiary continued its optimization initiatives for finished products pallets in 2013, in response to new French transport legislation authorizing 44-ton trucks (compared with 40 tons previously). 92 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 93 Danone was just For this purpose, Danone has created a Restoration of mangroves ranked among the Forest Footprint policy that aims to: The Livelihoods Fund concentrates on man• evaluate deforestation risks related to the best companies ore grove ecosystems for fundamental reasons: raw materials used directly or indirectly for they are part of the most threatened ecosysthe company’s activities; tems in the world, and affect the vulnerable worldwide with ta 5sc00 • propose specific policies; • implement actions prioritized according to RESTORING ECOSYSTEMS populations that live there. They have a rich biodiversity where aquatic and terrestrial TO CAPTURE CARBON of 5 in the F o r e s risks and associated impacts. Six key comecosystems meet. These ecosystems provide modities have been identified as priorities: organic material, guaranteeing the biodiverranking of the Glonbaonl e paper and cardboard packaging, palm oil, Consistent with its commitment, and after sity necessary for the development of fish soy for animal feed, wood energy, sugar reducing its carbon footprint by 40% over resources, and the protection of the plants cane, and bio-sourced raw materials for Canopy Program. Da the 2008–2012 period, the Evian brand off that are connected to them. Finally, as a packaging. set its remaining emissions in 2012 by supmajor producer of biomass, the mangrove makes these policies porting several quality projects. Starting in eco s y s tem h a s hu ge c ar b on c apture This policy has been rolled out at the level of 201 3, followin g con sult ation with it s potential. 3 categories with a specific policy for palm stakeholders, Evian decided to refocus its publicly available oil based on a partnership with the Forest efforts on the Livelihoods Fund, whose proThere are three current projects: Trust NGO, a specific policy for paper/ jects have been supported by the brand • mangrove plantations in Senegal: through on its website . cardboard packaging, co-developed with a since 2008, by strengthening its participathe action of Océanium, a local NGO, 400 vilbenchmark NGO (Rainforest Alliance), and in tion over the long term. The expansion of lages in Casamance and Sine Saloum have 2014, a specific policy for soy for animal feed these projects will progressively offset the restored 8,000 hectares of mangroves, thein collaboration with the consulting firm Evian brand’s emissions, to achieve full reby contributing to the return of subsisTransitions in order to initiate with all the emissions offset by 2020. tence resources to their ecosystem (fish, stakeholders of this complex supply chain shellfish) and have also developed activities the construction of suitable and truly effecAfter successful experiences in carbon comwhich help improve living conditions of the tive solutions. pen sation unit s dating from 2008, in people living in these villages; partnership with IUCN and the Ramsar • mangrove plantations in India: with the convention on humid zones, Danone wanted Indian NGO NEWS (Nature, Environment & Eliminate deforestation to join other companies in establishing the Livelihood Fund. This Fund, which brings Wildlife Society), the villagers of the Ganges delta replanted 3,500 hectares of mangroConscious of the critical importance of pretogether nine large companies with Danone, ves at the end of the first quarter of 2014. In serving forests for the planet and the need invests in large natural ecosystems restorathis region of India, mangroves restoration for concerted action with all parties involtion projects. projects dykes against cyclones and water ved, Danone committed to this cause with a level rises and brings food resources in the dedicated policy to eliminate deforestation These projects contribute towards combaform of fish; practices in its supply chain. This goal ting climate change by restoring ecosystems • mangrove plantations in Indonesia: driven Forest Footprint policy Because of their vital role on the water cycle, applies to all Danone products and activities that could have a negative impact on the to capture carbon. The goal is to stock 8 million tons of carbon over 20 years for a by Yagasu Aceh, a local NGO, coastal inhabitants restored 5,000 hectares on the island Yagasu forests. Learn more about Danone’s Forest minimum investment of 40 million euros. of Sumatra in a very active approach to help land, biodiversity and climate, forests are an Footprint policy at www.danone.com. The Fund has already invested in seven prolocal communities to develop mangrove-reessential link of the food chain. Conscious of jects in Africa and Asia, with three types of lated activities (aquaculture, batik tinting). the critical importance of preserving the plaactivity. net’s forests (in par ticular the tropical forests in Indonesia, Amazon and the Congo basin), Danone is committed to a strategy of eliminating the deforestation impacts on its supply chain. 94 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 95 Agroforestry Rural energy • the implementation, at the same time, of an ambitious replanting project: 2.4 million Agroforestry projects contribute to the regeThe ability to address basic energy needs trees will be planted in conjunction with neration of degraded soil, pasture, forests (heating and light) is a challenge for emerlocal communities. These trees will provide and plants that have lost their organic matging countries, particularly in rural zones. not only wood for heating lumber, but also ter content and their fertility. A number of Inefficient cooking methods involve both fruits for eating and for sale and allow restoagricultural protocols are in place, tailored energy costs and also risks of respiratory ration of degraded soil. for local conditions. The aim of these protoillnesses for local populations. They are also cols is to both restore fertility and to cataa major cause of deforestation, creating The Tipaalga project is underway in Burkina lyze agricultural activities on subsistence great pressure on forests, threatening ecoFaso: this project aims to help rural populaand on cash crops. systems and their biodiversity. Optimization tions combat desertification and global warprojects are based on simple and more effim i n g b y t h e a d o p t i o n o f e co l o g i c a l The following projects are underway: cient solutions. These improved cooking household stoves, which they make them• agroforestry in India: with the support of methods greatly reduce wood consumption selves. In collaboration with the NGO the Naandi Foundation, the Adivasi tribal and, consequently, CO2 emissions, which Tiipaalga, Livelihoods will equip 30,000 communities in the Araku valley planted 6 could be converted into carbon credits. households with these improved stoves, million f r ui t t ree s , cof fee t ree s and with a minimum of two stoves per family. wood-producing trees, through agroforestry At the end of 2012, the Livelihoods Fund The project will affect 9 towns and 222 vilmodels; launched its first project in the field of rural lages in the Bam and Loroum provinces in • agroforestry in Guatemala: with the supenerg y in Kenya, in collaboration with the North of the country. The project will por t of local NGO Fund aeco and the Clim ate Pal: “Hif adhi ” (w hich mean s enable 40,000 tons of wood to be conserved Guatemalan government, the challenge of “conserve” or “maintain” in the local lanand 689,000 tons of CO2 over the 10 year this project is to preserve the biodiversity of guage). This project has two complementary duration of the project. the Cerro san Gil Mountain, by allowing the components: small farmers established in the foothills of • the distribution of cooking systems to the mountain to live decently through agro60,000 households. These clay and metal forestry. 4,000 hectares of trees and plants systems allow a 60% reduction in wood of various varieties will be planted. consumption compared to traditional systems, which preserves local forests (around 13,000 tons of wood which are not burned) and reduces CO2 emissions (2.75 tons saved per year and per system); 96 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 97 N ard a t u r e da s h b o We will fight climate change by reducing our footprint and helping nature sequester more carbon 2014 Performance Milestones towards 2020 2020 Target Reduction of CO2 footprint 42 % Danone Direct Responsibility (DDR) > 50 % Intensity (g CO2equivalent/kg product) Baseline end 2007 scope Danone Direct Responsibility (DDR) scope Measure CO2 intensity across our food chain 39 % of CANN covered with SAP carbon CO2 measure worldwide module SAP carbon deployed 100% where (full scope) applicable Coverage calculated as a % of net sales Reduce energy consumption of factories 46 % energy reduction 40 % compliant in 2015 60% energy reduction Intensity (kWh/T product) Baseline 2000 Use only natural refrigerants 20 % compliant Point of sale fridges & coolers Eliminate deforestation impacts from our • Paper & Board policy: 96% compliance Specific policies defined for all commodities on top 4 risk countries at risk (soy for animal feeding, sugar supplychain • Palm oil policy: 100% RSPO full cane…) Relevant standards specific to each commodity segregated • Soy policy: pilot launched in Brazil Restore ecosystems and fix carbon in soils and 40 % carbon intensity reduction on Evian Offset 100% of remainder CO2 emission brand for Evian forests Livelihoods Fund We will protect water resources, particularly when scarce, and use them in harmony with local ecosystems and communities Protect natural Mineral Water resources All current catchment areas SPRING developped in collaboration 100% compliance on all Water Division with Ramsar agreements sites (including new ones)  anone “Clean Water Guidelines” for waste water D Definition by 2015 100 % compliance  educe water consumption in factories R 39% reduction Priority sites based on Water 60% reduction Process water intensity (M3/T product) Baseline 2000 Scarcity Index Measure Water Footprint SAP Pilot in one CBU Roll-out in Water Division 100% coverage in Water Division We will transform waste into a resource and use materials made from sustainable resources Innovate to “transform waste into resource” Projects in 4 Country Business 10 priority business units Units with Ecosystem Fund Develop the use of recycled materials 8% rPET Waters 25% rPET Waters 70% rPaper Dairy 75% rPaper Dairy 88% rPaper other Divisions 90% rPaper other Divisions Innovate with bio-sourced materials Activia, Actimel, Volvic & Stonyfield, Co-creation of Bioplastics Feedstock Water bottle produced with Danonino in 7 countries Alliance. Pilot projects launched. 100% bio-based material compliant of 3th generation Source 100% of recycled paper or virgin paper Paper Board policy: 85% reached 100% in high risk countries by 2015 100 % 96% compliance on top 4 risk countries coming from responsibly managed forests, with preference for FSC We will promote agriculture that produces a healthy and balanced food, that is competitive and create economic and social value, respecting natural ecosystems Promote a Sustainable Agriculture Sustainale agriculture white paper Sustainable Sourcing Roadmap published in 2014 by the end of 2015 Source raw materials sustainably • Palm oil policy: 100% RSPO full segregated • Soy policy: Pilot launched in Brazil 98 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 99 Human at the heart of Danone culture Social P.103 Communities P.122 france Factory employees Fight against fraud and corruption P.132 100 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 101 Social As at deceMber 31 20 Dat St a 36% avErage wo r kForce geNder DiversiTy: 14 5% 88% 7% 44% 56% inTerim Asia ed-terM loNg-terM fiX Total numbeR ContrAct s Co ntrActs Of emPloyeEs: 99 927 AmeRicas of which 18% manaGers EuropE 28% avErage work Fo rce 27% ce avEr age workFor 5% 93% 2% 29 997 69 930 afriCa/ ed-terM loNg-terM fiX rActs inTerim im Ddle easT Women Men 92% 2% 6% Cont rA ct s Co nt y: 31% 69% geNder DiversiT inTerim loNg-terM fiXed-terctsM Total workForce 9% ContrActs ContrA By diVision: r ce geNder DiversiTy: avErage workFo 27% 73% 42% 38% Fresh Dairy Products Waters 5% 6% 30% 70% 89% geNder DiversiTy: 13% 6% fiXed-terM loNg-terMs ContrActs inTerim Early Life Medical Nutrition Nutrition ContrAct 1% TotAl: 19% 81% Central functions 100% 102 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 103 l Social d ia s an oc yee en e s plo op tiv em An ruc ith Social dialogue, the key to t w ns e sustainable success at the heart of co ogu the dual economic and social project di al An open and constructive social Social dialogue within Danone hinges on the dialogue with employees dual economic and social project set out by Antoine Riboud durin g his speech in nd wellbeing of health a Marseille in 1972. More than 40 years later, G ua r a n t ee s at work this social dialogue is still a fundamental of employee part of Danone. SOCIAL DIALOGUE: Individual employee Today, this dialogue is carried out at on an development A SPRINGBOARD TO SUSTAINABLE international scale and is evidenced in the SUCCESS AND COMPANY worldwide dialogue body (The Committee for Information and Consultation – CIC). This TRANSFORMATION dialogue can also been seen in the signing of international agreements negotiated with and monitored by the IUF (International Attention to employees, Union of Food Workers), which constitute like the will to guarantee a common set of social policies across the the best possible growth various subsidiaries across the world. in a radically changing economic context, are at the heart of Danone’s culture and its dual economic and social project. Social dialogue is, therefore, one of the keys to the sustainable “ Th manaeg dialogue success of Danone, as well represeement and ebetween as a lever to support the transformation aimed at improving the company’s level onf tatives at m e ployee is at the c very economthe heart oof mpany performance. ic and the dua of Dan social polic l one” y Franck Riboud Ar ge nt in e y em pl oy ee s Lo ng ch am ps fa ct or 104 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 105 1988 1985 First joint vision between Danone and UITA 1989 As at 31 December 2014, nine worldwide Danone’s social policy is also seen through Start of the agreements signed between Danone and the local initiatives and agreements such as: relationship IUF were in force. They are principally aimed • in France: signature of an agreement in with UITA Convention on economic Convention at diversity, social dialogue, and steps to be favor of the employment of handicapped and social to encourage implemented when changing activity affecworkers in Februar y 2014 at Danone’s information professional for Danone equality of men ting employment or working conditions. headquarters; and women The last global agreement, signed the 29 th • in Mexico: an extension of the Dan’Cares September 2011, focuses on health, safety, working conditions and stress. insurance program for employees’ families which had run for 2 years within the 1997 Convention on T he nine wor ld w ide a g r e e me nt s a r e Bonafont HOD company, an innovative program, unique in Mexico; modiﬁcations of activity aﬀecting 1994 1993 Convention employment deployed in the company’s subsidiaries and • in Italy: signature of an agreement in July or working conditions on training they are assessed annually jointly by a repre2014 for the launch of Family Welfare, a proConvention 4 on exercising sentative of Danone and one from the IUF. gram for economic and social development union rights Thus, between 2009 and 2014, more than dedicated to families within the Early Life fifty subsidiaries were assessed on their social practices, including the USA, Sweden Nutrition division. This initiative welcomed by the Italian government and resting on 2005 and Spain in 2014. five pillars of social innovations, had the 2011 goal of supporting employees’ families in a Convention for the 2007 Convention Convention on health, safety, In September 2014, in compliance with the sustainable manner. implementation working conditions of social on diversity and stress agreement of 11th January 2013 on securing indicators employment, two employee representatives Moreover, Danone also promotes the appliwere designated to take part in the Council of cation, within its subsidiaries, of best pracAdminis tration. Representation of tices in terms of social dialogue, through the employees within governance bodies is, for Danone Way approach, based on the key Danone, a lever for fostering understanding practice “Employees Involvement and Social of strategies among employees and it takes Dialogue” which includes: Social dialogue at the heart In this context of transformation, Danone, into account of their views on these strate• the evaluation of policies implemented by of the company’s transformation as a socially responsible company, wishes gies, in order to anticipate their consequences. subsidiaries, particularly in the application to put its change projects in place in close Taking into account the difficult international The presence of employee representatives of the IUF agreement on social dialogue, the collaboration and in a constructive manner, economic context, Danone must adapt to the encourages a diversity of points of view, and implementation of a framework conducive with staff representatives, minimizing social changing market, projects and competition a better understanding of an ever more comto social dialogue, organization of indeconsequences. Danone relies on a number and adapt its organization so as to encouplex corporate reality. pendent elections of staff representatives, of principles and conventions in this regard, rage sustainable growth and ensure its meetings with employee representatives which are at the heart of a dual economic durability. and negotiation of conventions; and social project: • the monitoring of indicators such as the • permanent anticipation; For this, an Employment and Organization number of economic and social informa• continuous strengthening of the employaCommit tee regularl y brin g s together tion sessions for all employees, the bility of employees; Finance, Social Relations and Organization percentage of employees covered by • reinforcement of the local economic fabric management teams of the company to staff representatives and the number in which Danone operates; examine every change project which might of annual meetings between site mana• redundancies as the final solution for be initiated by any Danone subsidiary on a gement and staff representatives. employment to adapt to the needs of comworldwide level, to consider its consepetitiveness and the search for long-lasting quences and look for possible alternative solution. solutions. 106 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 107 alth he of k of eing or tee b t w an ell s a ar w ee Practically, this can be seen over three years through: Priority for employee mobility and creation of activity Challenges to be Gu nd loy a p em • A plan for savings and adaptation was implemented in Europe with the goal of A support process for the internal and external mobility of employees has also addressed in terms simplif ying and adapting the Danone’s organizations to improve competitiveness. been implemented. It has allowed a rate of over 45% of repositioning within the comof health and safety In practice, this means, over two years, pany. Employees wishing to create an entreThe guarantee of health achie v in g € 20 0 million in s t r uc tur al preneurial ac tivit y benef it ted from a and wellbeing of employees savings, combining several subsidiaries in specific scheme, based on the “Danone for Europe (from a total of 67 to 33 in all) and Entrepreneurs” program with financial and at work and the limiting broad-based eff orts to simplify operations; practical support. This start-up structure of the number and gravity • taking into account existing local overcapahas been developed at a European level: at of accidents represent city, in 2014 an adaptation project for the the end of 2014, almost 90 projects were industrial tool of the Fresh Dairy Products accompanied in six countries (France, a continuous commitment in Germany, Italy and Hungary was put in Romania, Portugal, the Czech Republic, for danone. The economic place, whose objective was to improve its etc.).The origin alit y of this progr am , and social context being production capacity and competition edge co-built with more than thirty local particiin constant evolution, in Europe; • the sale of some sites has also enabled pants, specialists in assisting entrepreneurs, is also based on a dual dynamic: adapting to health and safety Danone’s safety challenges • some fatal and serious accidents despite employees to remain in employment through individual and collective. challenges is a priority guarantees implemented by Danone. for danone. great progress in Danone’s safety culture: indeed, On an individual level: access to finance to To implement these projects in the best set up a business, access to advice, training the frequency rate (FR1) has been divided by five since conditions, the transformation of the comand offices. On a collective level: bringing In order to ensure safety at work, Danone has the start of WISE ten years ago; developed, since 2004, a worldwide program pany took place through a sustained social dialogue with staff representatives. together an open network of peers and experts, workshops and conferences on key called WISE, to develop a safety culture on all • the ageing employee population, the rise themes of the launch. The themes dealt of Danone’s sites and to significantly reduce in the population in numerous geographic areas Several levers were also activated: with are varied: drawing up your business the number and gravit y of workplace with increasing problems linked to physical loads Social dialogue as a lever for accompaniment model, choosing your statutes, identifying accidents. and maintaining these employees in work; In 2013, regarding the plan for savings and adaptation, t wo conventions were key factors for success, etc. Concrete and moving testimonies are at the heart of this This program is deployed worldwide in each • integration of younger generations, particularly concluded: a framework convention at innovative learning, co-built with the entredivision, plant, and warehouse and in the salespeople whose respect for required standards European level with the IUF and a joint preneurs themselves. distribution circuits. Danone is committed in health and safety practices are endlessly renewed; not only to the health and safety of its agreement on social assistance measures in all the French subsidiaries concerned. employees but also to that of its subcontractors, • volatility of the economic, political and social Fur t her more, t wo op er atin g me t ho d because the WISE program applies to them as context, which demands a strong framework to support conventions specifically linked to the project long as they work in Danone’s sites. continuous improvement in safety; for the adaptation of the industrial assets for the Fresh Dairy Products division in Europe Beyond being an industrial business with •evolution of Danone’s position, which requires were signed in 2014. It is in this framework 150 plants, more than 50 000 plant workers necessary skills for the respect of safety standards that collective conventions were also signed and over 30 000 salespeople and drivers on on the Danone value chain; the road, many challenges have led Danone respectively in Germany, Italy and Hungary. to recently update its health and safety • the increasingly blurred distinctionbetween health commitments. and safety with a growing proportion of accidents linked to musculoskeletal problems and the emergence of absenteeism linked to psychosocial risks. 108 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 109 THE EXTENSION For two years Danone has been increasing the focus of its accidentology on accidents with PROVIDE QUALITY SOCIAL OF THE WISE PROGRAM and without time off by systemizing the monitoring of FR2 (rate of accident frequency WELFARE AND MEDICAL As a consequence Danone has committed without time off). Danone now monitors safety improvements at each of its sites and COVERAGE FOR ALL EMPLOYEES, to progressively upgrade its WISE program in Health-safety initiatives subsidiaries by measuring the reduction in NOTABLY THROUGH 2 directions in order to support Danone vision: • training: training for gestures both types of accidents. • the strengthening of Danone’s compliance to its Health&Safety standards. and postures, training of technical THE DAN’CARES PROGRAM FR2 has improved by almost 22% due to the Since 2009 Danone has set 4 safety standards : and engineering teams in ergonomics, uniform progression of all the divisions, with driving safety, contractors management, training on the risks connected the exception of the Fresh Dairy Products In 2010 Danone launched the Dan’Cares prohazardous energy and accident investigation. In 2013, in order to prevent potential high to the use of chemical products; division in Russia, where the counting of gram, with the goal of providing all Danone gravity accidents, Danone has launched its • adaptation of work stations; accidents has not yet achieved a sufficiently reliable standard. employees with basic healthcare coverage: hospitalization and surgery, maternity care, fifth global safety standard covering 12 basic • design of new projects: medical exams and pharmacy services. safet y requirement s: Work at height, dedicated investment and participative sites; In 2013, Danone decided to increase the Chemic al produc t s , Conf ined space s , Dan’Cares’ specificity lies in its scope of Explosive environments, Hazardous Gases, • turnover and working hours monitoring of its safety performance by application. It is meant to be rolled out in all monitoring the gravity rate (the average Machines and equipments with specific high measurement; number of calendar days lost reported subsidiaries, including in countries where risks, Forklifts, Racks & Pallets, Trucks loa• engineering guidelines in the Fresh to 1000 working hours). The rate of gravity of such coverage does not traditionally exist ding/unloading, Trucks fleets. • the extension of the WISE program, activiDairy Products division, currently being workplace accidents with time off work in the (for example, maternity care). All employees company in 2014 was 0.10, which represents are covered, including those with long-term, ties and tools to integrate Safety and Health rolled-out amongst the other divisions. 21 342 days off for safety-related reasons. fixed-term and in some cases temporary in a consistent approach. contracts. Danone will continue its existing Wise program Objectives for the coming years while progressively enriching it with a set of activities, processes, tools and resources to RESULTS FOR 2014 More precisely, Danone has set out four objectives to support its strategy: In some countries, employee healthcare coverage is also valid for their families. move in the 2 directions above in the years • a commitment to eradicate fatal accidents to come. The annual rate of workplace accidents In 2012, the company conducted an audit of (for Danone employees and subcontractors with absences (Rate FR1, see methohealthcare coverage in effect at all fully Use of the WISE program working on Danone sites) and reach an accident dology note) went from 2.3 to 1.9 consolidated subsidiaries in order to expand to encourage improvement rate of 1 in 2020 (halving the number of accidents between 2013 and 2014. Dan’Cares coverage to all countries where in working conditions with time off); • improvement of the systematic respect of Danone operates. For the past two years, in the continuity In 2014, the continued reduction of FR1 existing safety standards. This will lead of the WISE program and in the light of the (-17%) comes essentially from Fresh Dairy 70,000 employees in 25 countries received Danone to enrich its audit framework linked increase in musculoskeletal problems in Products, which has succeeded in reversing healthcare coverage in line with the standards to safety to a systematic assessment of the accidentology of the different types of the trend in Europe in a remarkable way, defined by Dan’Cares, including 40,000 compliance with standards and to train its Danone sites, the working conditions are an given the economic and social context, and employees whose coverage resulted from the auditors in new safety challenges; increasingly integral part of safety action plans. from Russia, where deployment of WISE in implementation of action plans initiated • reinforce resources and organizations in the former Unimilk group sites is succeeding since 2011; the actions carried out in 2014 terms of health and safety. This will lead with a reduction in FR1 for the first time focused mainly on the implementation of Danone to clearly define jobs and to provide since their acquisition, and there has also Dan’Cares in Russia. precise directions on Danone’s organizations been a continuation of the rate of improveand their health and safety systems; ment in Latin America. It comes from the • animate health and safety challenges through continuous improvement of FR1 rates in the positive and continuous communication. Waters division. 110 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 111 ee oy pl t em en al p m du lo ivi eve BELIEF IN ITS EMPLOYEES: Ind d DISCOVER, RESPECT AND DEVELOP MANAGERS HAVING HAD A PDR2 IN 2014 all TALENTs BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA % At Danone, attracting and During this discussion, the employee’s 100 wishes in respect of career progression, retaining the best candidates 80 mobility and training are considered. are challenges at the heart of the dual economic and social 60 Each employee is encouraged to be active in their own career trajectory, supported by project, with the conviction 40 their manager, their Human Resources that developing employees 20 Manager, a career guide and the local initiaat all levels, respecting their 0 tives in place to this end. wishes and talents makes Africa and Eastern Latin For e xample, in Turkey, the “Nutricia danone a sustainably high Middle East Europe America Academy” aims to offer career programs to all performing company. salespeople in the Medical Nutrition division, Asia Western North and Pacific Europe America irrespective of their status. A policy of talent management In 2014, 46 young people from different jobs locally rooted In 2014, to bring value to and share local across six countries participated in the program In 2013, one manager in five had changed job initiatives, Danone organised, internally, and were able to encourage cooperation or employer1; these changes are principally a human resources prize. between subsidiaries in the region. A tutor is motivated by the acquisition of more resassigned to each young person throughout ponsibilities, career evolution perspectives This scheme has enabled 50 projects to be their mission to assist them in the program. and a change of environment. NON MANAGERS HAVING HAD AN IDP3 launched in the “Talent management and % OR EQUIVALENT IN LAST TWO YEARS training” category. These dynamics are accelerating; Danone is continuing its efforts to create the best 100 conditions for the individual development of In 2014, for example, the Jaguar program, 80 its employees, in keeping with their career aimed at young talents in Latin America, progression wishes and the needs of the 60 received this prize. The young people selected organization. for the program go on a six-month mission in ne For 2015, Danoop 40 a different country within the same contiplans to devel am In 2014, 82% of managers and 53% of 20 nent and develop their adaptation skills and employees, manual workers and managing their understanding of multiculturalism. gr the Jaguar proworld, 0 agents had an annual discussion with their throughout the ming manager on their individual development. Africa and Eastern Latin thereby confir t Middle East Europe America its commitmen oung Asia Western North and Pacific Europe America of y to development . talents 1. MobiCadres Study by Deloitte 2. Performance, and Development Review 3. Individual Development Plan 112 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 113 A demanding and ambitious An objective: Development of Danone Academies vision by 2020 increase learnings locally After the success of these developments, In progress for several years, the level of After the creation, in 2013, of a training and to assist in the transformation necesaccess to continuous training has continued organization in China – Danone Academy sary to meet the strategic challenges of to develop. Between 2008 and 2014, the aveChina – Danone launched other local Danone, the company set out a new policy “Talent 2020” driven by the Management DEVELOPING AND SHARING rage number of hours of training per employee went from 24 to 72 hours per year, academies in 2014, in France, Indonesia and Russia. Committee. EACH EMPLOYEE’S SKILLS which represents an increase of more than 40%. This strategy includes commitments on talent management and reaffirms the confiA virtual apprenticeship platform For Danone, developing the skills of all of its dence that Danone ha s in each of it s Campus 2.0, catalyst of the One Learning a employees is an essential condition for employees: Danone recognizes the unique Day approach is a unique online platform its growth. This is a multiple challenge: talent of each employee, giving them the enabling learning oppor tunities to be • assisting the growth of the fastest develospace and time necessary to each person to increased and knowledge to be shared. 2014 ping countries, ensuring training of numerous express themselves and develop in closewas the annual deployment year for Campus Danone Academy Indonesia new employees in technical and managerial knit and diverse teams. 2.0 and at the end of the year, 70% of manahad been inaugurated in fundamentals; gers had access to it. In 2015, all employees May 2014 with the mission • anticipating and developing of critical skills will be able to benefit from this. to increase Indonesia for the future; For the five coming years, • ensuring that all employees share Danone’s organization capability and Danone will focus culture and values; One learning a day nur ture the culture to sustain the business growth. on four themes: • developing a culture of leadership and The shared learning services management, which will bring both business a n d in f r a s t r u c t u r e f o r 5 performance and team development. 1 detection and development of employees’ talents; Facing these challenges, Danone’s Learning Subsidiaries in Indonesia was initiated and co-built by Indonesian CODI members. All the CODI members divided and Development strategy was focused in themselves into designated work streams in 2014 on three key themes: 2 order to animate Danone Indonesia as a promotion of diversity, • “One learning a day”: multiplying learnings for everyone, supported by new “digital learIn 2014, Danone: great place to grow. In 2014, about 80% of inclusion of talents and appreciation ning” approaches; • developed and made available almost m ana ger s have been touched across of collaborative work; • setting up “Danone Academies” in the main 30 new digital modules, in subjects like Subsidiaries through 56 learning events in our learning centre. sites where the company is implemented, safety (WISE program) or fundamentals of 3 ofdevelopment to train new employees in the fundamentals the supply chain; and management and accelerate their development; • tested the development of the application an internal and external • supporting the development of leadership for training, in the framework of “Danone Academy Marketing”; and strengthen proximity management. talent incubator, so as to guarantee • launched a “serious game” on the integration long-term succession plans; of young employees called “Dan’Discovery”. The Danone Academy France organized two events to roll out the new Learning 4forredefinition of the template the assessment of the skills strategy “One learning a day”: • A learning day, bringing together internal and potential of employees, participants (HR community France) helping the recognition of all talents, thereby allowing personalized • A service providers morning for external and decompartmentalized participants (Learning partners) career paths. 114 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 115 These Academies enable to: The programme has a powerful impact for Some levers can be activated locally, depenparticipants to see a Sales Manager, an ding on specific challenges to guarantee • deal with the need for recruiting new Industrial Director or a Marketing Manager employee diversity. talents in new geographic areas of Danone, people they meet every day in the office now notably on the fundamentals; facilitating the DLC session and bringing all To progress on the subject of male/female • share the culture of Danone, particularly the passion and inspiration to them. equality, Danone has continued with its through induction programs; commitment to professional equality sup• address larger training needs through ported by the “Women Plan”. Drawn up in internal training. In addition to the Danone Leadership 2009 and deployed in all the subsidiaries College, Danone has rolled-out in 2014 a worldwide, this plan depends on individual Since 2012, 153 Danoners from all “Transformation Leadership Program” for and organizational measures. Subsidiaries in China have been trained as top management. It aims to deal with a internal trainers to deliver 23 program for transformation in a more and more complex For instance, rigorous analysis and monitoring more than 4,000 participants. These interworld and thus to prepare Danone‘s evoluof indicators relating to salary equality have nal trainers follow an annual course specific tion in the future. been continued in 2014. The indicator of training and are guided through an internal salary equality is reviewed every year during In an extension of the EVE program, net wor k w here they can sh are their salary reviews. Danone initiated the Octave seminar in experiences. REINFORCE DIVERSITY AT DANONE There are also ad hoc training schemes for 2012 in conjunction with other companies, THROUGH THE UNIQUENESS women, particularly training in Leadership so as to bring together three generations to understand their differences, overcome OF EACH PERSON AND for women and a three day training course: stereotypes and exchange experiences to The development of a distinctive “Women in Leadership”. build the future. culture of Leadership and Management The program Danone Leadership College, run THE STRENGTH OF TEAMS The networks of women and their events This seminar is organized annually and, in since 2008, aims to have all employees share allow this dynamic to be continued in the 2014, brought together 180 international a distinctive culture of leadership “CODE” In 2007, Danone signed a Worldwide long term. These networks, in place in several participants and 20 players around the (“Committed, Open, Doer, Empowered”). Convention on Diversity, with the IUF, idensites in France, organize meetings during the theme of “intergenerational action in the tifying 7 levers of action for the company: annual diversity day at Danone. These are digital era”. It aims at promoting networks In 2014, this initiative continued to be 1. Recruitment; opportunities to exchange and reflect and organizations at enhancing lateral deployed particularly in plants and sales 2. Training; enable women and men to discuss and set pathways, at encouraging the increased forces as well as in the new countries where 3. Development of Human Resources (career up powerful internal networks. Finally, sharing of knowledge and skills, where Danone operates such as Russia, to root and skills management) a program of intercompany sponsorship has diversity of behavior represents a learning these CODE leadership attitudes in work 4. Remuneration; been organized. opportunity. situations. 5. Working conditions; 6. Communication; At the end of 2010, Danone created the EVE Be aware and be confident. 7. Social Dialogue. program with various partner companies on That is the objective of the In 2014 Danone Russia faced a challenging the “Be yourself and unleash your potential” proOctave program, which goal to deploy CODE for more than 10 000 gram. Today, the EVE seminar is the reference beyond a training course, it people working in more than 50 locations. Moreover, Danone has a global, integrated point for awareness and personal development is a real field of experimenIt was a first time after the merge of Danone approach to diversity. This is reflected on the subject of female leadership. tation and transformation. & Unimilk.The Danone Leadership College in three working areas: has been deployed with the support of 1. objective statistical analysis of all HR proEVE includes women and men at all levels of 80 internal facilitators representing 11 different cesses and practices; the organizations. After the program’s success, functions and external consultants. 2. development of a managerial culture and understanding of the subject of diversity EVE Asia Pacific edition was created in 2014. Octave through training; 3. communication and mobilization around diversity. 116 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 117 Gender diversity RATIO OF BASIC SALARY The tables below provide an overview of the gender gaps by level The share of women within the management OF MEN AND WOMEN Directors excluding general managers: Manager category: population increased in 2014 compared to 2013, at all levels and especially at the direcBY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Internal Danone grades 6b to 5 (equivalent to grades 20 to 22 of the “Hay system”). Internal Danone grades 9.9 to 7 (equivalent to grades 15 to 18 of the “Hay system“) tors and executives level, which is crucial to Managers and Directors categories foster a global business dynamic. The data is provided by the “HIRIS” informaComparison 5 6A 6B Total Comparison 7 8 9 9,9 Total Directeurs 2013 2014 tion system for Human Resources manageManagers ment indicators. The basis chosen for Women 1,02 1,08 0,94 0,99 Female Male Female Male Women 0,88 0,87 0,82 0,82 0,84 comparison, i.e. the “compa-ratio”, is the Total managers* 46 % 54 % 47 % 53 % total wages received by the individual comMen 1,04 1,01 0,97 1,00 Men 0,90 0,85 0,77 0,87 0,82 of which directors 40 % 70 % 32 % 68 % pared to the median wages established each Total 1,04 1,03 0,96 1,00 Total 0,89 0,86 0,79 0,84 0,83 and executives year for all managerial and executive cateof which executives 15 % 85 % 16 % 84 % gories organized by grade. 2014 Gap -0,01 0,06 -0,03 -0,01 2014 Gap -0,02 0,02 0,05 -0,05 0,02 There are ten grades (excluding Danone of which directors 33 % 67 % 34 % 66 % Vs 2013 Gap -0,04 0,00 -0,03 -0,03 Executive Board members) in all 60 counVs 2013 Gap -0,03 0,02 0,02 0,05 0,01 of which other 48 % 52 % 48 % 52 % tries where the company does business. managers Total Total The compa-ratio indicates this wage gap Average age Directeurs Average age Managers independently of the currency and country * Social Indicators Scope Women 46,3 45,2 42,6 43,9 of reference. Women 40,2 37,6 35,3 27,8 35,7 Men 46,7 45,2 43,4 44,7 Men 41,6 39,7 37,7 30,0 38,1 These results are based in particular from Examples: two main approaches: • a compa-ratio of 1.0 means that the indiviTotal 46,6 45,2 43,1 44,4 Total 41,0 38,7 36,5 28,8 37,0 Organizational: dual is paid exactly the median wage for his • monitoring the number of women at each or her grade; Total workforce of 1,276 managers of which Total workforce of 17,355 directors of which hierarchical level with a specific guideline on • a compa-ratio of 1.10 means that he or she 34.6% women and 65.4% men. 48.5% women and 51.1% men. three key factors: internal promotion, external is paid 10% more than the median. These figures include all directors in the company. These figures include all directors in the company. hiring and retention of women within Danone; • measures to support work-life balance, including telecommuting and parenthood that benefit both women and men; There is an overall gap of -1% across the For the entire manager population, more • wage equality. entire population, with a new gap identified than 17,300 employees, no gender gap is Individual: in 2013 for the grade 5 directors. There is a apparent for wages. • support for women (training, networking, gap identified in 2014 in women’s favor of mentoring) and men (awareness trainings). the grade 6a directors. Overall, the compensation review procedures, guided by Danone policies and incluThose actions are implemented more often in ding a comparison of compensation for men an intergenerational way, crossing hierarchal and women, continue to direct attention to levels and, in some cases, with other comthis issue where gaps can exist. panies. This is the case for example of the mentoring from the seminar EVE achieved by creating pairs of employees from different companies partners of the program. 118 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 119 Staff, Supervisors This perimeter coverage of this reporting and Workers categories is 95%. As the company not have a single classification s ystem for these categories, and Staff and Workers deployment of the information system does Supervisors not yet cover all these job categories, data is collected from the internal SAP/Business 2013 1,00 1,07 Sustainability Object Financial Consolidation reporting Report system. The male-female comparison is made using the median annual men-women wage ratios. 2013 comparable 1,00 1,07 DEVELOPING SKILLS BEYOND Today, eight economic operational models with a real social and economic value drawn basis with 2014 2014 1,01 1,05 DANONE’S FRONTIERS from the experiences of teams involved in Ecosystems projects have been structured Figures are calculated based on the median and formalized so as to be replicated and ratios for men and women’s annual wages on Gap 0,01 -0,02 In Danone, the individual development adapted in other Danone subsidiaries. a comparable basis between 2013 and 2014, % of total 95 % 95 % of employees spreads beyond the frontiers Similarly, transversal knowledge (change so that subsidiaries that exited or entered employees of the company, particularly through the management, community relations, the the scope between 2013 and 2014 are not 2014 Danone Ecosystem Fund and has its own speautonomy of women) are formalized and included. cial way of operating: through co-creation. All shared so as to assist project management projects supported by the Fund are initiated in the implementation of programs. by subsidiaries locally (these subsidiaries The results can be readas follows: 50% of devote some of their own resources with the subsidiaries pay their male “Staff andSuperThese projects give a new meaning to daily suppor t of their General Manager) and visors” 1% more than female on average, for work through the general interest work of co-created with local partners (non-profit all levels and all positions; and 50% of subsithe Fund. The Danone Ecosystem Fund is a organizations, NGOs, local administrations diaries pay their male “Workers” an average new step and a more open use of the dual etc.) and representatives of beneficiaries, of 5% more than their female counterparts. economic and social project and has shown namely participants in the local economy it to be a real lever for commitment, pride in (farmers, midwives, rag pickers etc). belonging and common sense for Danone employees. Jobs are enriched through the individual development of project managers. For example, for the purchasing function, the development and strengthening of alternative sustainable milk, fruit and recycled plastic supply sectors. The creation of these new opportunities allows long-term supply to be reinforced and contributes to the local reputation of Danone. In this way, from a “classic” relationship of client-supplier negotiation, heads of the sourcing project develop a partnership relationship with shared risks and mutual benefits for a fairer economy. 120 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 121 Communities ACTION TO ENSURE ACCESS TO WATER tee at an w e ar to on Gu ess ery acc r e of fo v er GUARANTEE OF ACCESS TO WATER FOR EVERYONE The challenge common to all of Danone’s social innovation initiatives is to strengthen SUPPORTing the the skills of teams on the following themes: local economy HUMAN RIGHTS > uandnderstak standing societal challenges eholders; > mco-cr easuring social impact; > particula eation and co-management, rly with NGOs; > iinnvolthevemdiffeentrentof Dan one employees programs; > internal and external communication. Encouraging exchanges between inclusive and traditional business models through a “peer-to-peer” approach Danone teams working in co-creation with civil society partners participate in experimenting with new models, both different and complementary to those practiced in “traditional” business. In 2014, some models related to access to water for everyone, as well as to the support of the local economic fabric and local supply were put under the spotlight. Pr oj ec t Ne w s: ng ro ve s Re st or ati on of Ma 122 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 123 Naandi Community Water Services 1001 Fontaines In India, more than 100 million people do Worldwide, unsafe drinking water from not have access to drinking water. One of the rivers, lakes and ponds—coupled with the largest Indian NGOs, Naandi – which means absence of even the most basic sanitation, “new start” in Sanskrit, concerned itself kills 1.6 million children under the age of The guarantee of access to water with this problem and created, with danone. five every year. In Cambodia, 80% of the for everyone is a fundamental communities, Naandi Community Water population lives in rural areas, where most Services (NCWS). NCWS is a company that have no access to safe drinking water. One challenge for Danone, illustrated builds micro-factories in villages. Water is French entrepreneur and a Cambodian by projects carried out by the filtered there thanks to simple, effective and joining forces to launch 1001 Fontaines. danone.communities Fund and inexpensive technology (reverse osmosis or the Danone Ecosystem Fund. ultra-violet filtration) and communities The mission of this project aim is to make lascome to buy their water there at a very reating improvements in the health of poor, isoAt December 31st, 700,000 sonable price of around four cents (three lated communities in developing countries by beneficiaries have access to pence) per 20-liters jug. enabling them to produce safe drinking drinking water thanks to Naandi water under an entrepreneurial model. Today, around 630,000 people benefit from Community Water Services, EcoAlberto access to drinking water thanks to NCWS. This one is based on the use a simple technoEcoAlberto and 1001 Fontaines. Through public information campaigns in El Alberto, in the state of Hidalgo, is one of logy: ultraviolet filtration of surface water villages, the number of households who Mexico’s most arid regions where for water, from rivers, lakes, ponds and other sources regularly drink water made drinkable by indigenous communities there rely primarily and a micro-entrepreneurial model: an More than 70 % of the NCWS is increasing, which improves children’s health and their ability to go to school. on small springs, which are often polluted, and in some cases villagers have to walk entrepreneur in each community operates one filtration unit and distributes the water 400 micro-factories are already The aim is to double the number of villages nearly two hours to reach them. locally and to communities nearby. before 2019. profitable in 2014. 1001 Fontaines lead to the creation of 50 % To face this issue, the EcoAlberto project’s 200 jobs and 88 water treatment stations Only two years ago, less than mission is to provide indigenous communiare now in operation. The objective for 2016 ties in the El Alberto region with access to were profitable. affordably priced, potable water, and create is to install water treatment stations in jobs for women in these villages. In fact, 250 Cambodian villages. water is processed in a filtration plant then distributed by truck in 140 containers. 200 women earn income by distributing the water. EcoAlberto will focus on increasing processing capacity, distributing safe water in schools and in testing distribution in urban shantytowns. EcoAlberto 124 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 125 al oc cal g l lo tin nd or a ly pp my pp su ono su The issue related to the support of local economic market DANONE LOCAL EMPLOYER Minimum salary/Minimum legal salary ratio ec and supply is reflected at all levels Local employments The basic starting salary is higher than the into Danone: local minimum salary for the large majority of subsidiaries (138), covering over 95% of the knowledge of local issues Danone’s employees. It is equal to the legal is fundamental for production Danone is a local employer above minimum for 11 subsidiaries, i.e. less than 3% and commercialization of safe all with 95 % of its of employees. There is no legal minimum and healthy products, developed in the NutriPlanet program (see 18,809 managers and directors defined for 14 subsidiaries (2% of employees). the section on Nutrition & Health); hired locally. This percentage Compared with 2013, there has been a modest decrease of the number of employees with a DEVELOPING THE LOCAL ECONOMY the Danone’s employees are located has slightly increased since 2012. basic starting salary above the legal miniMicro-distribution Projects throughout countries where the mum, as well as in the number of employees with salary equal to the legal minimum, and a Through the Danone Ecos ystem Fund, company operates, that is why the Danone’s aim is to achieve 80% of local Danone improves its own integration into local issues related to remuneration decrease of the number of employees with no managers in all Executive Committees. At the market and boosts its distribution actiand employment have to be considered; legal minimum salary. end 2014, 66% of directors had been hired v i t y t h r o u g h n e w m o d e l s f o r s o ci a l Danone’s intention is to develop locally, representing a slight decrease cominsertion. local economy by setting up innovative pared with 2013. 2014 2013 published business models promoting social Number of Total % Number of Total % Danone Ecosystem Fund projects reinvent of of insertion. subsidiaries employees subsidiaries employees distribution activity for a more inclusive Subsidiaries with economy by putting in place new alternative a “subsidiary minimum models. Danone is developing its penetraAt December 31 st 2012 2013 2014 138 95% 141 94% wage”/”legal minimum tion towards consumers with a lower buying Total Workforce wage” ratio greater than 1 power: this is only possible through the use (Directors and 16 452 18 039 18 809 Subsidiaries with Managers) a “subsidiary minimum of a sales force which comes from this social 11 3% 14 4% class, with a genuine ambition for professiowage”/”legal minimum of which 850 910 861 wage” ratio equal to 1 nal insertion. international staff Subsidiaries with % international 5,2 % 5,0 % 4,6 % a “subsidiaries minimum Micro-distribution projects supported by the 0 0% 0 0% wage”/”legal minimum % local 94,8 % 95,0 % 95,4 % Fund aim, in particular, to improve access to wage” ratio below 1 quality products outside of classic distribuSubsidiaries to which Management no legal minimum wage 14 2% 12 2% tion circuits, supporting the vulnerable, Committee Members 1 254 1 058 872 applies principally women, to encourage them to (excluding Executives) become self-employed, by assisting them in of which Total reported 163 96% 167 97% developing their personal and professional 353 316 300 international staff skills. These self-employed people constitute Total non-reported 11 4% 12 3% a distribution circuit for selling products and % international 28,1 % 29,9 % 34,4 % support programs of public awareness about % local 71,9 % 70,1 % 65,6 % Total Danone 174 100% 179 100% nutrition within their communities. This approach enables Danone to develop new interaction and better consumer understanding. 126 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 127 TOD AY MOR E THA N 350 KIT EIR AS Hu m SEL L DAN ONE PRO DUC TS THR OUG H an hts THI S NET WO RK. THE OBJ ECT IVE Promoting Human Rights Rig IS TO REA CH 400 KIT EIR AS within the company Danone’s commitment to comply with social responsibility, and in particular respect Danone Brazil wishes to develop its Micro-distribution projects permanently and promote human rights principles has for human rights. A communication guide activity throughout the region and face a dual challenge: improving the econobeen defined, deployed and promoted to about the RESPECT program including the better integrate into the market. mic model in order to achieve profitability, a employees and suppliers through a variety of Fundamental Social Principles was broadly North Eastern Brazil is a region that benefits measure of sustainability and possible largemeans and in several phases: distributed to the procurement function in from very little of the country’s developscale development, whilst ensuring that • Danone joined the United Nations Global 2010. Therefore, 100% of purchasers have ment. Within the most underprivileged social goals (training, reintegration, access Compact in 2003, and reaffirmed its commitbeen informed. populations, women are the first to bear the to employment) are achieved, these are ment in 2009; impact. The majority of them has no choice determined in relation to target populations • in 2005, the Seven Fundamental Principles Beyond this, the number of hours of training but to accept unstable and underpaid work. and require specific management. This defined by the International Labor Organizaand/or information is not consolidated at challenge is sometimes the source of diffition conventions were addressed in an agreecentral level. Service providers in the security In this economic and social context, project cult trade-offs but also of improved creatiment between Danone and the IUF, and were sector commit to comply with the RESPECT Kiteiras was set up in the heart of the favelas vity and innovation making a positive the subject of joint visits; program’s Fundamental Social Principles, of Salvador de Bahia. Initiated by Danone dif ference, s tren g thenin g br and and • Danone implements them via the Danone and are screened by the Danone manager in LTDA in Brazil, in partnership with Aliança Danone’s presence in competitive markets Way approach, which applies to 93% of the charge of life and property safety. Empreendedora, a Brazilian NGO, and supand, finally, business for tomorrow. company sales and includes 16 key practices ported by the Danone Ecosystem Fund, this relating to Social and Environmental ResMeasures taken to promote project addresses the problem of access to ponsibility, including a specific Human Rights freedom of association employment for women. Kiteiras is a program dimension; and collective bargaining of direct sales to consumers by women from • the Seven Fundamental Principles are the A convention concerning the right to union the underprivileged society of the favelas. As basis for the RESPECT program launched in organization has been signed with the IUF. well as access to formal self-employed work, 2005, which aims among other things at The IUF notifies central management if it which helps obtain social security, the « La Laiterie du Berger » ensuring the application of these principles is informed of failure to respect freedom of Kiteiras benefit from training in administraby the Danone’s suppliers. association. Today, Senegal imports 90% of the milk tion, sales and management and have access Freedom of association is also one of the key it consumes, in powdered form. However, Employee training on policies to micro loans. In this way they improve their practices monitored in all subsidiaries by the milk resources do exist: the Peuls, a largely and procedures of human rights socio-economic situation. A major innovation Danone Way approach (see page 18 of this nomadic ethnic group, traditionally live as of the project is the implementation of a Employees’ awareness of human rights pracreport), including a key practice on “Employees farmers. To solve the problem of milk supply, network of Madrinhas (“Godmothers” in tices is raised through two approaches: Involvement and Social Dialogue” that proa young vet created « La Laiterie du Berger », Portuguese). Former Kiteiras for the most • the Danone Way approach (see page 18 of motes employee dialogue in subsidiaries. a factory in which this local milk is transforpart, they are responsible for recruiting, traithis report): every Danone employee has med into yogurt or other dairy products for ning and managing new independent received a Danone Inside Pack that desthe Senegalese market. More than 800 Peuls vendors. cribes the Danone Way approach and its 16 farming families have seen their traditional way of life preserved and their living condikey practices. These materials provide infortions improved. danone.communities quickly mation on human rights, particularly with came to believe in this project and decided regard to the ban on child labor and forced to invest, in line with its mission to reduce labor, diversity and equal opportunity, and pover ty and malnutrition. The Dair y is safety at work. Among the approach’s 16 key the milk factory can be now proud to have 10,000 retail outlets in practices, eight relate specifically to “Human Rights” and “Human Relations”; Senegal. proud to have 10,000 retail • the RESPECT program (see page 58 of this report): the Procurement departments outlets in senegal. manage supplier compliance with regard to 128 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 129 Generally, the beneficiaries of these projects agree on their Fight against any form personal contribution related to their new job: self-confiof discrimination dence, free will, opportunities to socialize, leadership and A convention was signed with the IUF concerTHE DANONE ECOSYSTEM FUND entrepreneurial skills. Social and economic benefits are ning anti-discrimination measures and promotion of diversity. SUPPORTS HUMAN RIGHTS seen in families and communities. For example, in the PemuDuring joint visits Danone-IUF in the subsiThe Danone Ecosystem Fund works to develung communities (a project diaries, no case of discrimination was identilop the skills and autonomy of individual parin Indonesia), the majority of fied during these visits. ticipants in the local economy. mothers allocate their additional income to family needs, Aside from these joint visits, information In the framework of this mission, partithereby contributing to the about cases of discrimination may be comcular attention is paid to women and their improvement of nutritional municated via various channels: socio-professional development. and sanitary conditions of • reporting to the human resources departtheir households. Beyond the family circle, some benement of each subsidiary; Fight against forced Limited access to education or professional opportunities, domestic violence, financial ficiaries also take on new • reporting to employee representatives in the subsidiaries where they are present; labor and child labor dependence: women are often victims of responsibilities in developing • “Local ethics” line implemented in certain inequality and, therefore, more vulnerable. their communities. subsidiaries, such as in Indonesia, Mexico and Respect for this principle is verified through The empowerment of women has become a the USA. the Danone Way approach (see page 18 of this key element for the Danone Ecosystem Fund In this way, the Danone report), for which the abolition of child labor and, more particularly, for certain projects Ecosystem Fund, by offering The Danone Way approach also includes is a prerequisite. such as Kiteiras in Brazil, Warung Anak Sehat professional opportunities prevention of discrimination, particularly in Indonesia or the Social School for Women and the support of a solid through the implementation of on-site speAll subsidiaries are required to put in place the Empowerment in Spain. network, by making the cific procedures and measures to identify and necessary procedures and resources to ensure This project aims to combat domestic viobest nutritional solutions eliminate possible discriminatory actions. that there is no child labor at their sites. lence carried out against women in Spain, available or in participating via a program for reintegration through work, in breaking taboos and stereotypes opens allowing them to rebuild their lives through the way, particularly for women, their famiprofessional experience. In 2011, Danone lies and, more widely, their communities. Spain, with the support of the Danone Ecosystem Fund, joined forces with the Ana Bella at co mp le te d Foundation to co-build the “Social School for Women Empowerment”. This school was Al l th e su bs idi ar ies th me nt created and gives assistance and training to the Da no ne Way as sess nc e w ith th is in 20 14 wer e in co mp lia co mp lia nce women, giving them the opportunity to work in sales and the promotion of dairy products nin medium and large shops. pr er equi site, an d no no ifi ed. More than 400 women have benefitted from To date in cid en ts w er e ide nt training and coaching and, therefore, have a new start far from any violence. 12,000 women benefit from Ecosystem projects. 130 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 131 Fight against Business Conduct Policy Since 2006, directors and managers sign a specific clause in their employment contracts fraud and and Dialert System indicating that they are familiar with the BCP and commit to compliance by themselves and their teams. Various tools have been provided The current version of Danone’s Business to support effective application of these princorruption Conduct Policy (BCP) was revised in 2009. The ciples (presentations, posters, question-andBCP are consistent with founding texts such answer booklets, etc.). as the Universal Human Rights Declaration, Danone’s commitments to the United Nations A specific program to prevent fraud was also Global Compact, OECD (Organization for developed in 2006 and has been expanded Economic Cooperation and Development) guievery year since then. In 2014, a global delines and the Sustainable Development anti-bribery and corruption initiative was Principles, which include in particular the launched in the Early Life Nutrition division Fundamental Social Principles and Business which will continue in 2015. Ethics Principles, directly referring to prevention of corruption. An information booklet was updated in 2011 and distributed once again to the Executive The BCP was distributed to all directors and Committees of each subsidiary, recommenmanagers (and more widely in certain subding the implementing of an annual fraud and s i d i a r i e s) b y t h e H u m a n R e s o u r c e s corruption risk assessment. Departments of the subsidiaries, and supported with initiatives to inform employees. Also a mid-year reporting requirement of allegations and proven cases of fraud, in which corruption incidents are classified as ‘significant fraud’ is made, whatever the amounts involved, in order to collect complete information on this type of occurrence. Since 2005 the DIALERT system has been implemented to enable all employees to Reference to the BCP is included in: make confidential reports to Danone mana> gement directly any breach of: the Danone Way • Danone’s principles and procedures for interreferential; nal control, including anti-corruption rules; • the accounting and finance rules that could > the evaluation of the affect the truthfulness of accounts and the financial situation of the employee’s company subsidiary control system or of another Danone subsidiary. (known as Dango); The visibility of this whistleblowing system is > mostly verified during every subsidiary audit. the internal semi-annual An internal control item (part of Dango guideopinion survey; lines) deals with this topic and each subsidiary must run an annual self-evaluation for > the internal audit program (when judged appropriate BCP this item. one part of the audit scope). USA Yo rk sup er mark et in Ne w 132 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DANONE 14 DEVELOPPEMENT DURABLE 132 KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 133 Since 2008, the DIALERT system has been Since 2009, an induction document has been There were 454 cases of suspected fraud The resources needed to extend these activiextended to Danone suppliers (letter from drafted and sent to the subsidiaries for registered in 2014, of which 291 proved to be ties to the subsidiaries have also been the subsidiaries to every major supplier and tran smission to each newly recruited actual fraud, a majority of which were minor defined: systematic inclusion in call for tender docuemployee upon arrival. Titled “Danone (products or materials stolen, minor misap• in 2011, Danone created a Public Affairs kit ments) to allow them to report in confiInside Pack”, it contains several pages covepropriations). None of these cases of fraud and the Public Affairs Policy (see page 15); dence any breach of the BCP rules with ring the Business Conduct Policy. had a significant impac t on Danone’s • the deployment process has also been forregard to themselves (in particular possible accounts in 2014. In the huge majority of promally defined as a Public Affairs best practice cases of corruption). The DIALERT system The business conduct survey first launched ven cases identified, the employees impliin the Dango internal governance system to was extended in 2011 to include the WHO in 2010 in more than 160 subsidiaries was cated were dismissed or sanctioned following ensure that this policy is actively impleCode for Early life nutrition products. repeated in 2011, and supplemented by an the fraud investigations. mented and monitored every year in the analysis of the distribution of communicaDanone’s subsidiaries. In addition to DIALERT, some subsidiaries tion material on these topics (BCP, Danone Finally, a follow-up meeting of cases of have implemented local whistleblowing Inside Pack, etc.). fraud and suspected fraud takes place monDanone also takes active part in the efforts systems. This channel produced a total of thly at Danone’s headquarters to ensure of industry associations working together to 62 valid ethics notifications in 2014. Only a The overall results attest a significant the effective monitoring of cases and their contribute to formalization of a public policy minority were proven fraud and led to improvement in terms of familiarity and appropriate management in terms of ethics at both national and international levels. appropriate sanctions. distribution of these documents and best and internal control. pr ac tices related to professional and In addition, Danone is registered on the business ethics. Discussions were also able For this purpose, detailed information on Tr an sparenc y Regis ter s et up by the Analysis of risks to raise new awareness of this topic among employees on the ground; a summary of the nature of the main cases are collected and analyzed by the monitoring committee European Commission and the European Parliament. related to corruption results was examined at the highest levels of Danone’s organization. Action plans were of fraud (DIALERT Committee). It brings together representatives of Human Danone and its subsidiaries also maintain defined and are underway. Resources functions, Internal Audit and direct relations with the national authorities Within Danone’s four division s, ever y Legal, and meets monthly. in the countries in which they do business. consolidated subsidiary (integrated into These relations are maintained in comDanone financial accounts) is covered by the Danone’s seven-point anti-fraud and Actions taken in response pliance with Danone Business Conduct Policy. anticorruption program. More particularly, the first element in this program is an to incidents of corruption Public policy development annual evaluation by each subsidiary of internal and external fraud risk. Danone strongly condemns all corrupt pracand lobbying Contributions to political tices, as highlighted in its Business Conduct Policy, distributed to all managers and to Danone considers lobbying as a positive action aimed at giving politicians and legisparties Training on the fight many employees in all subsidiaries. The sixth point of the anti-fraud program concerns the lators the information they need to deal with current issues and define an approAs indicated in Danone Business Conduct against corruption corrective and disciplinary measures to be priate legislative and regulatory framework Policy, the use of funds or other company 178 applied within each assets, either directly or indirectly, to benea d a p te d to a n incr ea s in g l y co m pl e x subsidiary. fit organizations of a political nature may All Danone employees were informed of the environment. only take place in the framework of the 2009 revision of the Business Conduct Policy. This was achieved through information meesubsidiaries L a s tl y, mid-yearl y Since 2010, Danone has reorganized its corlaws and regulations in ef fect in each tings, presentations and question/answer are included reporting on internal fraud ha s been in porate teams in charge of public policy and country, and must be applied with complete transparency. This use is only possible with sessions, and distribution of documents with in the place for seven years, lobbying. The goal is to better distinguish formal management approval. or without formal acknowledgement of receipt. Managers, and in particular subsidiamid-yearly with the participation policy development from factors related to the development of these regulations. ries Executive Committees members, received reporting of 178 subsidiaries, or more extensive training and information. on internal almost every entity of the company. fraud 134 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KEY ISSUES AND PERFORMANCE 135 METHODOLOGY NOTE P.138 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT P.144 Limited Assurance Report on the Results of the Danone Way P.146 GRI index P.148 136 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION 137 methote d o l o g y No CONSOLIDATION Finally, those subsidiaries that do not report certain social, safety or environmental indiProduction Sites Environment Scope In 2014, 179 production sites (among Danone DATA COLLECTION SCOPE AND COVERAGE cators may vary depending on the indicators; the coverage scope may differ following 184 production sites) representing around 98% of the consolidated net sales reported To ensure the homogeneity of indicators across the reporting scope, shared data the categories hereafter, as described in the environmental indicators (Production Sites The financial data included in this report reporting guidelines for social, safety and following sections: Environment Scope). corresponds to consolidated historical data environmental data are transmitted and • Total Workforce scope; The environmental impact of administrative from the 2013 Registration Document. It updated each year following data consolidation • Social Indicators Scope; headquarters and logistics centers is not was prepared in compliance with IFRS and comments by contributors. These guide• Safety Scope; included in the consolidation scope (except accounting standards as adopted by the lines specify the methodologies to use for • Production Sites Environment Scope; and for certain indicators, when the logistics European Union. reporting indicators: definitions, methodo• Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope. centers are adjacent to a production site). logy principles, calculation formulas and Nevertheless, some subsidiaries do not standard factors. Total Workforce Scope Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope report all social, safety and environmental and Social Indicators Scope (product approach) indicators. These entities have been consoliThese reporting guidelines regarding envidated into the Danone consolidated financial In 2014, 169 entities representing around In 2014, this scope covered 93% of the ronmental, social, safety and GHG data are statements for the year ended December 31, 94% of the total workforce reported social sales volume. available upon request from the Social 2014, and action plans have been drawn up indic ator s (S o cial Indic ator s S cop e). Responsibility Department. and/or are planned to ensure the availability In the case of the total workforce indicaNutrition & Health scope and accuracy of the social, environmental tors, the coverage rate is 100% (Total Indicators related to sales reported via the The social, safety and environmental indicaand safety data reported. Most of these have Workforce Scope). Nutrition & Health Scorecard do not include tors are transmitted from the subsidiaries been acquired most recently, in particular the non-food products sold by subsidiaries. and/or production sites and are consolithose joining Danone as a result of the acquiSafety Scope Besides, every subsidiary has reported its dated at control level by the corresponding sition of Centrale Laitière (Fresh Dair y In 2014, 159 entities representing around imports while exports were excluded from departments. The environmental data are Products – Morocco) in 2013. 95% of the total workforce reported safety the reported data. checked at the subsidiary level and then at indicators (Safety Scope). In addition, in the the Division level when reported. In the case case of subsidiaries exiting the consolidation Like-for-like variations of social and safety data, a control is perforscope as of December 31, 2014, their social (constant scope) med at the end of the third quarter and at and safety data is reported until the date Danone measures changes to some environthe time of the con solidation of the they exit the consolidation scope and is not mental indicators on a like-for-like basis, i.e. December 31 data. taken into account in the workforce as at constant consolidation scope. The 2014 of December 31, 2014. In 2014, main entities data are restated using a consolidation exiting the Safety scope are the Fresh Dairy scope identical to the 2013 scope. Products companies in China and Indonesia following their disposal. The main companies that are no longer fully consolidated as of December 31, 2014, are listed in the Note 2.2 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements of the Registration Document. 138 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION 139 Social and safety indicators The Hum an Resources Depar tment is METHODOLOGICAL DETAILS Number of training hours and number of trained employees The hours worked are actual hours worked; if this figure is not available, theoretical responsible for social and safety indicators. hours worked are taken into account based Training data from French subsidiaries Social data from the subsidiaries are geneThe methodologies used for certain social on local practices and regulations regarding include training categorized as ongoing rally derived from payroll systems installed and environmental indicators may involve work time. professional training as well as other types in the entities and reported via the comlimitations due in particular to: of training. p a ny ’s co n s olid at io n s of t w a r e (SAP/ • the absence of shared national and/or The assumptions used for the theoretical BusinessObjects Financial Consolidation). international definitions; and hours worked calculation is left to the The number of trained employees takes into • the need to estimate, the representative discretion of the subsidiaries, taking into account all the employees who received at Safety indicators are reported monthly nature of measurements performed or the account local specificities, which can lead to least one training session during the year, by each subsidiary in WISE, the compagny limited availability of external data needed minor discrepancies. including employees who have left the consolidation system for safety indicators. for calculations. Danone as of December 31, 2014. For these reasons, the definitions and Workplace accident indicators also cover Environmental indicators methodologies used for the indicators accidents affecting temporary employees The training sessions for which evidence has The Nature Department is responsible for hereafter are specified. working at Danone’s sites as well as interns not been received at the reporting closing environmental indicators. Environmental who have an internship agreement with Workforce date are included in the following fiscal year. data are reported by the Environment manaDanone. Temporary employees refers to Given the limited availability of data in certain ger at each production site. Greenhouse gas A negligible por tion of the managerial individuals who do not have a contract with countries, the company made estimates for emissions (product approach) related data workforce is not collected in the data reporDanone but are under Danone’s direct this indicator as of December 31, 2014. are reported via the Danprint application ting framework (a few cases of internatiomanagement, working on a temporar y and/or SAP Carbon. nally mobile employees on assignment to basis and for whom working time is avaiFrequency rates of work accidents other company subsidiaries). Furthermore, lable (in number of hours); this can create some disparities may exist in the workforce Frequency Rate 1 (FR1) is the number of discrepancies in the scope of the workforce accounting methods for expatriate workplace accidents with lost time of one accounted for by the sites. employees (such is notably the case for day or more that occur over a 12-month expatriate employees who have three-party period for every 1 million hours worked. Waste contracts between the employee, the home In 2014, waste is classified into four catesubsidiary and the host subsidiary). The frequency rate of workplace accidents gories (hazardous waste, non-hazardous without lost time (FR2) represents the number organic waste, non-hazardous inorganic Employees on long-term leaves (more than of workplace accidents without lost time for waste and sludge from water treatment nine months) are not counted in the total every 1 million hours worked. facilities). workforce at the end of the reporting period. In China, employees remunerated by Danone The severity rate (SR) represents the numIn 2013, the quantity of sludge from water but whose contracts are with a third-party ber of calendar days of absence due to treatment facilities taken into account company (equivalent to a temporary work workplace accidents with lost time for was limited to sites for which wastewater agency), are not included in the workforce. every 1,000 hours worked. Regarding the was discharged directly into the environnumber of lost days taken into account in ment after on-site treatment (full treatShort-term contracts and movements witthe calculation of the severity rate and ment). Sludge from wastewater treatment hin the compagny are not included in the given the limited availability of data in cerfacilities generated by par tial on-site entries/exits. tain countries, Danone made estimates for treatment and subsequent off-site treatthis indicator as of December 31, 2014. ment was not included. 140 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION 141 In 2014, the “ Volume of slud ge from If a logistics center is located adjacent Direct emissions (scope 1) are those arising Wastewater wastewater treatment facilities” indicator to a production site, its water consumption from on-site consumption of fuels (natural Chemical Ox ygen Dem and (COD) data took into account all sites with on-site is included when the sites are not able gas, propane/butane/LPG, heating oil, heavy presented correspond to wastewater after wastewater treatment (complete and partial) to distinguish it. fuel oil and coal) and from refrigerant leaks internal and/or external treatment. If no and generating sludge. This indicator is (in accordance with the GHG Protocol Energy consumption information about external treatment is calculated based on the quantity of wet Corporate Standard, only HFC and PFC available, a purified output of 90% is applied. sludge and a dry matter ratio. When the dry By definition and with the exception of the consumption is included). No site uses PFCs. matter ratio was not available (around 7% GHG Protocol Corporate Standard indicator, Indirect emissions (scope 2) are those linked External controls of cases), the default value was set at 100%. the environmental indicators cover only to the generation of electricity, steam, heat The total quantity of sludge from wastewater or cold and purchased Danone. To receive an outside opinion of the reliability the impac t of produc tion sites. When treatment facilities was approximately and robustness of Danone Way approach Research and Development centers or other 26,000 tons at 59 sites in 2014. In 2013, this Emissions (scopes 1 and 2) are calculated by results, Danone asked KPMG Audit to verify non-industrial sites are located adjacent to indicator was reported by only 19 sites. applying the global warming potential (GWP) the results of this approach. the production sites, estimates may be made by the production sites to take into and emissions factors to the activity data. Consolidated data related to waste do not The audit report detailing the work underaccount only their own energy consumpinclude product returns (non-compliant raw The emission s fac tors and GWPs used taken and their comments and conclusions tion (estimate and deduction of energy materials rejected/unsold due to commercial in calculatin g emission s arisin g from can be found on pages 146 to 147 of this con sumed by the non-indus trial site issues), and whey, a by-product normally energy consumption correspond to data in report. adjacent to the plant). reused by a third party. Data related to recothe 2006 IPCC Guideline s (2006 IPCC vered waste include materials recover y Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas In addition, some of the social, societal In some cases, the energy consumption of (recycling, compost, reuse, etc.) and energy Inventories). The IPCC (Intergovernmental and environmental data published in this buildings located adjacent to the production recovery. Panel on Climate Change) is a group of report were published in section 5.2 of the sites is included when no separate measureinter-governmental experts specializing in Danone Registration Document and veriment is possible. Water consumption climate chan ge. The emission f ac tor s fied by PricewaterhouseCoopers, One of Greenhouse gas emissions regarding electricity correspond to the Danone’s statutory auditors. Th is data is Consumption of well water or surface water by organization data from the International Energy Agency identified with the following symbol: √. may be estimated when sites have no meter. (CO2 highlights 2013), and the factors used The audit report detailing their work and The definition and methods of accounting Greenhouse gas emissions by organization regarding heat, steam and cold correspond including their comments and conclusions for various uses of water (including run-off, (scope 1 and scope 2) for 2014 are calculated to data from the French Agency for the can be found in sec tion 5.2 of Danone water pumped from and returned into using the methodology described in the Environment and Energ y Management Registration Document. streams) are specified in the technical enviGHG Protocol Corporate Standard (revised ronmental guide established by Danone and (A gence de l ’env ironnement e t de la 2010 version). transmitted to its subsidiaries. Water maî trise de l’énergie – ADEME) carbon consumption includes water used in indusdatabase. Fo r t h e o r g a n i z a t i o n a l a p p r o a c h t o trial process and water used in finished measuring its carbon footprint, Danone has product formulation. Emissions factors used to characterize the chosen to include all sources of emissions at impact of refrigerant fugitive emissions are the compagny industrial sites. The share of The calculation method used by Danone based on the report “Climate Change 2007, emissions from offices and warehouses consists in taking into account the water 4th Assessment Report, The Physical Science remains limited relative to the total (7% of used in open cooling circuits (water pumped Basis”, from IPCC, published in 2007. total emissions in 2012). Vehicles produce a and returned without any modification greater share of emissions (21% of total except temperature). emissions in 2012). However, Danone focuses its actions on the industrial activities (more than 70% of total emissions in 2012). For the so-called “product” approach based on a lifecycle analysis, however, Danone also records emissions related to logistics and transportation. 142 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION 143 Externalts as s e s s m e n Ethibel Index the compagny concern for its impact on the In February 2015, Danone was therefore upstream part of the value chain. Dow Jones Danone also appears in Sustainability rated among a peer group of 16 companies in the Ethibel index, which Water Disclosure Index Rating the food sector and maintained its position provides potential invesas the leader in the same sector with a tors with an overview of Danone has participated in the CDP Water The Dow Jones Disclosure since it was created in 2010. This stable general score of 64/100. the companies with the best performance in Sustainability Index (DJSI) is a leading global program seeks to gather critical data from sustainable development and social resindex that rates the sustainable developthe world’s largest companies on water Domaines Scores Ratings Scores Ratings Scores Ratings ponsibility. Danone is rated in the Ethibel ment performance of the top 319 companies shortages and related issues. This global d’évaluation 07/2011 07/11 02/2013 02/13 02/2015 02/15 Excellence Europe category. from 59 different sectors in 2014. database facilitates access to vital informaHuman Rights 70 ++ 70 ++ 65 ++ Environment 60 ++ 56 ++ 64 ++ Carbon Disclosure tion on the sustainable use of water. Danone has been included in the Dow Jones Human 69 ++ 72 ++ 74 ++ Sustainability Index for the 14th year in a Resources In 2014, Danone entered the Car bon Access to Nutrition Index row, confirming its position among the 12 Business 55 ++ 60 ++ 58 ++ Disclosure Leadership Index France, related Behavior to its participation in the Carbon Disclosure Access to Nutrition Index (ATNI) is a new top-ranking food companies worldwide. Corporate 53 = 52 = 60 = Project (CDP). The CDP provides assessment international rating index created at the Vigeo rating Governance tools for institutional investors and/or other joint initiative of GAIN (Global Alliance for Community 58 ++ 54 ++ 70 ++ stakeholders. In 2014, the index included the Improved Nutrition), the Bill & Melinda As the leading European Involvement Gates Foundation and Welcome Trust. Every 10 more transparent and efficient companies non-f in ancial r atin g two years, the index will rate the largest on the actions taken supporting climate agency, Vigeo measures ++ The company is ranked as a leading performer in its sector. food and beverage companies on their + The company is ranked as an active performer in its sector. change mitigation. the performance of Dow Jones Global 1800 nutrition-related policies, practices and per= The company is ranked as an average performer in its sector. In 2014, Danone get the score of 97 A and Index companies in Europe, Americas and The company is ranked as a below average performer in its sector. formance. This index aims to encourage joined the 10 more efficient French compaAsia with respect to social responsibility in -The company is ranked as a poor performer in its sector. those companies to improve their products nies in the fight against climate change, 38 dr i ver s of s u s t ain abili t y and 330 nutritional quality and accessibility, and to thanks to an ambitious program of carbon indicators. exercise their influence on consumers’ emission reduction. choices and behavior in a responsible way. Forest Footprint Disclosure The world’s 25 largest food and beverage Company’s performance in comparison with its sector Danone participated in the Forest Footprint companies were assessed in 2012 on the basis of their 2011 performances. Disclosure (FFD), which primarily aims to In the first ATNI rating published on March mitigate the growing effects of deforestaEnvironnement Human Human Community Business Corporate 12, 2013 Danone ranked number one with a Resources Rights Involvement Behaviour Governance tion. This global rating, created by the CDP, 100 global rating of 6.3/10, within the group of assesses the impact that very large compatop per formers (Danone, Unilever and nies have on forests, based on their use of 75 Nestlé). Danone also achieved the highest five raw materials: soy, palm oil, wood and ratings in the Accessibility, Marketing and paper pulp, animal feed and biofuels. Engagement categories. The assessment will 50 Danone was able to report the data necesbe renewed in 2015. sary for this evaluation based on the its 25 Forest Policy published in 2012, illustrating 0 144 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION 145 r a n c e R e p o r t Limited Assults of the Danone on t h e R e s u e d a c h P u b l s i h Way Approup’s Sustainability • verify that a data-collection, compilation, Conclusion processing and control procedure has been Based on our work, we did not identify any in the Gro 2014 implemented to ensure the completeness material anomalies likely to call into question and consistency of the Results and review the fact that the Results of the Danone Way the internal control and risk management approach, taken as a whole, published in the procedures followed to prepare the Results. Report for chapter “Danone Way: Danone’s culture and At consolidation level, we performed analykey practices employed in all subsidiaries to tical procedures on the Results and used insure sustainable development of activities” sampling techniques to verify the calculaof the 2014 Sustainability Report are presented tions and the consolidation of the Results. fairly in accordance with the Protocol. As requested, and in our capacity as an comprising documented policies and proceAt the entity level for a representative independent third party, we hereby present dures for ensuring compliance with the sample of entities selected on the basis of Observations our report on the Results of the Danone code of ethics and professional auditing their activity, their contribution to the Without qualifying our conclusion above, Way approach (“the Results”) provided in standards. consolidated Results, their location and risk we draw your attention to the following the chapter “Danone Way: Danone’s culture analysis, we conducted interviews to verify points: and key practices employed in all subsidiaResponsibility of the independent that procedures were followed correctly and • Once again this year, we observed certain ries to insure sustainable development of third party we performed tests of details using sampling difficulties in understanding the requireactivities” of the Group’s 2014 Sustainability It is our responsibility, based on the work techniques in order to verify the calculations ments defined in the Protocol during our Report. performed, to express a limited level of assumade and reconcile the Results with the work performed in some subsidiaries, esperance that the Results of the Danone Way supporting documents. The selected sample ciall y re g ardin g t he topic related to Responsibility of the company approach, taken as a whole, are presented represents 23% of the Danone Way consoli“Suppliers’ and Business Par tners’ The Results were prepared under the resfairly, in all material respects, in accordance dated net sales. Corporate Social Responsibility (GOV2)”; pon sibilit y of t he Group’s Cor por ate with the above mentioned Protocol. We believe that the sampling methods and • The rules defined by Danone to assess the Organization Development and Social Our work was performed by a team of five sample sizes used, based on our professional applicability of some topics regarding the Dynamics Department, in accordance with people between October 2014 and April 2015 judgement, were sufficient to enable us to specificities of some subsidiaries are not all the Danone Way internal protocol (the over a thir teen-week period. We were provide limited assurance; a higher level of formalized in the Protocol. “Protocol”) which may be consulted at the assisted by our CSR specialists. assurance would have required us to carry department. The paragraphs “Evolution of We performed the procedures below in accorout more extensive work. Due to the use of Paris La Défense, 3 of April 2015 the approach in 2014” and “2014 Results” dance with professional auditing standards sampling techniques and other limitations presented in the chapter “Danone Way: and International Standards on Assurance intrinsic to information and internal control KPMG Audit Danone’s culture and key practices employed Engagements (ISAE 3000) . systems, we cannot completely rule out the Department to KPMG S.A. in all subsidiaries to insure sustainable devepossibility that a material irregularity has lopment of activities” provide further details Nature and scope of our work not been detected. French original signed by: on the changes made to the Protocol, the We conducted several interviews with the Philippe Arnaud consolidation scope and the published people responsible of the Danone Way Partner Results. approach in the Organization Development Climate Change and Social Dynamics department in charge and Sustainability Services Department Independence and quality control of collecting the Results, in order to: Our independence is defined by our code of • assess the suitability of the Danone Way ethics and our internal procedures. We have Protocol in terms of its relevance, completealso implemented a quality control system n e s s , r e l i a b i l i t y, i m p a r t i a l i t y a n d understandability; 1. ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information. 2. Danone Iberia (ES), Font Vella (ES), Danone Russia (RU), Blédina (FR), Danone Romania (RO), HOD Mexico (MX), Bonafont (MX), Danone de Mexico (MX). 146 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION 147 GRI Index The present report is in accordance with the GRI “CORE”. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Page of this report Scope Chapter and/or page of RD G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial F P. 394“Aspects” refer to material aspects. Page of this Scope Chapter statements or equivalent documents 403 report and/or page of RD G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries P. 10-12 F STRATÉGy and ANALYSis G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report P. 10-14 F content. G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization P. 4-5 F G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within P. 12-14 F G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities P. 12-15 F the organization ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the P. 12-14 F organization G4-3 Report the name of the organization F P. 6 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous NA G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services F CH. 2.3, reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 2.4 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and P. 10-12 F G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters F P. 6 Aspect Boundaries. G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of F CH. 2.2 countries where either the organization has significant operations or that STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. P. 14-15 F G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. F P. 6 G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders P. 14-15 F G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, F P. 98-100 with whom to engage. and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including P. 14-15 F G4-9 Scale of the organization F P. 182frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an 190, indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically CH. 4 as part of the report preparation process. G4-10 Total number of employees P. 102 F P. 182G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder P. 14-15 F 183 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining P. 104P agreements 108 REPORT PROFILE G4-12 The organization’s supply chain P. 12-13 P G4-28 Reporting period 2014 P. 58-65 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Année G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the F P. 85 2013 organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-30 Reporting cycle Annuel G4-14 The precautionary approach or principle is addressed P. 17 F by the organization P. 44-46 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its P. 157 contents. G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, P. 16-17 F principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. P. 148 or which it endorses. G4-33 The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking P. 143-147 G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and P. 16-17 F external assurance for the report. national or international advocacy organizations GOVERNANCE G4-34 The governance structure of the organization, including committees F CH. 6 of the highest governance body. RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) P: partially reported NR: not reported. NA: Not Applicable 148 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION 149 Page of this Scope Chapter Page of this Scope Chapter report and/or page report and/or page of RD of RD ETHICS AND INTEGRITY MATERIAL ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior P. 132-137 F G4-DMA Biodiversity Disclosures on Management Approach. P. 69-78 such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services P. 72-73 P on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value CATÉGORy: ÉCONOMIC G4-EN13 outside protected areas. Habitats protected or restored. P. 72-73 P MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Market presence Disclosures on Management Approach P. 126 G4-DMA Emissions Disclosures on Management Approach. P. 84-97 P G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local P. 126 F minimum wage at significant locations of operation. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). P. 86-97 P G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community P. 127 F G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). P. 86-97 P at significant locations of operation. G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). P. 86-97 P MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. P. 88-89 P G4-DMA Procurement practices Disclosures on Management Approach. P. 58-66 P G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. P. 88-89 P MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE CATÉGORy: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-DMA Effluents and waste Disclosures on Management Approach. P. 79-83 MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. P. 71 P G4-DMA Materials Disclosures on Management Approach. P. 74-83 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. P. 79 P G4-EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials used. P. 83 P MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Products and services Disclosures on Management Approach. P. 81-83 G4-DMA Energy Disclosures on Management Approach. P. 84-91 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts P. 81-83 P of products and services. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. P. 87-89 P G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are P. 81-83 P G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization. P. 87-89 P reclaimed by category. G4-EN5 Energy intensity. P. 88-89 P MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. P. 86-91 P G4-DMA Transport Disclosures on Management Approach. P. 92-93 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. P. 90-91 P G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other P. 92-93 P goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER members of the workforce. G4-DMA Water Disclosures on Management Approach. P. 69-73 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. P. 70-71 P G4-DMA Supplier environmental assessment Disclosures on Management P. 58-65 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. P. 72-73 P Approach. G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. P. 70-71 F G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental P. 62 P criteria. RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) P: partially reported NR: not reported. NA: Not Applicable 150 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION 151 Page of this Scope Chapter Page of this Scope Chapter reportt and/or page report and/or page of RD of RD CATÉGORy: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: INVESTMENT G4-DMA Investment Disclosures on Management Approach P. 129-131 MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and P. 129 F G4-DMA Labor/Management relations Disclosures on Management Approach. P. 105contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human 108 rights screening G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including P. 108 F G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures P. 129 F whether these are specified in collective agreements. concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Health and safety Disclosures on Management Approach. P. 109-111 G4-DMA Child Labor Disclosures on Management Approach P. 131 F G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions P. 105F 108 MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Forced or compulsory labor Disclosures on Management Approach P. 131 F G4-DMA Training and Education Disclosures on Management Approach P. 112-115 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support P. 112-115 F G4-DMA Supplier Human Rights Assessment Disclosures on Management Approach P. 58-65 the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights P. 62 P criteria G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career P. 112 P development reviews, by gender and by employee category MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY G4-DMA Diversity and Equal opportunity Disclosures on Management Approach P. 116-120 MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per P. 118-120 P G4-DMA Anti corruption Disclosures on Management Approach P. 122-131 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-SO2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures P. 122-131 P MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Equal remuneration for women and men Disclosures P. 116-120 G4-DMA Approche managériale relative à la lutte contre la corruption P. 133-135 on Management Approach G4-SO4 Communication et formation sur les politiques et procédures en matière P. 134-135 P G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee P. 119 P de lutte contre la corruption category, by significant locations of operation MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA Public policy Disclosures on Management Approach P. 137 G4-DMA Supplier assessment for labor practices Disclosures P. 58-65 on Management Approach MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices P. 62 P G4-DMA Compliance Disclosures on Management Approach P. 44-45 criteria RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) P: partially reported NR: not reported. NA: Not Applicable 152 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION 153 Page of this Scope Chapter report and/or page of RD MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Supplier assessment for impacts on society Disclosures P. 58-65 on Management Approach G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts P. 62 P on society SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Customer health and safety Disclosures on Management Approach P. 37-55 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health P. 40 P and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and P. 46 P voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Product and service labelling Disclosures on Management Approach P. 48-55 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s P. 48-49 P procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and P. 50 P voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction P. 46 P MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Marketing communications Disclosures on Management Approach P. 49-52 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and P. 50 P voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes RD: Reference document F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) P: partially reported NR: not reported. NA: Not Applicable 154 DANONE 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION 155 THE SUSTAINABILITY This Sustainability Report has REPORT EVOLVES FOR been prepared with design, coordination and editing services provided by the Department MORE INTERACTIVITY, of Organisation Development and Social Dynamics. This report is also the product Thanks to all our SEE YOU SOON! of an on-going dialogue with Danone’s stakeholders. contributors Editorial support: KPMG et Buy Your Way Design : Pixelis, Angie for the cover CoNtacts Photography credits: Stéphan Gladieu, Franck Aimé Xavier Lefebvre, Lionel Charrier, Vice President Organisation Nicolas Gauduchon, Jean-François Hellio, Development and Social Dynamics Van Ingen, Thomas Haley, Sipa Press, Fotolia, Infinity MockUp, Patrick Willocq – Laura Palmeiro Fetart – BNP Paribas, EH, LH. Fage, CSR Director Danone Images Bank Gwenaelle Goeler Social Affairs & Social www.danone.com Responsibility Manager Blog : http://downtoearth-danone.tumblr.com/ Fanny du Payrat Social Responsibility Manager April 2015 LEARN MORE ON WWW.DANONE.COM: SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT REGISTRATION ECONOMIC STRATEGY AND DOCUMENT AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE REPORT — ANNUAL BRINGING HEALTH FINANCIAL THROUGH FOOD REPORT TO AS MANY PEOPLE BRINGING HEALTH AS POSSIBLE THROUGH FOOD TO AS MANY PEOPLE AS POSSIBLE ECONOMIC AND SUSTAINABILITY REGISTRATION SOCIAL REPORT REPORT DOCUMENT FOCUS WEB 2014 15, RUE DU HELDER 75439 PARIS CEDEX 09 VISITORS: 17, BOULEVARD HAUSSMANN 75009 PARIS TEL:+33 1 44 35 20 20 WWW.DANONE.COM HT TP://DOWNTOEARTH.DANONE.COM REPORT PARAMETERS AND VALIDATION 158
