Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress (COP) SADKO 2014 Sadko Statement of Support Dear Sadko Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Sadko Company reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In the annual Communications on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Hadia Sadek Ghabbour President Sadko Egypt HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence. Principle 2 Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Investing in our communities Achievement In recent years, our company has started to make a change from responding to ongoing ad-hoc donation requests only to seeking out long-term community sustainable investments through partnerships that are aligned with our business and sustainability agenda. Examples include our partnerships with local NGOs and other community partners to address mainly education in various fields & out of the box income generating sustainable methods to families in impoverished local communities. Social Responsibility new strategy Ongoing We have changed our social responsibility initiatives to incorporate new strategies by partnering with local residents of communities in Upper Egypt like El Minya & in Cairo in the Baulac district to further their marketing capabilities for a return on profits regarding their products. This way we are encouraging community labour by incorporating a fresh look at means of sustainable achievements. University Students encouragement. Scholarships Ongoing sponsorships TUB (Technische Universität Berlin). We have encouraged further scholarship programs like by sponsoring students who will add great value to our country in the fields of sustainable energy, urban development & water energy. We are sponsors of ENACTUS Egypt. Sadko Global Compact (COP).Conja Feb. 2015. Pages 4 Company Policies & Procedures Ongoing We are taking this to a new level with the contribution & involvement of all departments to add transparency and clear procedures. Company Performance Evaluation Done with good response. An upgrade to our evaluation procedure has been done by HR department that enables staff to execute with a more clear understanding of the concise criteria & is easier in implementation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Home Appliances are environmentally friendly: Kiriazi products have switched to efficient sustainability. Some examples: Refrigerator (Premiere) These refrigerators are available in different volumetric capacities from 339 liters to 690 liters. Glass shelves thermally treated for increasing load capacity. Automatic alarm in case of leaving the cabinet or freezer door opened for more than two minutes. 3Carbon filters to remove bad odor from inside the refrigerator Energy save Motor provides up to 30% of the energy consumed Group of ultra-violet bulbs directed to vegetable drawers for sterilization and longer vegetables reservation. Freezer E250N4/3 vertical freezer, no frost Total capacity in liters 270. Consists of 6 drawers. Higher efficiency and less consumption of electricity. Class (A). Fan stops on opening the freezer door to keep cooling temperature inside and save energy. Energy saving is conserved due to the insulation thickness which is 8:10 cm. Tropical hermetic compressor. Monthly Energy Consumption 34 Kwh/month Electric water heater High density foam isolation for energy saving. Highest Efficiency and Least Consumption of Electricity Class(A Monthly consumption of energy is 68.7 KW/ hour (20 days per month). Dual Thermostat For automatic electric power off when the desired or maximum temperatures are reached for safety purpose. Safety valve allows water entry and prevents its exit. Sadko Global Compact (COP).Conja Feb. 2015. Pages 4 Recycling of Plastic bottles project: A favourable project that has encouraged students and educated Collecting used plastic bottles for recycling ideas in schools we work with. them on recycling everyday items through simple & creative methods. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Freedom of association & collective bargaining through new Cafeteria & Library. Cafeteria Achievement An open area specifically designed to give fresh air & a place to socialize. The Staff Cafeteria has been a success. Assessment Upgrading the Cafeteria to better suit the staff. Implementation Regular monitoring of the cafeteria & making sure things presented are according to specifications & standards. Measurement A survey will be done to check company morale, cleanliness and service standards for both: Library and Cafeteria Library Assessment Contains a number of diverse categories that were carefully selected for the The company Library has been enjoyment of the staff. a success by providing books under different categories to suit all tastes. Books requested by staff have also been bought to encourage reading. Implementation Continuous efforts to upgrade diverse subjects. Sadko Global Compact (COP).Conja Feb. 2015. Pages 4 Measurement Borrowing has been strong. Requests for different books has been one of the successes of the Library. Long working hours: To be done Some staff are working long hours and we intend to study and resolve this matter. Summer Vacations: Ongoing with success We have an established summer vacation package for all Company staff on all levels. Well studied locations for the staff to take their vacations with their families. Increase of women in the workplace: In process We are studying to hire more women in our company ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Through our Code of Business Conduct we are committed to conducting Achievements business with fairness, integrity and respect for the law and our values. An ongoing policy & procedure that eliminates any business Appropriate corrective and preventative actions are taken depending on the misconduct. nature and outcome of each case. Thank you. This is our Communication on progress in implementing the principles of the UN Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. Sadko Global Compact (COP).Conja Feb. 2015. Pages 4
