To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Arab Center for Engineering Studies (ACES) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dr. Izz Eddin Katkhuda Partner & Director ACES Code of Ethics We, the employees of Arab Center for Engineering Studies (ACES) believing in the importance of Engineering Consulting and in the necessity of upgrading the standards of the profession, hereby declare that we commit ourselves to the following Code of Ethics. Dealing with Clients Confidentiality: We will keep client information confidential and will not use them for personal purposes or allow others to do so. Servicing Clients: We will serve our clients with integrity, competence and objectivity. Conflict of interest: We will not allow any conflict of interest that would provide a competitive advantage to a client through our use of confidential information from another client who is a direct competitor without that competitor’s permission. Recruiting: We will not recruit employees of a client or assist them in getting employment anywhere else without prior consulting with the client. Principles of Engagements Qualifications: We will not engage in any consulting assignment unless we are qualified to perform it based upon our experience and competence. Contracts: We will make sure that the objectives, scope of work, work plan, the professional fees and payment arrangements have all been agreed upon with the client in writing before commencing the execution of any consulting assignment Expectations: Based upon our honesty and objectivity, we will refrain from encouraging unrealistic expectations or guarantee specific results to clients that might arise from our engineering consulting services. Objectivity: We will immediately inform our clients of any influences on our objectivity and integrity and will offer to withdraw from a consulting assignment when they are impaired. Coordination with Others: We will not engage in any consulting assignment with clients if there are other engineering consulting firms or individuals working with those clients, without prior consultation with them and ensuring that there is no conflict between the concerned parties. Conducting Consulting Assignment Quality: We will conduct any consulting assignment with professionalism and high quality commensurate with specialization experience, expertise and gained knowledge. Guidance for Implementation Purpose: We will educate and guide client staff regarding the principles, techniques and methodologies adopted in conducting an assignment, to assist them in implementing the proposed solutions successfully. Documentation: We will document all reports submitted to clients, to maintain continuity of understanding of their problems and the solutions that have been designed for them in order to refer to them when needed. Review of Other Work: We will review the work done by other consulting firms or individuals for the same client without issuing any judgmental remarks on the standard of the work being reviewed. Commitment: We will commit ourselves to the agreed – upon scope of work and conditions. Fees Fees: We will charge reasonable fees that are commensurate with the services we deliver, the responsibility we shoulder and the time we spend. Commissions: We will not accept any commissions, fees or remunerations from other parties in connection with any recommendation to a client to award works or buy equipment, materials or services as a result of our consulting assignment. Profession Advertising the Services: We will not advertise our services in a deceptive or exaggerated manner or in any other way that may impair the integrity of the profession of engineering consulting. Property Rights: We will protect the intellectual property rights of our clients, other consulting firms and individuals and will not use their proprietary information or methodologies without their permission. Professionalism: We will maintain a fully professional standard in our dealings with clients, the public and fellow consultants. Cooperation and Professional Development: We will assist our fellow consultants in developing their capabilities, support them in practicing the code of ethics of the profession and cooperate with them in a constructive manner. We will strive for our professional development by continually improving our knowledge, skills and techniques and exert efforts for the advancement of the management consulting profession. Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations ACES Offers Support to Al –Aman Fund For the Future of Orphans As part of Arab Center for Engineering Studies (ACES) commitment to contribute to the local community, ACES provided a distinctive contribution worth 35,310 dollars to the Al-Aman Fund for the Future of Orphans reflecting ACES involvement in initiatives and noble quest to extend a helping hand and assistance to the needy in the community. ACES Local Contributions in 2014:  Students Assistance USD 31,868  Tkiyet Om Ali USD 847  Al-Aman Fund for the Future of Orphans USD 35310 Measurement of outcomes Twenty University Students were assisted to continue education in their Universities six were rehabilitated and trained to join the labor market. More than 10 Orphans were helped to enroll in Universities. Humanitarian aid was provided to some underprivileged Jordanians through the Tkyet Om Ali Food for Life Organization as an effort to fight poverty in Jordan. Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. -ACES developed a comprehensive Safety Manual for its employees containing policies and procedures regarding safety actions and measurements that ACES employees should adhere to in the work place and the field. -ACES also developed a detailed HR manual containing systems and procedures regarding labor responsibilities ,rights and opportunities( working days/hours, salary scale, career path, incentives, compensations, holidays, labor injuries, etc..) ACES Values * Commitment to Customer satisfaction * Commitment to Employee Satisfaction * Continuous Innovation * Pride in the Organization * Contribution to social-being of the society * Contribution to the preservation of the environment Selected Labor Activities ACES Doha Basket Ball Team ACES-Doha Basketball team participated in the Doha Inter-Company Basketball Tournament with eighteen 18 competing teams representing different companies and government agencies in Qatar . ACES Doha Team is coached by Rodel Onsinago(Team Coach) , Alquin Batu & Ruel Reyes (Assistant Coach), and led by Je_ Bangcaya (Team Captain) and the team players come from different departments in ACES Doha and have the full support of its Manager, Eng. Abdulrahim Sukik. ACES Abu Dhabi arranges Safari Trip for employees ACES-Abu Dhabi arranged a Safari trip for its employees for one full open day, where several interesting activities were held during the trip and employees were very happy with them. Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Safety Manual & Yearly Safety Training HR System ( Fully Implemented) Code of Ethics Quality Manual Environment Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. ACES’ Environment Policy Statement General Policy ACES is committed to ensuring the preservation of the environment. ACES will conduct their business in such a fashion as to ensure that no damage is caused to the environment as a result of its activities. Objectives ACES objectives in the fulfillment of this policy are: to ensure that company employees recognize the importance of the environment to work closely with the client and comply with their environment rules, regulations and specifications to mitigate any damage to the envirnment as a result of an accident to implement and continually upgrad its environment procedures Responsibilities The overall responsibility for pursuing sound environmental principles in the conduct of ACES operations lies with the resident manager and the environment studies & testing department. All employees will be trained and encouraged to contribute towards the preservation and protection of the environment in their work place and outside and to suggest improvements whenevr and wherever possible Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Annual Contribution to the UN Global Compact ( USD 1000 in 2014) Creation of the Environment Friend Award @ ACES Imposing Non-Smoking Rules Concluded Environment Projects ACES Amman Goes Green ACES Amman was the first branch in ACES group to utilize the solar PV system with capacity of 25.2 KWP, utilizing the free space roof with impressive design considering safety in spacing, structure edges and no roof penetration. The aim of the4 solar PV system is to reduce/eliminate the amount of electricity purchased from electricity providers to power ACES Amman building, generate clean electricity and save money on electricity bills. Measurement of outcomes Reduced ACES Amman energy reliance on fossil fuels and the amount of greenhouse gases( A major contributor to global climate change). Improvement of the general safety of ACES employees as a result of continuous training on safety and the safety manual. Anti-Corruption Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Please refer to ACES Code of Ethics aboveACES main document that all ACES employees must adhere to in conducting business with ACES stakeholders in an ethical and honest way. Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. ACES Code of Ethics
