Page | 1 About EIG The Electrical Industries Group is well-recognized as the premier English-speaking Caribbean. In 2009, the company acquired producer of electrical cables, lighting fixtures, power solutions, Agos Lighting, manufacturers of lighting fixtures, which added plastics for construction and packaging material in the even greater value to the company’s electrical portfolio. Seeking Caribbean with a combined history of over 80 years in to break new ground, Century Elson was also acquired in 2011 a manufacturing. EIG manufactures the Century household name well-known and recognized for quality as the Eslon, EIL and Agos Lighting brands while also leading providers of plastic construction and industrial distributing internationally well-known products such as GE, packaging products. DAB Water Technology and Rheem. On October 1st, 2014 the amalgamation of these companies lead To give a brief insight into making of EIG we begin with EIL to the formation of the Electrical Industries Group Ltd. Today, which was initially formed in 1969 as a joint venture between while we are proud of our growth and achievement we continue AEI Compounds (UK) and a local firm. In 1997, it was acquired to seek new and innovative ways to improve our products and by Trinidad Electrical Manufacturing Corporation Limited and processes to achieve optimal customer and employee has become the largest manufacturer of electrical products in satisfaction. the About This Report This is the fourth Communication on Progress report (COP) frequently engaging with our key stakeholders to understand issued by the Electrical Industries Group (EIG). As a signatory, their areas of interest, and to rectify any concerns about our we are dedicated to submitting a COP, which demonstrates our operational activities. This report highlights our performance efforts to effectively implement the Ten Principles of the United and achievements for the period, 2014-2015. Nations Global Compact (UNGC). By our commitment to the UNGC, we highlight our attempts to support a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anticorruption. This COP is intended to communicate our sustainability efforts, performance to stakeholders, and to demonstrate the organisation’s keen commitment to transparency and accountability. Hence, EIG understands the significance of Page | 2 Message from the Executive Chairman It is a pleasure to present EIG’s Communication on Progress Report for 2014-2015. We are honoured to participate in the UNGC, and continue to play a fundamental role in providing a solution to some of the world’s leading challenges. At EIG, sustainability remains at the core of our business operations. We are continuously challenging ourselves to ensure that what we do is right, and pursue solutions, which can benefit the communities in which we exist. We are resolute in our commitment to maintain, transparency and accountability. Our core values and Code of Business Conduct ensures that our employees conduct business in accordance with high ethical standards. Compliance with the ten principles of the UNGC has played an integral role in the achievement of our corporate sustainability endeavours. Our vision for the future lies in becoming the leading manufacturing organization in the region. At EIG, our CSR initiatives undertaken are aimed directly at improving the company’s triple bottom line. Our focus is placed on the economic, human and environmental effects across our entire value chain, and building strong relationships with partners, customers and the communities in which we operate. The health and safety of our workforce and the communities in which we exist, is crucial. As part of EIG’s commitment to health, safety and the environment, the group has sought to implement programmes to ensure sustainability. The Group HSE Policy Statement has been revised in January 2015, to facilitate continuous support from our management, and drive sustainable development and show our sincere commitment to our employees. The development of the Group Waste Management Policy and Plan has also permitted a reduction of our carbon footprint and continued use of new technologies for waste removal and disposal. As we reflect upon our achievements for FY 2015, we are very optimistic for the future. We signed the Global Compact because we see our determination to enact all ten principles, as the duty and understanding of all corporate entities and individuals. I am proud of the progress made, and will continue to integrate the concepts of human rights, labour practices, ethical conduct and environmental sustainability throughout the organization Page | 3 Our Sustainability Approach____________________________________________ Page | 4 EIL FOUNDATION The establishment of the EIL Charitable Foundation as a registered company was a critical stepping-stone in driving the organization’s CSR efforts and can therefore be viewed as the Charitable Arm of the EIL Group. It was established with financial resources donated by the Group and supported by the CSR Committee’s Fund-raising initiatives. The Foundation is committed to dedicating its resources as it pertains to the four pillars that govern our CSR activities. Page | 5 HUMAN RIGHTS We are committed to upholding fundamental human rights throughout the organization and our sphere of influence. EIG values the feedback of its employees, expressed individually or through department managers. We take all measures necessary to ensure we remain cognisant of human rights concerns, which are applicable to our Nation. We are concurrent with the following Acts of Trinidad and Tobago:  Minimum Wages Act  Industrial Relations Act  Workmen’s Compensation Act  Occupational Health & Safety Act  Environmental Management Act. Page | 6 Fairness & Equal opportunity All employees are well-treated, fairly appraised and compensated on an annual basis, based on their achievements at work. Equal employment and promotion opportunities are ensured to all individuals, regardless of ethnicity, gender and age. Flexi Time Flexible working hours are intended to support the employee in maintaining a healthy balance between work and family life. At EIG, we believe that productivity is directly related to an effective worklife balance. Well Being We have equipped our employees with a Sports Club and Gym Facilities which is accessible to all. EIG offers the services of an EAP provider which is available to all employees. Additionally, the company hosts annual events to facilitate employee engagement, such as hikes, sports day, Christmas celebrations and cricket competitions. Feedback Meetings EIG encourages the participation of its employees, therefore, feedback meetings are held on a monthly basis along with the Chairman. Key issues addressed in these meetings include employee issues, procedures and processes, knowledge sharing and production performance. Human Capital Development EIG has created an Innovation and Leadership Centre where there are several training rooms set up to hold training sessions for all workers. We rolled out the Spirit Centred Leadership Programme to all staff as a holistic development training. In addition, there are several training sessions both technical and non-technical which are implemented on a monthly basis to staff, Page | 7 HSE Policy and Procedures At EIG, there is a strong HSE presence. We have HSE personnel working on a shift basis to cover all sites. Training such as Hazard Identification, Job Hazard Analysis, First Aid, and Fire Warden Training is done on a quarterly/annual basis, which assists with creating a safe working culture of our staff and prevent accidents. We provide a Safe working environment for Clients, Suppliers and Employees, whilst undergoing active training in order to achieve a zero harm environment. Reward and Recognition EIG recognizes that our employees are our most valuable resource. We actively seek to reward our staff through various channels, such as our annual performance award ceremony and magic cards, which are awarded to employees that go beyond their requirements. Page | 8 Initial Progress: Employee Opinion Survey This is conducted on an annual basis. EIG models its Survey after the Buckingham and Coffman Survey which seeks to recruit, retain, and develop employees so as to achieve the best organizational fit. In 2014, the result of the survey was 75% participation. The HR Division has since sought to identify the key areas for improvement which are communication, organization culture, reward and recognition and training and development. EIG has engaged in the implementation of a fully integrated data dissemination system, completion of the Innovation and Leadership Centre for Training and development, Performance Awards Function, and activities for employees. Plant Tours The company engages students from other institutions such as the University of the West Indies and The University of Trinidad and Tobago to conduct plant tours and product training for students. Employee Assistance The company has several employee assistance initiatives, which we have embarked upon. We offer a Soft Loan to permanent staff members, as well as we have an Employee Emergency Fund which staff has access to in cases of emergency. Additionally, we have a contracted EAP provider where employees have 24-hour access to their services and up to six paid counselling sessions. Internal Communication The group has an internal newsletter, which is done on a quarterly basis. It informs staff of any upcoming training sessions, new hires, HSE tips, HR event information and Health and Wellness information. The way forward… Kiosk Booths EIG will be implementing Kiosk Computer booths across the plants to ensure all employees, especially the plant workers have access to the company website and information. Page | 9 Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining EIG LTD. continues to experience a trade union presence in some of its companies as employees exercise their unrestricted right to associate with unions of their choice. There are no closed shop arrangements, which force prospective employees to join a particular trade union in order to obtain employment. In accordance with the Industrial Relations Act, Chapter 88:01, a newly employed worker may become a part of a bargaining unit that is already in existence and which is represented by a Recognized Majority Union. Such a worker has a choice of whether or not to become a member of the union. EIG LTD. respects and supports the collective bargaining process, and appropriately engages recognised majority unions in negotiations to establish periodic collective agreements. This involvement extends to its participation in the resolution of any disputes, which may arise. Local branches of unions are active in the companies where they exist and are included in activities, which are designed to prevent disputes. These freedoms and rights are also promoted through such activities as non-crisis meetings, granting time-off with pay for local branch officials to engage in training or other union business, the company’s provision of reserved notice boards for trade unions on its premises and, the company periodically deducting and remitting employees’ union dues to the central executive of the respective unions. Page | 10 Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour EIG Limited subscribes to this principle by ensuring that this phenomena does not exist in any form in its enterprise. The hours of work of employees are observed as provided for either in individual contracts of employment or collective agreements. Employees engage in overtime work by mutual agreement with the company and all workers have the right to refuse to perform overtime work. The duties and responsibilities of employees are stated in job descriptions, which are used to guide their daily work activities, and good industrial relations principles and practices are also followed in respect of the application of such job descriptions. This approach is encouraged and promoted by information-sharing with other sector and non-sector companies via channels such as the media, manufacturers associations and daily interactions. Payment for work done is guided by contractual provisions, and only statutory and worker-authorised deductions are made from employees’ earnings. Child labour is not a feature at EIG LTD. and its recruitment policy and process provide for appropriate screening and information checks to avoid either voluntary or involuntary engagement of children as workers. EIG LTD. is continuously vigilant in its local environment in respect of the detection of any form of child labour and monitors its regional and international counterparts as a preventive input into their avoidance or elimination of child labour. Abolition of child labour EIG LTD. participates in fora, which support the detection and elimination of child labour and will work with governmental, non-governmental, and law-enforcement agencies to successfully combat occurrences of child labour in the community. Page | 11 Elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation EIG LTD. has developed and implemented policies to guide its relationship with its employees from recruitment to separation and beyond. Therefore, if a person is either a recruit or active employee or a pensioner all provisions which apply to such persons are standardized and consistently applied in an equitable manner to them regardless of components such as race, religion, age, political affiliation, health, sex, class and colour. EIG LTD. subscribes to the ideal of equal pay for work of the same nature performed by either males or females, and ensures all of its employees benefit from contractual and statutory provisions such as income, leave, promotion, training, income security provisions, and health and safety requirements. EIG’s culture is one of inclusiveness and employee engagement which cater to the physical, financial, mental and psychological well-being of its employees as the pursue career goals. The company has a Human Resource Department which works to achieve policy objectives in these areas, and which also keeps supporting records that are independently audited. Grievance procedures are included both in collective agreements and individual contracts of employment. Page | 12 Environmental sustainability is one of the main focusses in the global environment. This does not come at an attached cost, but rather with the duty and understanding of all corporate entities and persons, of the need for a cleaner and brighter tomorrow. As part of EIG’s ongoing commitment to health, safety and the environment, the group has sought to implement and continue programmes to ensure sustainability. The Group HSE Policy Statement was revised in January 2015 to re-establish the commitment of the management and underscore the need for sustainable development. Waste Management & Disposal Part of the 2015 EIG HSE mandate is to continue with the existing waste recycling policies and to develop a new Group Waste Management Policy and Plan (GWMP). The GWMP is intended to:  Reduce the carbon footprint;  Continue the use of new technologies for waste removal and disposal,  Conform to all regulatory statutes and best practices in the absence of regulatory guidance. One major achievement for the HSE at EIG is the environmentally friendly disposal of used oils and coolants through recycling and bio-remediation. Previous methodology dictated incineration as the primary method of disposal for the coolants. In keeping with the values of the precautionary principle, the group sought to properly store and maintain the wastes while researching technologies for environmentally responsible disposal. By employing the technology of bio-remediation at a regulatory approved local facility, it Page | 13 has enabled the company to significantly reduce the carbon footprint, promote the environmental consciousness and awareness in the group, and achieve savings. Our plants are Source-Registered for the period 2014-2015 and shall continue to comply with the local statutory guidelines to ensure safe and environmentally friendly operations. Energy Consumption At the beginning of 2010-2011, EIG started a process of analysing our energy usage and as part of this initiative, we have Power Factor Correction Equipment at our facility which has resulted in savings of 15% on our monthly electric bill. The savings are equivalent to annual greenhouse gas emissions from 11 passenger vehicles or CO2 emissions from 140 barrels of oil consumed or carbon sequestered by 1,533 tree seedlings grown for 10 years every month. The group has also embarked to further analyse and implement new strategies to increase this savings. HSE & our people In March 2015, EIG along with other interested stakeholders collaborated with the NGONature Seekers and took part in the annual beach clean-up exercise at the main Leatherback Turtle nesting site in Matura. May 2015 saw the Group embark on its HSE Week to promote the health and wellbeing of the employees. The event included:  Fruits and Yogurts for all staff,  Ministry of Health lectures and medical screening,  Family Planning Association lectures,  Fitness lectures and BMI screening, and  First Aid Training for 50 staff employees. The week sought to increase awareness and promote healthy and responsible living. The intention, which has been established, is that a caring worker will apply the lessons learnt to all aspects of their life. For the FY 2015, HSE has seen a 50% reduction in first aid accidents and an 85% reduction in Days Away from Work Cases (DAFWC). Environmental discharges have been kept to zero and HSE related training has covered over 300 employees. Page | 14 AntiCorruption EIG understands corruption to be one of the oldest and most perplexing phenomenon in human society, highly subjected to, but not exclusively a dilemma facing developing nations. The Group’s Code of Conduct Policy provides employees with a set of standards meant to promote honest and ethical behaviour in the conduct of the Company’s business. The group will continually improve the quality of its services, products and operations and will instil a reputation for honestly, fairness, respect, responsibility, integrity, trust and sound business judgement. A zero tolerance policy exists for illegal or unethical conduct on the part of officers, directors, employees, or affiliates is in the institution’s best interest. ElG will not compromise its principles for shortterm advantages. The ethical performance of this organization is the sum of ethics of the men and women who work here. Thus, we are all expected to adhere to high standards of personal integrity. Employees, in discharging their duties, have a legal obligation to act honestly, ethically, in good faith to ensure corporate sustainability. Officers, directors, and employees of the institution must never permit their personal interests to conflict, or appear to conflict, with the interest of the institution Officers, directors and employees must be particularly careful to avoid engaging the Group in any transaction with others with whom they have had any outside business affiliation or relationship. No bribes, kickbacks or other similar remuneration or consideration shall be given to any person or organization in order to influence business activity. Page | 15
