A Viable World to Reach Out for Future 2012-2013 Akçansa Sustainability Report Contents About the Report 3 Joint Statement of the Chairperson and the General Manager 4 Corporate Profile 6 Sustainability Ambitions 2020 Progress Chart 13 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa 17 Governance and Sustainability 25 Combating the Climate Change 33 Emission Management 39 Alternative Fuel Usage 45 Alternative Raw Material Usage 49 Biodiversity 53 Occupational Health and Safety 61 Work Life 69 Corporate Citizenship 77 Performance Data 83 GRI Index 89 2 About the Report G4-17 G4-18 Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Akçansa) chain stages set according to prioritization attributes. G4-22 maintains its growth as the most appreciated and Besides performance indicators recommended by G4-23 G4-25 trusted company by all its stakeholders. While the GRI G4 Reporting guidelines are mainly used to G4-28 advancing on the path to realize this growth, Akçansa provide the performance information, the report G4-29 G4-30 continues its pioneering studies in the sector with features measurements widely accepted by the sector G4-32 G4-41 a view to creating value for its stakeholders in line too. Sector-specific data, global trends, study reports with its corporate culture highlighting its social, issued by sector associations as well as NGOs have environmental, legal and ethical responsibilities. also contributed as data to determine and report We hereby submit the third Akçansa Sustainability the indicators regarding sustainability performance. Report covering an account of these studies for our Moreover, the feedback received through stakeholder stakeholders’ view. engagement studies such as stakeholder meetings, Neighbour Council, Bridge Days, employee meetings Akçansa has scored another first time in the Turkish and senior manager briefings, which are all organized cement sector by the launch of Akçansa 2012-2013 in line with the importance attached by Akçansa to Sustainability Report since the report complies with dialogue, is assessed and the issues highlighted during the GRI G4 Standard “core” level requirements, the those studies are included in the prioritization process. most up-to-date sustainability report framework Composed as a result of the aforementioned studies, issued by the Global Reporting Initiative. the sustainability issues portfolio is then prioritized with the participation of company managers from The report has been prepared with respect to the rights all operation locations, and the prioritized issue of all the stakeholder groups including employees, portfolio is eventually defined through the workshops shareholders, dealers, suppliers and NGOs to access held by Akçansa Sustainability Committee and direct, clear and up-to-date information on Akçansa in senior company managers. Akçansa Sustainability line with transparency and accountability principles. Committee evaluates the impact state of the Akçansa The reporting scope is composed of the operations sustainability priorities regarding the value chain undertaken by Akçansa in cement, aggregate and stages. ready-mixed concrete business lines under Akçansa, Agregasa and Betonsa brands in Turkey during Drawn up to cover two reporting periods until 2013, two calendar years from 01.01.2012 to 31.12.2013. the sustainability reports will be based on a single year The report neither covers the export operations plan as of next year. Akçansa Sustainability Reports for undertaken by HC Trading, affiliated with Akçansa’s the past periods are available on the corporate website multinational partner HeidelbergCement, nor does it www.akcansa.com.tr. cover the performance shown by Karçimsa, affiliated with Akçansa. Drawn up to comply with the remaining GRI G4 Standard reporting principles, especially with the principle of prioritization, the report coverage not only includes the impact from production operations but also covers the impact stemming from the operations conducted outside the company in various value 3 G4 1 G4 2 G4 15 G4 22 G4 39 G4 EC2 Joint Statement of the Chairperson and the General Manager Akçansa, leading and the most appreciated cement sector is a candidate to become in future a major producer in its sector, reinforces its pioneer role in solution provider for city managements and Turkish business life through its sustainable business industries in terms of environmental impacts such models. We adopt sustainability, one of the main as wastes, energy and emissions, instead of being a aspects in our management approach and work polluting industry. For cement producers, making culture, as a basic strategic factor shaping our future; this transformation real means not only fulfilling thus, we work to serve for sustainable development environmental responsibilities but also a major with regard to its social, environmental and economic condition for a profitable operation in the future. dimensions both in corporate and societal sense when As Akçansa, we identify future of the cement sector steering our activities. with responsibilities to be assumed for sustainable development and we mount our strategies accordingly. Increasing population and urbanization result in new requirements in order to maintain communities’ Akçansa’s sustainability management approach wellbeing and prosperity in future. According to is composed of material work areas expanding to expert opinions, approximately 1 billion of new midvarious social, environmental and economic aspects. class population will emerge. This huge increase Most of these material aspects meet in a common demonstrates that need for quality, safe and affordable phenomenon, namely the climate change. Climate housing; for infrastructure to enable access to basic change generates operational, legal, commercial and utilities such as electricity, natural gas and water; for reputation risks on cement production sector which is highways and bridges to maintain transportation still energy and emission intensive despite developing between these cities; and for public service facilities technologies. In order to mitigate these risks that can such as schools and hospitals will significantly affect the future of our company and the community increase. In addressing these needs, cement sector we operate in, we conduct projects and investments will play an active role together with its branches such to increase our performance, we actively engage with as ready-mix concrete. However the cement sector national and international initiatives. With this regard, should also assume its responsibilities for sustainable we also play a pioneer role in promoting sustainable development with regard to social, environmental and business models within the sector by taking part in economic aspects when playing its role. sectoral institutions. During the reporting period, we allocated 46.3 million TL for studies intending to Under the given circumstances, a major change in increase our sustainability performance. We continued global cement sector is observed. The perception of the our voluntary participation to global initiatives such sector, which could be identified with environmental as Carbon Disclosure Project. We supported adoption impacts in the past, changes positively in line with of sustainability reporting practices, which we have products, services and business models developed presented the first example in our sector as a pioneer in the recent years. Today, producers who adopt practice, by sectoral institutions. We aim to continue responsible business models, redesign their product and increase such efforts in the upcoming years. and process compositions in order to contribute to establish a sustainable future. In this vein, cement 4 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report CO2 emission which emerges from the energy usage Beside our studies aiming to increase sustainability and the clinker, which is the main raw material performance in our operations, we also continue our composing the product, increase climate change support for fulfilling community expectations and for factor in cement production. In order to reduce this efforts to reach sustainable development goals. Within impact, Akçansa adopts practices such as alternative this aim, during the reporting period we continued fuel usage and alternative raw material use in the our community development projects and vocational product composition, which are also offered by training practices; we got together with universities WBCSD Cement Sustainability Initiative besides more often. Especially, we have reinforced our energy efficiency studies. During the reporting period, stakeholder engagement studies with new practices Akçansa continued its efforts in these practices and event thus we achieved to learn stakeholder despite the difficulties in access to alternative raw expectations and views through more direct channels. resources. Performance achieved during this reporting We aim to conduct these studies in various operating period from the Energy Recovery Plant from Waste locations in the upcoming terms. Heat in Çanakkale Plant, investment phase of which was completed during the previous reporting period, In accordance with our vision, “maintaining increased. Hence more than 750,000 GJ of energy sustainable growth beyond all limits”, generating recovered from waste heat in Çanakkale Plant resulting value for stakeholders, supporting the community in reduction of approximately 100,000 tons of CO2 we operate in to reach a safe and prosperous future emissions in last 3 years since its first installation. As are the ultimate goals of the studies we conduct. We a result of dedusting and filtering investments, a express our gratitude to our stakeholders for their trust significant performance increase achieved compared and support to our efforts to achieve these goals. to the previous reporting period. Accordingly, dust emissions were decreased to 36 gr/ton in 2013 while it Mehmet Hacıkamiloğlu – General Manager was 58 gr/ton in 2011. Hakan Gürdal – Chairperson of the Board of Directors For Akçansa, occupational health and safety is the most material aspect that we cannot compromise under any circumstance. We carry out practices to continuously improve employee safety in our operations which we conduct with 0 accident and occupational disease target. During the reporting period we launched a new pioneer practice and founded the first of Akçansa OHS Academies in Büyükçekmece Plant. After the foundation of Akçansa OHS Academies in Ladik and Çanakkale Plants, where Akçansa employees and other operational stakeholders receive OHS trainings from experts, we aim to provide 80,000 hours of trainings. 5 Corporate Profile G4 4 Established in 1996 by the merger of two long-established cement producers in Turkey, Akçimento and Çanakkale G4 7 G4 9 Çimento, Akçansa is a subsidiary of Sabancı Holding and HeidelbergCement. Merging later with its subsidiaries G4 17 Betonsa in 1998 and Agregasa in 2002, Akçansa continues its ready-mixed concrete operations under Betonsa and aggregate production operations under Agregasa brands. Akçansa also owns 51% and Kardemir Demir Çelik Sanayi owns 49% of Karçimsa, which was established in 1996 to produce cement with the milling of the blast furnace slag from Kardemir and clinker from Akçansa. Maintaining its continuous growth, currently Akçansa is the largest cement and ready-mixed concrete producer in Turkey and a leading company in the sector. Featuring cutting-edge technology facilities and boasting an environmentally friendly character awarded by Istanbul Chamber of Industry, Akçansa meets 10% of Turkey’s cement demand today through its products complying with global quality standards. Capital Structure Hacı Ömer Sabancı Holding A.Ş. 39,72 20,56 39,72 HeidelbergCement Mediterrannean Basin Holdings S.L. Public 6 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Total Cement and Clinker Sales (million tons) 9 8 7,7 7,7 7,5 7,7 7 6,7 6,6 6,8 6,8 6,3 6 5,5 Total 5 4 Cement 3 2 1,2 1,2 Clinker 1,1 0,9 0,9 1 0 0,9 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Ready-Mixed Concrete and Aggregate Sales 6 5,2 5 5 4,9 5 Concrete (million m3) 4 4 2,9 3 3 Aggregate (million ton) 2 1,9 2 1,5 1 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Key Indicators 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Net Sales (TL million) 709,6 817,4 1.010 1.056 1.202,2 EBITDA (TL million) 166,5 132,2 192,7 215 270,2 EBITDA (%) 23,46 16,2 19,1 20,4 22,48 Net Profit (TL million) 75 59,3 100,3 120 157,9 Earnings per Share 0,39 0,31 0,52 0,63 0,82 Dividend per Share (%) 34,18 20,4 46,34 57,45 75,43 Net Financial Borrowing (TL 148,2 160,5 133,3 210,8 163,5 million) Equity (TL million) 808,5 830,3 862,9 911,5 987,6 Total Assets (TL million) 1.161,60 1.231,80 1.278,50 1.388,57 1.477,20 Clinker Production (million tons) 6 6,6 6,47 6,5 6,6 Cement Production (million tons) 5 6,4 6,6 6,1 6,6 Cement Exports (million tons) 1,5 1,8 1,5 1,2 0,9 Clinker Exports (million tons) 1 1 0,8 1,1 0,9 7 Vision & Mission G4 4 G4 6 G4 56 Vision “Sustainable growth beyond all limits” To ensure sustainable growth beyond all limits in the building materials sector as a company with the most preferred business model and as the most trusted company by all our stakeholders. Mission To be a leading building materials company enhancing the quality of community life by means of our culture committed to environmental, legal and ethical values to generate further values, • for our customers via innovative products, services and solutions, • for our shareholders via our superior financial performance, • for our employees via our occupational health and safety-focused management approach and continuous development opportunities, • for our environment via the importance attached to energy efficiency, alternative fuel & raw material usage, recovery processes and biological diversity, • for our all other stakeholders 8 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Awards Received in the Reporting Period • Akçansa won the “Most Appreciated Company in • Büyükçekmece, Kemerburgaz and Samsun ReadyTurkey” award in the cement sector for the 12th time Mixed Concrete Facilities were awarded in the 2013 in the ‘‘Most Appreciated Companies in Turkey 2013 ‘‘Blue Helmet Occupational Safety Contest’’ organized Survey’’. by the Turkish Ready-Mixed Concrete Association. • “Safkan Cement” product won the Second Prize • Akçansa made it to the finals in the “Innovative in the ‘‘Environmentally Friendly and Innovative Sustainability Practices Contest” organized by the Product Category of the 2013 İSO Environment Business Council for Sustainable Development Turkey Awards’’ organized by the İstanbul Chamber of (BCSD Turkey). Industry (İSO). • Developed by Akçansa, “CEM I 42.5 R” and “Safkan • Akçansa won the grand prize in the Sabancı Cement” products turned out to be the first two Holding Golden Collar Awards in the following products in Turkey with the right to bear the subcategories “Investment in People”, “Development Environmental Product Declaration (EPD). in Market Orientation”, “Corporate Synergy”. • Within the scope of ‘‘Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) • Akçansa ranked top in the cement sector and 75th on 2013 Turkey’’, Akçansa was presented as one of the the overall listing in the ‘‘Top 500 Industrial Companies most transparent companies from Turkey in of Turkey 2013 Survey’’ held by İstanbul Chamber of combating the climate change. Industry (İSO). • Akçansa won the first prize in the ‘‘Cloud Computing Category’’ with the “MozaİK” and the second prize in the ‘‘Medium Implementation Category’’ with the “Procurement Project” in the ‘‘SAP 2013 Quality Awards’’. 9 Material Sustainability Issues in the Akçansa Value Chain G4 2 G4 12 G4 19 Supply Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Greenhouse Gases and Other Pollutants Raw Production Material Akçansa Greenhouse Gases Production Sustainability and Other Pollutants Priorities Dust Emissions Quarry Management and Biodiversity Energy Efficiency Dust Emisson Alternative Raw Materials Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Alternative Fuel Dialogue with Water Use Stakeholders Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Stakeholder Sales & Logistics Dialogue Marketing Greenhouse Gases and Other Pollutants Product Pricing Dust Emissions Sustainable, Innovative Products Energy Efficiency Occupational Health Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) and Safety (OHS) Stakeholder Dialogue 10 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainability Ambitions 2020 Progress Chart 1. Attributing Utmost Priority to OHS Goal Definition KPIs 2012 Realization 2013 Realization Target 2015 Target 2020 Cement Accident Frequency Rate 8,70 4.56 0 0 Accident Severity Rate 0,12 0,237 0 0 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Lost Time Injury Rate 5 47,5 0 0 Ready-Mixed Accident Frequency Rate 3,97 5,94 0 0 Concrete (RMC) Establishing best possible norms for employees, Accident Severity Rate 0,09 0,225 0 0 contractors and 3rd parties. Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Lost Time Injury Rate 3,97 45,1 0 0 G4 2 G4 EN6 Aggregate Accident Frequency Rate n.a 0 0 0 G4 EN18 Accident Severity Rate n.a 0 0 0 G4 EN19 Fatalities n.a 0 0 0 Lost Time Injury Rate n.a 0 0 0 2 . Sustainable Supply Chain Management Goal Definition KPIs 2012 Realization 2013 Realization Target 2015 Target 2020 Practices for increasing supply of Contracts and Long-term contracts, Alternative Fuel Supply 20% 29% alternative fuels Cooperations waste tire exports One Hundred Percent Enhancing Raising awareness of with Akçansa Project, sustainability, Establishing Cement, Conducting OHS environmental KPIs for stakeholders in the supply Projects with stakeholders in the RMC and and environmental and OHS sustainability in chain on sustainable business supply chain trainings and audits trainings and the supply Aggregate for suppliers and audits in the models chain customers supply chain 3. Delivering Prominent, Positive Contribution to Biodiversity Goal Definition KPIs 2012 Realization 2013 Realization Target 2015 Target 2020 Preparation of rehabilitation Rate of quarries with rehabilitation plans and their approval by 100% 100% 100% 100% Cement and public authorities plan approved by public authorities Aggregate Decommissining of quarries where the production is Areas rehabilitated (ha) 6,1 11,00 15,00 25,00 terminated 4. Combatting the Climate Change Goal Definition KPIs 2012 Realization 2013 Realization Target 2015 Target 2020 Cement Reduction of fossil fuel use Rate of fuel substituted by waste (as 5,20% 6,60% 20% 29% thermal value) Rate of fuel substituted by biomass 1,10% 1,10% 5,00% 6,33% (as thermal value) Reduction of clinker use in the Clinker usage rate in the cement 86,77% 87,12% 81% 79% cement Continuous monitoring of Cement NOx emissions < 800 mg/m³ < 800 mg/m³ < 800 mg/m³ emissions SOx emissions < 50 mg/m³ < 50 mg/m³ < 50 mg/m³ < 30 mg/m3 “< 30 mg/m3 *Ladik Plant Dust emissions will achieve this < 10 mg/m³ < 10 mg/m³ performance in 2014 through bagged filtre investment” Specific CO emissions (kg CO2 /ton 870 871 845 830 clinker) 2 Cement Online monitoring of NOx and Rate of rotary kilns monitored online 17% 17% 100% 100% Sox values Dedusting of Plants Covered stokehole rate 60% 60% 100% 100% Rate of covered clinker conveyor 83,33% 85,00% 90% 100% belts and stokeholes Replacement of electrostatic Bagged filter rate in raw mills, kilns 76% 76% 95% 100% filters with bagged filters and cement mills RMC Storage of aggregate in closed Rate of facilities where the 64,80% 70% 85% 100% units aggregate is stored in covered units Increasing usage of new mixer Rate of mixers and pumps under 10 85,60% 85% 95% 100% and pumps years-old Reduction of environmental Annual rate of complaints 7 7 0 0 complaints Aggregate Installation of truck tire Rate of installed washing systems 25% 25% 100% 100% washing systems Covering tops of the facilities Rate of top-covered facilities 80% 100% 100% 100% Reporting practice Preparing a Reporting guideline in line with Cement guideline for Reducing water Cement, RMC, Installation of truck tire Water saving rate and projects for for efficient water RMC. Specifying usage by 5% management was Sustainability water saving compared to Aggregate washing systems efficient management of water Initiative (CSI) was established initiated potentials in all 2013 plants 14 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report 5 . Sustainable Construction Solutions Goal Definition KPIs 2012 Realization 2013 Realization Target 2015 Target 2020 RMC Becoming solution Rate of projects contributed in 16% 16% 25% 30% provider in green building Marmara market projects Cement and Reducing environmental Obtaining environmental It is decided to EPD obtained for CEM Obtaining EPD for RMC Developing products RMC footprint of buildings product labels (EPD) for obtain EPDs and I 42,5R and CEM II durability grades and service solutions cement and concrete Produc Life Cycle 42.5R A-S. regarding sustainable Studies initiated. buildings Aggregate Production of recycled Recycled aggregate 0% 0% 12% 20% aggregate production rate in total aggregate production 6. Stakeholder Engagement Goal Definition KPIs 2012 Realization 2013 Realization Target 2015 Target 2020 Corporate Citizenship Conducting corporate Local level social In addition to 2012 Increasing and enhancing Contributing citizenship projects in line projects mostly projects, voluteering projects community with sustainability strategy in education and development and Corporate Governance and Sustainability culture ‘‘Equality at Work Developing projects growth Decleration’’ was in line with local ‘‘There is signed. community expectations Environment All and Akçansa Around Me’’ Project Ladik Glass Workshop sustainability strategy was established. Increasing stakeholder Researches and mechanisms Different In addition to 2012 Prioritization and Establishing engagement regarding increase of communication practices, as a best project design regarding mechanisms with direct stakeholder engagement plans and events practice, “Neighbour needs and expectations access to the Board are conducted Council” was initiated. received as an outcome of Directors in order regarding different of stakeholder to ensure stakeholder stakeholder groups. Awareness and engagement platforms expectations information platforms were established in line with speciality fields regarding Akçansa Sustainability Priorities. Regarding internal stakeholders, individual targets of all employees were associated with sustainability targets. Being the employer of Place at employer of choice Employer brand Developing projects to Being an employer of choice listing positioning study was become an employer of choice within the sector conducted. Becoming choice constantly and ranking the employer of amongst the first 50 in choice was adopted as general a target 15 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa Cement is an essential raw material for constructing the regions providing easy access to raw materials. The the hard infrastructure, a key indicator of a country’s possible restrictions to be introduced regarding the G4 8 development level. Produced from the most available operation of the quarries close to Istanbul, a region G4 EC6 materials in the world, cement and concrete have with a high consumption level, are likely to influence G4 EC9 been widely used everywhere, and they will remain the aggregate sector in the oncoming periods. to be popular building materials in the future thanks to their solidity, durability, cost advantage and easy Ready-mixed concrete sector enjoys a rising trend implementation. in parallel to the developments in the construction sector. Ready-mixed concrete production rose by 3% Construction sector has developed significantly in 2012 when compared with the previous year and in recent years as a result of the increase in public also went up by 10% in 2013, reaching 102 million infrastructure investments as well as long-term m3 in total. Revitalized through urban transformation private sector projects initiated. In parallel to such projects, the sector also developed mainly thanks to developments in the Turkish construction sector, the increase in public projects during the period. cement and concrete production has also gone up, which eventually made Turkey the country with the The increase in world population leads to a global highest amount of cement and concrete production in need for constructing further infrastructure, which Europe as of 2009. In 2012 cement production in the is also true for Turkey. The impact on the domestic Turkish market rose by 1% when compared with 2011 development of the cement and ready-mixed and turned out to be 63.9 million tons while in 2013 it concrete sector from the investments made in rose by 12% and reached 71.3 million tons. developing infrastructure aspects such as highways, power plants and subways is an important indicator Due to its production and product features especially for the abovementioned fact. On the one hand regarding freight issues, cement mainly appeals the fact that Turkey is a country located mainly on to regional markets. Therefore, although it is not a a seismic belt requires the country to regenerate preferred operation form for producers, exporting current building inventory, especially in and around cement is possible for businesses with a marine Istanbul. In other respect, having a significant share terminal while maintaining profitability. In other in emerging greenhouse gas emissions poses risks to words only the markets with strong domestic sales the environment and society at large as well as to the figures and limited export levels could constitute a future of the sector. This situation underlines the need healthier environment for cement companies to enjoy for the cement sector in Turkey to deliver innovative, economic sustainability. During the reporting period efficient, functional and environmentally friendlier Turkish cement industry pursued a similar trend. In products and service solutions apart from meeting the 2011 the total amount of cement exported was 11 need for cement and ready-mixed concrete, which is million tons while that amount declined by 12% in expected to rise in the oncoming periods in Turkey. 2012 and then fell to 9.6 million tons in 2013. The main Once the transformation launched by the sector driving force behind the performance enjoyed during for that purpose has been speeded up, the current the reporting period was the growth of the retail challenges the sector faces could actually turn out sector in the domestic market along with the increase to be an opportunity that supports the development in the infrastructure investments and public projects of the sector in that direction. Especially the increase launched. in green building certified projects such as LEED and BREEAM and the rise in the studies carried out by In terms of its production structure, the Turkish the NGOs in that area in recent years show that the aggregate sector operates through many production demand for such environmentally friendly products in units positioned in a scattered fashion. The total those segments is bound to increase while the sector established production capacity amounts to around is capable of meeting that specific developing need. 250 million tons of aggregate with a concentration on 18 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report The Turkish market is yet to reach its potential in the Catching on with the sector growth trend thanks to ready-mixed concrete segment. For instance, despite its innovative and environmentally friendly solutions, the initiatives taken in the sector and various good Akçansa increased its sales volume in Marmara Region examples set, the use of concrete in road construction from 3.7 million tons in 2012 to 4.5 million tons in 2013. is still not an alternative to the use of asphalt. Hence Akçansa reached a market share of 25.1% in However, built widely in the US and Europe, concrete 2012 and 28.1% in 2013 in Marmara Region. Through highways constitute a more efficient option, are more the IT infrastructure established in 2013, Akçansa functional in terms of maintenance and use, are more aims to deliver a product price level profitable for environmentally friendly in terms of raw material and the company, fair for the market by price-profitability G4 16 implementation. Apart from contributing to the sector optimization. and country economy with the rise in the studies and sensitivity regarding this issue, concrete highways Meeting global trends and local demands at the will be an important opportunity to decrease the same time, Akçansa pursues 6 strategic goals to be environmental impact from the infrastructure conducted in the short-term and medium-term with investments. In addition to that, production and supply a view to maintaining its leading role in the sector. In of higher quality and durability concrete in Turkey, a that respect Akçansa seeks to country facing a high earthquake risk, becomes more and more important every year. Boasting laboratories • Reduce the environmental impact throughout in all its facilities along with its mobile laboratories, the product life cycle by means of achieving energy Akçansa is able to continuously meet the rising need efficiency, alternative fuel and raw material in the market for high quality concrete. usage practices, Thanks to its capacity to perceive market • Maintain its leading role in the sector in corporate transformations early, Akçansa has been able to provide sustainability, especially in terms of environmental effective solutions on time for this development in performance, the sector. Presenting the best innovation examples in the sector through its products, services and • Be a leader in costs through sustainable high operational processes, Akçansa leads the way in performance, the sector for ensuring corporate sustainability and works in cooperation with many NGOs to achieve this • Improve high quality special product diversity and aim. In that respect Akçansa continued its studies in its share in the portfolio by focusing on products collaboration with the Environmentally Friendly Green with reduced clinker ratio, Buildings Association, which Akçansa is a member of, and became one of the first signatories to the • Increase its regional market shares and reinforce its Declaration of Energy Efficiency in Buildings, which leading position in the Turkish market by was issued by the Business Council for Sustainable developing its distribution network and Development Turkey to address energy efficiency implementing vertical integration strategies, risks in company buildings and draw up action plans to manage these risks. Finally Akçansa pioneered the • Ensure continuity of human resources efforts to set up Sustainability Committees in the development by establishing a culture of Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association and the innovation and a positive organization climate. Association of Turkish Construction Material Producers apart from taking on the chairmanship position for these committees during the reporting period. 19 Innovative Special Product friendly green buildings. Depending on the building type, the A+Beton product group is composed of Portfolio three categories including A+Beton Basic, A+Beton In parallel with its operations to create a more Road and Coverage, A+Beton Structure. liveable world, Akçansa has provided high quality special ready-mixed concrete products for the Turkish Viskobeton is a self-landing concrete product market since 2003. In line with Akçansa customer developed for structures requiring strength and demands, the special product portfolio essentially durability. Due to mineral additives used highly to seeks to provide high performance solutions with replace clinker in its composition, the product’s CO2 G4 12 G4 26 reduced environmental impact especially in terms emission value has been reduced. Its high strength G4 27 of greenhouse gas emissions, apart from helping the and durability enhance the durability of the structures G4 EC7 customers save on labour costs and time; offering them thereby reducing their maintenance costs. Since it G4 EC8 G4 EN7 thermal and noise insulation as well as waterproofing does not require any vibration, the product is especially G4 EN27 and reducing risks to occupational health and safety. suitable for being used on compact and narrow section G4 PR5 Thanks to the studies undertaken in collaboration with forms, areas requiring high quality smooth surfaces, Betonsa Technology Centre and Istanbul Technical downtown building sites, aesthetic form designs and University (İTÜ) Building Materials Laboratories during sites where it is not possible to use a vibrator. The the reporting period, new products were developed product thus reduces safety and occupational health including “100+Beton” and “A+Beton”. Thus the total risks, noise impact and labour costs. number of special products by Akçansa rose from 15 in 2011 to 18 in 2013. While the share of the special Drabeton features steel wires and is intended for use products in total sales turned out to be 7.3%, the on industrial sites. During the storage, handling and products highlighted for their reduced environmental inspection stages, Drabeton therefore saves on energy impact enjoyed 28% share in special product sales. and labour costs at building sites. İzoşap a light ready screed product from Betonsa, provides thermal insulation and is light, fluid and low Our Dialogue with Dealers and in density thanks to high-entrained air. The product Customers properties ensure reduction of the unnecessary burden Thanks to its market and customer oriented on the structures, which contributes to earthquake approach, Akçansa provides value-added products resistance as far as those buildings are concerned. and services with superior quality standards for its customers. Local and international quality standards Yeşilşap, an environmentally friendly and light ready form the basis of the product and service studies. screed product, reduces CO2 emission by up to 35% Apart from the biannual customer satisfaction and through special additive blend cements used in its loyalty surveys held, brand perception and customer production process. Due to the special chemical portfolio analyses completed during the reporting additives used, Yeşilşap weighs 25% less when period provide invaluable feedback for the company compared with conventional screed products and also to implement new strategies focused on improving contributes to thermal insulation on buildings. customer loyalty, adapting to local demands, increasing market share and deepening customer İzobeton a light concrete product used for insulation, relations. New practices devised through those studies weighs up to 60% less compared to other concrete include special programs developed for dealers and products, and reduces the total burden of the building customer groups with a high loyalty level, payment hence contributing to its earthquake resistance. system revisions initiated as well as new practices developed for bagged and bulk cement users. 100+Beton features superior durability and permeability qualities thanks to the special cement As a result of its corporate strategy, Akçansa has and various mineral additives used, and is developed introduced new practices in recent years to switch for large infrastructure projects required to serve for to a “business partnership” model from a customerover a century such as bridges, airports, subways and supplier model. In that respect, it has established highways. High use of mineral additives instead of direct communication channels to ensure a more clinker in the product composition ensures a significant comprehensive communication with the dealers and reduction in greenhouse gas emission values. customers. Training given to dealers and customers regarding the impact caused by the consumption A+Beton is a durable and high performing concrete of the products and services along with the ways for product with a significantly reduced CO2 emission value proper use of the products and services besides the due to the use of blast furnace slug for up to 70% in production processes constitutes one of the most its composition, and is developed for environmentally important channels in that sense. With a view 20 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report to informing customers on the latest standards, laboratories were identified and met in 2013 thanks experiments and technical aspects, 40 on-site training to Akçansa support while training opportunities were activities were organized in 2012 and another 35 provided for the companies’ employees about quality, were held in 2013 amounting to 75 in total during the environment and OHS, and their product quality reporting period. Meanwhile technical publications control processes were improved. and implementation programs were prepared for the customers and monthly prize quizzes were “Dealer Council” is a program organized. During the reporting period, a customer launched to improve communication line and a call center were introduced the business processes in an effort to ensure that the users could reach of Akçansa dealers, relevant units in the fastest and most effective fashion. which are positioned as business partners. Meeting Akçansa Loyalty Programs periodically, the council Demanding that the current relations should “go discusses the requests from dealers as well as their beyond doing business”, the customers interviewed as problems and suggestions. Council studies provide part of the market surveys held during the reporting significant feedback for shaping Akçansa sustainability period expressed their expectation from Akçansa strategies. to introduce practices that include communication channels, service types and conditions specially Devised within the scope of designed for them in line with their special requests Akçansa sustainable supply from Akçansa. Consequently the bulk and bagged chain management studies, cement customers turned out to have different “Future Leaders ” program is expectations from Akçansa, which led to the launch focused on the young people, of Akçansa Loyalty Program to improve customer especially university students, relations in that respect. Focused on the entire Marmara who represent the next Region, the program is composed of subcategories generation Akçansa customers. Thanks to the studies that appeal to different segments. Within the scope held for training and creating awareness, young people of this plan, the following programs were initiated: get informed about the different prioritized issues in the “One Hundred Percent with Akçansa” for ready-mixed sector, enjoy the opportunity to specialize in business concrete producer customers, “Building Club” for the processes and get to know Akçansa more closely. hardware store customers buying bagged cement, “Dealer Council” for the dealers and “Future Leaders”. “Yapı Club” is designed to provide support for hardware stores, which receive bagged cement through dealer channels, according to the amount of cement they sell. A website dedicated for that purpose, www.yapiclub.com, is available to make it easier for the members to access the application. Ready-mixed concrete producers are supported in different categories through the “One Hundred Percent with Akçansa” practice, which In January 2013, by pioneering a first in its sector, was launched in line with Akçansa organized B2B Marketing Summit. The summit, the special service demand the main aim of which was providing an opportunity for from ready-mixed concrete producers using only participant to meet with experts speakers from various Akçansa cement. Akçansa experts periodically visit the fields, formed a basis for discussion and development program member companies and assess them in terms of B2B marketing practices followed in the cement of production, quality, environment, OHS, insurance, sector through different point of views. During the equipment and integrated management systems. Then reporting period, Betonsa has conducted consumer they issue reports for further improvements available awareness raising practices for concrete quality used based on these assessments. The shortcomings of in buildings; for this purpose a marketing competition the program member companies regarding their called “Open Innovation” has been organized. 21 Product Responsibility Construction and Environment (IBU), Akçansa “CEM I 42.5 R” and “CEM II/A-S 42.5 R” products have received In line with its product responsibility understanding, the EPD labels. Akçansa provides quality reports and material safety information forms regarding the products supplied As part of the Environmental Product Declaration for all its customers. Bagged cement products (EPD), Akçansa has the environmental performance feature information on product package labels too of its CEM I 42.5 R and CEM II/A-S 42.5 R products while the information documents regarding bulk independently assessed in accordance with the ISO G4 EC9 cement product are provided for customers during G4 PR3 14040 series standards and shares the results with the product delivery. Besides product content the public. The declaration covers the ecological and information, product information documents cover carbon footprint of the production process within information and warnings regarding environment and the scope of the “Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)” for the OHS aspects as well. Akçansa exceeded the current products. The EPD document informs the customers standards in the market during the reporting period and end users on the environmental performance and scored a first time in the cement sector Turkey by information regarding the products. Therefore the making an environmental product declaration. customers on the final links of the supply chain Akçansa Launches the First enjoy the opportunity to accurately calculate the environmental impact of their operations, especially in Cement Product in Turkey with terms of their projects with environmental certificates. Environmental Performance Label Contributions to Local Economy As the first company to issue a sustainability report Boasting a value chain bearing strong local in the sector in Turkey, Akçansa not only shares characteristics from raw material production to end its environmental performance as well as its goals users, cement and ready-mixed concrete sectors enjoy for the medium and long-term with the public in the potential to create significant impact on local line with its principle of transparency but has also economic development. The fact that production volunteered to take the initiative for getting an and consumption covers a certain geographic area independent organization to examine and assess its contributes to local economies in various aspects from production processes through the Environmental local employment to economic value distribution. In Product Declaration (EPD) practice. As a result of the other words, a great portion of the economic value assessments made by the German Institute generated by Akçansa distributed to local stakeholder groups. In that respect, out of the 2.3 TL billion part of the economic value generated by Akçansa operations in 2012-2013, 2.2 billion TL was transferred to certain stakeholder groups. 22 Direct Economic Value Distribution (TL million) 1.400,0 1,217.1 1.200,0 1,069.2 1,037.8 1,164.6 1,022.2 947.7 1.000,0 Economic Value 800,0 826.4 829.8 Generated G4 EC1 717.1 697.7 600,0 Economic Value 400,0 Distributed 200,0 74.5 52.4 19.4 31.4 Economic Value 0,0 Retained -200,0 -3.4 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 A great portion of the economic value distribution completed by Akçansa takes place by means of procurement operations. Undertaken through an objective system and decision-making mechanism, the procurement operations are expected to meet the required product standards, quality as well as amount and cost conditions. Moreover local suppliers are preferred. The local suppliers meeting the related norms in the service tenders initiated by Sabancı Holding Joint Procurement Group are prioritized. In that context, local suppliers provided 85% in numbers and 88% in total sum out of the 12,797 procurement operations that were completed in 2012 and were worth 910 million TL altogether. As for 2013, out of the 13.071 procurement operations completed and were worth 1 billion TL altogether, 88% in numbers and 84% in total sum were provided through local supply channels. Procurement Operations by Source (%) Abroad 12% Local 12% 2012 88% 88% 2013 23 Governance and Sustainability Governance and Sustainability Governance understanding of Akçansa relies on a Operating under the Board of Directors, the Audit transparent, accountable management model that Committee is composed of two independent members complies fully with the laws while creating high level and advises the Board of Directors to take necessary values for the stakeholders and ensuring corporate measures after examining the internal audit structure sustainability. Within the scope of this understanding, of the company in quarterly periods. Started in 2012, G4 16 Akçansa prioritizes establishing sustainability and the Corporate Governance Committee comprises two G4 34 G4 35 stakeholder engagement management as well as independent board members and is responsible for G4 36 a corporate governance structure in line with the the compliance of the Akçansa corporate governance G4 38 G4 46 international standards covering aspects such as model with the locally and internationally acclaimed G4 47 internal audits, risk management, quality systems and corporate governance principles besides legal G4 48 G4 49 business ethics so that the efficiency, continuity and regulations. The Corporate Governance Committee G4 50 constant improvement of Akçansa operations could also fulfils the duties of the Nomination Committee be ensured. Supported by the best practice examples, and the Remuneration Committee. Also composed the systems introduced in those areas are continuously of independent board members, the Early Risk improved at Akçansa. Detection Committee, which was established in 2013, is responsible for early detection of any risks that could Corporate Governance jeopardize the existence, development and continuity Equality, transparency, accountability and of the company along with determining, efficiently responsibility are the essential concepts forming the managing and monitoring of the measures to be taken corporate governance understanding of Akçansa. for the elimination of those risks. Established within the framework of those concepts, the corporate governance organs seek to develop the As an active member of the Corporate Governance management capabilities constantly besides providing Association of Turkey, Akçansa monitors developments on time and complete information for the public, regarding corporate governance and participates ensuring equal treatment of all the stakeholders and in the countrywide studies organized to develop guaranteeing their rights along with avoiding conflicts corporate governance practices further. of interests. The improvement studies undertaken during the reporting period reinforced Akçansa Thanks to the suggestion system introduced to ensure corporate governance structure on the field. participation of the employees in the continuous improvement of the business processes and award Akçansa Board of Directors is composed of six their participation, Akçansa employees are able to non-executive members elected by the General share their creative ideas and have a voice in the Assembly among candidates with a high level of production and management processes. In addition knowledge and skills as well as a qualified professional to that, employees enjoy the opportunity to inform background and experience. In line with the current the senior managers on their suggestions and Capital Markets Board (CMB) regulations there are views face to face at the annual “Communication 2 independent board members, which amount to Meetings” as well as the “We Listen to You” meetings one third of the total number of board members. held periodically. Thus, participation of employees in Chairperson and General Manager offices are the management is ensured through an interactive conducted by different individuals. Akçansa General environment established for exchange of views. Manager, who has executive responsibilities, fulfils his duties in cooperation with the Executive Board, which is composed of senior managers representing various areas of expertise. 26 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Internal Audit and Risk Business Ethics Akçansa adopts the business ethics principles Management published in 2004 by its parent company Sabancı Akçansa establishes mechanisms to determine and Group under the Sabancı Group Code of Ethics (SAeffectively manage possible risks to emerge in all Ethics). Corporate principles, ethical values and business lines. Preventive approaches are developed standards are defined within the scope of SA-Ethics within the scope of risk management plans, which throughout the company. SA-Ethics is a guideline also feature sustainability priorities as risk elements. for the company employees to help them fulfil their While the most senior body responsible to the risk duties in line with the legal regulations, internal norms G4 14 management function, is the Early Risk Detection and contracts on time and fully for the benefit of G4 56 Committee, a change introduced during the reporting G4 57 the corporation and avoid acts that could harm the G4 SO3 period separated the risk management function from corporation. Business ethics principles covered by the internal audit unit so that the risk management the SA-Ethics are grouped under the following titles: function is now organized as an independent unit. Integrity, Confidentiality, Conflict of Interest and Our Covering all risk elements including sustainability Responsibilities. Those principles are accompanied priorities, reports that are prepared in line with the by other related company policies such as Policy on ISO 30001 Standard are submitted to the Board Avoiding Conflict of Interest, Policy on Giving and of Directors every two months so that the senior Accepting Gifts, Policy on Protecting Confidential management could monitor the related performance Information, Policy on Establishing and Preserving a and preventive measures could be identified. Fair Working Environment. From business ethics to processes yielding operational The Board of Directors, managers and employees are and financial results, the Internal Audit Unit undertakes all expected to abide by the ethical principles. No comprehensive periodic programmed or theme based matter in Turkey or abroad, all Akçansa operations audits in accordance with the standards set by the are executed within the framework of the local legal Institute of Internal Auditors. The audit findings are regulations and international laws. As a publicly then used to plan studies for further improvement. traded company, Akçansa operations also comply with the related communiqué issued by the Capital Excellence and Quality Markets Board (CMB). Seeking to ensure that Akçansa Operating within the scope of the obligations set employees are aware of the corporate impact of their by the professional associations it is a member of actions and attitudes, SA-Ethics creates the necessary along with the related quality as well as national and transparent, honest and reliable communication international product standards, Akçansa meets the environment for the management of the relations global trends and local demands in that aspect. with the shareholders as a publicly traded company as well as in all goals, decision-making and business In general, management systems such as ISO 9001, management processes. EN 197-2 are followed in the business processes. All cement products are produced in accordance The final SA-Ethics chapters are “Procedures and with the criteria set by the CE Certificate and TS EN Methods to Be Followed While Making an Ethical 197-1 standard. While the ready-mixed concrete Decision” and “Resolution of Unconformities” with products comply with the TS EN 206-1 and G Practice necessary contact information provided at the end. Communiqué, the production at the aggregate Every new employee receives the obligatory e-learning facilities complies with the TS EN 12620 Standard training regarding ethical principles. In addition to criteria and CE Certificate requirements. Occupational that, a survey for compliance with ethical principles is Health and Safety practices at the facilities comply held annually for all company employees so that their with the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and awareness regarding ethical principles is maintained. Management System criteria while the facilities comply In an effort to make them easily accessible by all with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management the employees, the ethical principles are available System criteria to manage their environmental on the Akçansa Portal. The portal also features resources and also comply with ISO 50001 criteria for information regarding corporate principles and their energy management systems. External auditing values, developments about the projects underway, and confirmation studies are regularly undertaken for corporate goals, regulations related to process and the renewal of the quality and management standard practices, request forms and catalogues. certificates in an effort to realize the goal to achieve continuous improvement, guarantee product quality and safety, manage environmental resources, and ensure human health and safety. 27 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management As the leading cement, ready-mixed concrete and The input provided through channels such as surveys aggregate producer in Turkey, Akçansa undertakes and studies, satisfaction surveys, working group its operations creating added value in the light of studies, OHS Committees, marketing communication tomorrow as well as today. Apart from its sectorstudies, competitions, “Bridge Days” and “Neighbour G4 18 oriented activities and its principle to create value Councils” are assessed in terms of the Sustainability G4 37 G4 42 for the community, Akçansa seeks to ensure the Ambitions 2020 along with the local, international G4 43 further development of the communities it operates risks and opportunities. As a result of a workshop G4 44 G4 45 within. That is why its sustainability approach, which prioritization organized in the light of those G4 46 also includes community development studies, is assessments, a number of prioritized issues for G4 47 G4 48 located in the very heart of all its business processes the Akçansa Value Chain have been identified. The G4 49 G4 50 from raw material production, sales and marketing to prioritized areas are covered within the scope of the after sales services. Akçansa corporate sustainability following 5 links comprising the value chain: Raw policy is conducted in line with the goals set in the material production, procurement, cement and readyHeidelbergCement Sustainability Ambitions 2020, mixed concrete production, logistics and sales & which are valid for all HeidelbergCement affiliates. marketing. According to the Sustainability Ambitions 2020, Akçansa Sustainability Committee is responsible Within the scope of the Sustainability Ambitions 2020 for the annual company practices and performance in March 2013, the Sustainability Committee updated measurement. Akçansa Sustainability Committee the committee structure in line with the sustainability provides direct information for the Executive Board priorities set and by the approval of the Executive and submits risk reports to the Board of Directors Board. Akçansa Sustainability Committee continues on the practices implemented, goals reached and to function within the framework of the 6 thematic performance developments achieved regarding working groups updated in 2013. sustainability priorities. Chaired by the representative of the Akçansa Executive During the reporting period Akçansa allocated Board, Akçansa Sustainability Committee is composed 46.3 million TL in total for the studies to improve of the members of the thematic working groups its sustainability performance. 42.6 million TL formed in parallel to the strategic goals besides a of that sum was used in investments while the communication manager and a coordinator. remaining 3.7 million TL was used to cover expenses. 28 Akçansa 2013 Sürdürülebilirlik Raporu Sustainability Committee Study Issues “0” Accident Policy Alternative fuel Rehabilitated mining Creating a culture for and biomass use sites living safely Sustainable -Organizing the Quarry procurement and Life Award competition logistics operations Occupational Sustainable Health and Safety Biodiversity Supply Chain Reducing clinker ratio Being the most preferred Emission control and Environmental Product employer reduction in CO2 emission Neighbour Council, Open Door Declarations Days Alternative fuel and Being in the Green Building Stakeholder Meetings biomass use Market Dealer Meetings Energy efficiency and waste R&D Studies Future Leaders heat recovery projects Recycled aggregate use Betonik Ideas Competition Effective water Career Days Climate and Sustainable Stakeholder Environmental Construction Protection Solutions Engagement A sustainability committee member, who specializes in the related issue, coordinates each of the 6 main study areas. Akçansa Sustainability Committee Organization Diagram Committee Chairman Executive Board Member Assistant General Manager of Operations *Arvid Stjernberg Coordinator Communication Sezgi Kumbaracıbaşı Banu Üçer Climate and Stakeholder Occupational Sustainable Environmental Health and Safety Supply Chain Protection Engagement Sustainable Construction Biodiversity İsmail Kır Hakan Bala Okay Kılınç Meltem Daçe İlker Koç Özgür Öztürk *Since 1 July 2014, the deputy general manager Ali Kipri, serves as the president of the Sustainability Commitee. 29 Dialogue with Stakeholders Having adopted a participatory management Akçansa defines and monitors its interaction with its approach, Akçansa remains in constant dialogue stakeholders in every link of the value chain extending with its stakeholders and provides transparent from the suppliers to customers, and draws up action data regarding its environmental, social and plans to improve the aspects identified. As a result of economic performances to meet any requests, an improvement made in the Akçansa Sustainability views and suggestions. Considering dialogue with Ambitions 2020 during the reporting period, G4 24 G4 25 the stakeholders and participatory communication stakeholder engagement was added as one of the G4 26 models an indispensible part of its sustainability thematic working groups. Akçansa identifies different G4 43 G4 SO1 strategy, Akçansa takes a proactive approach to keep communication processes in line with the specific developing dialogue channels with its stakeholders and distinct needs of the stakeholder groups defined further. in line with the social, environmental and economic impact stemming from the sustainability operations. Stakeholder Group Practice Type and Frequency Employees Surveys and Research (at various intervals); Training Activities, SA-ETHICS Principles, Corporate Portal, Announcements and Postings (continuous); Suggestion and Rewarding System (instant); OHS Committees, Function Based Meetings (monthly); Working Groups and Committees (at least six times a year); Akçansa Harcı Magazine (three times a year); Performance Management and Career Development Meetings, Social Activities (at least twice a year); Management Meetings, Communication Meetings, Annual Report, Sustainability Report, Environment Day (annually); Working Life Evaluation Survey (annually); We Listen to You (periodic) Majority Shareholders General Meetings, Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually); Board of Directors Meetings, Financial Performance Meetings (quarterly); Material Disclosure (upon necessity) Minority Shareholders Investor Presentations, One on One Interviews (upon request); General Meetings, Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually); Financial Performance Meetings (quarterly); Material Disclosure (upon necessity) Dealers One on One Meetings (upon request); Abroad Dealer Meetings, Domestic Dealer Meetings, Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually); Akçansa Harcı Magazine (twice a year) Suppliers One on One Meetings (upon request); OHS Committees (monthly); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually); Supplier Business Ethics Principles (continuous); Akçansa Harcı Magazine, Business Ethics Briefings (twice a year) Product End Users Product Labels, Marketing Communication Studies (continuous); Participation in Fairs, Product Information Training (several times a year); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually) Local Communities Complaint System, Social Projects, Donations and Sponsorships (upon request); Information Meetings (upon necessity); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually); Neighbour Council (annually); Bridge Day (annually) Sector Actors Meetings and Discussions, Exemplary Projects and Initiatives (upon request); Participation in Fairs (several times a year); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually) Local Administrations Meetings and Discussions, Support for Infrastructure Investments, Festival and Social Event Sponsorships (upon request); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually), Neighbour Council (annually) Public Organizations Meetings and Discussions (upon request); Informative Reports (at various intervals); Public Audits (at various intervals/instant); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually); Neighbour Council, Bridge Day (annually) NGOs Memberships (continuous); Working Groups, Committee and Board Memberships (periodic); Joint Projects and Initiatives, Meetings and Discussions (upon request); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually) Universities and Scholarship and Internship Opportunities, Participation in Academic Congresses and Seminars (continuous); R&D Project Academics Partnerships, Sponsorship and Support; Support for Academic Research and Publications; Meetings and Discussions (upon request Annual Report Sustainability Report (annually); Concrete Ideas Project Competition (annually) Employee Families Informative Studies (continuous); Akçansa Harcı Magazine (three times a year); Social Events (at least twice a year); Environment Day (annually) Opinion Leaders Meetings and Discussions (upon request); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually) Media Interviews and Talks, Neighbour Council (annually); Bridge Day (annually); Meetings and Discussions (upon request); Press Releases, Material Disclosure (upon necessity); Annual Report, Sustainability Report (annually) 30 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Believing firmly in the fact that sustainable Plant directors, managers and employees, village development can be achieved through harmonious headmen working in the district, representatives cooperation with the stakeholders, Akçansa has from environmental protection associations, school adopted the motto “Stand up, Speak up, Participate” principals, municipal officials responsible for and therefore works with its “neighbours” for a joint environmental planning, trade union representatives, future. The main objective of this practice is to provide NGO representatives and local community members information for the local communities regarding participate in the Neighbour Council meetings, during the current as well as planned studies, to reach large which all the stakeholders convey their expectations, masses and strengthen the communication network, suggestions and complaints. G4 27 to discover areas requiring development and thus provide further benefit for the community. First launched during the reporting period, “Bridge Day” is held to promote communication with Akçansa annually meets its business partners, the Akçansa employees, business partners, local suppliers, dealers and customers along with local administrations, NGOs and local community. The communities and other stakeholder groups at the Bridge Day, first practice of which was conducted in “Stakeholder Meetings”, “Neighbour Council”, “Bridge Büyükçekmece Plant, is also planned to be held in Day” and similar practices organized. Thanks to those Çanakkale and Samsun in 2014. meetings, Akçansa seeks to devise creative solutions, make the best of its strong sides and discover the The most emphasized aspects in the related practices aspects it has to improve in collaboration with its undertaken are the reduction of emissions, demands stakeholders, who have contributed significantly to for landscaping, development of collaboration its success. Apart from that, Akçansa senior managers channels, sponsorship activities and local employment. participate in those meetings, thus enabling the As a result, such issues are reported to the Executive stakeholders to be informed on the developments and Board and the studies dealing with those issues are information regarding the company at first hand with included in the action plans. transparency. Preliminary studies were completed in 2012 to Held at Çanakkale, Samsun and Büyükçekmece Plants draw up a comprehensive communication plan for annually, Neighbour Council seeks to meet the local stakeholder relations in line with the goal set in the stakeholders defined as “neighbours” and brief them past reporting period and stakeholder groups were on the current studies, strengthen communication identified accordingly. The first stakeholder meeting is while learning about their demands and expectations. thus planned to be held in 2014. 31 Combating the Climate Change Combating the Climate Change Akçansa is the leader of the cement sector in Turkey services. Within the framework of the commitment and manages its practices for combating the climate made as part of the Declaration, Akçansa is setting change through short and medium term goals goals to bring its Head Office energy consumption, according to the risks and opportunities defined which was over 250 thousand kWh in 2013, further in strategic management processes. With this down by 2015. G4 15 regard, Akçansa’s approach to climate change risk G4 EC2 G4 EN3 management is based on operating in compliance with In line with its transparency approach, Akçansa joined G4 EN5 low carbon strategy throughout the whole product the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Turkey in 2011 G4 EN6 life cycle while improving its business processes and and continued its participation in the project in the developing new products as well as participating reporting period. As a result of the evaluation made in local and international initiatives. Therefore, during the Project, thanks to which the performance Akçansa primarily aims to increase energy efficiency regarding climate change strategy and measures in all its activities, reduce emission of pollutants, use taken was reported to the public as well as various alternative energy resources in cement production international investment groups, Akçansa obtained processes and reduce the product emission impact 71 points, becoming one of the most transparent through the use of alternative raw materials in its companies of Turkey in terms of climate change products. Participating in national, international and impacts. The reports can be found on the website sectoral initiatives focused on combating climate www.cdp.net. change, Akçansa develops practices and cooperative efforts to enhance its performance while it also invests in possibilities to benefit from the new opportunities Energy Efficiency posed by the low carbon economy. For instance, it is Cement production requires energy intense processes. estimated that a new market worth around 5 billion TL Energy consumption during these processes, will emerge in Turkey with the development of energy especially in clinker production, creates environmental efficiency and sustainable construction practices in impacts besides being a significant cost item. This is buildings. In the last 3 years, Akçansa has invested why Akçansa adopts an efficient energy management and spent approximately 100 million TL on studies model based on ISO 50001 Standards in its production such as efficient resource management, technology processes. In order to achieve its primary goal of replacement, emission control, climate-friendly reducing energy intensity in production, Akçansa technology usage, product design and manufacturing focuses on practices such as energy-efficient equipment technologies to combat climate change during the preferences, process improvement practices, energy reporting period. recovery from waste heat, and prevention of lost and fugitive energy use during production processes. While establishing policies and practices to combat There is an Energy Management Unit in each of the climate change, Akçansa takes into account Kyoto three factories, holding regular meetings in order to Protocol and outcomes of the International Climate foster development regarding compliance with the Summit as well as principles followed by other parallel regulations and improvement issues. While similar initiatives. In emission calculations, Energy and Carbon studies are carried out in the aggregate and readyDioxide Inventory Protocol prepared by WBCSD mixed concrete production facilities, the energy Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) is used. Created consumption in these processes are incomparably on the basis of sector-specific needs, the protocol is low considering the high consumption levels in the also in compliance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol cement production process. prepared by WBCSD and World Resources Institute. In 2013 Akçansa was among the leading signatories In 2011, Akçansa consumed 3.29 GJ of energy per to the Declaration of Energy Efficiency in Buildings 1 ton of clinker production. In 2012 and 2013, in published by the Business Council for Sustainable parallel to the increase in production amount, total Development Turkey. Thus, Akçansa makes a energy consumption increased. In order to decrease commitment about the energy efficiency practices in specific energy consumption energy efficiency studies its buildings, and also contributes to raising awareness were conducted. As a result of these studies, energy about environmentally friendly building practices, consumption required for 1 ton of clinker production which Akçansa supports through its products and was 3.49 GJ in 2012 and 3.51 GJ in 2013. 34 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Total Energy Consumption Cement Plants 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Direct Energy Consumption (GJ/ 19.833.710 22.989.364 21.471.819 22.726.868 23.203.940 year) Clinker Specific Heat 3,49 3,33 3,29 3,49 3,51 Consumption (GJ/ton) Indirect Energy Consumption 2.688.970 2.570.857 2.371.035 2.467.245 (GJ/year) Energy Production from Waste 118.734 299.147 335.638 Heat (GJ/) Ready-Mixed Concrete Facilities Indirect Energy Consumption 24.949 31.084 29.812 32.470 32.120 (GJ/ year) Specific Energy Consumption 0,006 0,006 0,006 0,007 0,007 Aggregate Facilities Indirect Energy Consumption 915 1.330 1.455 1.130 (GJ/year) Specific Energy Consumption 0,66 0,67 0,59 0,42 (MJ/ton aggregate) R&D for Efficiency In order to reduce the amount of energy needed in production processes, Akçansa initiated the “Mineralizer Project” with TÜBİTAK (The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey) and the “Examination of Hydration Reaction in Cement and Research into the Factors Affecting Cement Project” in cooperation with Sabancı University. “Mineralizer Project” aims to reduce energy consumption and improve product quality by reducing the amount of fuel used during clinker production. Initiated in 2013 in cooperation between Sabancı University and Akçansa, the project to examine hydration reaction in cement and research the factors affecting cement studies ways to increase energy efficiency and enhance product quality. Akçansa as the First Company to Acquire ISO 50001 Certificate in its Sector In 2012, Akçansa started documentation studies for ISO 50001 Energy Management System to develop its energy management systems and, in 2013, the 3 cement plants and Çanakkale port facility of Akçansa acquired the first ISO 50001 certificate to be given in the sector. 35 Energy Saving at Cement Plants By implementing the Energy Recovery from Waste Heat Project in 2011, Çanakkale Plant both made an important move for saving energy sources and became a pioneering figure in its sector in Turkey. The waste heat recovery facility with 15 MW capacity established enables the waste heat emitted to the atmosphere to be reused in the kilns. The amount of electrical energy produced after the waste heat recovery was 118,734 GJ in 2011. This amount rose to 299,147 GJ in 2012 and to 335,638 GJ in 2013. Energy Recovery from Waste Heat G4 EN6 G4 EN19 800.000 753.995 Total electricity production 600.000 (GJ/year) CO2 Reduction (ton/year) 400.000 335.712 229.115 200.000 119.170 44.376 99.667 15.752 39.538 0 2011 2012 2013 TOTAL In 2012, an energy study was carried out at Çanakkale Through all these studies, generally at cement plants, Plant revealing the energy efficiency potential of 375,950 GJ of energy saved in 2012 and 1,805,013 GJ in 2013. the plant. As a result of the frequency converter and efficient energy lines usage practices implemented Raw materials are transported from the quarry to as part of this study, 67,538 GJ of energy was saved Büyükçekmece Plant via the Çatalca-Büyükçekmece in total during 2012-2013 period. Redesigning the Highway. Apart from the demands of stakeholders process flow of Çanakkale Plant led to saving 299,115 in the neighbourhood to redesign the landscape, GJ on energy in 2012. The energy saved increased to there was a need to lighten the traffic caused by 335,712.64 GJ in 2013. The amount of additional energy transportation trucks while they were entering saving achieved thanks to the converter investment the plant site in Büyükçekmece. A project was made in the previous reporting period surmounted to implemented to satisfy these needs and the factory 61,355 GJ in 2012 and rose to 67,538.35 GJ in 2013. At entrance gate was changed. Consequently the raw Çanakkale Plant, therefore, the energy saved amounted material transportation distance was reduced by 2 to 360,470 GJ in 2012 and 403,251 in 2013. km in total in a round trip, which leads to saving 90 thousand litres of diesel fuel annually. With its Waste Heat Energy Recovery Facility, Energy Saving and Efficiency in Akçansa was among the “Best Practices Ready-Mixed Concrete of Sustainable Akçansa seeks to achieve a vehicle age profile younger D e v e l o p m e n t ”, than 10 years old for all of its vehicles by 2020 within the representing Turkey framework of Sustainability Ambitions 2020. The aim is at the Rio+20 United to reduce the emissions resulting from fuel consumption Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. and increase the efficiency of pumps and mixers used for ready-mixed concrete transportation and placement. In Akçansa Çanakkale Plant Waste Heat Energy this regard, vehicle replacement studies were carried out Recovery Facility Project was among the best and the rate of vehicle age profiles younger than 10 years practices chosen by Republic of Turkey Ministry of rose from 81% in 2011 to 85% in 2013. Development to represent Turkey at Rio+20 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in 15,555 kWh of energy was saved annually as a result of June 2012. The project was cited among the “Best the replacement of metal-halide lighting fittings with Practices of Sustainable Development” and received the LED system at Garipçe and Poyrazköy Ready-Mixed the highest points. Concrete Facilities. In the reporting period, thanks to the process Energy Efficiency in Aggregate Production: CLIMB improvement studies carried out at Ladik Plant, 6,500 GJ Project of energy was saved in 2012 and 19,500 GJ was saved in Initiated by HeidelbergCement in 2011, the CLIMB 2013. In 2012, at Büyükçekmece Plant, equipment and Project aims to optimize the aggregate quarries in the process improvement practices in addition to efficiency TEAM countries. The project includes practices such studies on compressed air systems implemented with as field visits, Aggregate Academy training activities, 6 Sigma methodology were carried out, achieving sharing of information among the TEAM countries, energy savings of 8,280 GJ in 2012. By adding dynamic mentorship and process monitoring. Within the separator practice to existing energy efficiency studies framework of the project, optimization studies were saved energy amount increased to 1,381,663 GJ in 2013. realized at Bursa and Ayazağa aggregate facilities in 2013. 36 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report 37 Emission Management Emission Management Akçansa activities are emission-intensive processes thanks to their energy consumption and product composition. In the scope of Sustainability Ambitions 2020, the emissions occurring in all fundamental processes are calculated and monitored meticulously while studies for their reduction are undertaken. GHGs such as carbon dioxide are primarily monitored and reduced as well as dust, nitrogen oxide and sulphur dioxide in addition to other pollutant emissions found albeit sparingly. Throughout the value chain, the most significant G4 EN15 amount of GHG is emerged during the cement production process due to the energy consumption level and G4 EN16 the calcination effect in the production process. Meanwhile supply, sales and product logistics processes also lead to indirect GHG emissions because of raw material and product shipment processes. Although ready-mixed concrete and aggregate production processes also create indirect emissions due to electricity consumption, that type of indirect emission remains low in amount when compared with other processes. The most significant emission type observed throughout these processes is dust. Carbon Dioxide Emission It is estimated that 10% of industry related CO2 emissions in Turkey results from cement production. Acting on the awareness of this responsibility, Akçansa seeks to reduce the emission level related to production through alternative fuel and raw material usage practices. Alternative fuel consumption is the most widely accepted practice worldwide in terms of reducing energy consumption related emissions as well as eliminating dependence on foreign countries for energy consumption. Clinker production is the most emission-intensive process in cement production. Besides energy consumption, chemical reactions occurring during the process produce CO2. The most effective method for diminishing this effect is to use high quality alternative raw materials and reduce the amount of clinker in cement composition. The strategy of Akçansa for reducing GHG emissions is based on alternative fuel and raw material usage besides energy efficiency. Akçansa follows the Energy and Carbon Dioxide Inventory Protocol, published by WBCSD Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) and internationally accepted by the sector, in its carbon dioxide emission calculations on Scope1 and Scope2 levels. Gross Carbon Dioxide Emission (ton) 5.872.720 5.745.153 6,000,000 5.733.991 5.838.681 5,000,000 4.969.875 4,000,000 3,000,000 Total Gross Scope 1 2,000,000 Emission 1,000,000 Total Gross Scope 2 338.163 324.504 Emission 300,000 290.367 306.419 318.496 290,000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 40 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report CO2 Emission from Cement Production (kg CO2e/ton cement ) 760 758 759 755 754 G4 EN18 752 G4 EN19 G4 EN21 750 746 745 740 735 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 CO2 Emission from Clinker Production (kg CO2e/ton clinker ) 880 877 877 875 870 871 870 868 865 860 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 During the reporting period, the rise in production brought about an increase in gross CO2 emissions. While a considerable reduction was achieved in CO2 emissions per 1 ton of clinker production, the emission value per 1 ton of cement production increased. Dust Emission Dust emission is emerged distinctly during the processes of size reduction, preparation and storage of raw materials and fuels in cement, ready-mixed concrete and aggregate production. In the reporting period, dust emissions in cement kilns were significantly reduced thanks to the systematic improvements achieved such as the usage of modern dedusting equipments. The goal of Akçansa is to increase the bag type filter usage rate to 95% at its production facilities by 2015 through investments for replacing electro-filters with bag type filters with a view to reducing dust emissions. 41 Cement Plants In line with technological developments, there has been a transition to bag type filters and covered stokehole practices since the last reporting period. As a result of these changes, the total dust emission value of cement plants decreased from 589 tons/year in 2010 to 140 tons/year in 2013 despite the increasing production in the meantime. A similar downtrend occurred in the specific dust emissions as well. Dust Emission 600 589 500 400 329 Dust Emission (ton/year) 300 200 Specific Dust Emission 145 140 (gr/ton clinker) 110 100 58 35 36 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 In the last 2 years, an investment amounting to 18 Ready-Mixed Concrete and Aggregate million TL has been made in filters and dedusting at Facilities Büyükçekmece Plant, thus, finalizing the conversion The practices for reducing dust emissions at the readyof all rotary kiln chimney electro filters into bag type mixed concrete and aggregate production facilities filters. Bag type filter practice is considered to be the are managed within the framework of Akçansa best available technique by the whole sector, which Sustainability Ambitions 2020. In an effort to prevent has contributed to attaining much lower values than dust emission, crushers and screens were placed into the legal limit specified for dust emission by the a covered storage and the conveyor belts were also regulations. In addition to the rotary kiln chimneys, fully covered in Kemerburgaz and Bursa Aggregate existing filters and chimneys in other units were also Facilities. Thus, the rate of 50% in 2011 increased improved, increasing the dust retaining efficiency to 100%, realizing the goal set for 2020. The same to a significant extent. Besides, semi-covered coal practice will be adopted by default in new facilities to stokeholes at Büyükçekmece and Ladik Plants were be established in future. replaced with fully covered coal stokeholes and wheel washing systems were set up for raw material vehicles, In the reporting period, pulverized water sprinkler trailers and coal transport vehicles in order to prevent systems complying with regulations which aim at dust emissions created by particulates carried from the reduction were installed in all ready-mixed concrete floor. The aim is to complete the transition to bag type facilities for an efficient environmental impact filters at Ladik Plant in 2014. management. The studies to cover the aggregate stokeholes in the ready-mixed concrete facilities continued in line with the Sustainability Ambitions 2020. The covered aggregate stokehole rate, which was 53% in 2011, rose to 70% in 2013. 42 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report NOx and SO2 Emissions Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emerge from the reaction between the oxygen in the air and the nitrogen in the fuels at high temperatures reached during the clinker production process. As a result of kiln combustion processes, sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions come about as 99% SO2. In the reporting period, there was a noticeable decrease in total NOx emission. Total amount of NOx emission for the year 2012 was 8,790 tons, which declined to 7,341 tons in 2013. Various studies are underway to make investments for further reducing the NOx emissions from the cement plants in the future. Total NOx Emission (ton) Total SOx Emission(ton) G4 EN16 NOx Emission SOx Emission Specific NOx Emission Specific SO2 Emission (g/ton clinker) (g/ton clinker) 10,000 9,525 9,000 8,790 8,176 8,000 7,341 400 376 7,000 345 324 6,000 300 5,000 265 4,000 200 3,000 2,000 1,234 1,471 1,443 1,184 100 58 1,000 40 53 49 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Other Pollutants Pollutants such as volatile organic compounds, metals, hydrogen fluoride (HF), hydrogen chloride (HCI), dioxin and furan appear depending on the types of fossil fuel, alternative fuel and raw materials used in the cement production process. These emissions appear in small amounts and are measured periodically in line with the related regulations. In the reporting period, all pollutant emission types demonstrated a significant downtrend. Metal, Dioxin Pollutant Metal Emission (ton) Dioxin ve Furan Emissons (g) and Furan Emissions Pollutant Metal Emission Dioksin ve Furan Emissons (g/ton clinker) (µ/ton clinker) 0.4200 0.403 0.375 0.387 0.3600 0.2200 0.215 0.3000 0.2000 0.175 0.2200 0.1600 0.2000 0.1200 0.089 0.1600 0.1200 0.0800 0.059 0.040 0.0800 0.050 0.054 0.048 0.0400 0.030 0.011 0.011 0.0400 0.135 0.0001 0.0001 0.02 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Volatile Organic Compounds Emissions 250 245 202 210 200 153 150 VOC Emissions (ton) 100 VOC Emissions (g/ton clinker) 50 42 37 37 26 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 43 Alternative Fuel Usage Alternative Fuel Usage Cement industry has traditionally met its high thermal Using scrap tyres, plastics, sewage sludge and other energy need through fossil fuel usage. However, fossil kinds of waste as an energy resource in its production fuel consumption poses risks such as the extinction processes, Akçansa succeeds in turning the waste of finite resources, apart from the climate change disposal problem, which is an obstacle for sustainable problem stemming from their high emission values. city management, into an opportunity. Moreover in Turkey, the fossil fuel usage also increases G4 EN7 economic dependence on imports. Faced with this There are various difficulties faced while trying to situation, the cement sector opts for waste usage as get industrial and municipal wastes that can be used an alternative energy resource. This solution not only as alternative fuel resources. Despite the difficulties, makes it possible for the cement sector to create a Büyükçekmece Plant establishes exemplary relatively lower environmental impact to meet its partnerships with local authorities as its alternative energy needs but also provides a very efficient solution fuel usage rate increases every year. That rate for the for solid waste disposal, which is the most prominent plant rate rose from 14.61% in 2012 to 14.75% in 2013. problem for sustainable city management today. The specially designed waste preparation and feeding system commissioned at Büyükçekmece Plant is the In Turkey, especially in the Marmara Region and first of its kind in Turkey and largely contributes to the İstanbul, the waste disposal problem has larger scale plant’s success for fuel substitution. consequences. In addition to capacity problems regarding the disposal of great amounts of waste Implemented at Büyükçekmece Plant, the Project for through sustainable methods, the methane gas the Reduction of Coal Usage by RDF and the Industrial emerging from the waste at landfill sites is a much Plastics Incineration in the SLC Type Calciner Project more dangerous GHG than CO2. Meanwhile the waste enabled the incineration of the domestic waste, usage as a fuel resource at cement plants creates garbage and industrial plastics in a calciner designed an alternative even environmentally friendlier than separately from the kiln for the first time in Turkey and incineration plants. Because the ash generated after worldwide, thereby decreasing the amount of fossil incineration is used as a raw material at cement coal imports and reducing the costs. Apart from the plants and returned back to the economy whereas economic benefits the process has introduced, the it becomes waste at disposal facilities. These facts project also cleans the environment by consuming indicate that energy recovery from waste, which the garbage produced in the heavily populated city of has an important potential in Turkey, is a significant İstanbul, and enhances the waste incineration capacity solution for sustainable cities. If 4.5 million tons of of Büyükçekmece Plant to a great extent. The 4 tons/ waste produced in the Marmara Region is used at hour incineration capacity at the two other kilns of the cement plants instead of being moved to landfill sites, plant is increased to 10 tons/hour through the use of a it will potentially meet 64% of the energy need of the doser enabling an additional 6 tons/hour capacity. As cement kilns in the Marmara Region. a result, 47,500 tons of domestic garbage is disposed annually, creating economic and environmental benefits. Comparison of Cement Facilities and Incineration Plants Cement Facilities Incineration Plants Investment: The current incineration capacity of the cement facilities can be Investment: A significant amount of new investments are needed for used for waste disposal purposes. incineration plants. Ash: The ash from the waste incinerated is added to the composition of clinker. Ash: 15-20% ash is created as a result of waste incineration. That hazardous ash As the waste is turned into cement products, there is no waste output from the needs to be stored on special sites. cement facility. Emission: Cement facilities replace the fossil fuels they consume with waste, Emission: The incineration plants established despite the existing cement reducing total CO2 emission and energy imports. facilities lead to extra CO2 emission. Incineration temperature: Since high incineration temperatures are needed Incineration temperature: Emission rates are higher at the incineration plants as for clinker production, the emissions generated are lower in comparison to the temperatures for incineration at these plants are lower than the incineration incineration plants. temperatures at cement facilities. Waste priority pyramid: Cement facilities are placed above incineration plants. Waste priority pyramid: They should be used when there are no cement facilities already available. 46 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report In the last 5 years, 340,000 tons of waste has been fuel. This amount equals 6.67% of the thermal value used as alternative fuel, making it possible to save up of the fuel used. The alternative fuel usage rate was to 310,000 tons of coal mined in Turkey. Through the 79,221 tons (15%) at Büyükçekmece Plant, 17,666 tons long-term waste agreements and investments made, (4%) at Çanakkale Plant and 1,568 tons (2%) at Ladik Akçansa continues to be a solution partner for dealing Plant. The large difference regarding alternative fuel with the municipal waste. consumption usage rate among the facilities stems from the difference in the ease of access to wastes that During the reporting period, Akçansa increased its can be used as fuel. alternative fuel and biomass usage at cement plants and made an investment of 16 million TL with the In 2012, 2 important agreements were signed regarding aim to decrease its CO2 emission and improve energy the disposal of 150 thousand tons of municipal solid recovery. The goal of this investment was to use 65,000 waste and urban sewage sludge in İstanbul in a manner tons of RDF (refuse derived fuel) and 30,000 tons that does not harm the environment. After the 5-yearof imported tyres at Çanakkale Plant per annum in agreement signed with Hereko Waste Processing addition to 35,000 tons of RDF at Büyükçekmece Plant Facility, Büyükçekmece Plant started to procure 80-100 annually. In line with the permission given to import thousand tons of waste from the facility annually. In tyre strips, Çanakkale Plant signed supply agreements the framework of the agreement signed with Ambarlı to increase its waste usage. The dried sewage sludge Advanced Biological Wastewater Treatment Facility, on coming out of the Ataköy, Ambarlı, Paşaköy and Tuzla the other hand, it is planned to purchase dried sludge wastewater treatment plants started to be used as from the facility. The plans relate to a purchase of 40alternative fuel at Büyükçekmece Plant. 45 tons of dried sludge per annum. In 2012, 56,300 tons of alternative fuel was used while in 2013 101,476 tons of waste was utilized as alternative Akçansa Alternative Fuel Substitution Rate 15 14,6 14,8 11,7 12,7 10 9 5,2 6,7 4,6 5 2,9 4 1 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Büyükçekmece Plant (%) Akçansa Average (%) 47 Alternative Raw Material Usage Alternative Raw Material Usage Clinker found in the composition of cement plays a During the reporting period, the usage of CEM I type primary role in the increase of environmental impact. cement with high clinker percentage rose due to However, substitution of clinker with alternative raw consumption habits. Thanks to the increase in the material additives including minerals such as blastneed for high durability grade ready-mixed concrete, furnace slag, volatile ash, marble waste, foundry sand, blended cement usage rate also rose. Nevertheless, it G4 EN1 iron powder, grid and pyrite ash could considerably has not been possible to achieve the expected trend for G4 EN2 G4 EN7 reduce the environmental impact, primarily blended cement usage yet. Akçansa performs detailed composed of the energy use and emission generated, R&D activities on alternative raw materials, develops from cement. Moreover, mineral additives have an innovative products, and implements studies to raise important role in enhancing cement quality and its dealers’ and customers’ knowledge and awareness add high durability qualities to cement. By including about these new products. this practice in the Sustainability Ambitions 2020, Akçansa has therefore reinforced its will to continue this practice, which is an important value regarding its industrial waste management. In that respect, Akçansa aims to decrease the clinker rate to 81% in 2015 and to 79% in 2020. Alternative Raw Material Usage Rate (%) Clinker / Cement (%) 5 %100 %87 %87 %87 %86 %85 4.0 4 %80 3 2.6 %60 2 1.6 1,6 %40 1.0 1 %20 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Some natural raw materials in cement production can for clay/limestone. The amount of alternative raw be substituted with secondary materials (alternative materials used at 3 plants was 173.3 thousand tons in raw materials) derived from other sectors. For instance, 2012 and 115.3 thousand tons in 2013. This number silica sand can be replaced by sand derived from the also includes blast-furnace slag derived from the iron foundry sector, iron core can be replaced by grid and steel sector and used as a cement additive. Due from the shipyards and gypsum can be replaced by to the reduction in the usage of excavation rocks and phosphogypsum coming from fertilizer plants. As difficulties faced in access to alternative raw materials, long as the quality is suitable, cement plants use the alternative raw material usage rate remained lower rocks derived during the foundation excavations of than previous years. constructions around the plant site as substitution 50 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Mineral Additive Rate There has been a steady increase in the mineral additive rate used per 1m3 concrete since 2010. Slag and volatile ash were used as mineral additives in production at ready-mixed concrete facilities. Besides, mineral additives such as limestone, trass and slag joined the production process as cement types such as CEM II B L 32.5N, CEM II B P 32.5N and CEM II A LL 42.5R were used in ready-mixed concrete production. Cement and Mineral Additive Ratio in 1m3 Binder (%) 100% 7 15 14 20 20 80% 85 93 Mineral Additives 86 80 60% 80 Cement 40% 20% 0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Reduction of the Impacts Stemming from Raw Material Transportation Availability of local supplies for concrete production shortens transport distance, decreasing CO2 emissions thanks to the reduction obtained in fuel consumption. In the reporting period, Akçansa broke new ground in Turkey by transporting RDF from the municipal garbage facility to the cement plant via special vehicles named WalkingFloor. Besides, Akçansa opted for railways rather than land roads, transporting slag from Karabük to Zonguldak in containers, thereby, increasing road safety and reducing logistics related environmental impacts at the same time. 51 Biodiversity Biodiversity The raw materials used in cement product are provided aspects of environmental sustainability performance directly from natural resources. Factors such as natural for Akçansa. Performance indicators regarding resource consumption through cement production, biodiversity management and period goals are the use of land and operation of quarries, water identified and assessed as part of individual consumption as well as waste and noise generation all performance evaluations of the related employees. G4 EN9 create an impact on biodiversity. The issue of avoiding Biodiversity Competition G4 EN12 any permanent negative impact on biodiversity, and in fact how to contribute positively to biodiversity, which Due to the issues prioritized is crucial to maintaining Akçansa operations apart regarding corporate sustainability, from the natural life and society at large, is defined Akçansa attaches great as a strategic priority by Akçansa and is covered by importance to returning the Sustainability Ambitions 2020. raw material sites used back to nature after rehabilitating In the light of the strategies and goals set by the senior them in an effort to reduce management, the Raw Materials and Environment the impact imposed on the nature due to natural Directorate is responsible for the Biodiversity resource consumption. In order to cooperate with management at raw material sites in coordination with students, who are one of the most valuable stakeholder the Plant Production Directorates. The main legislation groups for enhancing biodiversity, and benefit from determining the legal framework of raw material their creativity while increasing their awareness production is the Law on Mining and the regulations regarding the matter at hand, Akçansa has organized for its implementation. The aforementioned law a competition. Open for applications from all the and legislations and all the other related legal countries where HeidelbergCement operates as one provisions regulate the environmental management, of the major shareholders of Akçansa, the “Quarry Life occupational safety processes, and disclosures to Award” competition will be organized in Turkey for the state besides other liabilities in detail as well the first time. Face to face meetings have been held as obligations in all the production stages. The with students attending biology, ecology, landscaping, operations undertaken on the entire quarry sites in environment and mining departments of universities relation to Akçansa operations comply with the related apart from promotion activities organized on social regulations and norms quoted on the licenses and media to announce the competition. The competition is to be organized for the first time in Turkey in 2014 permits issued. The related environmental permits and with the theme “Enhance biodiversity, add value to licenses for the operationally active quarry sites were natural life”. Once the national jury has completed its renewed in 2013 in accordance with the latest changes preliminary selections, the project suggestions provided introduced to the Law on Environment. by the contestants for improving biodiversity at mining sites will be implemented at the two sites providing raw As for the practices regarding biodiversity at materials for Akçansa in İstanbul and Çanakkale while the production facilities, they are implemented in line top 3 projects will be eligible to run in the international with the environmental policies, legal regulations and competition. The details of the competition are available environmental management system. The Executive on www.quarrylifeaward.com. Board manages biodiversity, one of the prioritized ‘’BIODIVERSITY PROJECT CONTEST’’ Improve Biodiversity , Add Value to Natural Life Turkey's leading cement producer Akçansa brings Biodiversity project contest to Turkey in order to increase the biological value of mining areas. 54 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Impact Management at Raw Material Sites The first production stage is producing the raw material required from the quarries. Limestone, clay, schist and marl constitute the main natural resources in the raw material composition and approximately comprise 95% of the raw material composition. Depending on the process and the cement type to be produced, a little bit of silica sand, kaolin, bauxite and iron ore could be used too. Raw material production stages include processes such as drilling, blasting, loading and transportation. The raw material for cement is taken to plants without going through any processes such as crushing, screening or washing in the quarry site. The related units from the plant and company supervise the production processes G4 EN1 on site as well as implementation of and compliance with the legal obligations besides occupational health and G4 EN13 safety practices. The measures taken depending on the potential impact from the production processes on the G4 SO2 environment are: Process Drilling Blasting Loading Transportation Impact Dust Emission Dust and Vibration Dust Emission Dust Emission Measure State-of-the-art drilling Optimum amount of Thanks to use of excavators, The roads on the site are machinery is used to explosives used minimizes dust emission is prevented. watered to minimize dust. minimize dust emission. not only dust but also vibration. Since delayed capsules are used, vibration levels are considerably low. Continuity and quality of raw material supply are two Rehabilitation strategic aspects in terms of production. At this point Apart from production in raw material sites, the issue the reserve amounts and quality distribution in the of rehabilitation is also crucial and critical. Once raw material sites are the critical aspects. In parallel the reserves have been consumed, rehabilitating to the strategic business plans and goals identified the raw material site in accordance with the natural by the senior management, the Raw Materials and characteristics is within the scope of Akçansa’s Environment Directorate undertakes raw material environmental sustainability responsibility and goals explorations for the plants in coordination with the above and beyond the legal requirements demanded. Plant Production Directorates. Licensing and permit Rehabilitation in essence is preparing the site for processes are also implemented in a coordinated another use. The slopes formed especially on the forest fashion if suitable sites are discovered. In line with and public lands during the production are suitably the current regulations, an Environmental Impact bevelled while plants and trees with suitable features Assessment (EIA) study, which takes into account all for the region and rocks are planted on the steps the environmental and social risks, is completed for created. Assistance from the local Forestry Operation the mining sites before any operations begin on these Directorates is sought while selecting the suitable trees sites. Moreover a reserve study, a rehabilitation plan and plants for the sites. 600 cedar trees were planted and an operation plan are drawn up before production on the Kovukdere Istanbul site, 1,500 scotch pines were begins on site. A plan for returning the site to nature is planted on the Ladik limestone site, 400 larch trees prepared and submitted for the approval of the related were planted on the Bozalan Çanakkale limestone site public institutions. These plans focus on the use of while an area of 2 hectares on the Bozalan Çanakkale the site with minimum environmental impact during clay site were bevelled and topsoil was placed. The operations as well as the criteria for rehabilitation and site in Bozalan will be transformed into a pasture for improvement of the site afterwards and a schedule. the small cattle in the nearby Bozalan village once the area has been reforested and seeds of the plants in the In 2012, 9.2 million tons of all-in raw materials surrounding region are sown along with grass. As for (limestone, clay and schist) for cement were produced the 3.5 hectares on the aggregate site in Kemerburgaz from the 18 quarries and delivered to plants while that İstanbul, the area has been prepared for reforestation amount rose to 9.4 million tons in 2013. and is now ready for being turned over to the related Forestry Directorate. The rehabilitation of 11.4 ha of In terms of aggregate production operations, the mining sites was completed as of late 2013. Annual essential processes are crushing and screening. At this planning studies are underway within the scope of point the raw materials from the mining site are taken 2015 and 2020 goals set. to the crushing-screening facility located on site and aggregate is produced. The aggregate is then placed Akçansa spares rehabilitation provision to be spent for into silos and later on delivered to customers by trucks. the rehabilitation of the quarry sites where production As a measure against the dust emission generated has begun. As of 2012 and late 2013, 2,661,453 TL during the crushing-screening process, all the crusher and 3,160,391 TL were reserved as provision for the units, conveyor belts and conveyor belt flow points are rehabilitation of raw material and aggregate sites covered while sprinkling water systems are installed as respectively. well. The water used is recycled at the facilities where washing takes place. 55 Environmental Impact messages, poster applications implemented after the trainings. Management at Production Since 2010 the “Green Tip” practice has been carried out to encourage the employees to implement what Facilities they have attained from the training activities in their In accordance with the company’s preventive daily lives. As part of the “Green Tip”, various questions approach, the environmental impact of the production are posed in a periodic fashion to all the employees operations undertaken by Akçansa in cement, to increase their environmental awareness and the aggregate and ready-mixed concrete business lines winners receive gifts made from recycled materials. G4 SO1 is managed in a risk-based fashion. Akçansa conducts In addition to all these studies for raising awareness, a risk assessment regarding the aspects identified as the “Green Bulletin” issued as an internal publication water use, wastewater controls, waste management to announce environmental developments, news and and noise. None of Akçansa production facilities are innovations in the world and at Akçansa. located on sites under protection for their biological diversity while environmental management and Environmental Suggestion System and improvement studies conducted to prevent land, air, Complaints water and noise pollution and resource extinction. Supporting the views from stakeholders, the Environmental management at Akçansa is conducted Suggestion System welcomes any suggestions for in the light of the environmental policy and ISO 14001 environmental improvement from employees. Once environmental management standard. The Raw the related coordinators and people have assessed the Materials and Environment Directorate implements suggestions made, the suggestions that have been the environmental management centrally. 5 deemed suitable are implemented. environmental engineers work in total including an Following up environmental complaints is considered environmental manager, an environmental engineer important in terms of stakeholder management and responsible for every plant, and an environmental operational excellence. The complaints are processed engineer coordinating ready-mixed concrete in accordance with the ISO 14001 Standard as well as and aggregate operations. The environmental communication and information exchange procedures. management is periodically revisited through the Negative reactions expressing any dissatisfaction Environmental Boards established. by the customers and third parties in relation to With a view to achieving effective monitoring and Environmental, Energy and Occupational Health Safety control, there are constant, as well as, periodic aspects are conveyed to Environmental, Energy and measuring and monitoring of the related values at all OHS Management Representatives. Environmental, the facilities as required by the Environmental Law. Energy and OHS Management Representatives Critical environmental indicators are reported to the manage the verbal or written complaints received in management monthly. Moreover, audits are regarded the light of the Procedure for Non-Conformity and as a crucial instrument for constant improvement Corrective Preventive Operations. and enhancement. Employee participation is ensured for environmental system and environmental site Akçansa Environmentally Friendly Plant/ performance analyses. Only the employees that have Facility Award the related qualifications and that have received the Organized for the first time in 2012 to provide suitable training implement the aforementioned encouragement within the company, the audits. In addition to the analyses performed during rewarding system now features an environment all the training processes, all the employees are awards category for further developing plant encouraged to report any nonconformity they may environmental management practices and notice at the plants over the web-based environmental encourage improvement practices in that management system. They are able to identify the respect. On the communication night held in findings as well as the corrective and preventive 2013, 3 cement factories received the award measures over the system. for encouragement. In 2013 Büyükçekmece Cement Plant won the Akçansa Environmental Like any other critical issues for the company, Award thanks to its effective environmental environmental management is regarded as management success and investments. In 2014 an indispensable factor for making employee ready-mixed concrete and aggregate facilities participation culture more widespread throughout the will be covered by the rewarding system in company as well as achieving operational excellence. addition to cement plants. The effectiveness of this element is in direct proportion to their knowledge and awareness level. In an effort to constantly improve that level, Akçansa Environmental Engineers provide environmental training for all the employees regarding environmental awareness, sustainability perspectives, legislations, waste management and site practice examples. The tests given at the end of the training measure the competence levels employees reach in that aspect. In order to maintain continuity of the awareness raising 56 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Water Management new type spiral treatment systems were installed apart from the 2 filter press units introduced. An efficient In order to supply water demand of Akçansa recycling practice by employing recycling systems production facilities, underground and municipal for water and wastes is also aimed for ready-mixed water is employed. The facilities use the water for concrete facilities. cooling, de-dusting, washing and watering. Since a significant portion of the water is used for cooling and in a closed cycle, it is re-used. Akçansa gives importance to increase efficient use and recycling of Saray Aggregate Filter Press System: Reusing water which is a finite source. Water in Production and Washing Limestone G4 15 G4 EN1 Saray Aggregate Facility uses 100 tons of water G4 EN2 In cement production, the wastewater stemming from per 100 tons/hour crusher dust washing. Mainly G4 EN8 processes such as washing, watering is not discharged. G4 EN10 used by the marble production industry, Material G4 EN22 The wastewater at Büyükçekmece, Çanakkale and G4 EN26 Precipitation and Filtration System through Ladik plants are collected in pools, precipitated, filtered and thus recovered. The total amount of Flocculent Support System is used for the first water used mainly in de-dusting processes and then time in Turkey here, which eliminates the mud recovered and reused turned out to be 154,449 litres in spreading to the surroundings and the water is 2012 and 122,150 litres in 2013. Technical reports were recovered by 80%. What is more, the quality of prepared regarding surface water management at the the product washed is enhanced thanks to the same 3 cement factories in 2013 while they also joined entry of clean water into the system. Through in the Water Management Project undertaken by the introduction of the aforementioned practice, HeidelbergCement on a global scale. Within the scope the number of the breakdowns that the vehicles of the project, the water performance is assessed used to suffer because of the muddy roads has according to the parameters set in line with the Water also declined. Reporting Protocol published by the WBCSD Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI). As of 2014 those values will be reported to CSI through HeidelbergCement. Landscaping Studies and Visual Impacts Implementing visual improvement projects at all its Cement Trailer Washing Unit Wastewater plants within the scope of its environmental impact The wastewater from the washing of cement trailers reduction studies, Akçansa plants trees at all its is collected in the pools by these units. Once the facilities. During the reporting period a significant wastewater has been precipitated and filtered, it is level of attention was paid for the visual improvement, pumped back to the cement trailer washing system for especially of Büyükçekmece Plant. Cement silos and reuse. chimneys were coloured while the silos were lid by means of colourful LED lights. 12 crape myrtles, 14 hill Coal Site Precipitation Pool Wastewater cherries, 14 lime and 14 judas trees were planted on Concrete and a metal sheet curtain surround the coal the site. The studies for ensuring visual harmony with storage areas. The rainwater collected on the storage the environment will go on in 2014. area eventually flows into the surface water drainage channels, which then pours into a surface water collection pool. The water recovered at the pools is reused. When viewed in terms of production processes, water management and wastewater discharge directly concern ready-mixed concrete business line. The wastewater generated at the facilities is discharged in line with the limit values set by the related laws and regulations. During the reporting period, 8 additional Total water withdrawal by Büyükçekmece Cement Çanakkale Cement Ladik Cement Plant Marine Terminals source (m3) Plant Plant 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Underground Source 135.756 103.500 1.339.374 1.410.674 245.267 168.491 Municipal / Purchased 43.394 186.304 228 228 4.806 6.390 Water 57 Waste Management Ready-Mixed Concrete Facilities Akçansa uses the waste management hierarchy Significant investments were also made in ready-mixed regarding the management of the waste generated concrete and aggregate facilities hence reaching an by the raw material production, logistics, aggregate, exemplary level in terms of environmental compliance. cement, ready-mixed concrete production and marine In an effort to achieve an active environmental impact terminal services. The waste oil, electronic waste and management, hazardous waste sites complying fully domestic waste generated during the production with the regulations were constructed at all the readyoperations are used in the recycling system. mixed concrete facilities, the filters were periodically Meanwhile all the 3 cement plants have the licenses replaced at the silos, improvements were introduced G4 EN28 G4 EN31 for using the construction excavation waste stored on to appearances and sprinkle systems were installed the dumpsites designated by the legal regulations. for dust reduction. The total environmental spending Consequently when suitable materials are found, the made for the ready-mixed concrete facilities in 2013 plants use those resources from the dumpsites too. alone amounts to 852,664 TL. Launched by the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey (TÜBİTAK) in cooperation with the Moreover in an effort to ensure efficient management Ministry of Environment and Forestry, the Project of the concrete sludge from the facilities and apart for the Construction and Demolition Debris Waste from the 2 filter press units introduced, 8 additional Recovery is currently underway. Akçansa provides new type spiral treatment systems were installed technical and implementation support for the project so that the sludge could be dewatered enabling the by testing the demolition debris waste in an industrial recovery of the waste and water. environment. The goal is to identify the criteria for using the recovered material as raw material in cement Marine Terminals and Ports production. Environmental management at the terminals and ports are covered with aspects including air, soil A significant portion of the wastes at the plants is and sea pollution. With a view to combating sea recovered for energy generation. Moreover, 2,195 tons pollution, “Emergency Response to Sea Pollution of packaging was used in 2012 for cement production Exercises” are planned and held annually. Hazardous while 922 tons of that was recovered. Meanwhile the and non-hazardous waste sites complying fully with packaging used rose to 2,450 tons in 2013 because the regulations are built for ensuring effective waste of the increase in production. In parallel with that management. Disposed through water treatment and development, the amount of packaging recovered septic tank methods, the wastewater is thus removed went up to 1,078 tons. and prevented from being discharged to the sea. The Waste Hierarchy Prevention Avoiding consumption Reduction Consuming less Reuse Reusing the same product for multiple times Resource Recovery Process Energy and mineral recovery Transforming the Waste into Energy Energy Recovery Responsible Disposal Safe storage or encapsulation 58 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Waste Disposal at Cement Plants Mobile Waste Container for the Ready-Mixed Concrete Project Facilities Total Waste Amount by Disposal Method (ton) A first time was scored in 2013 and the mobile hazardous waste container practice 2012 2013 was introduced for the use of ready-mixed Recovery for Energy 46.6 197.9 concrete project facilities. The first example Recovery 190.8 624.8 was implemented at the Garipçe Ready-Mixed Waste Landfill 0.9 33.1 Concrete Facility. G4 EN23 Waste Incineration 0.4 0.01 Green Point Environmental Awards 21 ready-mixed concrete facilities, 4 from Total 238.7 855.7 Akçansa, ran in the “Green Point Environmental Awards” held in 2012 by the Turkish ReadyMixed Concrete Association while Akçansa Samsun Ready-Mixed Concrete Facility won the top prize. Moreover, the Samsun Ready-Mixed Concrete Facility also received the “International Representation Award” along with the other facilities making to the top three. 59 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Akçansa manages the health and safety risks, The “Occupational Health and Safety at Quarries” threatening its employees and all its stakeholders, training is given every year in order to underline the prompted by and throughout the business processes importance Akçansa attaches to occupational health such as raw material production, procurement, cement, and safety, and to remind contractor employees aggregate and ready-mixed concrete production, working in raw material production as well as the logistics, sales and marketing. Occupational health employees working in the production processes at and safety is a common priority for all the stages of the Akçansa plants of risks related to drilling, blasting, value chain. Different measures are taken for each of loading and transportation processes. Since 2013, the stakeholders in order to reduce health and safety aggregate sites have also been included in the scope risks regarding working conditions to a minimum. of this training. The aim of these measures and practices is to create a healthy and safe environment at the workplace. Akçansa adopts high standards at its operational Employees are provided with training opportunities, sites. Akçansa Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) practices or behavioural audits while training programs processes are implemented pursuant to the Quality, composed of training events, awareness-raising Environment, Energy Policies. The Occupational activities and simulation practices are organized for Health and Safety Policy of Akçansa is in line with the suppliers or customers. This safe environment ensures OHS Act No. 6331, the requirements of the OHSAS that health and safety risks are reduced to a minimum, 18001 standard and the ILO agreements. Occupational also establishing an efficient work environment. The Health and Safety is organized under a separate amount of OHS training provided for Akçansa and directorship at the company. Managers working at contractor employees was 15,219 person x hours in the head quarters and the experts from production 2012, and rose to 21,638 person x hours in 2013. facilities give direction to OHS policies and practices. According to the Akçansa Performance Evaluation System, the OHS performance accounts for 25% of the individual performance goals of all employees at all levels. 62 Akçansa 2013 Sürdürülebilirlik Raporu Occupational Safety Cement production involves processes entailing to develop procedures with an eye to minimizing the accident risks in its value chain. 26.5% of the employees number of major accidents and shortening the lost serving in Akçansa operations are working in the time periods due to accidents. Akçansa continues its processes which potentially contain high accident or studies with its stakeholders to ensure that not even occupational disease risks. Therefore, occupational a single accident occurs during cement production. safety is considered to be an indispensible priority Through these measures, Akçansa pursues to achieve by Akçansa. The most widespread accident types its goal of “0 accidents” in 2015 as well. G4 LA6 witnessed at plants are foreign object in the eye apart G4 LA7 from accidents while working with hand tools and One of the main procedures developed authorizes G4 LA8 falls. The collective labour agreement includes articles the stakeholders to stop the work processes that they pertinent to occupational accidents, occupational consider unsafe. Established in order to develop OHS diseases, disease and accident notifications, culture and increase engagement in the operations, occupational safety rules, the protective equipment this system is monitored by the Area Responsibility to be used and the precautions to be taken for System. occupational safety. Various emergency situations occur due to improper In 2012 and 2013, the number of fatal accidents use of electrical, mechanical, chemical, hydraulic and occurring during cement operations was ‘0’. Apart pneumatic energy. “Tag, Lock, Secure and Try” TLST from preserving this achievement, Akçansa sought System was put into practice as a safety procedure against such incidents of emergency. ACCIDENT SEVERITY RATE 0,25 0,24 0,18 0,17 0,12 In 2012, the OHS Council of Cement Industry 0,20 0,16 0,23 Employers’ Union carried out an assessment on 0,15 the Cement Production Facilities in Turkey to 0,13 determine the facilities displaying the highest 0,1 0,11 occupational health and safety performance. As a 0,05 0,09 result of the evaluation, Akçansa Büyükçekmece 0,01 Plant was merited with the “Cement Sector 0 Occupational Health and Safety Performance 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Award”. Ready-Mixed Concrete In 2013, in the 2nd Blue Helmet Competition Cement organized by Turkish Ready-Mixed Concrete Association, Büyükçekmece, Kemerburgaz and Samsun Ready-Mixed Concrete Facilities received Occupational Safety Awards. ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE Ready-Mixed Concrete Cement 20 18.2 Aggregate 15 14.7 12.2 10 8.2 8.7 5.8 5.9 5 3.8 4 4.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 63 Periodic drills are carried out in an attempt to ease the of the all mid-level and senior managers participates implementation of procedures to be followed in case in 6 behaviour-oriented audits implemented in all of emergency situations. Safety warnings and periodic Akçansa facilities annually. Thus, Akçansa does not only drills make sure that health and safety practices are support management visibility on site but also carries followed in the daily workflow. In addition to all the out one-on-one awareness-raising studies concerning health and safety measures taken, it is necessary safe behaviour and safety culture as an indication of for the employees and stakeholders to individually the value we attribute to our employees. participate in occupational health and safety practices G4 LA5 in an effective manner. The OHS performance does Safe working conditions of Akçansa employees and not only depend on periodic practices to determine contractors on site are controlled and secured by the risks in the work environment and take related the “Work Permission System” managed by the Site protective measures but also an employees’ Supervisors. assessment of a situation constituting a health and safety risk and the decisions they make have an influence on the general OHS performance. Therefore, 5 Minutes for My Risks! the company’s OHS performance will develop in The R5 Practice enables all employees to carry parallel with the employees’ awareness level. The out their own risk assessment before each higher the awareness level becomes, the better the activity during the work process and record performance is. In order to raise awareness about it with the motto “5 Minutes for my Risks”. The the OHS principles and practices, 36,857 person x goal hereby is to secure effective individual hours of OHS trainings were given in total during the participation in the OHS practices and urge reporting period. The training covered issues such as the employees to define work-related dangers, driving vehicles, personal protective equipment usage assess the risks and develop measures against and how to act in emergency situations. Akçansa these dangers through the Occupational Safety also implemented the R5 practice in the reporting perspective before they start to work. If the period. The purpose of the R5 practice is the step-byrisk assessment detects a piece of work to be step calculation of the risks by the employees during dangerous, the employee does not start the the daily work processes. Enabling our employees to work, instead, notifies the managers so that identify the dangers concerning work before each additional measures can be taken. different operation and to minimize their risks by taking the necessary measures within the scope of this practice, we hereby encourage them to give the most OHS Committees important contribution to the safe working culture and In the OHS Committees, company management, do their work with a high level of awareness, following labour union representatives and employee the principles of think, plan, secure, review and work. representatives are represented separately. Employees are represented by those elected by the employees In parallel with this practice, all our employees are and, if any, labour union representatives. Believing urged to report about any near misses, dangerous that the representation of the employees’ views at the occurrences and behaviour. The aim is to encourage OHS committees will contribute to the development them to “expect the unexpected” regarding dangers of the OHS Culture, Akçansa encourages employee at every moment, avoid indifference and take participation. responsibility in the face of any improper situation or behaviour, give a warning and finally adopt the The number of OHS Committees, which was 9 in 2012, approach of becoming a role model. rose to 11 with the addition of the committees at Ladik Plant and Ready-Made Concrete Facility in 2013. There International statistics demonstrate that 88% of were 9 employee representatives serving in the OHS accidents occur as a result of improper attitude. This Committees in 2013. is why Akçansa Occupational Safety Management System places the greatest importance on behaviouroriented training activities, practices and audits. Each 64 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report 65 Road Safety In order to provide timely and better quality service to its customers, Akçansa introduced a new Akçansa OHS Academy implementation named “Traffic Density Information Striving to be a pioneer not only with its business Project” in 2013. The project aims to save time by volume but also its sustainability priorities, informing cement trailer and truck drivers going out or Akçansa initiates practices in order to lead its coming in to the factory about the traffic density and sector in that regard. Akçansa OHS Academy alternative routes. This practice improves road safety was another one of the pioneering practices and transforms the time lost in the traffic into service, started in the reporting period for the transfer of ensuring that the customers receive their products in knowledge/experience and the development of time and the drivers endure less stress in their work the OHS culture in behalf of Akçansa employees environments. and operational stakeholders such as business partners and suppliers. Akçansa OHS Academy provides both theoretical and practical service to all Akçansa employees and operational stakeholders in a steady and innovative manner in line with Akçansa OHS Golden Rules. These rules meet the requirements of the best international practices and standards concerning occupational health and safety apart from the requirements of the new Occupational Safety Act. The first Akçansa OHS Academy was founded at Büyükçekmece Plant in 2013, and it is planned to establish another one at Çanakkale Plant in 2014 to be followed by yet another academy at Ladik Plant in the oncoming periods. Akçansa OHS Academies set the goal of providing a minimum of 80,000 manx hours of training for 5,000 people on average annually by OHS Experts, technical staff and medical personnel. 66 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Employee Health Akçansa monitors the health risks in all the stages of its value chain according to operational environments and types. Follow-up health checks are carried out periodically on the basis of these risks. Depending on the type of the operations, the health checks are held either every six months or annually. Health risks are identified in line with the analyses performed at all Akçansa operational sites where activities such as raw material production, raw material transport and production take place. By considering the production G4 LA6 processes in the cement sector, workplace doctors provide further periodical trainings on healthcare issues such as ergonomics, musculoskeletal disorders, hearing loss, lung diseases and fighting ticks. Absentee Rate 5000 Cement Production 4000 3902 Aggregate and Ready 3604 Mixed Concrate 3000 2000 1180 1000 788 0 2012 2013 67 Work Life Work Life Proud to be considered the most admired company fundemental rights and responsibilities of employees in its sector for the last 12 years, Akçansa has built its were defined. All employees receive informative work life on the foundation of a positive organizational trainings on the ethical codes and also have direct climate giving possibilities of personal growth to its access to the Akçansa Ethics Committee Consultant. employees. Employees are provided with the working G4 11 conditions they deserve pursuant to Labour Law Akçansa employees become acquainted with the G4 58 provisions as well as international agreements and equitable work environment since the recruitment G4 LA1 G4 LA12 declarations such as the ILO Conventions and the UN process. Recruitment process is conducted G4 HR4 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. through criteria based on competence, skill, multiG4 HR5 G4 HR6 observation and objective factors according to G4 SO3 Cement production is a technology -and machinerythe equal opportunity principle isolated from intensive, automated heavy industry sector. Compared candidate’s religion, language, race, sect, gender, to other industry types, it is possible to produce a physical particularities or life-style preferences. Child large amount of products with relatively less number labour, forced or compulsory labour is not allowed in of employees during cement production. By the end Akçansa operations. The same principle is upheld for of 2013, 1,087 employees were serving in Akçansa the subcontractor employees as well. Moreover, the operations, constituting an important share of the multinational partnership structure of Akçansa with its active workforce in the sector. expat employees brings an element of “diversity” into the corporation, strengthening Akçansa even further. The goals set for the work life are spread from the senior management to the rest of the company while In order to control sustainability impacts, primarily objective indicators are used in the performance respect to the human rights, throughout the supply process. Performance indicators are monitored by chain, work principles that all active product and Human Resources Deputy General Management and service suppliers must adopt were defined. By these are reported periodically on the Executive Committee principles, management of social, environmental and level. economic impacts in line with Akçansa’s approach is ensured in the supply process of the product life cycle. Full compliance to these norms identified in Fair Work Environment Akçansa’s Supplier Code of Ethics which are also a part Thanks to the high business standards Akçansa puts of subcontractor service contracts, is an obligation for into practice, fair and participatory work environment all suppliers. This way, Akçansa ensures prevention of it created as well as the values, respectability and child labor, forced or compulsory labor, discrimination, credibility it possesses as a corporation. Its employees bribery and corruption; respecting union rights of and business partners have been proud to work with employees; compliance with OHS principles, general Akçansa since its establishment. In order to ensure norms related to the activities, ILO Conventions and continuity of these qualities under rapidly changing legal regulations in its supply operations. social and economical conditions, Ethical Code of Sabancı Holding (SA-Ethics), which is amongst the major shareholders of Akçansa, was adopted, thus Employee Demographics Employee Breakdown by Age Gender 2012 2013 Age Groups 2012 2013 Covered by Female 4 4 18 30 285 257 Collective Bargaining Male 590 593 3140 475 470 Agreement 41 50 294 331 Not Covered Female 54 62 by Collective 51 60 27 29 Bargaining Male 433 428 Agreement Total 1.081 1.087 70 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report During the procurement processes, delivery of Thanks to the rising number of female employees products and services in line with environmental and working at Akçansa in 2013, indicating a higher than labor criteria is monitored; regulatory articles related to sector average rate for female employees with a environmental, labour and human rights are included bachelor’s degree, Akçansa assumes a pioneering role to procurement contracts. In all 600 procurement regarding the issue of gender equality in its sector as well. contracts concluded in 2012 and 2013, articles regulating the compliance of suppliers with human Since Akçansa sees the right to associate among rights were included. Beside annual compliance fundamental rights, Akçansa employees have the controls, documents regarding all contractor freedom to take part in unionization activities employees who perform in Akçansa operations and defend their rights. All employees covered by are controlled before starting to work. Contractor Collective Bargaining Agreement working in cement employees with missing document or in an unsuitable plants are trade union members. Akçansa aims to condition are not allowed to work until this situation establish a strong communication channel based on is compensated. During the service period, contractor coordination and mutual understanding with the companies should submit these documents whenever unions, considering them to be representative of the demanded. employees and including the union representatives’ views in decision-making processes. In this context, Committed to providing a fair and equitable work the Group Collective Labour Agreements between environment to its employees, Akçansa participated the Cement, Ceramic, Soil and Glass Industry Workers’ in the “Equality at Work Platform” established under Union of Turkey and the Cement Industry Employers’ the auspices of the World Economic Forum and the Association for the period from 01.01.2013 to Ministry of Family and Social Policies, and signed the 31.12.2015 were signed through mutual agreement Declaration of Equality at Work in 2013. The declaration on 25.03.2013. entails voluntary compliance with principles regarding the elimination of gender-based discrimination in work life as well as a commitment to establishing reliable systems to spread these principles and preparing reports. 71 Employee Development In line with its vision, “growing beyond all limits”, Training and development activities can be outlined Akçansa adopts principle of creating training and under these titles depending on their aims and development opportunities for all its employees. These contents: opportunities are shaped around organizational, strategic, individual needs and expectations, and have Apart from the training possibilities offered by G4 LA10 utmost importance for a sustainable human resources. Akçansa, employees can also benefit from the training events organized by main shareholders in various Training and development needs of employees are platforms (such as HeidelbergCement and Sabancı supported with personal, professional or managerial Holding e-Learning Trainings, Sabancı University). programs in line with responsibilities they assume or will assume in future. Customized continuous Akçansa also gives financial support to its employees, development programs (such as coaching, mentoring, encouraging them to continue their academic development centres, 360 degrees evaluation) are education and improve their foreign languages in line conducted and personal development plans are with the requirements for their positions and their generated regarding defined areas. Training and career development needs for the future. development practices are also important in terms of leading to new environments of interaction and enhancing communication among employees and contributing to employee motivation positively. Training And Development I GENERAL COMPANY III PERSONAL II FUNCTIONAL TRAININGS DEVELOPMENT TRAININGS TRAININGS Activities and trainings to be Job-specific activities and Activities and trainings planned in planned in improvement areas trainings for developing line with individual improvement defined as company priority knowledge and skills of areas such as Coaching, Personal such as Company Specific Group employees regarding their areas Trainings. Trainings, OHS Trainings. of expertise such as Technical or Expert Trainings, Congresses and Conferences. 72 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Performance Management Performance management is one of the constituents of human resources management. It involves a process whereby company goals are integrated by setting them as individual and team goals, and individual goals and competencies are managed in an efficient and objective manner throughout the whole year in order to fulfil this objective. The core of the performance management system guided by the “Management through Goals” principle which relies on mutual and systematic performance feedback. This system allows recognizing, G4 44 G4 LA11 appreciating and rewarding Akçansa employees’ strong qualities institutionally, whereby they also get guidance in terms of development areas and their personal development is reinforced by training and development programs. Thanks to the performance management system operating in an integrated manner with various human resources sub-processes, it is possible to manage employees’ expectations regarding training and development, communication, participation to management and career in a proactive manner. In 2013, the “mozaİK”, which Akçansa uses as the fundamental HR infrastructure and practice, was launched in order to reinforce the system infrastructure for increasing the strength and efficiency of the performance evaluation process pertaining to employees not covered by collective bargaining agreement, and enhance the integration of the evaluation process with other HR practices. 73 Work-Personal Life Balance Remuneration, Rewarding, Appreciation and Besides occupational and personal development Recognition Practices opportunities, employees are provided with Akçansa pays a fair and competitive basic salary to its possibilities to benefit from social areas and facilities employees depending on their roles, accountabilities, where they can spend time together with their families. knowledge, skills, experience and competencies In an attempt to realize this objective, various sports, within the scope of the determined remuneration cultural and social activities are carried out to reinforce policy. Although employees’ total income packages work-personal life balance. “The Clubs World”, initiated vary depending on the premiums given for personal G4 51 in this framework in 2013, offers social and personal performance or the incentive premiums based on G4 EC3 G4 LA2 development opportunities to our employees in seniority status, the remuneration policy does not various branches such as photography, travelling, allow any different or unfair practices according to cycling and diving. religion, language, race, gender or other personal qualities under any circumstances. Akçansa offers its “Mom, Bring me Milk” project was implemented to employees various supplementary benefits such as encourage working mothers with infants to establish personal pension, private health insurance and life a better work-personal life balance. Another project insurance; and provides personal accident insurance realized was the “Ladik Glass Workshop” project in for all of its employees as a standard with the same which the spouses of Ladik Plant employees and purpose. the housewives living in Ladik were trained in glass production, transforming their labour into economic As a supplementary benefit, Akçansa offers employees value. not covered by collective bargaining agreement the possibility of personal pension coverage depending on Talent Management their responsibility levels. 3% of the gross basic salaries In line with Akçansa’s of the employees is paid to their pension funds and medium and long-term Akçansa remits the same amount for its employees’ strategic goals and needs, pension funds as well. the organizational structure of the corporation is With the aim to preserve the competitive quality regularly reviewed, and the of its remuneration policy, Akçansa carries out needs and expectations of benchmarking studies on the basis of internationally the employees and the organization are evaluated acknowledged job evaluation methodologies and and managed. Talent groups are given special care peer company practices. Akçansa adopts a fair and in terms of their training and development as talent competitive approach in its remuneration policy, management practices are supported with the which rewards high performance and is in line with company’s human resources performance indicators. the general wage levels nationwide. Seeking to contribute to developing leaders of today and tomorrow, Akçansa implements several different Akçansa encourages its employees to take part programs simultaneously. in administrative processes and have a say in the organization through their opinions and initiatives In the talent management process, the development seeking to enhance corporate processes and practices. of both behavioural/administrative competence In that regard, successful employees and teams are and technical/occupational knowledge is deemed additionally awarded with the help of appreciation and important and tailor-made special programs are recognition practices such as “A Night from Akçansa”, organized every year according to the priority areas “Team Performance Special Award”, “Executive identified. The employees in the talent group with Committee Special Appreciation Award”, “OHS high potentials and performance levels are provided Pioneers of the Year Award” and “Suggestion Stars of with various career development opportunities, the Year Award”. As stipulated by the remuneration their development is supported through mentorship policy also covering senior managers, remuneration practices and rotation opportunities within Turkey and supplementary benefits management is and abroad in line with the framework of “life-long organized and implemented in line with the main goal learning” . of upholding fair, objective, competitive, rewarding and motivating standards that also appreciate high performance. 74 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report “Fringe benefits” are handled as an important part Satisfaction – Working Life Evaluation of the whole reward management in an attempt to Survey support remuneration management with additional Continuous enhancement priorities are the main benefits. The fringe benefits offered by Akçansa reasons why Akçansa has been selected as the most essentially comply with the market conditions, and admired company in the sector for the last 12 years. are competitive and fair. Remuneration of the senior The Working Life Evaluation Survey, which is held managers, on the other hand, is composed of two periodically, enables the company to see itself through components as fixed and performance-based. the eyes of its employees in terms of employee satisfaction. The satisfaction level is evaluated under The Work Family Model implemented within different sub-topics. In a transparent manner, the the company defines the roles, accountabilities, survey reflects the employees’ satisfaction levels and performance indicators, knowledge, skills, experience evaluations of various subjects regarding the company. and competencies in the organization. Also the Development areas are identified and related practices remuneration policy of the company relies on an are initiated in line with the results of the survey. objective system based on the “Work Family Model”. The aim of the variable remuneration management Besides, Akçansa won the first prize in the “Investment practice followed by Akçansa is to help to achieve the in People” category of the “Sabancı Golden Collar company budget targets and attain business results Awards” with its Human Resources Practices in 2013. beyond these targets while strengthening the goaloriented performance culture through rewarding success and encouraging the employees to deliver an outstanding performance. In that respect, institutions that are internationally acknowledged for their independence and experience provide consultancy services for Akçansa. 75 Corporate Citizenship Akçansa is in the GRI Conference in 2013 Corporate As the most important global meeting held on sustainability, GRI Conference on Sustainability and Reporting brought thousands of sustainability leaders Citizenship together from various parts of the world in 2013. Turkey was included in the Regional Meetings sessions, reserved to promising strategic geographical regions, for the first time in 2013. The Turkey Session was organized under Akçansa creates added value in behalf of all its social the leadership of Global Compact Turkey and Kıymet-i stakeholders through a corporate culture devoted to Harbiye Management Consultancy the GRI Regional social, environmental, legal and ethical principles; and Database Partner in Turkey. While the moderator of the pursues its activities with the mission of being a leading session was Mr. André van Heemstra, Chairman of Global G4 26 building materials producer, assuming an active role Compact Network Netherlands and Former Member G4 27 in order to raise the quality of life in the community. G4 EC7 of the Board of Directors of Unilever, the speakers G4 EC8 In this regard, as the pioneer player in the Turkish included Mr. Hakan Gürdal, Akçansa General Manager, G4 SO1 cement sector, Akçansa acts on the awareness of the Ms. Marjolein Baghuis, GRI Director of Communications responsibility of going further than creating economic and Network Relations and Mr. Atilla Yerlikaya, External added value. Akçansa is a responsible corporate citizen Affairs Director of CCİ. During the session, Mr. Hakan and consequently allocated 3.1 million TL in 2012 and Gürdal shared his views on the sustainability reporting 3.2 million TL in 2013 for donations, sponsorships and practice in the Turkish business world and the effects social projects in order to produce added value in of participation in international initiatives on corporate areas such as health, culture, arts, education, sports sustainability performance. and environment. Seminars and Symposiums Concrete Ideas Mr. Hakan Gürdal, General Manager of Akçansa, Organized annually by Akçansa, the leading participated as a speaker to the seminar titled as cement producer in Turkey, “Concrete Ideas Project ‘‘Sustainability as a Competitive Edge” organized in Competition”, drew a great deal of interest in the 2012 by Government of the Netherlands in which best practices from Turkish and Dutch corporations reporting period. With this competition, Akçansa pioneering sustainability practices. During the year, seeks to create acquaintance between the sector Mr. Hakan Gürdal also shared his views on outcomes of and young talents, fostering students’ creativity to 18th Climate Change Conference for Turkey and Turkish create new values. Akçansa calls university students businesses during the panel meeting “Competitive to produce new generation, different and creative Power in Low Carbon Economy: Expectations for 2012 products, practices and marketing ideas, which will and Beyond” organized by TÜSİAD. raise awareness about the alternative areas of concrete usage in the sector. Akçansa sponsored the Concrete Maintenance and Developments in Ready-Mixed Concrete Technology Organized under the motto “Alternative Use of Cement Seminar organized by the Construction Products and Concrete for Energy Efficiency in Buildings”, Producers’ Association at Çanakkale 18 Mart University in “ENERGYCoNcReTeHome” project conducted by 2013. Akçansa managers made a presentation on Special “Enerjibtn” project group found by students of Ready-Mixed Concrete Products and Practices in the İTÜ Architecture Department entitled for the first seminar attended by the Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ place in Concrete Ideas Project Competition held in Association, the Turkish Ready Mixed Concrete 2012. With “Nature in Concrete, Concrete in Nature” Association, the Additive Manufacturers’ Association, project, “Branda” project group of Uludağ University the Aggregate Producers’ Association, the Çanakkale Chamber of Civil Engineers, ready-mixed concrete Architecture Department student took the second producers, construction supervision companies and place, while “Eaves of the City” project of “Archbeton” university students. Akçansa also supported the 2nd project group composed of Yıldız Technical University Building Materials Symposium organized at Kastamonu Architecture Department student and “Concretent” University with its presentations titled Concrete project of “ETC” project group of İstanbul University Components and Technology, and Special Ready-Mixed Architecture Department students shared the third Concrete Products and Practices. place. Akçansa business partners and employees as well as In 2013 the competition took place with the motto interested parties from the sector participated in the “Create Awareness in Concrete, Add Value to Life”, Concrete Symposium organized through a cooperation inviting project teams composed of undergraduate of Akçansa and Bekaert at İzmir Sabancı Kültür Sarayı and postgraduate students from all the relevant in 2013. Prof. Dr. Mehmet Ali Taşdemir attended the university departments. The students from the faculties seminar as a speaker and the event hosted presentations of management, economics, communication and on cement, concrete, fibre reinforced concretes and fine arts participated in the competition for the first special ready-mixed concrete products. time apart from the students from the departments Mr. Halil Etyemez, Vice-minister of Labor and Social of civil engineering and architecture. The first prize Security, Prof. Dr. İsmail Yüksek, Rector of Yıldız Technical was given to “Interactive Concrete Museum” project University (YTÜ) and Mr. Hakan Gürdal, General of “Grup Brüt” composed of students from the METU Manager of Akçansa have made opening speeches in Architecture Department. The second prize was given Occupational Health and Safety Conference organized by to “Advertisement Video and Filtering by Concrete Akçansa in cooperation with YTÜ and Cement Industry Type Application on Real Estate Websites” project of Employers’ Union. A large number of representatives “Bi’Ton Fikir” project group from Boğaziçi University such as authorities from the Ministry, academicians, OHS and the third prize was given to “Grup Shke” for their specialists, trade union and NGO members participated project “If Our Home is Made of Concrete”. to the Conference. 78 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Volunteering Activities Congress and Publications Considering the concept of sustainability as the most Akçansa carries out national and international important tool for shaping the future and spreading scientific publication studies together with this concept in every area, Akçansa initiated the “There various universities. Akçansa provided materials is Environment All Around Me” campaign with the as a support to MA and PhD theses written purpose of giving environmental training to children in the Department of Building Materials at whom Akçansa aspires to prepare a better future for. İstanbul Technical University. Since 1996, Betonsa Technology Centre has published Voluntary Training Activities to Raise 19 international and 27 national conference Environmental Awareness in Elementary papers in cooperation with İstanbul Technical Education University. Received with interest by the sector, With the aim to raise a generation acquiring these publications especially cover the issues environmental awareness at an early age, 8 elementary of mechanical qualities, durability, optimum schools were taken on a trip to Büyükçekmece Plant designs in terms of costs and special innovative in cooperation with the Environmental Protection and ready-mixed concrete products. Control Department of Büyükçekmece Municipality. The students visiting the plant received information Akçansa attended the “Concrete 2013 Congress” on the issues of waste management, cement processes organized by the Turkish Ready-Mixed Concrete and environmental investments. Since 2011, Akçansa’s Association in 2013 with 6 papers. The papers volunteering environmental experts have been published were primarily on the topics of meeting with the students of Büyükçekmece Mimar sustainability in the cement industry, ecological Sinan Elementary School, Tayyar Paşa Elementary cement optimization, environmentally sensitive School and Ladik Atatürk Elementary School, informing concrete, the role of nanotechnology in the them about the problems stemming from global future of concrete, the curing conditions of warming, the things to do to protect the future of our concrete, heavyweight concretes and the world, how to dispose of wastes, the measures that mechanical behaviour of concretes produced can be taken against environmental pollution, and the with aggregates having different mineral environmentally friendly practices of Akçansa as an compositions. industrial company. An informative booklet is given to each student as a gift at the end of the activities. Training Activities Technical visit programs for university students The volunteers from Akçansa Büyükçekmece Plant were continued in the reporting period. cooperated with the Neighbourhood Disaster Volunteers Information about the production processes and Foundation in order to give basic disaster awareness automation systems at the facilities were shared training to the employees working at Çanakkale and with the visitors in the scope of the technical Ladik Plant. Akçansa employees who were entitled to visits organized to Büyükçekmece Cement Plant become trainers at the end of the project continue to and Ready-Mixed Concrete Facility, Menemen take part in voluntary activities and carry out practices Ready-Mixed Concrete Facility in the Aegean to induce disaster awareness in the local people. Region, Çorlu Ready-Mixed Concrete Facility in the Thracian Region, and Tokat Ready-Mixed Concrete Facility in the Black Sea Region. During the technical visits, standard tests performed at cement and ready-mixed concrete laboratories were explained and model tests were carried out in addition to the seminars organized on cement technology, concrete technology and special ready-mixed concrete products. In context of university seminars, Mr. Hakan Gürdal, General Manager of Akçansa shared Akçansa’s marketing strategies and activities. 79 CO2 One Carbon Two Oxygen Project www.atiginizibizegonderin.com Understanding Sustainability 2013 Collecting waste and investing in this area for the first Seminar Series time with an eye to sustainable growth after fulfilling The Understanding Sustainability Seminars the legal requirements regarding waste recovery in organized by MEC Management and Economy the cement sector, Akçansa carries out the CO2 One Club of Bilkent University was implemented Carbon Two Oxygen Project on the basis of the idea in November 2013 with the sponsorship of that “real value can be created not only through the Akçansa. Many names from public organizations collection of waste but also through its recovery in a and the business world, who are experts in proper manner”. their fields, attended the sessions as speakers throughout November, covering several topics In the scope of the project, Akçansa has become a such as sustainability in the supply chain, solution partner to all the companies, local public leadership in sustainability, energy problems, agencies and organizations as well as municipalities climate change, and corporate responsibility which possess waste in the cities where Akçansa plants projects. operate. Akçansa plays an active role in reducing the carbon footprints of these organizations through While Akçansa made a presentation in the providing an efficient, safe and more environmentally Energy and Climate Change Management friendly method of waste disposal. After the collected session, Akçansa General Manager Hakan Gürdal wastes are evaluated at Akçansa Environment and shared his views and knowledge about personal Quality Laboratory, one of the most developed AFR and corporate leadership in sustainability in the labs in Turkey, they can be returned back to the main speaker session. In the workshop organized economy. with the participation of Bilkent students as part of the seminar, Akçansa’s sustainability practices Corporate Social Responsibility Association of Turkey and reporting study were evaluated and the awarded the CO2 One Carbon Two Oxygen Project feedback received from the students were prepared by Akçansa in the Sustainable Waste used as a resource in the planning of reporting Management and Communication category. communications. Akçansa supports various projects oriented to raise awareness in society concerning the climate change issues via the sponsorships it provides. The events supported as part of the sponsorship activities included the First Quarter of 2013 Evaluation and Urban Transformation Meeting held by the Association of Turkish Construction Material Producers, the International Conference on Peace and Resolution of Disagreements organized on 15-16 June 2013; the 2013 Ladik Highland Festival and the 14th International Büyükçekmece Culture and Arts Festival, 18th March Çanakkale Naval Victory Commemoration Day and Büyükçekmece Mimarsinan Sports Club’s sport events. 80 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Performance Data Performance Charts 2011 2012 2013 Operational Performance Number of Plants Cement Plants 3 3 3 Aggregate Facilities 4 4 4 RMC Facilities 40 40 41 Production Capacity (million ton) Cement 9 9 9 G4 9 Clinker 6,5 6,5 6,5 G4 EC1 Total Production (million ton) G4 EN1 Cement 6,6 6,1 6,6 G4 EN2 Clinker 6,47 6,5 6,6 G4 EN3 G4 EN8 Production Capacity Use G4 EN10 Cement 75 70 76 G4 EN13 Clinker 92 92 95 Sales (million ton) Cement Domestic 5,3 5,1 5,8 Cement International 1,5 1,2 0,9 Clinker Domestic 0,1 0,1 0 ClinkerInternational 0,8 1,1 0,9 Ready Mixed Concrete (million m3) 5,2 5 4,9 Aggregate 1,9 2,9 3 Financial Performance Net Sales (TL million ) 1.010 1.055,9 1.202,2 EBITDA (TL million) 192,7 214,8 270,2 EBITDA (%) 19,1 20,4 22,48 Net Profit (TL million) 100,3 120 157,9 Earnings per Share 0,52 0,63 0,82 Net Financial Dept (TL million) 133,3 210.8 163.5 Equity Capital (TL million) 862,9 911.5 987.6 Total Assets (TL million) 1.278,5 1.388,6 1.477,2 Total Economic Value Created (TL million) 1.022,19 1.069,22 1.217,05 Economic Value Distributed (TL million) 947,72 1.037,85 1.164,63 Economic Value Retained (TL million) 74,47 31,38 52,42 Procurement Operations (TL million) 883 910 1.000 Local Procurement Rate (%) 78 88 88 Environmental Performance Total Raw Material Consumption (ton) 14.268.557,97 10.879.023,68 11.472.342,76 Raw Material Produced in Quarries 12.692.424,97 9.544.195,93 10.111.669,64 Raw Material Purchaised from Suppliers 1.174.401 1.161.566,15 1.245.345,56 Alternative Raw Materials 401.732 173.261,6 115.327,56 Percentage of Recycled Raw Material (%) 4 1,6 1 Clinker Rate (%) 85 86,8 87,1 Mineral Additive Ratio in 1 m3 Binder (%) 14 20 20 Total water withdrawal (million m3) 1,36 1,769 1,876 Ground Water (million m3) 0,343 1,72 1,682 Municipal water supplies (million m )3 1,018 0,048 0,193 Rainwater (million m3) 0,002 0 0 Volume of water recycled and reused (m3) 154.449 123.806 Rehabilitated Areas After Decommissioning (ha) 1,3 5,8 4,3 Total Energy Consumption (GJ) 24.220.418,22 25.465.484,07 26.084.271,72 Direct Energy Consumption in Cement Production (GJ) 21.471.819 22.726.868 23.203.940 Coal 17.621.859,76 21.468.584,36 21.572.748,85 Natural Gas 17.606,33 24.576,43 26.542,43 Fuel-oil 85.183,94 51.617,23 55.870,12 Alternative Fuels 1.047.795,12 1.182.090,29 1.548.778,77 84 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Performance Charts 2011 2012 2013 Indirect Energy Consumption Electricity (GJ) 2.748.599,22 2.738.616,07 2.880.331,72 Cement Production (GJ) 2.689.590,83 2.670.181,97 2.802.882,96 Agregate Production (GJ) 17.239 18.856 18.658 RMC Production (GJ) 29.812 32.470 32.120 Total Energy Reduction (GJ) 375.950,1 1.805.013,99 Specific Energy Consumption in Clinker Production (GJ/ton clinker) 3,29 3,49 3,51 Specific Energy Consumption in Aggregate Production(MJ/ton aggregate) 0,67 0,59 0,42 G4 EN15 Specific Energy Consumption in RMC Production(GJ/m3 RMC) 0,006 0,007 0,007 G4 EN16 Thermal Energy Substitution Rate by Using Alternative Fuels (%) 4,58 5,2 6,67 G4 EN18 Gross Direct and Indirect CO2 Emission in Cement Production (million ton) 6,07 6,04 6,16 G4 EN21 G4 EN23 Specific Gross CO2 Emission in Clinker Production (kg CO2 /ton clinker) 887,4 881,04 882,79 G4 EN28 Specific Net CO2 Emission in Clinker Production (kg CO2 /ton clinker) 877,33 869,68 870,86 G4 EN31 Specific Gross CO2 Emission in Cement Production (kg CO2 /ton cement) 754,41 764,32 769,1 G4 LA6 G4 LA9 Specific Net CO2 Emission in Cement Production (kg CO2 /ton cement) 745,85 754,46 758,7 Dust Emission (ton) 329 145 140 Spesific Dust Emissions (g/ton clinker) 58 35 36 NOx Emissions (ton) 9.525,42 8.790 7.341 Spesific NOx Emissions (g/ton clinker) 1471,3 1443 1.184 SO2 Emissions (ton) 376,34 345 324 Spesific SO2 Emmissions (g/ton clinker) 58 53 49 Metal Emissions (ton) 0,22 0,09 0,06 Spesific Metal Emmissions (g/ton clinker) 0,0403 0,0114 0,0112 VOC Emmissions (ton) 202 210 153 Specific VOC Emmissions (g/ton clinker) 37 37 26 Dioxin and Furan Emmissions (g/year) 0,4 0,38 0,14 Specific Dioxin and Furan Emmissions (µg ton klinker) 0,054 0,048 0,02 Total Hazardous Wastes by Disposal Method (ton) Energy Recovery 87,39 46,64 197,86 Recycling 145,82 190,78 683,1 Landfill 0,3 0,9 33,3 Incineration 2,1 0,36 0,01 Total Non-Hazardous Wastes by Disposal Method (ton) Energy Recovery 0 0,11 15 Recycling 1.405,65 1.369,6 2.098,88 Landfill 295,02 313,42 264,3 Total Packaging Material Used (ton) 2.195 2.450 Packaging Materials Recycled (ton) 922 1.078 Packaging Material Recycling Rate (%) 42 44 Environmental Investments and Expenditures (TL) 87.355.557 23.634.695 23.150.101 Social Performance Employee Trainings (person x hours) 27291 35.975 31.870 Employees Covered by Collective Agreements 25.326 19.587 Employees Not Covered by Collective Agreements 10.649 12.283 Female 1.778 1.903 Male 34.197 29.966 Employee Trainings Participants (persons) 786 881 Employees Covered by Collective Agreements 449 466 Employees Not Covered by Collective Agreements 337 415 Female 35 59 Male 751 822 Accident Frequency Rate Cement Plants 12,15 8,7 4,5 Aggregate Facilities 0 0 0 RMC Facilities 3,82 3,97 5,94 85 Performance Charts 2011 2012 2013 Accident Severity Rate Cement Plants 0,17 0,12 0,24 Aggregate Facilities 0 0 0 RMC Facilities 0,01 0,09 0,23 Occupational Disease Rate Cement Plants 0 0 0 Aggregate Facilities 0 0 0 RMC Facilities 0 0 0 Absentee Rate G4 EC3 G4 LA3 Cement Plants 2.073 3.902 3.604 G4 LA7 Aggregate and RMC Facilities 1.180 788 G4 HR1 Fatalities G4 HR2 Cement Plants 2 0 0 G4 SO4 Aggregate Facilities 0 0 0 RMC Facilities 3 0 0 Employees in Charge of Tasks with High Injury or Occupational Disease Risks (number) 203 288 Total Attandace to OHS Trainings (persons) 5.047 10.704 Total Hours of OHS Trainings (person x hours) 15.219 21.638 Number of OHS Committees 9 11 Total Number of OHS Committee Members 102 131 Total Attandace to Environmental Trainings (persons) Company Employees 142 181 Contractor Employees 5 19 Total Hours of Environmental Trainings (person x hours) Company Employees 668 273 Contractor Employees 3 19 Contracts and Agreements with Human Rights Articles (number) 300 300 Investment Contracts and Agreements with Human Rights Articles (%) 100 100 Executives Undertaken Human Rights Trainings on Company Operations (number) 505 Percentage of Executives Undertaken Human Rights Trainings on Company Operations (%) 100 Hours of human rights trainings on company operations to employees (person x hours) 186 Training and Communication Studies on Corruption Risks Number and Percentage of Senior Executives Briefed (number-%) 6 100% Total Number and Percentage of Executives Briefed (number-%) 505 100% Number and Percentage of Senior Executives Trained (number-%) 6 100% Number and Percentage of Executives Trained (number-%) 505 100% Employer Contribution to Pension Plan (TL) 452.970 454.612 461.635 86 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Headquarters Cement Plants & Quarries RMC & Aggregate Total 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Company Employees 82 69 818 837 181 181 1.081 1.087 Female 28 26 28 38 2 2 58 66 Male 54 43 790 799 179 179 1.023 1.021 Contractor Employees 515 524 Employees by Category G4 9 G4 10 Employees Covered by Collective 0 0% 0 0% 594 72,6% 597 71,3% 0 0% 0 0% 594 55% 597 55% G4 11 Agreements (number-%) G4 38 Female 0 0% 0 0% 4 14,3% 4 10,5% 0 0% 0 0% 4 4 G4 EC6 G4 LA1 Male 0 0% 0 0% 590 74,7% 593 74,2% 0 0% 0 0% 590 57,7% 593 58,1% G4 LA12 Employees Not Covered by Collective 82 100% 69 100% 224 27,4% 240 28,7% 181 100% 181 100% 487 45% 490 45% Agreements Female 28 100% 26 100% 24 85,7% 34 89,5% 2 100% 2 100% 54 93,1% 62 93,9% Male 54 100% 43 100% 200 25,3% 206 25,8% 179 100% 179 100% 433 42,3% 428 41,9% Employees by Education (number-%) Unschooled 0 0% 0 0% 1 0,1% 1 0,1% 0 0% 0 0% 1 0.0% 1 0,09% Primary School 2 2,43% 2 2,89% 158 19,3% 144 17,2% 19 10,4% 18 9,9% 179 16,5% 164 15,0% Secondary 6 7,31% 2 2,89% 421 51,4% 431 51,4% 73 40,3% 68 37,5% 500 46,2% 501 46,0% University and Above 74 90,24% 65 94,2% 238 29,0% 261 31,1% 89 49,1% 95 52,4% 401 37,0% 421 38,7% Employees by Age Group (number-%) 18-30 16 19,51% 20 28,98% 212 25,9% 189 22.58% 57 31,4% 48 26,5% 285 26,3% 257 23,6% 31-40 30 36,58% 26 37,68% 370 45,2% 370 44.2% 75 41,4% 74 40,8% 475 43,9% 470 43,2% 41-50 28 34,14% 19 27,53% 219 26,7% 254 30.3% 47 25,9% 58 32,0% 294 27,1% 331 30,4% 51-60 8 9,75% 4 5,79% 17 2,0% 24 2.8% 2 1,1% 1 0,5% 27 2,4% 29 2,6% Senior Executives (number) by Gender Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Male 5 5 4 4 1 1 10 10 by Age Group 18-30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31-40 2 3 0 1 0 0 2 4 41-50 0 3 2 2 0 0 2 5 51-60 4 0 1 1 0 0 5 1 by Nationality Local 4 4 3 3 1 1 8 8 Expat 1 1 1 1 0 0 2 2 Mid-level Executives (number) by Gender Female 2 2 1 1 0 0 3 3 Male 9 8 18 17 7 8 34 33 by Age Group 18-30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31-40 6 5 7 3 2 2 15 10 41-50 2 2 10 12 5 6 17 20 51-60 3 3 2 3 0 0 5 6 87 Headquarters Cement Plants & Quarries RMC & Aggregate Total 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Company Employees 82 69 818 837 181 181 1,081 1,087 New Employees Hires (number %) 5 6,1% 12 17,4% 71 8,7% 59 7,1% 11 6,1% 14 7,7% 87 8,1% 85 7,8% G4-3 by Gender G4-5 G4-31 Female 2 7,1% 7 26,9% 2 7,1% 6 15,8% 1 50% 1 50% 5 8,6% 14 21,2% G4-32 Male 3 5,6% 5 11,6% 69 0,9% 53 6,6% 10 5,6% 13 7,3% 82 8% 71 6,9% G4-33 by Age Group 18-30 1 6,3% 8 40% 48 22,6% 40 21,2% 8 14% 10 20,8% 57 20,0% 58 22,6% 31-40 3 10% 4 15,4% 20 5,4% 18 4,9% 3 4% 3 4,1% 26 5,5% 25 5,3% 41-50 1 3,6% 0 0% 3 1,4% 1 0,4% 0 0% 1 1,7% 4 1,4% 2 0,6% 51-60 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% Lay-offs (number %) 13 15,8% 9 13% 58 7,1% 53 6,3% 14 7,7% 17 9,4% 85 7,9% 79 7,3% by Gender Female 5 17,8% 4 15,4% 2 7,1% 3 7,9% 1 50% 0 0% 8 13,8% 7 10,6% Male 8 14,8% 5 11,6% 56 7,1% 50 6,2% 13 7,3% 17 9,5% 77 7,5% 72 7% by Age Group 18-30 1 6,3% 3 15% 9 4,2% 4 2,1% 3 5,3% 4 8,3% 13 4,6% 11 4,3% 31-40 6 20,0% 5 19,2% 7 1,9% 12 3,2% 4 5,3% 8 10,8% 17 3,6% 25 5,3% 41-50 6 21,4% 1 5,3% 27 12,3% 27 10,6% 7 14,9% 4 6,9% 40 13,6% 32 9,7% 51-60 0 0% 0 0% 15 88,3% 10 41,7% 0 0% 1 100% 15 55,6% 11 37,9% 88 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report GRI CONTENT INDEX DMA and GRI Content Index External Indicators Assurance G4-1 Joint Statement of the Chairperson and the General Manager (p.4) Not Assured G4-2 Joint Statement of the Chairperson and the General Manager (p.4); Corporate Profile (p.10); 2020 Ambitions Progress Chart (p.14-15) Not Assured G4-3 Contacts (p.95) Not Assured G4-4 Corporate Profile (p.6-8); Akçansa Annual Report 2013 (p.30); Corporate Website http://www.akcansa.com.tr/products-services/cement Not Assured G4-5 Contacts (p.95) Not Assured G4-6 Corporate Profile (p.8) Not Assured G4-7 Corporate Profile (p.6) Not Assured G4 32 G4-8 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.18-19) Not Assured G4-9 Corporate Profile (p.6-7); Performance Data (p.84-87) Not Assured G4-10 Performance Data (p.87); No significant employment variation is observed in Akçansa operations. Not Assured G4-11 Work Life (p.70); Performance Data (p.87) Not Assured G4-12 Corporate Profile (p.10); Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.20-21) Not Assured G4-13 Corporate Website http://www.akcansa.com.tr/investor-center/announcement Not Assured G4-14 Governance and Sustainability (p.27-28); Akçansa Annual Report 2013 (p.57-58) Not Assured G4-15 Joint Statement of the Chairperson and the General Manager (p.4); Combating the Climate Change (p.34); Biodiversity (p.57); Corporate Website http://www. Not Assured akcansa.com.tr/corporate/our-integrated-management-systems G4-16 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.19); Governance and Sustainability (p.26) Not Assured G4-17 About The Report (p.3); Corporate Profile (p.6) Not Assured G4-18 About The Report (p.3); Governance and Sustainability (p.28) Not Assured During the process of definition of material issues regarding Akçansa’s sustainability performance, principles formulated by GRI G4 Guidelines, such as completeness, sustainability context, materiality and stakeholder inclusiveness, were mainly based on. Material issues and aspect boundries were defined as a result of 3 stage process. As the first process, in every operational location, we have conducted a series of workshops with company managers representing company branches. Following that practice we have conducted a similar practice together with senior management incuding CEO of Akçansa. In this practice possible material issue universe and stakeholder groups as well are evaluated basicaly in terms of relevance to business and stakeholder expectations. As the second input of the process, we have included feedbacks received both in terms of sustainability management performance and reporting practices from Akçansa’s stakeholder engagement practices such as Neighbour Councils, Bridge Days, employee, executive and stakeholder meetings. In 2013 we have also conducted a dedicated workshop in Bilkent University providing an open environment through which students from management and engineering faculties may submit their feedbacks on Akçansa’s reporting practices including the content. Later issues which found material were evaluated in terms of most appropriate aspect boundries for every supply chain process by Akçansa Sustainability Committee and material issue list was finalised upon approval of the senior management. G4-19 Corporate Profile (p.10) Not Assured G4-20-21 As a result of materiality process, Greenhouse Gases and other Pollutants, Dust Emissions, Energy Efficiency, Alternative Raw Materials, Alternative Fuels, Quarry Not Assured Management and Biodiversity, Water Use, Occupational Health & Safety, Sustainable, Innovative Products, Product Pricing, Dialogue with Stakeholders were defined as most material aspects. Indicator scope and boundries were also defined by process and related entities. Hereby; GHG and other Pollutants: This aspect defined as material for processes such as supply, production and logistics with relation to Akçansa (cement production) but not to Betonsa (RMC production), Agregasa (aggregate production) due to the insignificance. Due to the outsourced transportation operations logistics suplliers’ performance was also found relevant for this aspect. Dust Emissions: This aspect defined as material for processes such as raw material production, production and logistics with relation to the entities such as Akçansa (cement production), Betonsa (RMC production), Agregasa (aggregate production). No entity outside the company operations found relevant for this aspect. Energy Efficiency: This aspect defined as material for processes such as production and logistics with relation to the entities such as Akçansa (cement production), Betonsa (RMC production), Agregasa (aggregate production) with an exception to direct energy use in RMC and aggregate production which is insignificant for these processes. Due to the outsourced transportation operations logistics suplliers’ performance was also found relevant for this aspect. Alternative Fuels: This aspect defined as material for production process with relation to Akçansa (cement production), but not to Betonsa (RMC production), Agregasa (aggregate production). No entity outside the company operations found relevant for this aspect. Alternative Raw Materials: This aspect defined as material for production process with relation to Akçansa (cement production) and Betonsa (RMC production), but not to Agregasa (aggregate production) due to the inapplicability. No entity outside the company operations found relevant for this aspect. Quarry Management & Biodiversity: This aspect defined as material for raw material production process with relation to Akçansa (cement production) but not to Betonsa (RMC production) and Agregasa (aggregate production) due to the inapplicability. No entity outside the company operations found relevant for this aspect. Water Use: This aspect defined as material for production process with relation to Akçansa (cement production) but not to Betonsa (RMC production) and Agregasa (aggregate production) due to the inapplicability. No entity outside the company operations found relevant for this aspect. OHS: This aspect defined as material for processes such as raw material production, supply, production and logistics with relation to the entities such as Akçansa (cement production), Betonsa (RMC production), Agregasa (aggregate production). Performance regarding the entities outside the company such as contractors and logistics suppliers is also found relevant for this aspect. Sustainable, Innovative Products: This aspect defined as material for sales & marketing process with relation to the entities such as Akçansa (cement production) and Betonsa (RMC production) but not to Agregasa (aggregate production) due to the inapplicability. No entity outside the company operations found relevant for this aspect. Product Pricing: This aspect defined as material for sales & marketing process with relation to the entities such as Akçansa (cement production) and Betonsa (RMC production) but not to Agregasa (aggregate production) due to the inapplicability. No entity outside the company operations found relevant for this aspect. Dialogue with Stakeholder: This aspect defined as material for raw material production, production and logistics processes with relation to the entities such as Akçansa (cement production), Betonsa (RMC production) and Agregasa (aggregate production). No entity outside the company operations found relevant for this aspect. In some cases, performance indicators which are not directly referencing to the defined material aspects but somehow related to the same; or reported in previous practices and the data set regarding which is already in place were also disclosed for sharing a broader information or continuity of already disclosed data to enable benchmarking. 89 DMA and Page Number or Link External Indicators Assurance G4-22 About The Report (p.3) Not Assured G4-23 About The Report (p.3) Not Assured G4-24 Governance and Sustainability (p.30) Not Assured G4-25 About The Report (p.3); Governance and Sustainability (p.30-31); Corporate Website http://www.akcansa.com.tr/sustainability/about Not Assured G4-26 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (20-21); Governance and Sustainability (p.30-31); Corporate Citizenship (p.78-81); Akçansa Annual Report 2013 Not Assured (p.52); Corporate Website http://www.akcansa.com.tr/sustainability/about G4-27 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (20-21); Governance and Sustainability (p.31); Corporate Citizenship (p.78-81) Not Assured Report Profile G4-28 About The Report (p.3) Not Assured G4-29 About The Report (p.3) Not Assured G4-30 About The Report (p.3) Not Assured G4-31 Contacts (p.95) Not Assured G4-32 About The Report (p.3); GRI Index (p.89-93); Legal Disclaimer (p.95) Not Assured G4-33 Legal Disclaimer (p.95) Not Assured G4-34 Governance and Sustainability (p.26-29); Akçansa Annual Report 2013 (p.53-54) Not Assured G4-35 Governance and Sustainability (p.26-29) Not Assured G4-36 Governance and Sustainability (p.26-29) Not Assured G4-37 Governance and Sustainability (p.28-31) Not Assured G4-38 Governance and Sustainability (p.26); Performance Data (p.87); Akçansa Annual Report 2013 (p.54-55; 61-62) Not Assured G4-39 Joint Statement of the Chairperson and the General Manager (p.4) Not Assured G4-40 Akçansa Annual Report 2013 (p.54-55, 61-62); Corporate Website: http://www.akcansa.com.tr/investor-center/corporate-governance Not Assured G4-41 Akçansa Annual Report 2013 (p.55); Audit Committee Charter (p.2-4) Corporate Website: http://www.akcansa.com.tr/docs/20120605135437_201108021130 Not Assured 16_audit-committee-charter.pdf G4-42 Governance and Sustainability (p.28) Not Assured G4-43 Governance and Sustainability (p.28, 30-31) Not Assured G4-44 Governance and Sustainability (p.28-29); Work Life (p.73-75) Not Assured G4-45 Governance and Sustainability (p.28-31) Not Assured G4-46 Governance and Sustainability (p.26, 28-29) Not Assured G4-47 Governance and Sustainability (p.26, 28-29) Not Assured G4-48 Governance and Sustainability (p.26, 28-29); Sustainability reports are reviewed by Akçansa Sustainability Committee and the General Manager respectively. Not Assured G4-49 Governance and Sustainability (p.26, 28-29) Not Assured G4-50 Governance and Sustainability (p.26, 28-29) Not Assured G4-51 Work Life (p.74-75) Not Assured G4-56 Corporate Profile (p.8); Governance and Sustainability (p.27); Akçansa Annual Report 2013 (p.53-54) Not Assured G4-57 Governance and Sustainability (p.27) Not Assured G4-58 Work Life (p.70-71) Not Assured Specific Standart Page Number or Link External Omissions Disclosures Assurance CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Material Aspect: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Cement Sector; Local Economy and Akçansa (p.18-19) G4-EC1 Cement Sector; Local Economy and Akçansa (p.23); Performance Data (p.84) Not Assured G4-EC2 Joint Statement of the Chairperson and the General Manager (p.4); Combating the Climate Change (p.34) Not Assured G4-EC3 Work Life (p.74); Performance Data (p.86) Not Assured G4-EC4 Akçansa Annual Report 2012 (p.55); Akçansa Annual Report 2013 (p.70) Not Assured Material Aspect: MARKET PRESENCE G4DMA Not material G4-EC6 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.18-19); Performance Data (p.87) Not Assured Material Aspect: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.23); Governance and Sustainability (p.28); Performance Data (p.84) Not Assured G4-EC7 Corporate Citizenship (p.78-81); Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.20-21) Not Assured G4-EC8 Corporate Citizenship (p.78-81); Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.20-21) Not Assured 90 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Specific Standart Page Number or Link External Omissions Disclosures Assurance CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Material Aspect: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Not material G4-EC9 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.18-19,22-23) Not Assured CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: MATERIALS G4-DMA Joint Statement of the Chairperson and the General Manager (p.4); Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa Not Assured (p.18-19) G4-EN1 Alternative Raw Material Usage (p.50-51); Biodiversity (p.55,57); Performance Data (p.84) Not Assured G4-EN2 Alternative Raw Material Usage (p.50-51); Biodiversity (p.57-58); Performance Data (p.84) Not Assured Material Aspect: ENERGY G4-DMA Joint Statement of the Chairperson and the General Manager (p.4); 2020 Ambitions Progress Chart (p.14); Not Assured Combating the Climate Change (p.34-36) G4-EN3 Combating the Climate Change (p.34-35); Performance Data (p.84-85) Not Assured G4-EN4 Not reported Not Assured Data regarding logistics suppliers The information is subject to specific confidentiality constraints. Logistics suppliers firms classify their energy consumption as priviledged information and avoid disclosing these data G4-EN5 Combating the Climate Change (p.34-35) Not Assured G4-EN6 Combating the Climate Change (p.34-36); 2020 Ambitions Progress Chart (p.14-15) Not Assured G4-EN7 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.20-22); Alternative Fuel Usage (p.46-47); Alternative Raw Material Not Assured Usage (p.50-51) Material Aspect: WATER G4-DMA Joint Statement of the Chairperson and General Manager (p.4); Biodiversity (p.54-57) Not Assured G4-EN8 Biodiversity (p.57); Performance Data (p.84) Not Assured G4-EN9 Biodiversity (p. 54-57) Not Assured G4-EN10 Biodiversity (p.57); Performance Data (p.84) Not Assured Material Aspect: BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA Joint Statement of the Chairperson and General Manager (p.4); Biodiversity (p.54-56) Not Assured G4-EN12 Biodiversity (p.54-56) Not Assured G4-EN13 Biodiversity (p.55); Performace Data (p.84) Not Assured Material Aspect: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Joint Statement of the Chairperson and General Manager (p.4); 2020 Ambitions Progress Chart (p.14-15); Not Assured Combating the Climate Change (p.34); Emissions Management (p.40) G4-EN15 Emission Management (p.40); Performance Data (p.85) Not Assured G4-EN16 Emission Management (p.40-43); Performance Data (p.85) Not Assured G4-EN17 Not reported Not Assured Data regarding logistics suppliers The information is subject to specific confidentiality constraints. Since logistics supplier firms classify their energy consumption as priviledged information and avoid disclosing these data; calculation of GHG gases regarding these operations also become impossible. G4-EN18 2020 Ambitions Progress Chart (p.14-15); Emissions Management (p.41-42); Performance Data (p.85) Not Assured G4-EN19 2020 Ambitions Progress Chart (p.14-15); Combating the Climate Change (p.36); Emissions Management (p.41-42) Not Assured G4-EN21 Emission Management (p.41-43); Performance Data (p.85) Not Assured Material Aspect: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Not material G4-EN22 Biodiversity (p.57) G4-EN23 Biodiversity (p.59); Performance Data (p.85) G4-EN26 Biodiversity (p.57) 91 Specific Page Number or Link External Omissions Standart Assurance Disclosures Material Aspect: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-DMA Joint Statement of the Chairperson and General Manager (p.4); 2020 Ambitions Progress Chart (p.14-15); Cement Not Assured Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.20-21) G4-EN27 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.20-21) Not Assured G4-EN28 Biodiversity (p.58); Performance Data (p.85) Not Assured Material Aspect: OVERALL G4-DMA Not material Not Assured G4-EN31 Biodiversity (p.58); Performance Data (p.85) CATEGORY: SOCIAL “ Material Aspect: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Not material G4-LA1 Work Life (p.70); Performance Data (p.87) Not Assured G4-LA2 Work Life (p.74) Not Assured G4-LA3 Performance Data (p.86) Not Assured Material Aspect: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Governance and Sustainability (p.27); Occupational Health and Safety (p.62-67) Not Assured G4-LA5 Occupational Health and Safety (p.64) Not Assured G4-LA6 Occupational Health and Safety (p.63,67); Performance Data (p.85-86) Not Assured Data regarding logistics suppliers. The information is currently unavailable. For completing data composition, we will work together with logistics suppliers to obtain related data next reporting period and, if necessary, a recording system to trace supplier performance by 2015. G4-LA7 Performance Data (p.86) Not Assured G4-LA8 Occupational Health and Safety (p.63) Not Assured Material Aspect: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Not material G4-LA9 Performance Data (p.85) Not Assured G4-LA10 Work Life (p.72-74) Not Assured G4-LA11 Work Life (p.73) Not Assured Material Aspect: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Work Life (p.70) G4-LA12 Work Life (p.70); Performance Data (p.87) Not Assured Material Aspect: INVESTMENT G4-DMA Not Material G4-HR1 Performance Data (p.86) Not Assured G4-HR2 Performance Data (p.86) Not Assured Material Aspect: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Not Material G4-HR3 No such case occured during the reporting period. Not Assured Material Aspect: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA Not material G4-HR4 Work Life (p.70-71) Not Assured Material Aspect: CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Not material G4-HR5 Work Life (p.70-71) Not Assured Material Aspect: FORCED AND COMPULSATORY LABOR G4-DMA Not material G4-HR6 Work Life (p.70-71) Not Assured 92 Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report Specific Page Number or Link External Omissions Standart Assurance Disclosures Material Aspect: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Governance and Sustainability (p.30-31); Biodiversity (p.56); Corporate Citizenship (p.78-81) G4-SO1 Governance and Sustainability (p.30-31); Biodiversity (p.56); Corporate Citizenship (p.78-81); Community development Not Assured proragrams are implemented in all facility neighborhoods. Type of the program differs in line with local needs. G4-SO2 Biodiversity (p.55-56) Not Assured Material Aspect: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Not material G4-SO3 Governance and Sustainability (p.27); Work Life (p.70) Not Assured G4-SO4 Performance Data (p.86) Not Assured Material Aspect: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Not material G4-PR2 No such case occured during the reporting period. Not Assured Material Aspect: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Not material G4-PR3 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.22) Not Assured G4-PR4 No such case occured during the reporting period. G4-PR5 Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.20); Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.21) Not Assured Material Aspect: MARKETING COMMUNICATION G4-DMA Not material G4-PR7 No such case occured during the reporting period. Not Assured Material Aspect: PRODUCT PRICING Cement Sector, Local Economy and Akçansa (p.19) Not Assured Material Aspect: SUSTAINABLE, INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS Innovative, Special Product Portfolio (p.20) Not Assured 93 CONTACTS Headquarters : Kısıklı Cad. No:38 Altunizade Üsküdar İstanbul Tel: 0 (216) 571 30 00 Fax: 0 (216) 571 31 11 Cement ve Ready-mix Concrete Facilities: BURSA AGGREGATE PLANT AGREGA SARAY PLANT SAMSUN III READY-MIXED CONCRETE ÇANAKKALE PLANT Eski Kemalpaşa Yolu üzeri Kayapa Beldesi Kavacık köyü Mevkii PLANT Mahmudiye Beldesi Nilüfer / BURSA Saray / TEKİRDAĞ Derecik Mahallesi Ovalar Caddesi 204 17640 Ezine / ÇANAKKALE Sokak No: 2 İlkadım/SAMSUN MANİSA READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT BAŞKÖY READY-MIXED CONCRETE BÜYÜKÇEKMECE PLANT İnönü mah.Meriç sokak No:16 PLANT KIRKLARELİ READY-MIXED CONCRETE PK.1 Mimarsinan Beldesi Muradiye / MANİSA Başköy Köyü Taşocakları Mevkii PLANT 34900 Büyükçekmece / İSTANBUL Nilüfer / BURSA Kocahıdır Mahallesi Pınarhisar Yolu YARIMCA SALES OFFICE Şeytan Deresi Mevkii Tolga SAMSUN LADİK PLANT Rota Limanı Körfez / KOCAELİ BEYLİKDÜZÜ READY-MIXED CONCRETE Madencilik şantiyesi Kırklareli İskaniye mah.Akpınar Mevkii PLANT Ladik / SAMSUN SAMSUN 2 READY-MIXED CONCRETE 2945 Ada 20 Parsel Mehter ZEYTİNBURNU READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT Çeşme mah.Nazım Hikmet Bulvarı İnovia PLANT İZMİR SALES OFFICE Mobil Santral Yolu Selyeri Mevkii 2.Etap Karşısı Esenyurt / İSTANBUL Yurt-Kur Atatürk Öğrenci Sitesi Merkez Ali Çetinkaya Bulvarı No.34/1 SAMSUN Efendi Mah. Sabri Ülker Sok. No:37 K.4 D.402 Alsancak / İZMİR ARNAVUTKÖY READY-MIXED CONCRETE Cevizlibağ Zeytinburnu/İstanbul TOKAT READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT PLANT ÇORLU READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT Tombulkaya Mevkii Tokat Sivas Eski Edirne Asfaltı Habibler Çıkışı SAMSUN AGGREGATE PLANT Şehsinan Mah.Kadıderesi Mevkii Karayolu 10.km. TOKAT Derbent Mevkii Arnavutköy/İSTANBUL Çamlıyazı Köyü mevkii Çorlu / TEKİRDAĞ Atakum/SAMSUN ÇERKEZKÖY READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT GÜMÜLDÜR READY-MIXED CONCRETE ALİAĞA READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT Beylikçayır Mevkii PLANT TUZLA PLANT Horozgediği Köyü Hayıtlıdere Mevkii Veliköy-Çerkezköy / TEKİRDAĞ Yukarı ovacık Mevkii PK 10 Gümüldür Koray İnşaat E5 karayolu Üzeri Aliağa / İZMİR Menderes/İZMİR Paşabahçe Fabrikası Arkası KEMERBURGAZ READY-MIXED CONCRETE KEŞAN READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT PLANT Piri Reis cad. Tuzla/İstanbul HOPA TERMINAL Yeni Muhacır Beldesi E 27 Asfaltı Üzeri Cendere yolu Alkanat Rest.karşısı Orta Hopa Mahallesi Liman Caddesi POYRAZKÖY READY-MIXED CONCRETE Keşan / EDİRNE Kemerburgaz-EYÜP / İSTANBUL 08600 Hopa/ARTVİN PLANT MENEMEN READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT BORNOVA READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT 3. Köprü Asya Ayağı Yaros Kalesi Mevkii ÇORUM READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT Poyrazköy/İstanbul Kazımpaşa Mah. Ormanbeşli Mevkii Ankara Yolu Üzeri No:194 Bornova / İZMİR Ankara Yolu Üzeri Yaydiğin Menemen / İZMİR Mahallesi/ÇORUM ÇATALCA MURATBEY READY-MIXED BÜYÜKÇEKMECE READY-MIXED CONCRETE KARAMÜRSEL/YALOVA TERMINAL PLANT CONCRETE PLANT NİLÜFER READY-MIXED CONCRETE Muratbey Mahallesi 805. Parsel Balcı Mevkii SCA Fabrikası içi Sultan Murat Cad. No: 8 Mimarsinan PLANT Kaytazdere-Altınova / YALOVA 34900 Büyükçekmece / İSTANBUL Büyükçekmece/İstanbul Eski Kamelpaşa Yolu üzeri Kayapa Mah. ALİAĞA TERMINAL BÜYÜKKARIŞTIRAN READY-MIXED CONCRETE Nilüfer/BURSA GARİPÇE READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT Horozgediği Köyü,Nemrut Körfezi PLANT Garipçe Köyü 3. Köprü Ayağı SAMSUN TERMINAL Sarıyer/İstanbul Çukurova Çelik Limanı Aliağa / İZMİR Kınalı Köprü Mevkii Organize sanayi bölgesi, Büyükkarıştıran / LÜLEBURGAZ Devlet demir yolları lojistik köyü yanı, EYÜP READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT YENİBOSNA READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT Tem Havaalanı yanyolu Dereboyu Mevkii EDREMİT READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT yeşilyurt liman tesisleri içi İçtaş Odayeri Otoyol Şantiyesi Sefaköy/ İSTANBUL Akçay Asfaltı Üzeri Kuruçay Mevkii Tekkeköy / SAMSUN Odayeri Köyü Eyüp/İstanbul Edremit / BALIKESİR KAVAK READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT ÇEKMEKÖY READY-MIXED CONCRETE AYAZAĞA CRUSHED STONE PLANT Cendere Yolu Önerler Petrol Karşısı ESENYURT READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT Kavak Samsun karayolu Emirli PLANT Kemerburgaz-Eyüp / İSTANBUL Hoşdere Köyü Harmanlık Mevkii Taş ocakları yolu 1. km Kavak/SAMSUN Üsküdar Metro Projesi Araç Depo Bahçeşehir / İSTANBUL Sahası İstanbul Şile Otoyolu Aquacity TEKİRDAĞ READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT DANAMANDIRA AGGREGATE PLANT Yanı Parseler Mah. Ümraniye/İstanbul Muratlı Yolu Üzeri 4.km TEKİRDAĞ GEBZE READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT Danamandıra Köyü Silivri/İSTANBUL Sultan Orhan Mah.Taşocakları Mevkii İÇTAŞ USKUMRUKÖY READY-MIXED SİLİVRİ (KENTAŞ) READY-MIXED CONCRETE Gebze / KOCAELİ AYVALIK READY-MIXED CONCRETE CONCRETE PLANT PLANT PLANT Kuzey Marmara Otoyol Şantiyesi Mimar Sinan mah.Eski Çanta Köyü üzeri GÜZELBAHÇE READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT Tellikavak Mevkii 39. Sokak No:8/2 Uskumruköy Sarıyer /İstanbul Maksi Market arkası Silivri / İSTANBUL Çamlı Köyü. Kırlar Mevkii. Küçükköy Ayvalık /BALIKESİR Güzelbahçe / İZMİR ÇANAKKALE SALES OFFICE MERZİFON READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT SAMSUN SALES OFFICE İnönü Caddesi ÇTSO İş Merkezi İstanbul Yolu 1.km Alıcık yolu üzeri AMBARLI TERMINAL Güzelyalı Mah. 3003 Sok. No:2 No:141 Daire 14-15 Çanakkale (26.27.H Pafta-291 Ada-5 nolu Parsel) Yakuplu Köyü Reşitpaşa Çiftliği Mevkii Çamkoru Sitesi Atakum/SAMSUN Merzifon / AMASYA Ambarlı /İSTANBUL YENİBOSNA CEMENT SALES DEPOT AYAZAĞA READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT Köyaltı Mevkii Yenibosna Merkez Mh. Cendere Yolu Çakırlar Mah. Değirmenbahçe Sk. No.12 Ayazağa-Şişli / İSTANBUL Yenibosna/İSTANBUL Akçansa 2013 Sustainability Report LEGAL DISCLAIMER Akçansa Sustainability Report 2012-2013 (Report) has been prepared by Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş (Akçansa). All information, views and considerations, which do not purpot to be complete, have been provided by Akçansa; have not been independently assured for these purposes. This Report has been prepared for information purposes only and does not intend to form a basis for any investment decision. Information disclosed in this “Report” does not constitute an offer or form a part of an offer to sell or issue, or solicitation of an offer to purchase or subscribe for, any securities or other interests in Akçansa and no legal relations shall be created by its issue. All information contained in this Report and associated documents were believed to be accurate for the time period it covers, expressed in good faith and based on sources believed to be reliable. However, this does not constitute a representation, guarantee, warranty or undertaking of any nature on Akçansa. Accordingly, none of Akçansa, Akçansa shareholders, Akçansa subsidiaries or their BoD members, or their respective advisors, directors or employees shall be liable for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage suffered by any person as a result of relying on any statement in or omission from this Report or in any other information or communications in connection with this Report. Akçansa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Kısıklı Caddesi No:38 34662 Altunizade ÜSKÜDAR/İSTANBUL Reporting Contacts Banu.Ucer@akcansa.com.tr Sezgi.Kumbaracibasi@akcansa.com.tr T: +90(216) 571 30 00 F: +90(216) 571 30 91 Reporting Consultant Kıymet-i Harbiye T: +90(212) 279 13 13 info@kiymetiharbiye.com This report has been imprinted on recycled paper. Designed by Ünite İletişim. www.unite.com.tr 0212 272 93 13 www.akcansagriraporu.com/2013/
