1 2014 Doosan E&C CSR Report Building Your Tomorrow Today About this report Reporting Standards and Principles This report is Doosan E&C (Engineering & Construction)’s CSR report compiled in line with the Core Option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. We have referred to the IR Framework of the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council). Material issues were identified through the AA1000SES (AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard) to satisfy the expectations and needs of stakeholders. This report will be published annually. Reporting Period and Boundary This report covers Doosan E&C’s performances and activities from January through December 2014, and for key performances, data of the three most recent fiscal years (from January 2012 through December 2014) were used to make trend analysis possible. The scope of the report covers our entire domestic worksites including the head office in Seoul and some overseas worksites. In the future, we plan to continuously expand the scope of the report. Assurance IMCSR, an independent assurance agency, conducted verification on the report to enhance the transparency and reliability of the reporting process and contents. Pages 64 and 65 include the verification results. For More Information Contact the CSR Team Email csr_dsenc@doosan.com Tel 82-2-510-3114 Address 726, Eonjuro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Doosan E&C’s Second CSR Report As the second CSR report being published after the first one last year, this report contains key areas and performances of Doosan E&C’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in 2014. Internal and external stakeholders’ interests are introduced in relation to Doosan Group’s three strategic directions for CSR – Responsible Engagement, Developing People and Reliable Operating. We will continue to share our CSR performances and plans with stakeholders through the CSR report. 1. Defining stakeholders’ interest • Setting issue areas • Setting the scope and boundaries of each issue • Conducting surveys Responsible Engagement 2. Identifying material issues • Reviewing analysis target • Reviewing the relationship between Stakeholder Materiality engagement test Doosan Group and issues • Checking the value of issues for each stakeholder • Analyzing comprehensive evaluation 3. Deciding scope of report • Reviewing boundaries, scope and period of reporting material issues Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Laying the Foundation for Reflecting the Opinions of CSR Promotion Various Stakeholders To meet the requirements of stakeholders both at home and We select key CSR issues on the basis of stakeholder abroad and fulfill our social responsibility, Doosan E&C builds engagement to ensure sustainable growth. The selected CSR governance and strategic system and conducts CSR activities material issues are reflected in our management activities and systematically. are transparently open to stakeholders. CSR Frame Developing People Reliable Operating 4. Reporting key CSR issues and System CSR monitoring performances and goals People and orientation (eco-friendly, shared performance • Checking the achievability of the target Society growth, and product data responsibility) Developing People Reliable Operating Conducting People-Centered Developing CSR through CSR Activities the Growth of People ‘People-centric’ is our business philosophy. We believe that The growth of people lays the foundation for the growth of the long-term, sustained success can only come through people. company. Doosan E&C members have advanced scientific systems Cultivating talents comes first in all of our business activities as we and processes, streamlining our work system through change believe that our competitiveness and sustainable growth depend and innovation with limitless aspiration. This ultimately leads to on people. the growth of our business. 01 Contents Doosan E&C 02 About Doosan Group 04 The Doosan Way 08 CEO Message 10 Highlights in 2014 Developing People 12 Corporate Overview 30 Talent Development 14 Business Area 34 Safe Work Environment 18 CSR Strategy 37 Human Rights 20 Governance 39 Sharing Activities 21 Risk Management 41 Retirement and New Beginning Responsible Engagement Reliable Operating 24 Defining the Range of 44 Environmental Management Stakeholder Interest (Energy and GHG) 25 Identifying Material Issues and 49 Shared Growth with Partners Reporting Issues 52 Responsibility for Product and Service 26 Material Issues and 57 Ethical Management Reporting Contents Appendix 60 CSR Performances 64 Independent Assurance Statement 66 UNGC 67 GRI G4 Index 02 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report About Doosan Group Doosan is the oldest company in Korea with a history of 119 years and the fastest-growing company for the past ten years. We have successfully made changes and realized growth based on people centered management and are now focusing on transforming our company for a second century of Proud Global Doosan. Building Your Tomorrow Today Creating a New Future beyond its 119-Year History 1896~1949 The history of Doosan for more than a century tells about changes, innovation, and dynamic progress. Doosan took the first step in its legendary history in 1896 when Park Seung-Jik opened Korea’s first modern store in Baeogae, JongThe Foundation of Doosan no 4, Seoul. In 1946, Park Toopyung, the successor to Park Seung-jik, changed its name to the Doosan Store, heralding the beginning of Doosan’s modern history. 1950~1979 In the 1950s, Doosan Store started international trading and established Oriental Brewery. In the 1960s, Doosan expanded its business sectors including construction, food and beverages, machinery, media and cultural services and The Birth of Doosan Group solidified the basis for Doosan Group with the introduction of professional executives and diversification. Partnerships with advanced international companies resulted in greater technological development, and the group secured internal stability by acquiring other relevant businesses in the 1970s. 1980~1995 After the 1980s, Doosan made dramatic progress based on the capabilities it had developed in its early days. Doosan pushed ahead with business ventures in various related fields and new areas , such as brewery, construction, electronGrowth and Leap ics, glass, machinery, and trading and developed overseas markets. This further developed the group’s business areas both vertically and horizontally. In the 1990s, Doosan turned its attention to enhance technology in each business and to strengthen global competitiveness. 1996~2005 After our centennial in 1995, we established 2G strategy : Growth of People and Growth of Business a foundation for another hundred years of growth. We saw dramatic growth in our infrastructure support business (ISB) by attracting Changes and Transformation foreign investment and acquiring companies with key technology. 2006~Present Since 2006, Doosan acquired top-tier ISB companies such as Bobcat, a construction machinery suppliers, and Skoda Power, a manufacturer of power generation equipment. As a result, we developed into a major global brand in the ISB Global Growth industry. Pursuing Sustainable Growth through Elaborate Strategies and Daring Challenges Doosan has been maintaining stable growth due to successful restructuring and the transformation into an ISB (Infrastructure Support Business)-oriented business. Doosan’s corporate governance is stable and transparent. Doosan Corporation and its affiliates reinforced the BOD-driven management system. Moreover, Doosan is accelerating growth by focusing on core businesses for more profitable growth. Leapfrogging into a World Leader in the ISB Sector through Active Global Operations We contribute to improving people’s quality of life around the world through a variety of businesses. About 41,400 employees (as of the end of 2014) working in 38 countries are a driving force behind the growth of Doosan. Our global business is boosted by capitalizing on over 1,200 global sales networks and about 20,900 employees in overseas project sites, through which sales of KRW 13.02 trillion, more than a half of total sales, were generated in 2014. Doosan will continue to cultivate global talents, expand global sales networks, and introduce global standards to have the standing and honor of being a global player. 03 2014 Financial Highlights Doosan E&C (Unit : KRW in 100 millions) Total assets 313,693 Total equity 89,023 Sales 204,682 Operating income 10,081 * Based on consolidated financial statements Responsible Engagement Affiliates & Brands We create a better life and future in various fields from all infrastructure support businesses such as industrial facilities, Developing machinery, equipment and construction to consumer goods. People ISB (Infrastructure Support Business) Companies Doosan Corporation Doosan Heavy Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation Reliable Industries & Electro-Materials Information & Operating Construction Communications Business Area Business Area CCL, Materials for Boards, Business Area Power plant, Water, Heat Preventing PCB, Consulting, Building and Casting, Construction, Masslam, OLED materials Managing IT systems, Tranport facilities, IT Infrastructure Operation Appendix Green Energy Doosan Infracore Doosan Corporation Industrial Vehicle Business Area CSB (Consumer & Service Business) Construction Machinery, Business Area Companies Machine Tools, Engines, Engine-powered Forklifts, Engine Materials Electronic Forklifts, Company Name Business Area Parts and Services Doosan Capital Installment Financing, Lease Financing, General Loans Oricom Advertising Campaigns, Doosan Engineering & Doosan Corporation Brand Marketing, Media Services Construction Mottrol Neoplux Venture capital, PE (Private Equity) investment Business Area Business Area Doosan Feed & Scattering, Chickens, Pigs, Civil Engineering, Hydraulic Equipment, Livestock Dairy Fattening, Ducks / Dogs Architechture, Housing, Defense CPE*, HRSG** Doosan Tower Fashion Mall Doosan Bears Professional Baseball Team Doosan Cuvex Golf Club Doosan Engine Doosan Fuel Cell Doosan Magazine Magazine Business Area Business Area Marine Diesel Engine, Residential / Building / Power Diesel Engine, Power Generation Fuel Cells Diesel Power Plant, Affiliated Organization Engine parts Company Name Business Area Doosan Yonkang Scholarships, Research Funding, Foundation Teachers’ Educational Overseas Trips, Doosan DST Doosan Corporation Educational Welfare, Sending Books Glonet and Cultural Projects Business Area Armored Vehicle System, Business Area Doosan Art Center Support Artistic Activities Air Defense System, Bio business DLI ( Doosan Educational Programs Launcher System, Leadership Institute) Navigation and others * CPE : Chemical Process Equipment ** HRSG : Heat Recovery Steam Generator 04 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report The Doosan Way is our belief and philosophy to build the ‘Proud Global Doosan’. As a member of Doosan that has grown continuously for more than a hundred years, Doosan E&C will play a significant role in offering products and services to enhance people’s quality of life around the world by practicing the Doosan Credo Proud People, and making the Group accelerate the momentum for a second Proud Doosan century of Proud Global Doosan. The Doosan Credo Doosan Credo The Doosan Credo is a set of principles that represent Doosan’s philosophies and our unique way of doing business. These principles have been the foundation of Doosan’s success for the past century. The Doosan Credo consists of nine core values and is integral to every aspect of our businesses and people, clearly guiding our decisions and the way we do business. Through the realization of these values, Doosan accomplishes its ultimate goal. The Credo consists of Doosan’s “Aspiration” and “Core Values”. * The credo is a charter containing the unique value of Doosan on which all of our business activities and decision making should be based. Aspiration Aspiration Doosan’s ultimate goal is the creation of a 'Proud Global Doosan'. In our Vision, each of our employees and all of our stakeholders will benefit from, and be proud of their association with, Doosan. Every employee takes great pride in being a member of Doosan. Each customer recognizes and appreciates Doosan’s high-quality goods and services. Every shareholder values our fair and high levels of profit. Doosan People Doosan Credo Strong Advanced Competitive Edge Processes & Systems 05 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Core Value Core Values Doosan People practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo everywhere we operate, every day, to build a “Proud Global Doosan”. These values guide the way we do business, the way we treat each other and the way we work with all Developing People of our partners. The nine core values of the Doosan Credo are as follows: People Cultivating People Integrity and Transparency Reliable Operating Inhwa Customers World-class Technology and Innovation Profit Social Responsibility Safety and Environment Appendix Strategy Behind the success of Doosan is its unwavering ‘trust in people.’ People have been the foundation of our success for the past century and will help us build our next hundred years. Such trust in our people lies at the very heart of Doosan’s management philosophy. Doosan’s strategy is based on the principle of “2G” – Growth of Business by Growth of People. 2G is a virtuous circle in which people drive business growth, which in turn provides our people the opportunity for advancement. Doosan believes that sustainable success can only come through people. Doosan People Doosan People are those who keep the Doosan Credo in their hearts and practice Doosan’s distinctive traits everywhere they operate. Traits of Doosan People are as follows: Limitless Aspiration Cultivating People Inhwa Open Tenacity & Prioritization Communication Drive & Focus 06 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report The Doosan Way is our belief and philosophy to build the ‘Proud Global Doosan’. As a member of Doosan that has grown continuously for more than 100 years, Doosan E&C will play a significant role in offering products and services to enhance people’s quality of life around the world by practicing the Doosan Credo and makPractice of the ing the Group accelerate the momentum for a second century of Doosan Way in 2014 Proud Global Doosan. Doosan Way Survey and Presentation 01 on Improvement Plans The survey of the Doosan Way is implemented to find out whether all of our employees understand and apply the Doosan Way to their everyday works and whether the organization changes in the right direction. The 2013 survey was conducted on white color employees, while the 2014 survey was conducted on blue color employees. Based on the survey results, we reviewed the future direction of the Doosan Way and came up with improvement for the future establishing the foundation for One Doosan by holding a presentation on improvement plans and survey results for the production workers. Doosan Way Week 02 The Doosan Way Week is a time for employees to look back at themselves regarding the way of implementing the Doosan Way and to encourage each other. The Doosan Way Week aims to create synergies through communication between the organizations. There were various programs in the 2014 Doosan Way Week such as ‘the Doosan Way Credo Remind Session’, ‘the Doosan Way Day’, ‘the Operation Excellence Conference’ and ‘the Doosan Way Family day’. Doosan Way Council 03 The Doosan Way Council is convened for in-depth discussions about various issues that arise from the internalization of the Doosan Way and the review the progress of the Doosan Way’s major agendas. It is attended by the CEO, the COO, heads of each BG and division and executives in charge. The issues discussed here are also covered by Doosan Way Council in Doosan group, with the Chairman and top team of major affiliates in attendance. 07 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Developing Change in Work through the Internalization of 04 People the Doosan Way The year 2014 is a year marked by advancement of processes and systems through the internalization of the Doosan Way. First, we checked on the behavior and work approach of leaders that are expected from team members through Reliable the leadership survey, and we established and implemented the leader’s action Operating plan that reflected the result. The team members established behavior rules for realizing the Doosan Way and improving inefficient factors through various programs, including Building a Proud Team and Building a Smart Team. Appendix The Doosan Way As a result of promoting the Doosan Way, it has become embedded in various forms in all of the employees. However, we all share the Implementation wish of striving for the future as a stronger unified team. This wish Plan for 2015 is reflected in Team Doosan as the keyword for the Doosan Way in 2015, showing the behaviors and work approach of our employees that create better results by integrating individual strengths into teamwork based on the Doosan Way. Individual Team Creating Strengths Doosan Performance Creating Performance through Developing a Strong Doosan E&C Team Doosan Members In 2015, Doosan E&C will focus on creating performance through Team Doosan E&C will secure competitiveness through its employees by strivDoosan by taking the work approach that has been internalized as a ing to improve the competencies of Doosan E&C members in difficult result of the Doosan Way. First, we plan to establish the goals of Team market environment. Also, we will accelerate the internalization of the Doosan that we want to achieve and share them with our employees, so Doosan Way for production workers and overseas employees, to utilize that the action plans for each division can be carried out. our resources and capabilities fully as one team. 08 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report CEO Message Doosan E&C is striving to grow into a sustainable company to build a better world in the new century. 09 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Dear Stakeholders, Developing People Doosan E&C has published its second CSR report after the first one being published last year. I am very pleased to share our CSR activities, performances and future plans in the economic, social and environmental aspects with our stakeholders through this report. Reliable The business environments recovered slowly due to the smooth recovery of the global economy and the government’s economy-invigorating Operating policy, but it is still difficult to expect a stable growth because of increased uncertainties and intense competition between companies. Therefore, we will achieve sustainable growth by improving our competitiveness in the existing construction business area and exploring new growth engine. Appendix In order to establish the foundation for the new century under the vision of ‘Infra Solutions Provider That Makes the World a Better Place’, Doosan E&C is striving to strengthen the fundamental competitiveness, while also fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities. First, we will create future value by developing people. We believe that human resources have been our strength during the past half-century, as well as the strongest competitiveness for continued success for the next century. Based on the Doosan Way, we established an organizational culture where every employee can act and communicate according to fair rules. In addition to, we will establish a virtuous cycle to cultivate talent which will lead our future. Second, we will strengthen future competitiveness through reliable operating, such as reinforcing fundamental competitiveness and risk management. In order to achieve medium and long-term growth, it is important to secure fundamental competitiveness through differentiated technologies and acquire the ability to respond to uncertainties and risks. Doosan E&C will continue reliable operating by managing financial and nonfinancial risks through quality improvement and technology development, as well as shared growth with suppliers and stronger EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) standards. Third, we will enhance the future competitiveness of local communities through responsible engagement. We will contribute to the society by achieving sustainable growth based on strong business ethics. By aiming for the mission of ‘Enhancing Future Competitiveness of Communities and Corporate Value through Strategic Social Contribution Activities’, we will develop social contribution programs and increase employee participation and talent donation from the long-term perspective of the business concept. Doosan E&C will make concerted efforts on change and innovation to achieve its goal of ‘Becoming a Leader in CSR in the World by 2020’. We will also comply with the UNGC’s 10 key principles and pursue shared growth with all stakeholders. I would like to thank our stakeholders for continuing interest and support for Doosan E&C. President & CEO of Doosan E&C Byung-hwa Lee 10 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Highlights in 2014 Won the HRSG Contract for Tung Hsiao Project 01 in Taiwan On February 24, 2014, Doosan E&C won the HRSG (Heat Recovery Steam Generator) contract for gas-fueled combined cycle power plants worth approximately KRW 140 billion. The client is Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems. Doosan will supply six units of HRSG as the main equipment of gas-fueled combined cycle power plants to be constructed in Tung Hsiao in the mid-western region of Taiwan, which is expected to be supplied for the next 16~30 months. Won the LNG Plant Construction Project of 02 KRW 60 billion for the Yamal Peninsula in Russia On May 14, 2014, Doosan E&C won the order for CPE (Chemical Process Equipment) field that supplies 39 units for the Yamal Peninsula in Russia. The Yamal project is a large-scale project of US$ 26.9 billion that will construct LNG plants in Sabetta on the Yamal peninsula located in the Northwestern region of Siberia. The project owner is Technip France and the project supplies core components of LNG plants, including demethanizer and mercury absorber. A photo of shipping absorbers to the Barzan project in Qatar in the past. Completion of the Icheon Bears Park 03 On August 6, 2014, the building & housing BG completed constructing the Bears Park as the practice ground for the Doosan Bears’ minor league team. In order to systematically develop baseball rising stars, the Bears Park was reborn by undertaking expansion work on the Icheon Bears Field in Gyeonggi-do that had been in use since 2005. The main stadium with natural lawn has been established with safety fences and seats and a picnic zone for 673 persons. The supplementary stadium will be utilized as a practice field for infielders ordinarily, while also being used as the little league baseball field for the children in local communities. Also, there is an indoor practice field that is 24m high and 50m horizontally and vertically, which is considered as the key strength of the Bears Park. 11 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Designation of the DBS Top-Down Construction 04 Method as New Technology Slab Drop Panel Double beam Developing On September 30, 2014, Doosan E&C’s top-down construction method proceeding People downward to support the earth retaining wall by using a double vent steel beam and slab installed on temporary steel columns and temporary steel brackets, which were jointly developed with Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, was designated as No.727 of construction new technology by the Ministry of Land, InfrastrucReliable ture and Transport. Temporary center pile and bracket Operating This technology is a top-down construction method that supports the earth reAfter placement permanent column taining wall from the slab placed on temporary steel columns and steel beams for establishing underground structures. This construction method is characterized by the structure (DBS structure) consisting of a double vent steel beam that is horizonAppendix tally and vertically in parallel with the surrounding columns. Won Orders for the Northern Pier and the Waste 05 Water Treatment Plant at the Port of Donghae On October 2, 2014, the infrastructure BG won the order for the reconstruction of the northern pier at the Port of Donghae (1st stage) from the Public Procurement Service. This construction is rebuilding the northern pier (dock of 681m) at the Port of Donghae in Daedong-ro, Donghae-si, Gangwon-do, which is expected to be completed by October 2018. On October 31, 2014, we also won the order for the construction of the waste water treatment plant in Gumi Hi Tech Valley (1st stage). This order was made by the Korea Water Resources Corporation to construct the waste water treatment facility with a capacity of 19,000㎥/day on 114-1, Dojung-ri, Sandong-myeon, Gumi-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do, which is expected to be completed by April 2018. Won the Order for the Reconstruction of a 06 Large-scale Apartment Project in Incheon Gajwa-dong On December 23, 2014, the building & housing BG won the order for rebuilding the apartment complex in Incheon Gajwa-dong. This project is constructing a largescale apartment complex consisting of 1,757 households and 16 buildings that are 27 stories high on a lot area of 75,024m² in No.308, Gajwa-dong, Seo-gu, Incheonsi, which is expected to be completed by 2018. By winning the order for the Incheon Gajwa-dong reconstruction project, which is the largest scale among the city maintenance projects that were conducted since 2008, the building & housing BG forecasted that it will greatly contribute to winning housing orders in the future. 12 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Corporate Overview Internalizing Management and Achieving Growth for Medium and Long-term Projects Doosan E&C is striving to achieve balanced growth for construction and equipment businesses by implementing the diversification of business portfolio. In the future, we will develop into an infrastructure solutions provider that strengthens fundamental competitiveness, diversifies products and businesses and drives customer diversification. Europe Asia Korea Africa Others Business Area Subsidiaries at Home and Abroad Shareholders (As of December 31, 2014) (Unit : %) Position Business Area Position Company Name Main Business Order Company Name Percentage Civil Roads, Bridges, Railways, Subways, Tunnels, Ports, Airports, Domestic Doosan Cuvex Golf course and Condominium 1 Doosan Heavy Industries & 59.7 Engineering Landfills, Environmental plants Construction Co., Ltd. Overseas Doosan Heavy Industries Manufacturing business Architecture Business facilities, Commercial facilities, Public facilities, Vietnam Haiphong Co., Ltd 2 Specially Related Persons 2.2 Hotels, Resorts, Apartments, Residential and Commercial 3 Employee Stock Ownership 5.1 complex, Office building, Remodeling 4 Others Shareholders 33.0 CPE* Static equipment including towers, columns, reactors, pressure vessels, heat exchangers * Based on the number of shares issued HRSG** Heat Recovery Steam Generator * Chemical Process Equipment ** Heat Recovery Steam Generator 13 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Developing People Reliable Operating America Appendix Sales by Region Employees by Region (Unit : KRW in 100 millions) (Unit : Persons) Region Sale Percentage Plant Equipment BG InfrastrucBuilding & Region Korea 17,568 74.30% CPE HRSG ture BG Housing BG Asia 1,777 7.50% Korea 392 239 384 463 Europe 1,241 5.30% Korean staff 6 14 Asia America 828 3.50% Locally hired staff 386 1,523 Africa 326 1.40% Total 784 1,776 384 463 Others 1,898 8.00% Total 23,638 100% 14 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Business Area Infrastructure BG that Reforms the Landscape of Korea 01 The Infrastructure BG (Business Group) engages in design, construction, and maintenance in all civil engineering areas such as railway, subway, road, bridge, landfill and harbor. Its rich construction experience and technology will help create a better environment and future. Creating Socially Shared Value as a Leader in Privately Funded Infrastructure Projects Doosan E&C is an avid participant in expanding key infrastructure such as roads, rails, subways, harbors, and environmental projects. In particular, the company has been developed many privately funded infrastructure projects. Starting from Ihwaryeong Tunnel, the first privately funded infrastructure project in Korea, the infrastructure BG has successfully completed many privately funded infrastructure projects and currently actively pursues the construction project of Shin-Bundang subway line which is also the first privately proposed railway project in Korea. The privately funded infrastructure project contributes to not only enhancing the convenience and efficiency of transportation facilities but is also emerging as a major profit-making business model. Demonstrating the Largest High-Speed Railroad Construction The Infrastructure BG has contributed to the development of the national economy by building transportation infrastructure. In particular, we have completed six sections of the Seoul-Busan High Speed Railroad, and are conducting the construction of the Sales Honam High Speed Railroad. We are proud to hold (Unit : KRW in 100 millions) the longest high-speed railroad construction record 2013 5,471 with a total of 54KM in Korea. 2014 6,250 2019 (planned) 6,264 Leading the Way in Privately Funded Infrastructure Projects Based on rich experience and competiveness in privately funded infrastructure projects, the Infrastructure BG will continue to grow in subway and high-speed railroad focusing on cutting-edge and green projects. 15 Doosan E&C Building & Housing BG to Complete the Urban Skyline 02 Responsible Engagement Based on advanced technology, creative thinking and perspective, the Building & Housing BG creates spaces with great artistic value and unique style. Developing People Brand with Creative Thinking and Higher Artistic Value An apartment is not just a space for living. It should Reliable be a space to enrich people’s lives. Our apartment Operating brand ‘Doosan We’ve’ has led a high-quality residential culture to reflect the needs of our customers and raised their satisfaction. It also provides customers with unique and elegant residential Appendix spaces and enhances the status as landmarks in major cities. Providing Full Scope of Services in Architecture World-class experts offer services ranging from the analysis and diagnosis of existing buildings to maintenance considering the entire process of a building’s life cycle. In addition, we provide advanced technologies and services by constructing buildings in various fields, such as facilities for education, medical services, military and sports. Sales (Unit : KRW in 100 millions) 2013 10,306 2014 8,490 2019 (planned) 10,405 Pursuing Technology to Add Artistic Value to Spaces Architecture is called another art to build a landmark through technology. Doosan E&C is striving to create space with artistic value through creative thinking and perspectives on the basis of state-of-theart technology. 16 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Business Area ‘Made by Doosan’ CPE Business Division 03 The CPE Business Division supplies core chemical process equipments for oil & gas plants throughout the globe based on its worldclass manufacturing capabilities and performance. The CPE Business Division will solidify its position as an industry leader on the basis of large-scale production facilities in Korea and Vietnam as well as technological competitiveness. World-Class Manufacturing Capabilities and Technological Competitiveness Doosan E&C demonstrates world-class manufacturing capability in the chemical process equipment (CPE) field. The company is operating facilities to produce about 100 thousand tons per year in Korea and Vietnam and holds the biggest delivery record in the ultra large CPE field. Moreover, Doosan E&C’s world-class technological prowess has been internationally recognized since the company received an order to manufacture technology-intensive PFRVs and delivered them for the first time in Korea. Enhancing Global Competitiveness Through the strategy for customer diversification in the world, Doosan E&C is expanding its horizons into Brazil, Russia, Malaysia, China, India, Vietnam, and other emerging markets as well as the Middle East, Doosan’s key market. On top of that, major national oil companies such as Aramco in Saudi Arabia, Petrobras in Brazil, and Rosneft in Russia registered Doosan E&C on their official equipment supplier list, paving the way for our market expansion. We also strengthened cost competitiveness by establishing Doosan Vina, a global production base in Vietnam, through joint investment with Sales Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction. (Unit : KRW in 100 millions) 2013 4,898 2014 4,540 2019 (planned) 4,591 Doosan E&C’s CPE Business Division Focusing on Manufacturing Core Chemical Process Equipment for Oil & Gas Plants around the World The CPE Business Division has the business know how and production records for half a century, while also securing business competitiveness based on its global customers. The CPE Business Division will expand market share through continuous technological improvement and contribute to the growth of Doosan E&C by entering the marine equipment business. 17 Doosan E&C HRSG Business Division to Take a Great Leap 04 Responsible Engagement The HRSG Business Division has accumulated know-how of raising the efficiency of plant under any condition that customers want by supplying more than 440 HRSGs to 39 countries around the world. Based on these experiences, the HRSG Business Division plays a role as a technical communication channel between project owners and EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) companies Developing and solidifies its position as a differentiated premium HRSG brand. People Proprietary Technology, the Source of Competitiveness As an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) with Reliable an unique model named ‘D-Top’, the HRSG Business Operating Division provides total solutions for the whole process of the HRSG plants construction from basic design to production, installation and maintenance. The HRSG Business Division was highly praised for Appendix on time delivery and prompt responses, which has been proven by ranking No.1 a total of five times in the global HRSG market share conducted in 2003, 2007~2009 and 2013. Source : McCoy Power Reports 2014 Leading Company that Presents Vision for the Market As a market leader, we are not only presenting the direction of the coming market but also concentrating on enhancing R&D capabilities based on proprietary technologies. In addition, we are establishing long term plans to develop new sectors and preoccupy the market. We are at the stage of completing developing the market specialization model, and we have estabilished local business footholds in major cities in the US and Europe. In order to ensure stable expansion Sales and increase synergies, we are preparing for busi(Unit : KRW in 100 millions) nesses related to HRSG proprietary and engineering technologies. 2013 1,802 2014 2,223 2019 (planned) 5,893 * The figure in 2013 includes performance before April 2013. Global Top-Tier HRSG Business Division The business transfer to Doosan E&C was a milestone for the HRSG Business Division. We will make the HRSG Business Division play a significant role for our growth and take-off by focusing on developing new technologies and creating the synergy with existing engineering and construction business. 18 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report CSR Strategy Doosan E&C’s Corporate Social Companies and the society have to grow together. In order to grow into a sustainable company, it is necessary to pursue a balanced Responsibilities of Growing into development for the economy, environment and society. Based a Global Sustainable Company on diverse stakeholder engagement, Doosan E&C established the goal of becoming a global company that leads in CSR, as well as implementing sustainability management by strengthening the company-wide competencies. Doosan’s Social Responsibilities and Sustainability CSR Implementation System Doosan’s CSR strategy system aims to achieve the goal of ‘Becoming Since 2013, Doosan E&C’s CSR have been operated mainly by the a Leader in CSR in the World by 2020’ by realizing the vision of ‘Proud CSR team directly under the CEO. The CSR Committee is the highest Global Doosan’, which consists of 3 CSR strategic directions and 7 top decision-making body relevant to CSR and makes decisions on the priority tasks. There is great significance that our stakeholders participatimplementation direction of medium and long-term strategies. Also, a ed in the process of establishing Doosan’s CSR strategy system to derive council consisting of working-level team leaders come up with detailed CSR material issues and came up with strategies based on them. implementation plans and discuss about implementation tasks. The CSR team is in charge of handling duties related to CSR, including identifying stakeholders’ issues, analyzing the internal level of CSR, establishing company-wide CSR tasks, conducting performance monitoring and publishing the report. CSR Strategy Framework Infra Solutions Provider That Makes The World A Better Place Aspiration Doosan Way Doosan Way CSR Goal 2020, Global CSR Leading Company CSR Mission Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth Growth of People Growth of Business CSR Pillars Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement • Developing talent • Strengthening environmental • Strengthen stakeholder •Internalizing the management for local participation management that respects communities • Managing CSR performances people • Expanded use of sustainable transparently CSR Priorities resources • Promoting supply chain CSR • Improve product & service accountability Enabler Develop strong CSR governance (Execution system and Employee's Commitment) 19 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement CSR Assessment Tool CSR Implementation Tasks Doosan E&C has observed changes in the global social environment Group common tasks Doosan E&C implementation tasks and reviewed how stakeholders are affected by sustainable products Human Rights and services and to meet the social demand. In this regard, Doosan E&C Developing utilized Doosan’s CSR assessment tool to derive improvement tasks for Respecting the Human • Establishing the Risk Management January 2015 People monitoring the CSR levels and enhancing competencies. As a result, we Rights of Stakeholders System for Human Rights ~ December 2015 established a roadmap for implementing various tasks that included three group common tasks and one implementation task for Doosan Labor Practices E&C in 2014. Occupational • Strengthening the support for January 2015 Reliable Safety and Health Suppliers' Safety and Health ~ December 2015 Operating Doosan CSR Diagnosis Index (7 fields, 18 indexes) Environment Management of • Establishing a Management System January 2015 Integrating Social Resource Efficiency 1. CSR direction for Energy Efficiency at workplaces ~ December 2017 Responsibilities Fair Operating Practices Appendix Human Rights 2. Respecting the Human Rights of Stakeholders Promotion of • Strengthening the Supply Chain January 2015 Supply Chain CSR CSR management system ~ December 2017 Management 3. Fair employment and employment relationships 4. Improving the employees’ quality of life Labor Practices 5. Social dialogue 6. Occupational Health and Safety CSR Committee 7. Talent development In order to meet the internal and external stakeholders’ demands and 8. Prevention of Environmental Pollution strongly fulfill the social responsibilities emphasized in the Doosan Way, Environment 9. Management of Resource Efficiency Doosan E&C is running the CSR Committee consisting of the CEO and 10. Climate change mitigation efforts the management. The CSR Committee is the highest decision-making 11. Anti-corruption body related to CSR that discusses business risks resulting from changes Fair Operating Practices 12. Fair Competition in the CSR environment and establishes company-wide CSR strategy and 13. Promotion of supply chain CSR management policy, while also exploring business opportunities. 14. Enhancing customer satisfaction 15. Protecting Customer Safety and Health CSR Committee Customer Issues 16. Protecting Stakeholders' Information 17. Sustainable products Steering Committee Chairman : CEO Participating and Developing 18. Participating and developing communities Communities CSR Team Integrated Community Human EnvironFair Social ReLabor Customer Involvement / Rights ment Operations sponsibility Development 20 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Governance Independence and Transparency of Doosan E&C has established the BOD-driven advanced corporate governance, ensuring a tranparent and reliable management systhe Board of Directors tem. We are also committed to getting much attention from investors and building a trust based and reliable relationship with stakeholders through strengthening our corporate competitiveness. BOD Operation Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Composition and Operation of the BOD Number of times BOD is held 10 17 13 Number of cases The Board of Directors (BOD) of Doosan E&C consists of two inside diAttendance rate of outside directors % 89 81 94 rectors and three outside directors to ensure the independence and transparency in the decision-making process. The CEO serves as the BOD Committees under the BOD Chairman and all outside directors are independent. The roles of the The Internal Transaction Committee, the Audit Committee and the OutBOD include not only convening shareholders’ meeting and deliberating side Director Recommendation Committee were established under the financial issues but also establishing our company’s basic management BOD to raise the efficiency of decision-making. Each committee has only policies and comprehensive operation plans. outside directors as members to ensure professionalism, fairness and independence in the operation. Reinforcing the Independence of the BOD Outside directors have not been members, affiliated persons, or financial Internal Transaction Committee traders of Doosan E&C and its affiliates for the past five years. They are The Internal Transaction Committee is composed of three outside direcappointed from among candidates with professional knowledge and extors. The committee aims to raise the transparency of our management perience in the fields of law, tax, and policy. They monitor and supervise activities by operating the Compliance Program. The committee conmanagement activities and fulfill their responsibilities as advisors to the ducts preliminary reviews and approves large-scale internal transactions company. We also provide them with necessary information and educain accordance with the Clause 2 of Article 11 in the Monopoly Regulation tion to carry out their duties in an excellent manner. and Fair Trade Act. Transparent Disclosure of Information Audit Committee The BOD regulations, roles, responsibilities and resolutions are reported The Audit Committee consists of three outside directors. The committee on our website. The company also discloses BOD-related materials that takes part in auditing procedures by holding quarterly and ad hoc meetshould be made public on the DART of the Financial Supervisory Service. ings. Their roles include confirming balancing accounts, treating audit results, making decisions about appeals for reviews and stating opinions BOD Composition about the establishment, abolishment or interpretations of corporate regulations. Position Name Duty Career Standing Byung-hwa Lee CEO Master’s degree in architectural engineering at the Outside Director Recommendation Committee Director Graduate School of Yeungnam University (Current) CEO of Doosan E&C The Outside Director Recommendation Committee consists of three outJeong-ho Song CFO Business administration at Chonbuk National University side directors and recommends candidates for outside directors accord(Current) Vice President of Doosan E&C ing to relevant laws, the article of association, and the BOD regulations. NonChang-seop Kim Outside (Former) Director at Tax Official Training Institute standing Director (Current) Head of Yeil Tax Accounting Director Sang-mun Ham Outside (Former) Senior Researcher at Korea Institute of Finance Evaluation and Compensation Director (Current) Director at School of International Policy of KDI Doosan E&C evaluates management goals and performances of the inJong-won Choi Outside (Former) Director of Graduate School of Public Director Administration at Seoul National University ternal and outside directors regularly and gives compensation within the (Current) Professor of Graduate School of Public remuneration limits approved at the shareholders’ meeting. More details Administration at Seoul National University are transparently disclosed on the DART of the Financial Supervisory Service. 21 Risk Management Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Strengthening Field-Centered The construction and manufacturing businesses face various financial, environmental and social risks. In addition, changes in Risk Management business conditions driven by diversification and entrance into new markets may bring about difficulties in efficiently managing Developing risks. Therefore, we ensure practical responses to risks that cause People economic losses and impede corporate values by managing financial and non-financial risks and devising a reporting system. Integrated Risk Management Process Bidding Stages Implementation Stages Reliable It is necessary to proactively analyze and respond to the effects of Operating 1 stage st 2 stagend 3 stage rd 4 stage th 5th stage 6th stage changing business environment for companies to survive. In this regard, Selecting the Making a bid Signing the Preparing for Conducting Settlement of project for proposal contract the project the project the project the risk management team identifies the risks that could affect business participation environment by managing business performances, costs, bonds, safety and insolvency signs. The identified risks are evaluated on the future ocAppendix · Review rough · Review rough · S igning · Complete the · Establish the · Complete the profits and conditions contracts handing over implementareport on the currence and the impact on the company when it actually occurs at the losses Review of R eview of of the project tion plan project RM Council by field, while risks that are highly dangerous are compreP&L terms and Complete the and carry out · Review conditions handing over construction hensively dealt with at the Management council. participating Review of for the project between Core Activities projects sales and S  et the demand target cost sales team Discuss about Process to Cope with Internal Control Risk rate and on site risks · Analyze risks  M anage SPC Make an P roceed with investments interim report Potential Risks licensing on business Risk Financial -C  onditions profits and Classification Risk of sales losses Preemptive Management Manage Drawing residents Internal Control Items to Legal and Control Occurrence Operational of Risk Regulatory Risk Risk Follow-Up Management Audit Risk Management at Manufacturing Sites Risk management at manufacturing sites is conducted through consulThe construction sector and manufacturing sector have a similar value tation with responsible staff members under the supervision of the PM chain as industries which produce on order. Therefore, we comprehenteam. We manage the risks related to the safety and product quality of sively manage various risks that might occur from each stage out of a work sites in advance by regularly monitoring and checking them. total of six stages. Bidding Stages Implementation Stages 1st stage 2nd stage 3rd stage 4th stage 5th stage 6th stage Risk Management at Construction Sites Selecting the Making a bid Signing the Preparing for Conducting Settlement of project for proposal contract the project the project the project The risk management at construction sites is based on the whole proparticipation cess of the project. We classified the management items according to · Estimation · Review rough · S igning · Review the · Finalize and · Complete the different stages of bidding and construction management, as well as For bidding conditions contracts strategy for produce the report on the measured and analyzed the expected risks in stages, to manage all Payment -N  otify project impleimplementaproject For orders mentation tion plan for conditions order perforstages of the project. mances Finalize the project · Review Guarantee projects conditions Register the persons in charge, Tax, compenbaseline including PM Core Activities sation condiFinalize and PE tions, etc. target budgets Establish the · Decide on bidimplementading prices tion plan Finalize business implementation 1 22 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Responsible Engagement 23 Responsible Engagement Developing People Reliable Operating System orientation CSR Stakeholder Materiality People and (eco-friendly, shared performance engagement test Society growth, and product data responsibility) ‘Direction’ ‘Communication’ ‘Real Voice’ Responsible Engagement 1. Defining the Range of Stakeholder Interest 2. Identifying Material Issues and Reporting Issues 3. Material Issues and Reporting Contents 24 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Defining the Range of Stakeholder Interest Doosan E&C established communication channels with all internal and external stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders and investors, suppliers, local communities, the government and academia, to gather diverse opinions and reflect them in the overall business activities. Communication with Stakeholders and Performances Customers 1 Employees 2 Shareholders and Investors 3 Definition of Stakeholders • Source of the creation of economic value • Key members for sustainable growth • Support for economic capital to implement sustainability management for the company Communication Channels • Customer Satisfaction Center • Conversations with the CEO • Meetings • General Shareholders Meeting • Annual Report • Customer Satisfaction Survey • Employee Survey • Labor-Management Council • IR presentation • Brochure Material Issues in Report • Business activities that reflect customers’ opinions • Management of occupational accidents and disasters • Diversifying economic value creation through business expansion • Creation and distribution of economic value • Ensuring soundness of corporate governance • Strengthening integrated risk management activities Suppliers 4 Local Communities 5 Government and Academia 6 Definition of Stakeholders • Partner that cooperates for mutual prosperity • Foundation and base for sustainable business activities • Provision of systematic and social foundation where the company can grow Communication Channels • Shared Growth Council • Workshops • Community meetings • Taking part in Government Councils • Regular meetings • Social contribution activities • Regulation and Evaluation Material Issues in Report • Systematic management of supply chain CSR • Minimizing negative impacts on local communities • Analyzing corruption risks • Complying with the Code of Ethics • Eco-friendly construction and design The material test process organizes the issue pool through the review of global CSR standards, industrial indicators, and issues of global leading companies, and media research. After that, we identified material issues through interviews with and assessment by internal and external experts. Materiality Evaluation Process STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 Survey on issues related to CSR Stakeholders engagement Materiality test Reflecting the management’s Disclosing key reporting areas decisions • Global standards •Survey on internal and external • Identifying material issues • Reporting to the CSR Committee • Reflecting results in CSR report ISO 26000 stakeholders •Selecting priority issues by classifying the • Developing CSR tasks GRI G4 Index result of Step 2 according to stakeholders’ • Industrial indicators level of interests and impact on business DJSI • Classifying core reporting aspects • Survey of related laws • Issues of global leading companies • Media research Process of Deriving Key Materiality Issues STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Identification Prioritization Validation Report Gathering issues related Selecting priorities Verifying effectiveness to CSR 25 Identifying Material Issues and Reporting Issues Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement We report material issues that Doosan E&C selects important CSR issues based on the survey result of internal and external stakeholders and disclose them stakeholders concern the most. through the CSR report after going through internal review. Developing People Materiality Test Reporting Materiality Issues Reliable Key CSR issues drawn by the materiality test and reflected in the deciOperating Doosan E&C’s materiality test aims to identify stakeholders’ core areas of interest by reflecting urgency and strategic importance of issues in sion-making management activities are reclassified by each aspect of corporate operations. After identifying 27 issues related to Doosan E&C the GRI G4 guideline for systematic reporting. We transparently disclose by analyzing the CSR issues reported by competitors domestically and the results of related policies and activities through the CSR report and corporate homepage’s sustainability management section. Also, stakeAppendix internationally, the media reports and related laws, we selected a total of 11 core issues through the surveys on stakeholders. holders’ feedback is reflected in the following year’s report. Reflecting in the Decision-Making Process The CSR Committee attended by Doosan E&C’s CEO and the top management reviews key CSR issues drawn by the materiality test and reflects them in the decision-making processes. Key materiality issues derived are mainly managed at the council consisting of working-level team leaders, while optimal performances are made through the existing onsite activities and site operations between working-level divisions. Core Materiality Issues Impact on business Other issues Core materiality issues Issues Page 1 2 1 Complying with the Code of Ethics 57 3 11 5 4 2 Analyzing corruption risk factors for work sites 57 3 Strengthening integrated risk management activities 21 6 7 4 Creating and distributing economic values 13~17 8 5 Diversifying economic value creation through business expansion 13~17 10 9 6 Management of occupational accidents and disasters 34~36 7 Ensuring soundness of corporate governance 20 8 Minimizing negative impacts on local communities 39~40 9 Implementing management activities that reflect customers’ opinions 52~56 10 Eco-friendly construction and design 45 11 Systematic management of supply chain CSR 49~51 Stakeholders’ level of interest 26 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Material Issues and Reporting Contents We will establish goals for sustainability Doosan E&C analyzed crisis and opportunity elements surrounding the company in the fields of economy, environment, and socimanagement and strive to achieve them. ety, and rearranged key materiality issues derived by each aspect of the GRI guideline. The derived backgrounds, strategic responses, current levels and goals are summarized in the table below. Doosan E&C Contents Economic Performances Governance Core Issue • Creating and distributing economic values 4 • Ensuring soundness of corporate governance 7 • Diversifying economic value creation through business expansion 5 • Strengthening integrated risk management activities 3 Major Stakeholders Shareholders and investors Shareholders and investors Backgrounds of Issues In order to become a global construction and manufacturing company, we need In order to promptly respond to the rapidly changing business environment, to maximize profits through business expansion and new market entries, as well we need to enhance the transparency and efficiency of management and as effectively managing various crisis elements. make optimal decisions based on the professionalism on the business. Strategic Response Directions We are upgrading technology competencies and actively entering into new We are improving stakeholders’ level of interest by strengthening corporate markets through scientific approach and advancement of fundamental competitiveness, while also establishing stable relationship of trust competitiveness and work methods. In addition, we strengthened integrated with stakeholders. enterprise-wide risk management to respond to various risks. Current Level We are addressing the risk factors of each business area by diversifying portfolios We established the BOD-driven corporate governance to ensure transparency of through the business expansion of equipment and establishing an integrated risk management and set up a reliable corporate governance. management strategy. Plans and Goals • Expanding business areas by maximizing core competencies and entering into • Strengthening the operation of the BOD and its subcommittees new markets • Upgrading integrated risk management system Reporting p.13~17, p.21 p.20 GRI Index Economic performance Governance Developing People Contents Safe Work Environment Sharing Activities Core Issue • Management of occupational accidents and disasters 6 • Minimizing negative impacts on local communities 8 Major Stakeholders Employees, suppliers Employees, suppliers, communities Backgrounds of Issues The recently occurring large-scale industrial accidents are the factors impeding We need to fulfill our social responsibilities by resolving conflicts through corporate growth, and employees’ safety and health issues derived are to prevent communication with local communities and implementing community-based such accidents. social contribution activities. Strategic Response Directions We prevent accidents by identifying risk factors for each process in advance and We strategically implement social contribution activities that suit industrial establishing countermeasures and improvements through strengthening the characteristics so that all stakeholders including local communities can achieve EHS management. sustainable growth. Current Level We enhance the awareness on EHS and strengthen execution by We implement social contribution activities to enhance the future competitiveness holding the EHS forum and conduct safety and health programs. of local communities based on Doosan E&C’s core competencies led by the CSR team. Plans and Goals • Improving safety and health programs • Community benefit programs • Collecting stakeholders’ opinions about safety and health programs • Community value creation program • Helping suppliers establish and practice safety and health policy • Community reliance improvement program Reporting p.34~36 p.39~40 GRI Index Occupational health and safety Local communities 27 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Developing People Reliable Operating Contents Eco-friendly Design is the First Step of Environmental Management Shared Growth with Partners Reliable Operating Core Issue • Eco-friendly construction and design 10 • Systematic management of supply chain CSR 11 Major Stakeholders Customers, local communities, government, academia Suppliers Backgrounds of Issues Eco-friendly construction has become very important due to the increased social We strive to prevent negative impacts by taking into consideration potential results interests on eco-friendly issues. of other organizations because it might affect other organizations during the Appendix process of value chain activities, including purchasing and procurement. Strategic Response Directions We are developing and applying optimal design plans to suit each purpose, In order to promote and internalize CSR within the supply chain based on the including energy conservation, resource efficiency and eco-friendly residential ‘virtuous cycle partnership’, we promote CSR policies and implementation plans environment. and actively encourage the participation of suppliers. Current Level We are responding to regulations through accurate diagnosis and analysis of GHG We operate CP for suppliers led by the Shared Growth Promotion Team, emissions and establishing and operating energy efficiency management system while also striving to maintain and expand through post monitoring. for work sites. Plans and Goals • Adding policies and regulations related to climate change to EHS strategy • Setting policies for shared growth with suppliers • Establishing a system to manage the information on GHG emissions • Monitoring shared growth programs and feedback Reporting p.45 p.49~51 GRI Index Products and services, emissions Partnership Contents Strengthening Product and Service Responsibility Ethical Management Core Issue • Management activities that reflect customers’ opinions 9 • Complying with the Code of Ethics 1 • Analyzing corruptive risk factors for work sites 2 Major Stakeholders Customers Government and academia Backgrounds of Issues In order to satisfy various demands from customers, we are leading in the The social demands for corporate transparency and ethical management have global market by providing the best products and services and securing quality increased. competitiveness with differentiated standards. Strategic Response Directions In order to realize the quality of world-class standards, we have established the We strive to enhance the company’s competitiveness by establishing the quality management system to provide products and services that are superior to normative standards for management activities based on the society’s ethical those of our competitors. value and applying them to the overall impacts on the company. Current Level We established and operated the quality management system applied with the We are raising the awareness on ethics by implementing enterprise-wide ethical international quality standard of ISO 9001 to implement quality innovation activities and education to respond to risk factors in advance by establishing the ethical conduct pre and post management to strengthen customer satisfaction and quality. management infrastructure. Plans and Goals • Developing ‘Products with High Market Competitiveness Based on Engineering’ • Establishing a fair and transparent corporate culture through ethical management through quality control activities Reporting p.52~56 p.57 GRI Index Product and service labeling Compliance 2 28 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Developing People 29 Responsible Engagement Developing People Reliable Operating System orientation CSR Stakeholder Materiality People and (eco-friendly, shared performance engagement test Society growth, and product data responsibility) ‘Talent’ ‘People’‘Sharing’ ‘Growth’ Developing People 1. Talent Development 2. Safe Work Environment 3. Human Rights G4 Aspect : Training and Education G4 Aspect : Occupational Health and Safety G4 Aspect : E‌ mployment, Diversity and Equal Opportunity • R ecruiting Talents, the First Step of Doosan’s Competitiveness • Respecting People through Safety and Health • Efforts to Guarantee Labor Rights • System to Help New Employees Adapt to Organization Management • Performances of Activities that Respect Human Rights • Doosan E&C’s Unique HR Development System • Efforts to Ensure Safety and Health • Fair Evaluation and Compensation 4. Sharing Activities 5. Retirement and New Beginning G4 Aspect : Local Communities G4 Aspect : Training and Education • Growing Together with Local Communities • New Beginning and Consistent Progress • Doosan E&C’s Flagship Social Contribution Activities • Promoting Participation in Social Contribution Activities 30 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Talent Development G4 Aspect : Training and Education HR Development that Doosan E&C Pursues The growth engine that will lead the future of Doosan is ‘People’. Also, investments on talents will enhance the company’s sustainable growth and value competitiveness. Doosan has a passion for cultivating people. Above all, it is important to develop talented staff who realize our goal of ‘Proud Global Doosan’ and strengthen their competencies. 2G Strategies of Doosan Group Growing Business through Growing People Growth of Growth of 2G Strategies People Business Doosan E&C’s HRD Strategies and System Solutions Doosan E&C is operating largely two types of HR development systems. Infra Solutions Provider to Create a Better World One is Doosan Leadership College, which is a training program in stages for developing global leaders embedded with the Doosan Way and imReinforcing Internal HR Development System through proving their own individual competencies. Also, another one is Doosan the Expansion of Education Leadership College Professional College, which is a job-oriented training program that aims Professional College to cultivate professionals for each field by strengthening fundamental Leadership College Nurturing talents who will take the competitiveness and conducting innovations through the improvement Nurturing global leaders armed lead in enhancing fundamental with the Doosan Way of actual abilities. competitiveness and innovation Based on the Doosan Credo of ‘HR Development is the Priority of All InReinforcing the Strengthening Activating learning vestments and Everyone’s Obligations’, Doosan E&C is striving to develop connectivity with CDP mentoring groups ‘Proud Global Doosan’. HR Development System Doosan Leadership College Doosan Professional College Orientation Anchor Buildup Faculty Global Core Talent Expert Program Program Program Program Program Program Program Scouted Executive Exec. Executive Engineer Development System STEPS Exec. Project Management / Trade Receivable Management Course Insight Program New Entry-level Technology Course Executives Course Basic Job Course Doosan Expatriate Course Job Advance Course Team Leader Site Manager Cultivation Course Overseas Construction Expert Cultivation Course Team Turnkey Sales Course Insight Program Doosan Way On-line Leader New Team Leader 'D-Camp' MBA Course by Course Construction Equipment R&D / Engineering Academy Items for New Global Intensive Course Career Course STEPS DCM Capability Faculty Academy Official Capacity / Civil Service Inexperience Course Sales Inexperience Course Manager Construction / Civil Engineering Process Course (6 Items) Construction / Civil Engineering Facility Course Facilitation CFO Academy EHS Academy Onsite Inexperience HR Academy Team Coaching Jump-up Course for Promoted Personnel Construction Machinery Course Program Construction Electricity Course Manager Course New Technical Job Course Manager CPE Job Course HRSG Job Course Course Team Entry-level STEPS Jr. Technology Entry-level Member Course Course 31 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement HR Development, the First Step of Doosan’s Program for Organizational Adaptation of Competitiveness Newly Hired Employees Developing Development of outstanding talent is the first step of becoming a We are running programs for newly hired employees to quickly People member of Proud Global Doosan. We establish the foundation for adapt to the organization and help them with building experience. becoming a global Doosan by hiring our employees based on inWe aim to provide a method of developing both senior and junior dividual competencies and growth potential and employing local employees so that the newly hired employees’ understanding of persons who are customized to global locations. their duties and their adaptation to the organization are improved Reliable through exchanges with senior employees, while senior employOperating ees also learn about the role of being future leaders by caring for Open Recruitment their junior employees and taking the lead. In order to ensure objective and fair employment without discrimination based on gender, academic ability, region, disability, etc., we are operatAppendix ing Doosan’s unique employment policy. It applies the advanced emProgram to Help New Employees Adapt to the ployment tool for hiring talent which suits the traits of Doosan People, Organization including document screening, the Doosan Bio-data Survey, the DCAT In order to help newly hired employees become a member of Proud (Doosan Comprehensive Aptitude Test), the SI (Structured Interview) Doosan and quickly adapt to organization, we hold a company track for measuring inborn capabilities, and the DISE (Doosan Integrated meet and a pre-mentoring program. After joining the company and beSimulation Exercise) interview for evaluating the analytical mindset and ing assigned to a team at the end of orientation and OJT education, we problem solving abilities. In particular, we are actively developing outprovide mentoring and challenge programs. Mentoring is conducted standing talent by having the top management participate in the final through diverse activities to help the quick adaptation and development interview process for applicants. of mentees in the new environment at the company. Challenge program identifies areas that need improvement at work and develop the ability Hiring Workers on Flexible Time Schedule to solve problems together with the mentor, which provides the opporWe provide flexible time schedule without discrimination in work contunity to learn from the mentor through close cooperation. ditions while also enabling adjustment of working hours. It gives job opportunities to women who have career interruptions due to childcare Program to Help Experience Employees Adapt to the by making working at home possible to achieve work-life balance and Organization working and learning at the same time is possible for talented people When experienced employees join the company, we conduct a mentorwho wish to earn and study at the same time. ing program for them and provide a guide book for newly hired employees, so that they can quickly adapt in a short period of time. In case Overseas Recruiting of experienced employees, we encourage organizational adaptation by In order to acquire outstanding global talents, we have an employment sharing corporate systems and work methods. In order to improve the policy that actively utilizes regional networks. We recruit outstanding effect of the program, we also do a match between a new employee and persons through an employment process for local persons that focuses a senior employee who has worked longer on the job in the team, to on acquiring talents with professionalism and global sense. We first hire pass on business know-how. applicants who live near the work site, while also attract outstanding talent in advance through internship and scholarships. Also, in the case of production workers as well as talent verified through the professor recommendation system, we acquire outstanding talent through signing MOU with local universities. Program to Help Experience Employees Adapt to Organization 32 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Talent Development G4 Aspect : Training and Education Contents of Activities Classification Note Doosan E&C’s Unique HR Development System in 2014 In order to develop talented staff who will lead the future of the 29.2% of learning Achieving 86.3% (the first credits acquired credits company and society, we need to provide more opportunities to Learning Credit System year of introduction) through self-directed enhance individual competencies and technologies. Doosan E&C learning will establish the foundation for employees to grow on their own. D-tube Course Operating 53 courses Developing and operating Participation by Staff Development Course 56 courses 958 persons Introduction of Major Training Programs Learning Credit The learning credit system is for systematically developing Doosan PeoSite Manager Cultivation Course ple with leadership and professionalism. It establishes individual learnThis course was designed to generate capable site managers who are ing plans for employees and encouraging them to develop themselves equipped with general management knowledge, leadership, coaching according to the plans, by giving learning credits. It is Doosan Group’s ability and the understanding of sites, which consists of a structure of unique system that recognizes diverse forms of learning methods by givvirtuous cycle for site managers, including cultivation, appointment, ing learning credits, such as mentoring, reading books and MOOC (oncompetency enhancement and promotion. The total training period is line public classes), making it different from the standardized learning four months and the course includes cost management, financial manactivities in the rapidly changing environment and allowing employees agement, external affairs management and organizational management. to develop themselves while working at the same time. Job Training by Internal Experts D-tube Course Experts in each job provide employees with job-oriented training coursD-tube course is Doosan E&C’s own on-line training program that utilizes es specialized for each business in different stages from new employees internal lecturers to receive job training for each field through videos. to managers. The program is made up of three courses – entry level Unlike the existing on-line training programs, we utilize internal experts course, basic course and advanced course. We have internal lecturers to because they can offer examples and training contents that are specialpass on their professional skills and know-how to their junior employees. ized to Doosan E&C to be applied directly at the working level. It is characterized by providing on-line training to field workers who are located D-camp all across the nation to ensure high accessibility. The program consists of D-camp, the in-house MBA course of Doosan E&C, aims to develop leadcourses on internal technologies and know-how, including basic techers to propel changes and innovations with a strategic management nologies and actual construction examples. mind and business skills. The program is for a period of six months that includes courses on construction management and general management. Staff Development Course The staff development course acts as a mechanism for promoting Cultivating Local Employees in Overseas Business learning activities through the process of ‘individual learning → team Technical Education Center learning → organizational learning’, which is a form of learning where The Technical Education Center offers largely two types of training employees can freely exchange the information and technologies that courses to enhance job capability and leadership. The training programs they have acquired, with other members. Since there is no restriction on for strengthening job capability include 9 hands-on job training learning methods and contents, it is possible to offer learning in diverse sessions, including courses on welding and floor plan analysis. The fields that include leadership and professional job duties. Also, it conleadership training is designed to develop management supervisors tributes to improving the competencies of employees by accumulating and middle managers, including courses on strategy understanding, internal technology knowledge and increasing the scope of application, problem solving, roles and responsibilities of leaders, time management, by systematically reorganizing training programs that used to be conteamwork, presentation skills and computer use. ducted by different teams. 33 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Training of New Local Employees Evaluation Method We provide training programs that are run by the in-house technical There are largely two types of evaluation methods, including capabileducation center, aimed at helping with new local employees to quickly ity evaluation and performance evaluation. The capability evaluation Developing People adapt and improve their job capabilities. We are striving to ensure evaluates on the inherent capabilities owned by employees individually, the new local employees quickly adapt through seven courses on which evaluates individual level of capabilities through the competency basic design, understanding of businesses and products, safety, the model that reflects the desired ideal employee embedded with the environment and health. Doosan Way called the DCM (Doosan Competency Model). The performance evaluation evaluates the level of achievements made based on Reliable Developing Managers and Engineers the individual financial and strategic MOB (Management by Objectives) Operating A total of about 30 programs in four areas of basic training, technical goals established at the beginning of the year, allowing the company to education, leadership and language are operated regularly to develop decide on the individual level of performance and contribution made to high-caliber managers and engineers, contributing to enhancing the the company and organization. Appendix competencies of local employees. Evaluation Target and Period Training at the Head Office (Korea) for Local Employees In order to ensure an objective evaluation of capabilities and perforIn order to pass on the know-how on production and quality assurance mances, we evaluate our employees who have worked for more than at the head office, we select outstanding local employees (outstanding three months. We conduct the evaluation through a period of four division for divisional activities) and send them for group training in months from December of every year until March of the following year, Korea. The training at the head office in Korea is not only for engineers, ensuring sufficient discussions are made between the evaluator and the but employees from all business areas, including management, finance, persons who are subject to the evaluation during the evaluation period. IT and production support, which contributes to enhancing technical and management capabilities and boosting their morale. Employee Evaluation Process • Carrying out self-evaluation • Formulating self-development plans Self•‌Preparing the start-up meeting Two-way discussion between evaluator evaluation and evaluation subjects •‌Listening to opinions on self-evaluation •‌Discussing about the direction of selfStart-up development plans Meeting Educating Local Employees in Overseas Business •‌Conducting evaluation by superiors Evaluation •‌Reviewing the self-development plans by superiors Fair Evaluation and Compensation for Talent Management • ‌Reviewing the appropriateness of the HR Review evaluation Doosan E&C makes fair and reasonable evaluation to motivate employees to be more productive for growth. We provide systematic evaluation and development by allowing all employees to devel• Adjusting evaluators’ criteria Calibration •‌Finalizing the evaluation results op their capabilities and carry out development activities, so that Hold discussions between high performers and evaluators they can develop into the next-generation leaders that endorse the Doosan Way. Starting from 2014, we are also running the fact• Giving feedback on evaluation results Feedback gathering system that frequently acquires evidences for evalua•‌Discussion about the implementation plans of development activities Feedback Meeting tion to enhance the fairness of evaluation. 34 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Safe Work Environment G4 Aspect : Occupational Health and Safety Safe Work Environment that Doosan E&C Pursues Large and small industrial accidents that occur frequently are the impeding factors for sustainable growth. Doosan E&C recognizes that the employees’ individual safety and health are the basis for the company’s stable growth and development to establish and implement a systematic management plan. Organizations Responsible for Safety and Health Respecting People through Safety and Health Doosan E&C runs the Industrial Safety and Health Committee and the InManagement dustrial Safety and Health Councils for Suppliers as well as the EHS Team. These organizations contribute to the improvement of safety and health The creation of value through employees’ ability requires a proper of employees. work environment. This is because employees can focus on their work only when they feel safe and health at their worksites. This Industrial Safety and Health Committee is prerequisite not only for Doosan’s value creation activities, but The Industrial Safety and Health Committee meeting is held at each for the happiness of the employees and their families and society worksite every quarter with the management, chairman, safety managas a whole. ers and health managers in attendance. It is operated for each worksite to discuss about all safety and health training session at sites and plants and ways to prevent potential risk factors. Through the discussion made Doosan E&C’s Safety and Health Management Policies at the committee meetings, various agendas are proposed regarding Doosan E&C’s safety and health management is rooted in the achievement improving on-site ventilation system, enhancing the standards on qualof advanced EHS culture based on human oriented management, which ity and supply of work clothes, and introducing non-smoking and diet coincides exactly with the management philosophy of Doosan Group. All programs, which are reflected in management activities. employees are entitled to work at safe and constructive worksites and the company also place safety-first management on a priority basis. Industrial Safety and Health Council for Suppliers Doosan E&C’s EHS Implementation Plan The Industrial Safety and Health Councils for Suppliers shares safety and health issues with suppliers and gathers their complaints and suggesPolicy : • Implementing human oriented management • Establishing an advanced EHS culture Goal : • Zero serious disasters • Zero environmental accidents tions related to safety and health. The council also identifies hardships in practicing safety and health rules and discusses concrete countermeaReinforcing Top Management Involvement sures. We raise the workers’ awareness about safety and health activities •‌Regular inspection of worksites supervised by the CEO and BG heads Strengthening •‌Held the Suppliers’ EHS forum and the EHS Committee supervised by on the basis of matters discussed at the councils. Management the CEO Applying Immediately Dismissed and Two Strike out System • Immediately ‌ dismissed : Suppliers with the occurrence of serious disasters and environmental accidents Implementing a Strong EHS Policy •‌Two strike out system : Suppliers with two cases of work suspensions or two cases of environmental fines and penalties per year Doosan E&C’s Efforts Made to Implement Safety and Operating a Certification System for EHS Management Knowledge Health Management Policies •‌Operating a system that grants qualifications for EHS management supervisors Securing Essential Running a Safety Innovation School for All Employees As emphasized in the Doosan Credo, safety and health manageCompetency • Entry into the Innovation School for all classes ment is our belief and our priority value. Doosan E&C aims to creCompliance of Health at Worksites ate a safe working environment by strengthening execution and •‌Establishing and internalizing R&R for health management Reinforcing Preventive Management for Employees’ Cardiovascular enhancing employees’ awareness on EHS management through Diseases Strengthening •‌Conducting evaluations on the risks of cardiovascular diseases during the motto of internalizing an advanced EHS culture based on huHealth Care health checkups man-oriented management. Establishing a Green Environmental Management System •C  omplying with laws and regulations on CO2 emissions, reduction of energy use and chemical control Complying with Compliance and Monitoring of Environmental Laws and Regulations Environmental Laws •‌Conducting preventive activities and implementing environmental and Regulations assessment and monitoring randomly 35 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement EHS Forum Detailed Training Courses 2014 2015 (Plan) Doosan E&C held a forum to promote the EHS upgrade plan and raise the Developing awareness on safety, while also strengthening the EHS competencies of Management Course 27 persons People suppliers. We promoted the EHS implementation plan to Doosan E&C’s exOn-site Supervisor Course 59 persons 61 persons ecutives, team leaders of relevant divisions and 45 outstanding suppliers, Management Supervisor Senior Course 180 persons 222 persons conducted EHS accident investigations, provided lectures on leadership, Management Supervisor Junior Course 152 persons and shared best practices with suppliers. In the future, we plan to hold it regularly twice every year and apply major feedback to our job duties. Safety Manager Course 78 persons 84 persons Reliable Operating Suppliers’ Employee Course 150 persons EHS Screen Saver Doosan E&C promoted the EHS key implementation considerations, the Appendix EHS safety campaign and the EHS environmental campaign, and it also uploaded the cause of accident, progress and reoccurrence preventive measures. In 2014, we achieved many results, including conducting the EHS visual management that emphasizes the importance of EHS management to the management, implementing the Doosan Way’s Credo, EHS Forum securing the EHS fundamental competitiveness, achieving the upgrading and scientific allocation of duties, and saving panel production costs at worksites through the EHS implementation plan (continuous reducSafety Innovation School As part of the efforts to upgrade the EHS management, Doosan E&C tion of more than KRW 30 million per year). is operating the Safety Innovation School. It aims to strengthen training and execution in accordance with the post review result of KOSHA Vibrant and Healthy Afternoon at Doosan 18001, while also reinforcing the ability to derive risks related to the EHS In order to manage the mental and physical health of employees, Dooessential competencies of management supervisors and unsafe works in san E&C is operating a stretching exercise program for preventing musadvance. In 2015, we plan to run the Safety Innovation School with the cular skeletal diseases. We distributed well-being stretching equipment goal of expanding the system for strengthening execution and raising and educational videos to enable employees to do stretching exercises the enterprise-wide EHS mind and enhancing the understanding on opwith vibrant music before starting the afternoon work. Through various erating and implementing the EHS management system. EHS activities, we not only manage employees’ health, but also raising employees’ EHS awareness by increasing work efficiency and changing to a safety-oriented mindset. Safety Innovation School 36 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Safe Work Environment G4 Aspect : Occupational Health and Safety Implementing First Aid Training Number of Classification Persons Trained Training Institute In order to enhance employees’ response to emergency due to the inEmployees creased cases of sudden deaths, such as heart attacks, Doosan E&C is Korea Lifesaving Head Office in Seoul 514 450 conducting First Aid training. The training is held by the EHS team in coAssociation ordination with a professional training institute like the Korea Lifesaving Construction Site 687 687 Fire Station and others Association, to learn about CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation), how to CPE Business Division 502 502 Changwon Fire Station use defibrillator and respiratory obstruction. We expanded the training to be held not only at the Head Office in Seoul, the Changwon worksite HRSG Business Division 270 270 Changwon Fire Station and other sites across the nation, but also for our suppliers. Rexcon BU 100 100 Fire Station and others Total 2,073 2,009 Conducting Influenza Vaccination Since influenza is a very contagious disease, Doosan E&C is conducting influenza vaccination programs during the in-between seasons every year to prevent being infected with influenza viruses. We provide the vaccination facility for our employees and their families, to minimize any manpower losses by preventing serious complications caused by influenza. First Aid Training Goals and Performances in Safe Work Environment Aspect Goals Midto long-term Tasks 2014 Results 2015 Plans 2016 Plans Advancing EHS programs • Analyzing status of Safety and Health program operation with in EHS strategies Reviewing the Improving Strengthening EHS Giving feedback on effectiveness of Safety and Operating EHS programs competencies by improved safety and EHS programs and Health program • Safety and Health training for each class and feedback running the Safety health programs establishing a new operations • Cultivating and arranging Safety and Health Managers Innovation School program plan • Setting and practicing Occupational Disease Management processes Collecting Collecting stakeholders’ opinions about Safety and Health Reviewing and policies and programs Receiving feedbacks Considering stakeholders’ applying the • Collecting suppliers’ opinions (Meeting and Survey) and sharing opinions whether to reflect Safe Work opinions about effectiveness of the about EHS through stakeholders’ Environment safety and Collecting internal and external stakeholders’ opinions progress made by the EHS forum opinions health program • Giving feedback and reflecting it in business plans gathering opinions Diagnosing Safety and Health at Suppliers sites • Analyzing implementation of Safety and Health policies Reviewing the effectiveness Helping Reviewing support programs for suppliers Implementing Safety of Safety and partners make • Developing support programs (Technology, System, Training) Conducting the first and Health programs Health programs and improve Implementing support programs for suppliers aid training for suppliers and for suppliers Safety and • Supporting certification on suppliers’ Safety and Health giving feedback and conducting Health policies Management System improvement • Supporting training programs and give feedback measures 37 Human Rights G4 Aspect : Employment, Diversity and Equal Opportunity Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Respect for Human Rights that Doosan E&C Pursues Doosan E&C maintains stable and sound labor-management relations by ensuring employees’ basic labor rights and establishing a smooth communication process. Also, we strive to respect the diversity of our employees by implementing various support systems for female and foreign workers and production workers who are on a Developing People continuous increase. Labor-Management Council The Labor-Management Council is held quarterly to discuss manageReliable Efforts to Guarantee Labor Rights ment system regarding employee grievances, safety and health, and Operating Guaranteeing Labor Rights is a prerequisite for employees to be work environment. The rights of employees are stipulated in the Laborable to display their competency and manage their private lives. Management Council regulations in order to build a cooperative relaIn order to guarantee the basic labor rights of our employees, we tionship between Labor and Management. promote various policy reform activities in the systematic, policymaking, and cultural aspects. Field Manager Council Appendix Doosan E&C operates the Field Manager Council, which is held once a month and participated by field managers that oversee the entire production site. The Council discusses opinions on ways to improve irGuaranteeing Union Activities rational work systems, safety facilities, production facilities, and welfare Our collective bargaining agreement entails protection of union activifacilities. Site workers can suggest ideas for improvements and monitor ties, principles of collective bargaining, and information on strikes. Stiputhe results to upgrade work environments centered on sites and worklated clauses describe free union activities for the labor rights of union ers. members. Labor-Management Meeting Respect for human rights and related agendas are regularly discussed during the labor-management meeting. The meeting deals with welfare benefits and improvement of working conditions, and are used as a flexible discussion and negotiation channel between Labor and Management. Field Manager Council Doosan E&C’s Goals for Respecting Human Rights Aspect Goals Midto long-term Tasks 2014 Results 2015 Plans 2016 Plans Providing the present status and countermeaAnalyzing the Preventing the sures on the infringement of human rights at present status of Operating a system occurrence of human worksites the infringement Establishing for continuously rights infringement in • Checking on the present status of human rights Adjusting working of human rights a System for managing human advance by establishing risks and deriving related issues hours and providing at worksites and Managing rights risks and a culture and • Establishing a guideline and coming up with flexible working hours establishing and Human Rights gathering employees’ management program improvement plans for working moms implementing Risks opinions on for respecting human countermeasures after implementation plans rights checking on specific examples 38 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Human Rights G4 Aspect : Employment, Diversity and Equal Opportunity Classification Implementation Activities by Stage Performance of Activities for Respecting Human Rights Identifying the present status of female workers with children and Doosan E&C is conducting various activities to establish a worklistening to their opinions on improvement ing environment and create a corporate culture of respecting huIdentifying the needs for adjusting working hours May man rights across the company. By managing absenteeism and (Identifying the expected persons who will use it) tardiness flexibly to suit the circumstances and characteristics of Notifying the changed working hours to the applicants and employees, we are pursuing work-life balance, while aiming to their team leaders and supervisors achieve the sustainable growth of the organization and individuals by operating a talent development system and various communication channels. Establishing Talent Development System and Training for Production Workers Doosan E&C established a system for strengthening job competencies and improving the corporate culture from a simplified one into a deChanging Head Office’s Working Hours tailed process of developing production workers. In order to improve Doosan E&C changed the Head Office’s working hours because emthe corporate culture and strengthen competencies, we established the ployees had difficulty in finding time for self-development during the 2-track (technical experts (Meister), on-site leaders) and supported varimorning hours, such as learning a new language and exercising, aiming ous development systems. Starting from 2015, we will realize the stabito achieve work-life balance by delaying the morning arrival time to lization of the new system by continuously implementing the developprovide leisure time. In the future, we plan to receive additional opinions ment channels and related systems. to continuously conduct improvement activities for morning working hours. Development Systems for Production Workers Classification Implementation Activities by Stage Holding an explanatory session for the talent development of production workers and distributing the guide book February Conducting surveys on working hours Establishing the support system for acquiring certificates by production workers Reviewing the appropriateness, expected problems and March~April changes related to working hours Establishing the Meister development system Receiving the consent form to change the employment rule Establishing the support system for acquiring Bachelor’s degrees at universities in accordance to the change May Establishing and implementing the dual mentoring system Notifying and implementing the changed working hours Conducting an advanced job training for production workers Providing Flexible Working Hours for Working Moms Since employees working at plants and construction sites have to arrive Operating Part Leader Council for Production Workers at an earlier time than at Head Office due to business characteristics, it Doosan E&C is operating the Part Leader Council for production workers is difficult for them to take their young children to school. Therefore, we to encourage them to play a leading role in corporate culture and conare providing flexible working hours for working moms. In the future, we tribute to achieving the production goals through the stabilization and plan to expand working conditions to pursue work-life balance by makadvancement of worksites. The Council Meeting is held on a monthly ing additional adjustment of working hours when an employee needs basis for each team and part to develop part leaders and establish a an adjustment. communication channel between the company and field workers. Also, we will implement activities to identify and improve losses that occur at the production sites. 39 Sharing Activities G4 Aspect : Local Communities Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Sharing Activities that Doosan E&C Pursues In order to grow into a sustainable company, it is necessary to fulfill the social responsibilities through close communication and ties with the society. Doosan E&C is contributing to the development of local communities by conducting social contribution activities under the mission to achieve ‘Enhancing Future Competitiveness of Communities and Developing People Corporate Value through Strategic Social Contribution Activities’. Growing Together with Local Communities Doosan E&C’s Social Contribution Activities Reliable Operating Doosan E&C develops and implements social contribution proDoosan E&C is implementing social contribution activities that grams which are necessary for local communities and reflect our can help enhance the future competitiveness of local communities business features in order to grow together with all stakeholders. based on core competencies. To achieve this, we are expanding Based on relationships with local communities, we will carry out cooperative relationships with various regional institutions and Appendix systematic and professional social contribution activities beyond groups. mere supports for the underprivileged and sharing. Doosan Day of Community Service The Doosan Day of Community Service is a day of volunteer works for Social Contribution Strategy Doosan People to fulfill corporate social responsibilities, which is one of Doosan Credo’s core values. In order to reflect the business characVision 2020, Global CSR Leading Company* teristics of developing the natural environment and the group’s social contribution mission of ‘enhancing the future competitiveness of communities’, Doosan E&C is conducting activities to protect the natural Mission Enhancing Future Competitiveness of Communities and environment, building love houses, and doing volunteer works for local Corporate Value through Strategic Social Contribution Activities communities mainly by the Head Office in Seoul, the Changwon worksite and other sites across the nation. In 2014, we implemented sharing Promotion Community Link with Link with activities that are needed by local communities with 764 employees that Principles -centered Businesses Employees participated (41% of participation rate). Enabler Social contribution framework / Employees’ commitment *Aligning with CSR strategy framework Social Contribution Framework Doosan E&C systematically operates the Volunteer Service Corps companywide. The CSR team under the CEO is responsible for overall contribution activities. As for each business group, activities are performed centered on BG Planning Team. The volunteer service corps was launched in 2011 and more than 93% of employees are participating in social contribution activities as of 2014. Facility Renovation of Hoa Phuong Orphanage in Vietnam 40 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Sharing Activities G4 Aspect : Local Communities Building Love House Volunteer Services by Areas Doosan E&C provides homeless families who are living in poor resiThe three BGs, including the Infrastructure BG, the Building & Housing dential environments with houses, making the most of the ability and BG, and the Plant Equipment BG, implemented volunteer services by features of the construction business. ‘Doowoohe,’ an association of our area around their worksites. In particular, the CPE Business Division and employees and our suppliers, donates their professional skills in building the HRSG Business Division in the Plant Equipment BG continuously houses. expanded their activities to grow with local communities, by conducting regular volunteer services for marginalized children, youngsters, and senior citizens in Changwon. Giving Hope to Pediatric Cancer Patients Doosan E&C is proactive in giving hope to pediatric cancer patients. Major activities include removing prejudice against pediatric cancer, Promoting Participation in Social Contribution promoting blood donation campaigns, delivering blood donor cards, supporting medical expenses of low income patients, and operating psyActivities chological therapy programs to increase their self-esteem and sociality. In order to raise the awareness on social contribution and promote employees’ participation, we established an on-line volunteer sysDream Sharing tem to conduct joint volunteer services for each BG and part and The Dream Sharing is a mentoring program to help youngsters think award outstanding volunteers. about their dreams and future in order to map out their career path. In 2014, we contributed in developing the next-generation engineers by providing career mentoring by engineers in the business. Goals and Performances in Sharing Activities Aspect Goals Midto long-term Tasks 2014 Results 2015 Plans 2016 Plans Devising and implementing community service programs • Analyzing results of Community Service Programs operations Identifying Community • Reviewing new and supplementary programs to support the Conducting and improvements and Service underprivileged class monitoring new social supplements of social Programs • Establishing activity schemes and carrying out programs contribution programs contribution programs • Monitoring the result of program progress and reflecting on the feedback result Devising and implementing community income creation programs • Analyzing results of community income and value creation activities Community Studying value • Reviewing programs (such as local purchase) for indirect value Income creation programs Devising value Sharing creation Creation suitable for each creation programs Activities • Figuring out demands from each construction site and Programs community manufacturing plant • Operating by reflecting the budget of the responsible division • Monitoring the result of program progress and reflecting on the feedback result Devising and implementing community self-reliance programs • Surveying communities’ efforts to wean themselves off reliance Community on firms Benchmarking CSR Reliance • Devising programs to reduce reliance on firms’ support Reviewing new activities of advanced Improvement • Operating programs and monitoring local communities at the programs companies Programs same time • Monitoring the result of program progress and reflecting on the feedback result 41 Retirement and New Beginning G4 Aspect : Training and Education Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Retirement Planning Program that Doosan E&C Pursues Korea is becoming an aging society and people are paying more attention to their lives after retirement. Thus, Doosan E&C has designed policies to ensure that the retirees can live in financial, psychological and social stability. These policies allow employees to focus on their jobs to enhance productivity and also keep them loyal Developing People to the company even after retirement. Retirement Pension New Beginning and Consistent Progress To ensure a more stable life after retirement, Doosan E&C runs the RetireReliable ment Pension Program since the end of 2012. As of the end of 2014, 1,692 Operating Doosan E&C ensures stable life after retirement by giving financial persons have joined defined benefit plan and the pension fund amounts support to employees through the retirement pension program, to about KRW 25.7 billion. Also, we are operating the program to ensure while also planning to provide a system where employees can get that employees to whom the salary peak system is applied, because of consulting on reemployment or start-ups through programs that extending the retirement age, do not suffer losses on their retirement Appendix support changing jobs when they reach the retirement age. allowances by changing from the existing defined benefit plan to the defined contribution plan. Deferred Retirement Doosan E&C extended the retirement age to 60 years at the end of 2014 Retirement Management a step ahead of the government policy, while also introducing the salary If an employee has to retire involuntarily due to the company’s manpeak system. Due to the extension of the retirement age, 12 employees agement conditions, Doosan E&C operates a life-support program for who were expected to retire in 2014 and 2015 are guaranteed their job employees, including providing mutual aid services for three years after position for the next five years. As a result, we were able to maintain abunretirement and supporting employees for three years by choosing childant experiences and technical skills of older employees, as well as estabdren’s school expenses or medical checkups. Also, we provide a program lish the foundation for increasing the employment of new employees. to applicants that supports the changing of career for one year. The program includes consulting and training on reemployment and startups and providing office supplies that lasts for a minimum of six months to a maximum of one year. As a result of the company’s continuous support for employees who started a second life after their retirement, about 70% of the applicants in 2014 succeeded in getting a new job or starting their own business. Goals and Performances in Developing Programs to Support Retirees Aspect Goals Midto long-term Tasks 2014 Results 2015 Plans 2016 Plans Early Introducing the deferred retirement system in early stage Extending the retirement introduction • Collecting employee opinions about deferred retirement age for employees of the deferred • Benchmarking advanced companies and analyzing recent (to 60 years) and retirement trends introducing and operating system • Devising and executing the system the Salary Peak System Retirement and New Introducing Introducing and implementing a system for supporting Implementing a Beginning and change of career Improving the system system for supporting implementing • Gathering the needs to support changing career for supporting change of career a system for • Planning and conducting programs change of career (reemployment of supporting and continuously 63 persons out of change of implementing it 90 persons) career 3 42 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Reliable Operating 43 Responsible Engagement Developing People Reliable Operating System orientation CSR Stakeholder Materiality People and (eco-friendly, shared performance engagement test Society growth, and product data responsibility) ‘Environment’ ‘Co-prosperity’ ‘Customer’ Reliable Operating 1. Environmental Management (Energy and GHG) 2. Shared Growth with Partners 3. Responsibility for Product and Customer Service G4 Aspect : Products and Services, Emissions, ‌ G4 Aspect : ‌Partnership G4 Aspect : Product and Service Labeling, Customer Privacy ‌ Effluents and Waste, Energy • People-Centered Shared Growth • Quality Management System • Environmental Management Framework • Operating the Compliance Program • Efforts for Better Quality of Our Infrastructure • Eco-Friendly Design • Other Activities for Shared Growth • Extremely Careful Protection of Personal Information • Eco-Friendly Materials • Preventing Environmental Pollution • Healthy Planet, Eco-friendly Building Management 4. Ethical Management G4 Aspect : ‌Compliance • Code of Conduct • Organization Responsible for Ethical Management • Establishing the Infrastructure for Ethical Management 44 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Environmental Management (Energy and GHG*) G4 Aspect : Products and Services, Effluents and Waste, Energy (* GHG : Green House Gas) Environmental Management that Doosan E&C Pursues The world is facing global environmental risks such as climate change and energy shortage. In order to proactively respond to these environmental issues, Doosan E&C established the environmental management system and operated the environmental management processes, and also developed eco-friendly designs and technologies. Environmental Management Policy Evaluation of Actual Conditions of Doosan E&C complies with environmental laws and regulations faithfully. Environmental Management at Worksites We are also proactive in establishing and implementing environmental Doosan E&C has a system that conducts environmental inspections on goals and action plans for each job to minimize environmental impacts. all worksites to strengthen on-site environmental management comMoreover, we have written environmental management system, fortified petencies and prevent environmental accidents, which ensures an ecoenvironmental capabilities through education, and performed activities friendly construction site that places the convenience of residents living to promote a better environment. around the worksites as its top priority, by conducting inspections and receiving feedbacks on the cause of environmental accidents for each area, including waste, air, noise and vibration, sewage and waste water, and underground water. Environmental Management Framework Job Training for Environmental Managers Doosan E&C provides job training for on-site environmental managers, Environmental Management Plan and trains high-level environmental experts by education and informaIn order to provide an overall environmental management of construction regarding the recent environmental management trends, best praction and manufacturing sites, Doosan E&C is running its own monitoring tices of other companies’ environmental management, and the enactsystem and environmental management system. ment and amendment of environmental laws. Initial Support to Set-up at Worksites Maintaining ISO 14001 Certification We have a system that ensures legitimate on-site management on the In order to establish the optimal environmental manageenvironment as a whole regarding the initial stage of construction sites, ment system, we are applying the following to all worksites : including on-site environmental management, overall and domestics Continuously reviewing and improving the effectiveness documents and environmental management system. and efficiency of systems. Enhancing the standard to ensure the consistency and appropriateness of the environmental management system. Establishing implementation plans including environmental aspects, recent laws and regulations, on-site environmental goals, and detailed goals, to reflect in the ISO 14001 system. 45 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Eco-friendly Project Management that Doosan E&C Pursues The interests on environmental issues around the globe increased regarding global warming and environmental pollution. In order to achieve environmental conservation, it is necessary to take preventive measures by systematically managing the environmental pollution factors and development processes. Doosan E&C Developing identified environmental pollution factors through the whole process of business management that covers engineering, purchase, conPeople struction and pre-management, and implements the suitable activities to prevent environmental pollution in each stage. Water-saving Design Reliable Doosan E&C has actively adopted water-saving sanitary fixtures, rainOperating Environmental Management and Eco-Friendly Design water recycling system and graywater facilities to buildings to save and Doosan E&C is applying the concept of eco-friendly construction recycle water. We installed the rainwater recycling system and graywater from the design stage. We are striving to realize eco-friendly arfacilities in the Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power’s office building and the chitecture by establishing and implementing eco-friendly design Seoul National University Hospital BTL project, and plan to expand them plans according to different purposes, including energy efficiency, in the future. Appendix water resource management and creating pleasant residential spaces. Design for Creating Eco-Friendly Outdoor Space In order to create a pleasant and healthy environment, we established a landscape plan that secures a green space ratio of 10% or more when Energy-saving Design building green area and an ecological space ratio of 30% or more for Doosan E&C is striving to reduce energy consumption by installing the apartments. Doosan E&C met the landscape standards notified by the standby power cutoff and all lights-out devices in apartments. By preMinistry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, such as securing the green venting the unnecessary consumption of standby power and using one space ratio and the ecological space ratio for Doosan We’ve in Ansan switch to turn off all of the lights out inside the house when going out, Choji (38%, 68%) and We’ve G-well City (37%, 19%), and also provided the we prevent excessive consumption of power. This has been reflected in plans to plant a variety of species and establish a resting space to set up a Doosan We’ve in Ansan Choji and Alphadom City. In the future, we plan landscape plan that suit the characteristics of the applicable site. to continuously apply it to other apartments. Goals and Performances in Eco-friendly Design Aspect Goals Midto long-term Tasks 2014 Results 2015 Plans 2016 Plans Building guidelines for GHG regulations Participated in • Gathering information about GHG regulations (policy and trend) the simultaneous Adopting • Establishing GHG policy, rule, and manual and reflecting them in investigation of climate Negotiating on company system GHG emissions at change Establishing GHG reduction goals and construction sites policy and management manual establishing reduction (supervised by the regulation to plans Ministry of Land, EHS strategy Eco-Friendly Infrastructure and Design Transport) Building GHG inventory and appointing responsible staff Verification of basic Acquiring the Building GHG • Appointing staff responsible for GHG inventory data by the third basic data on GHG information • Identifying energy use of items Establishing GHG party and submitting emissions and energy management • Building GHG inventory inventory system the report on GHG consumption for each system • Monitoring GHG inventory emissions and energy worksite consumptions 46 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Environmental Management (Energy and GHG) G4 Aspect : Products and Services, Effluents and Waste, Energy Analyzing Major Energy Uses of Changwon Plant 1 Special Case Doosan E&C acquired basic data to establish a system for managing the energy efficiency of worksites by collecting and analyzing major energy uses. We collected and analyzed the power and gas uses and production volumes at Changwon Plant 1 during the past seven years between 2007 and 2014, and came up with areas that need improvement through the connection analysis of uses and production volumes. In 2015, we analyzed the costs and intensity of using energy and established the infrastructure for specific lines, as well as analyzing investment costs and confirming the investment plans. In 2016, we plan to establish the management standards and systems for enhancing the efficiency of worksites. According to the analysis result of Changwon Plant 1, electricity requires the improvement of outdated facilities and standby / pick management since it is highly connected with production volumes, while it is necessary to improve facilities to eliminate wasteful use due to the gradual increase of using gases every year regardless of production volumes. Power and gas uses by year compared to Implication the production volumes of Changwon Plant 1 Electricity (㎾) Gas (㎥) A. S  howing the curved line between electricity consumption and production volume 3,000 23 million Inference : Electricity consumption is decided according to the production volume 2,500 22 million B Implementation levers 2,000 21 million Removing strategic losses through the overhaul of outdated facilities 1,500 Standby / pick management by measuring power use of major facilities A 2 million Implementing activities to manage idle power when patrolling at the worksite for 1,000 19 million SE Part 500 Gas (㎥) Electricity (㎾) 0 18 million B. S  howing the curved line between production volumes (weight) for gas consumption Inference : More gases used due to preheating and post heating for thick plates Item Volumes (Increases after 2011 are due to extension of large-sized heat treating furnace) 200 35,000 tons Implementation levers 30,000 Removing gas losses through the overhaul of outdated facilities 150 Implementing on-site improvement activities for facilities with heat losses from 25,000 preheating burners, etc. 100 20,000 50 15,000 Additional reviews Item Volumes 5,000 Operating the council on energy inefficiency supervised by the holding company’s ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 VM (ICT consulting and benchmarking of advanced companies) Exploring saving potential by measuring major energy uses Participating in simultaneous investigation of GHS emissions at construction sites and Developing the GHG inventory system (A comprehensive management system for GHG emissions and energy consumption) We plan to establish strategies for eco-friendly business and sustainability business management to respond to climate change regulations by conducting accurate analysis of basic data from the past and expected volumes of GHG emissions and energy consumption in accordance with future project outlooks. The construction business established the reduction goal of 7.1% compared to BAU by 2020, while Doosan E&C has been designated as a company under regulation by simultaneous investigation on GHG emissions in the construction industry. In this regard, we plan to establish an efficient management system by setting up an IT system to respond to GHG and energy management system (by government) and the information release (CSR report, CDP, etc.). Dates October 2014 ~ March 2015 April 2015 ~ May 2015 June 2015 ~ July 2015 Simultaneous investigation on GHG emissions Conducted the verification on emission report by the Designated as a company subject to in the construction industry third party emissions investigation • Supervised by : Korea Infrastructure Safety Corporation (An • Period : April 15~April 16, 2014 agency of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport) • Verified by : LRQA (Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance) Contents Imple• Object : 6 construction companies (Construction company • Purpose : Objective verification of data, final briefing session mentation ranking 9th~13th) of simultaneous investigation (May 8, 2015) Status • Investigation items : Buildings, sites, plant’s fuel (oil / electricity) and gas consumption Doosan Building, Bucheon Building, Doosan Leadership Institute, Hapcheon Training Center, all worksites (only sites which Doosan E&C is leading), Item Changwon Plant 1&2, HRSG Plant, Rexcon Plants (5) Common Requirements Site Buildings • Negotiating on reduction goals and establishing • Developing energy-saving construction methods and Improving energy efficiency of existing facilities implementation plans for reduction guidelines • Replacing outdated facilities with high efficiency facilities Future • Developing an IT system for GHG inventory • Using renewable energy for long-term offices at worksites Refrigeration, pump motors, boilers, etc. Goals • Reviewing the introduction of hybrid vehicles by renting cars • Developing standards for establishing temporary offices • Replacing lighting with LED lights • Implementing the energy reduction target system (insulation, etc.) • Installing power-saving sensors in common areas (reflecting BG evaluation) • Controlling lighting at offices (power supply), etc. • Establishing a roadmap for medium and long-term energy reduction 47 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Air Quality Management To deal with air, Doosan E&C installs tire washers around the gates of Use of Eco-Friendly Materials construction sites and manufacturing plants, and operates sprinkler Developing Doosan E&C try not to use materials that emit lots of pollutants vehicles in the process of storing, loading, and disassembling materials. We also use sprinkler, dust covers, movable dust collectors, and vacuum People by analyzing them in advance. We perform strict environmental impact assessment on newly introduced materials that have envisweeper trucks to control air quality. ronmental issues. Only the materials that meet the standards are used at our construction sites. Water Quality Management Reliable Doosan E&C is preventing water pollution and treating processed waste Operating water and domestic sewage below the emission standard by installing Eco-friendly Purchase waste water treatment facilities and individual sewage treatment faciliDoosan E&C is striving to reduce the use of energies and resources ties (sewage treatment facilities, septic tanks). We installed silt protecand minimizes wastes at all stages of construction by the purchase of tors and oil fences in order to protect the water ecosystem and streams Appendix eco-friendly materials. We purchased eco-friendly interior materials of around the worksite. We try to prevent the spread of water quality polluapartments. In particular, we encourage the use of quality materials with tion, while also installing temporary drain and settling basin to manage the HB (Healthy Building Material) mark, which is graded by the level of non-point pollution sources. Also, we established a strict management organic compound emissions. and audit system to monitor water quality pollutants by pre-monitoring and checklist. Request for new materials (Site, Design team) Noise and Vibration Management Doosan E&C is implementing measures to reduce noise and vibration Secure new materials that suit the characteristics of each worksite, as well as complying with the regulatory standards set by the Noise and Vibration Control Act. In Test and analyze new materials particular, our construction sites install noise barriers, mobile air domes and dust-proof and sound-proof mats to reduce noise and adjust working time for residents living around the construction site. Also, we developed the floor structure that meets the standards for preventing floor Check the amount of emission noise of apartments. Stop use Below standards Over the standards Air Quality Management Sharing with worksites and the design team In order to remove air quality pollutants that might arise during the tasks of painting, shot-blasting and acid treatment, we installed facilities for Applying to worksites and feedbacks preventing air pollution, including bag filter, activated carbon, and wet scrubber. Also, we are creating a pleasant air environment by conducting self-measurements regularly and replacing environmental consumables periodically. Pre-management of Environmental Pollution Doosan E&C has built onsite environmental management process, through which each site is systematically conducting pollution prevention activities such as air and water quality improvement. We will continue to invest in environmental facilities. 48 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Environmental Management (Energy and GHG) G4 Aspect : Products and Services, Effluents and Waste, Energy Eco-friendly Building Management that Doosan E&C Pursues Doosan E&C is conducting various R&D related to new and renewable energies to ensure eco-friendly construction. We are working towards developing buildings that take into consideration of economic profits and environmental values that enable operating eco-friendly buildings, while also continuously developing new and renewable energies by using pollution free eco-friendly energy sources, such as solar lights and geothermal heats. Healthy Planet, Eco-friendly Building Management Fuel cell System The fuel cell system is an eco-friendly power generation system without Doosan E&C takes a lead in developing eco-friendly technologies the emission of any pollutants by using a system that produces both to optimize energy and resource consumption and adopt new and electricity and heat at the same time to directly change energies made renewable energy not only in designing and constructing but also from the chemical reaction of hydrogen and oxygen into electric enerin maintaining completed buildings. gies. Doosan Group acquired a fuel cell company in 2014 to develop it into a new growth engine, and the major products include PAFC* 400 Development of New and Renewable Energy kW and PEMFC** 1 kW and 10 kW. We apply them to Seoul National University Hospital’s BTL project, the Chuncheon Training Center project and the Doosan R&D Center project, and we plan to continuously inGeothermal-Energy Using System crease the application in future projects. The geothermal-energy using system has the effect of reducing energy use by approximately 20 to 40% for heating and cooling by using a sys*PAFC : Phosphoric Acid Fuel Cell **PEMFC : Polymer Electrolyte Membrane Fuel Cell tem that uses ground heat with almost no change in temperatures all year round. We apply the geothermal system to Cheongdam-dong hotel, Chung-Ang University’s dormitory and Chung-Ang University’s 310 Solar Hot Water System building, with plans to continuously apply them in future projects. The solar hot water system absorbs solar radiation and changes it into thermal energy to be utilized for the building’s supply of hot water. The solar hot water system consists mainly of technologies for solar collecPhotovoltaic Power Generation tor, thermal storage, system control and engineering. Solar power is The photovoltaic power generation uses semiconductor to turn solar pollution-free and offers an unlimited clean energy source for new and light energy into electric power, which consists of solar battery module renewable energies. We have applied it to the Korea Hydro & Nuclear and power conversion device. We use the clean and pollution-free enPower’s office building project. ergy source of the sun to enable unmanned operation. It is applied at Chung-Ang University’s dormitory, and we plan to include in the design for apartments in Wolgye 4 area. Goals and Performances in Eco-friendly Building Management Aspect Goals Midto long-term Tasks 2014 Results 2015 Plans 2016 Plans Healthy Expanding Developing technologies to use new and Completed the Increasing the Planet, the use of renewable energy construction of three Monitoring sites where application of new and Eco-friendly new and • Surveying related technologies cases, including the new and renewable renewable energies at Building renewable • Monitoring project sites to be applied and geothermal system for energy is used worksites Management energy setting ways to apply the technologies Cheongdam-dong hotel 49 Shared Growth with Partners G4 Aspect : Partnership Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Shared Growth that Doosan E&C Pursues In order to grow into a leading global company, Doosan E&C needs to establish partnership with suppliers to achieve shared growth. Since it is inevitable to establish business relationships with many companies, strategies and competencies are required that can efficiently manage them and achieve a balanced development. In order to strengthen Developing its competitiveness, Doosan E&C established the CSR system with suppliers with the philosophy of achieving shared growth based on People virtuous relationships with suppliers. People-Centered Shared Growth Operating the Compliance Program Reliable The Compliance Program is operating to voluntarily conform to Operating With the mid to long-term perspective, we established the Shared Growth Team to enhance suppliers’ competencies and to put the Fair trade related regulations. It contributes to preventing violaphilosophy of shared growth into practice. Considering the feations of laws and regulations and creating stronger trust in our ture of the construction business with a high level of dependence ethical management. Appendix on suppliers, we provide them with financial aids, opportunities for capability and productivity enhancement, and efficient communication. Organization for the Compliance Program CEO Philosophy of Shared Growth Compliance Officer General CP Operation CP Sanction Committee • Chairman : Compliance Officer • Secretary : Chief of Working-level Team Doosan Virtuous Suppliers E&C Cycle Pre-Monitoring CP Working-level Team Post-Monitoring Shared Growth Team Legal Affairs Team Audit Team 080-510-0080 Compliance Program Operation in 2014 Doosan E&C’s corporate philosophy of shared growth is based on a ‘virtuous cycle partnership’. The virtuous cycle partnership means Classification Performances Doosan E&C and partners work as a unit to operate the distinctive CP Operation Policy Report on CP achievements to the BOD Collection of written pledges on the CP from technology, product quality, and management system. Through this all executives and staff partnership operation, Doosan E&C share its technological capabiliSupports by the Top Management Notice on the CEO’s message about CP ties and sophisticated business systems with suppliers to boost their Event to declare suppliers’ CP adoption growth because we believe their growth results in our growth. To Education Program Education on subcontract to site and plant employees Entrusted training on fair trade (internal transactions, etc.) materialize the virtuous cycle partnership, we promote detailed acTraining by external experts tion plans and reflect them in our business plans. The results also Cyber training on CP have effects on evaluation of the management. Shared growth with Pre-Monitoring Monitoring of violations of subcontract laws for suppliers Inspections on the compliance with the Subcontracting suppliers will be further improved and promoted by continuously Act at worksites and plants monitoring action plans and results. Sanction & Incentive Awards to exemplary employees in CP / Reflection of CP achievements in MBO Evaluation and Improvement of the CP Education and survey on CP recognition 50 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Shared Growth with Partners G4 Aspect : Partnership Other Activities for Shared Growth Partnership Seminar A seminar is held to build better partnerships with suppliers, in which Shared growth has become an unavoidable issue to create more their CEOs and executives participate. Major themes have included labor values within the supply chain in the construction business. Doomanagement and desirable labor-management relations, and relevant san E&C seeks sustainable win-win relationships with its suppliers operation system improvement at construction sites. In addition, credthrough fair and open transactions with them. ibility management under the New Basel Accord and safety at the construction site have been dealt with at the seminar. Educational Support to Suppliers Consulting about HR and Labor Relations of Suppliers Systematic training programs are provided to the employees of suppliers We provide consulting services about HR management, labor relations to enhance their competitiveness. Those programs include working-level and other matters to suppliers in Changwon. The certified labor attorcapability enhancement education, special education on EHS, partnerneys of Doosan E&C teach them about labor affairs such as the Labor ship seminar and other special courses. Standards Act and HR management that are liable to be missed. The labor attorneys visit project sites to meet suppliers’ CEOs and site managers and to listen to their difficulties and suggest solutions. Education to Improve Capability of Suppliers’ Working-level Staff We provide more than 400 employees of suppliers every year with educations on labor management, cost management, the Framework Act on the Construction Industry, and Fair Contraction in Subcontracting Act. Education on Quality Innovation Employees of suppliers in the manufacturing business are provided with education on quality innovation. For better productivity, we teach them about the importance of quality management and capability and skills for quality innovation. Education to Improve Capability of Suppliers’ Working-level Staff Financial Support Doosan E&C is providing financial support for its suppliers to help them secure stronger competitiveness. In 2014, Doosan E&C and Doosan Group’s affiliates provide loans of funds amounting to KRW 2 billion for suppliers with favorable transaction results when issuing collateralized loan obligations. Also, we participated in the Industrial Innovation Movement 3.0 conducted by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy to make contributions of KRW 100 million annually for five years, which supported innoDoosan E&C & Best Partner’s Day vation activities that included the management of suppliers, consulting on production technologies and assistance on facility investments. 51 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Welfare Facilities for Suppliers’ Employees Doowoohe Doosan E&C offers a free dormitory with modern facilities for a hundred The ‘Doowoohe’, an association of our excellent supplier, was launched foreign workers of suppliers for the first time in the Changwon Industrial to promote friendship and exchange information among the member Developing Complex. We also expanded business facilities such as office, conference companies. It is composed of 26 suppliers including one Chair company People room, and training room, and opened a fitness center and a lounge. and six operation member companies as of 2014, and holds a regular annual meeting and special meetings to talk about current issues and major policies. Doosan E&C supports their workshops and safety campaigns, solidifying the partnership. Reliable Operating Major Activities of the Doowoohe Activities Frequency Description Appendix Workshop Once a year • Education and rally for stronger unity Community Service Once a year • Services at rural areas • Habitat activities Safety Patrol Event of Suppliers Safety Campaign Once a year Instillation of Safety Consciousness together with the CEO and all employees Discussion Meeting As needed • After events and activities Goals and Performances in Shared Growth Aspect Goals Midto long-term Tasks 2014 Results 2015 Plans 2016 Plans Devising shared growth policies and identifying Setting up Devising and Conducting improvement plans Collecting stakeholders’ shared practicing improvement activities • Benchmarking advanced companies and trend analysis opinions about shared growth improvement plans for and internalizing • Collecting opinions from relevant stakeholders growth policies shared growth through expansion Shared • Devising and practicing shared growth policies Growth Monitoring shared growth practices and with Monitoring building a feedback system Partners shared growth Collecting opinions Reflecting opinions Strengthening longprograms • Benchmarking advanced companies of stakeholders and term partnership by • Collecting opinions from stakeholders like partners from stakeholders and building planning monitoring continuously reflecting • Preparing for monitoring and feedback system for including suppliers a feedback process the needs of suppliers process shared growth 52 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Responsibility for Product and Service G4 Aspect : Customer Privacy Enhancement of Quality that Doosan E&C Pursues Doosan E&C will be there for the clients in the present and future. All of our activities are being implemented to deliver higher value and more satisfaction to our customers. We are striving to secure fundamental competitiveness and acquire advanced technologies and innovative products to provide excellent standards of value that can satisfy our customers. Customer-centered R&D Activities of Doosan Group Quality Management System Through the uses of world-class technology and innovation, Doosan E&C wants to improve the quality of products and services, which will then Quality Management System Process Information Flow improve entire local communities and people’s quality of life. FurtherValue-adding Activities more, we dedicate ourselves to provide differentiated customer values. Customers Management Responsibility We are also striving to provide customers with products and services with excellent function, durability, convenience, and stability. Continuous Improvement of the Measurement, Support Customer Doosan E&C’s Quality Management Policy Management Quality ManageAnalysis and Improvement Satisfaction Doosan E&C established the quality management policy of ‘Infra Solument System tions Provider that Makes the World a Better Place’ as the company’s aspiration to ensure high level of quality that can meet customer satisFeeding into faction. We are strengthening our education and inspections for improvProducts Requirements Products Input Output ing quality by recognizing the customers’ requests made throughout the whole process. Map of Standard Documents for Quality Management System Quality Management System Regulation We deliver the best products and services meeting customer exDetailed Rules pectations by building and improving the quality management system based on the international quality standard, ISO 9001:2008. Business Manual at Construction Manual at Sites the Head Office Head Office Site National Laws and Standards Contract, Specification, Blueprint Quality Plans Check Work Procedure, Test Checklist 53 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Efforts for Better Quality Our Infrastructure We have set a very special standard to deal with customer complaints about our products and services per BG (Building & HousDeveloping ing, Infrastructure, Plant Equipment). With our quality and customPeople er satisfaction DB, we can efficiently handle customer complaints. Reliable Operating Operational Status of the Quality Management System Present Status of Quality Certifications Acquired 1. Maintaining the ISO 9001 Certification ISO 9001 (Architecture / Civil engineering) – Name of worksite : Doosan E&C 1.1 Optimal quality management system Initial date of acquisition : February 24, 1999 Appendix 1.2 Renewing the certification Effective period : February 23, 2017 Certificate authority : Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) 2. Planning and Implementing Internal Quality Audits ISO 9001 (HRSG) – Name of worksite : Doosan E&C’s HRSG Plant 2.1 Hold internal quality audits regularly at the head office, worksites and plants Initial date of acquisition : May 26, 2000 according to the annual quality audit plan (more than once every year) Effective period : May 25, 2018 2.2 Conducting special quality audits following orders from the management Certificate authority : Bureau Veritas Korea 3. Training and Education ISO 9001 (CPE · OSS) – Name of worksite : Doosan E&C’s Changwon Plant 1, 2 & 3 Initial date of acquisition : November 30, 1998 3.1 Holding in-house and circuit education for all employees who may affect the Effective period : November 30, 2016 quality Certificate authority : HSB Registration Services 3.2 Improving the construction methods and contents according to the effectiveness evaluation of education ISO 9001 (Ready Mixed Concrete) – Name of worksite : Doosan E&C’s Rexcon BU 4. Implementation and Preventive Measures Initial date of acquisition : April 2, 2008 Effective period : April 1, 2017 4.1 Adjustments made according to the analysis of internal quality audit results Certificate authority : Korean Standards Association (KSA) 4.2 Reflecting the internal quality audit results in management activities 5. Maintaining and Improving the Quality System 5.1 Managing the quality plans and the plant plans drawn up 5.2 Reporting on PCM drawn up after construction 5.3 Implementing K.O.M for each construction type during construction 5.4 Conducting the real-name construction system 5.5 Giving feedback through internal quality audits 6. Establishing and Managing Processes Establishing and operating efficient processes through various approaches ISO 9001 (Architecture/ ISO 9001 HRSG Civil engineering) 7. Establishing Site Work and Technical Standardization Improving work efficiency after drawing up standard documents, including quality plans, inspection and testing plans, etc 8. Improving the Quality of Suppliers 8.1 Encouraging the acquisition of ISO 9001 certifications to improve the quality of suppliers 8.2 Giving additional points to companies with ISO 9001 certification when ISO 9001 CPE ISO 9001 Rexcon selecting the supplier 54 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Responsibility for Product and Service G4 Aspect : Customer Privacy Reviewing Defect Prevention Technologies and Prior Inspection of Residents Establishing Standards As the last stage of quality inspections, we invite customers to inspect our company’s products in person to provide the best output that meet our customer’s expectation. In 2014, the users confirmed defects in TCC* Defect Management Committee person at a total of 4 worksites (Osong Centium, Dapsip-ri 16, Haeundae Doosan E&C is enhancing customer satisfaction and improving technolCentum, Haeundae AID) to complete repairs before entering into the ogies by preventing defects of construction types where defects mostly place. occur. The TCC (Technology Core Coordination) Defect Management Committee analyzes the cause of defects and comes up with countermeasures. Also, we establish construction standards to be commonly Encouraging Quality Improvement through Internal applied at all worksites to prevent defects during construction. Education *TCC : Technology Core Coordination Education on Defect Examples at Construction Sites Reinforcing Quality Inspections at Construction Sites By educating about defect examples to field workers, Doosan E&C prevents the possibility of defects occurring during construction in advance. Quality Inspections of Technology Support Teams In 2014, we reviewed 15 items (8 items on architecture, 5 items on machinery and 2 items on electricity) for Dapsip-ri 16 again to make further Doosan E&C conducts quality inspections on teams related to technolimprovements. ogy support for construction sites to suggest ways to prevent defects, while also coming up with improvement measures for projects to be implemented in the future. We conduct inspections through an internal Future Goal organization equipped with technical expertise on construction projects Doosan E&C aims to achieve the goal of developing products with with various conditions and designs to encourage the prevention of price competitiveness based on engineering. We plan to continuously defects in technology policies. In 2014, we derived improvement areas strengthen our quality inspections to produce economic output, as well for future projects and areas that need improvement immediately by as provide the quality desired by our customers. conducting inspections on a total of 4 sites (Osong Centium, Dapsip-ri 16, Haeundae Centum, Haeundae AID). Overall Inspection before Handing Over to the User Doosan E&C minimizes defects by conducting on-site quality inspections and making improvements internally before handing over the building to the user. In 2014, we conducted inspections on a total of about 400 items for ten worksites (Hallym University R&D Center, Cheongdam Hotel, Korea University Ansan Hospital, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies’ Multi-Purpose Center, Osong Centium, DI Integrated R&D Center, Bears Park, major repair of Doosan Tower, Dapsip-ri 16, Haeundae Centum). As a result, we came up with 350 areas that need improvement immediately and 50 areas that need improvement in the future to minimize the user’s inconvenience from defects. 55 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Technology-based Capability of Doosan in the Global Market Special Case The competitiveness of Doosan E&C comes from our long construction experience and continuous R&D. Some R&D results are shared with the Developing suppliers to help them attain higher competitiveness and technology development. People Shotcrete Construction Method Using Powdery Admixture and Construction Method of Enhancing High-Strength Concrete Alkali-free Accelerator As a method of revolving the problem of low fire resistance, such as The shotcrete construction method provides the function of more the burst phenomenon of high-strength concretes during a fire, the than 40MPa compression strength for 28 days and more than 1MPa Reliable heat-melting temperature and diameter are different from each other compression strength for 3 hours by using powdery admixture and Operating when producing high-strength concretes and an appropriate amount alkali-free accelerator to improve economic feasibility and durability. of two types of organic fibers are mixed with high-strength concretes. It is a high-function construction method that achieves high strengths It is a construction method that eases the internal stress of fused and secures durability. When constructing a tunnel, we can ensure the furnace concretes consecutively during a fire to prevent the burst Appendix safety of the grounds we are excavating and its surrounding areas by phenomenon. We minimized the decrease of strength and flexibility supporting the external force on unsafe ground conditions through by reducing half of the amount of fiber mixed, and also designated shotcrete construction method, enabling us to prevent the collapse of and certified as a new construction technology for being Korea’s first tunnels and land collapse accidents. It has been designated as a con60MPa high-strength concrete with fire resistance of 3 hours. struction new technology for reducing the shotcrete width. Organization of Technology Institute R&D Part Engineering Part Quality Area KOLAS • Architectural Studies • Construction Support • Maintain ISO certification • Dynamics field • Architectural Environment • Architectural Structure Support • Implement enterprise-wide (Cement and related materials, Studies quality management aggregate and related materials) • Architectural Structure Studies • Support quality-related • Noise and Vibration Field • Construction Material Studies technologies (Acoustic characteristics) • Hold quality education and quality inspections QE Wave II (Establishing the Foundation for QE System) Developing New D-top Model In order to raise the awareness on quality and strengthen competenDoosan E&C will take the lead in the HRSG trend by conducting R&D cies, Doosan E&C utilized the status board and SO card, promoted activities and securing fundamental technology competitiveness coaching programs for suppliers, and provided the Q-Academy. Also, instead of being satisfying as a HRSG company that possesses funwe strengthened our responses to quality issues by developing fadamental technology and Korea’s independent model. We are in the cilitators and establishing the RCA training system. In 2015, we will process of developing the New D-top Model that improves the probfocus on implementing activities to prevent accidents and prevent lems of the existing D-top Model through collaboration with Korea’s reoccurrences to minimize costs arising from quality losses, including prestigious university R&D institutes and Doosan Heavy Industries maintaining the QE Wave II Framework, developing RCA experts for & Construction’s R&D Center. The new model places top priority on each team through OJT, promoting RCA executions, establishing the cost competitiveness, and we plan to strengthen the product lineprocess for calculating the costs of failed NCR related to Traveller, and up in the direction of satisfying the needs of customers and the improving the system. technology trends of HRSG, such as taking rapid responses, utilizing low-grade fuel, responding to super-size gas turbines and producing products specialized for the US market. 56 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Responsibility for Product and Service G4 Aspect : Customer Privacy Personal Information Protection that Doosan E&C Pursues Recently, the laws and regulations have been strengthened to respond to damages caused by leakages of customers’ personal information. Doosan E&C upgraded the management system to protect customer information and will provide private information security education on all employees and improvement of security systems. High level Security of Personal Information Personal Information Security System We have established Private Information Security Education. The inforDoosan E&C takes responsibility for security of personal informamation saved in the system is encoded to prevent leaks. To prevent illetion. To show our care towards security of Personal information gal access to the information database, the access history is managed. strongly, we have set regulations, an inspection system, and a security system. We also run an education course to change employees’ concepts regarding personal information. Education on Personal Information Doosan E&C carry out private information education once a year. It is operated as a required course; some 2,000 people completed the eduPersonal Information Protection Regulation cation in 2013. Special education is given to major work sites such as Doosan E&C has its own regulations to protect personal information in construction sites, plants, and apartment-selling offices to remind the reaccordance with relevant laws. An executive officer appointed by the sponsible people of the importance of managing personal information. CEO is responsible for the information management department. We always make sure that the personal information of our customers is properly managed and protected through regular internal and external inspections. Personal Information Management System We perform a company-wide inspection each quarter per year. In that inspection, we check the responsibilities to be observed by each department based on the guidelines of personal information protection. To guarantee safer personal information management, we have been inspected annually by an external body since 2011. Objectives and Achievement of Personal Information Protection Goals Major Activities 2014 Results 2015 Plans • Analyzing whether or not there are relevant laws that can Fundamentally removing factors violating be utilized through law firms regarding acquiring residential the Personal Information Protection Act registration numbers and identifying related duties by revising the enterprise-wide standard Strengthening • Establishing enterprise-wide work guidelines and implementing contracts and forms the Safety of Operating activities to promote it internally Introducing the system for monitoring Customer Information • Establishing an enterprise-wide standard contracts supervised by using personal information for all Upgrading the enterprise-wide management and Resolving Various the legal team and conducting improvement activities printed documents levels for protecting personal information by Risks of Law Violations • Holding internal education on ways to protect personal conducting regular monitoring activities and information at worksites for site managers raising the awareness on employees’ mindset • Providing post monitoring and conducting self-inspections ever on protecting personal information quarter 57 Ethical Management Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Establishing a Healthy Corporate Culture through Ethical Management Based on the CEO’s strong and clear intention of promoting ethical management, Doosan E&C is striving to raise employees’ awareness of business ethics and share the value of ethics with stakeholders in order to establish a transparent and healthy corporate culture. Developing People Code of Conduct Infrastructure for Ethical Management Reliable Operating Doosan E&C has put harmony among the members, customerWe believe that integrity and transparency are essential to raise centered management philosophy, and open and innovative manour corporate value. The ‘Guidelines for Employees’ Duties and agement into practice to realize its unceasing growth and to fulfill Transactions’ serve as the standards of judgment in their jobs, social responsibilities. Therefore, we created a Code of Conduct, which helps to improve relationships with all stakeholders. Appendix which applies to all business activities of our employees. We encourage our partners to follow this Code of Conduct. Cyber Reporting Center Doosan E&C runs the Cyber Reporting Center to receive reports on Major Contents of the Code of Conduct unethical behaviors of executives and staff such as taking bribes, unfair Inhwa performance, and corruption. The reporter’s information is strictly proOur people are at the heart of our growth and success. We recognize individual tected and the report is treated quickly in accordance with the standard differences and treat each other with respect. We understand “Inhwa” as teamwork procedure. The results are informed to the reporter and, at the same in the truest sense based on fairness, openness and camaraderie. time, shared with all employees through an in-house program in order Integrity and Transparency to prevent reoccurrence and raise the awareness of business ethics. Integrity and transparency must be applied to every aspect of Doosan’s organization and business. Fair Competition Ethical Management Activities Doosan competes fairly. Doosan is committed to complying with the relevant antitrust and The CEO’s letter to request business ethics has been delivered to all emcompetition laws and regulations where it conducts business. ployees every year in order to remind them of the importance of ethical management and to encourage faithful practices. All employees take a Focus on Our Customers, Innovation, Growth pledge to conduct business ethics, while writing the stakeholder stateOur customers are the reason we exist. Our business decisions and activities are thoroughly customer focused. ment is compulsory for members above the level of team leaders and site managers. Social Responsibility In addition, we conduct a regular survey targeting suppliers on whether We are committed to building Doosan as a trusted company that grows with our community. Doosan E&C’s employees faithfully complied with the Code of Conduct As responsible members of our communities, it is our duty to safeguard the life and safety of everyone in our communities and protect the environment. or not, enabling us to inspect problems that might arise from doing business and transactions to prevent corruption and irregularity. Responsible Organization The Audit Team under the CEO carries out self-inspection, operating cyber reporting center, and education on ethics so that all employees are able to engage in their jobs fairly and transparently. It also monitors possible ethical management risks, responds to them, and implements regular inspections. 4 58 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Appendix 59 Responsible Engagement Developing People Reliable Operating System orientation CSR Stakeholder Materiality People and (eco-friendly, shared performance engagement test Society growth, and product data responsibility) ‘Economic Performance’ ‘Social Performance’ ‘Environmental Performance’ This section contains quantitative performances of Doosan E&C’s CSR activities. The data include our quantitative performances in the aspects of economy, environment, and society for recent three years. Appendix 1. Appendix • CSR Performances • Independent Assurance Statement • UNGC • GRI G4 Index 60 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report CSR Performances Organizational Profile Scale of the Organization The Percentage of Total Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements Separate Financial Statement (Unit : KRW in millions) 2012 Classification 2012 2013 2014 Building Building Plant Plant Classification Unit Current assets 2,369,703 2,421,651 2,459,346 & Housing & Housing Equipment Equipment (Gosan) (Doosan) (CPE) (HRSG) Non-current assets 1,540,136 2,324,134 2,551,779 No. of employees Total assets 3,909,839 4,745,785 5,011,125 covered by the 1,191 1,418 159 labor union Current liabilities 2,726,129 2,201,433 2,541,307 Persons No. of employees Non-current liabilities 578,667 534,977 460,604 joining the labor 96 10 135 Total liabilities 3,304,796 2,736,410 3,001,911 union Total equity 605,043 2,009,375 2,009,214 Percentage of unionized % 8.1 0.7 84.9 Sales 2,229,066 2,188,154 2,288,266 workforce Operating profit (453,521) 55,584 144,855 Net profit (614,847) (33,676) (48,937) 2013 Classification Unit Building Building Plant Plant & Housing & Housing Equipment Equipment (Gosan) (Doosan) (CPE) (HRSG) Consolidated Financial Statement (Unit : KRW in millions) No. of employees covered by the 1,091 1,309 195 117 Classification 2012 2013 2014 labor union Persons Current assets 2,427,888 2,534,636 2,557,120 No. of employees joining the labor 89 10 152 63 Non-current assets 1,637,855 2,415,780 2,575,970 union Total assets 4,065,743 4,950,416 5,133,091 Percentage Current liabilities 2,795,129 2,308,227 2,648,666 of unionized % 8.2 0.8 77.9 53.8 workforce Non-current liabilities 662,826 626,746 521,828 Total liabilities 3,457,955 2,934,973 3,170,495 2014 Total equity 607,788 2,015,443 1,962,596 Classification Unit Building Building Plant Plant Rexcon Sales 2,377,208 2,355,215 2,363,892 & Housing & Housing Equipment Equipment (Gosan) (Doosan) (CPE) (HRSG) Operating profit (449,136) 57,370 142,968 No. of employees Net profit (654,077) (60,325) (68,580) covered by the 1,090 1,288 190 121 24 labor union Persons No. of employees New Orders joining the labor 73 9 187 62 23 (Unit : KRW in 100 millions) union Percentage Classification 2012 2013 2014 of unionized % 6.7 0.7 98.4 51.2 95.8 New orders 15,333 12,867 19,145 workforce ※ As of the month when collective bargaining was required 61 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Aspect : Energy EN3. Energy Consumption within the Organization EN22. Waste Water Generation Developing (Unit : GJ) (Unit : m3) People Data Method of Classification Energy Source Gathering 2012 2013 2014 Worksite Treating Waste 2012 2013 2014 Note Scope Water Direct energy Diesel (vehicle) Doosan E&C 290.70 234.23 78,434.39 CPE Plant 1 Entrusted (evaporative 421.48 488.47 1,404.00 concentration) Gasoline (vehicle) 420.41 516.81 10,835.61 Reliable CPE Plant 2 Entrusted (evaporative 663.38 650.77 744.71 City gas 156,386.62 161,855.76 320,247.13 concentration) Operating Diesel (construction Doosan E&C, 10,171.72 9,737.34 199,367.19 HRSG Plant Heavy Industries 2,952.41 equipment) Suppliers Entrusted Indirect energy Electricity Doosan E&C 425,184.60 427,271.83 1,165,667.00 Outside Entrusted 2.11 Photographic Wastewater ※Data for 2014 –Including construction and ready mixed concrete Appendix Total discharge 1,084.86 1,139.24 5,103.23 ※Collected the amount of acidic waste water discharge Classification 2012 2013 2014 Total energy use (GJ) 592,454.05 599,615.97 1,184,909.00 Basic unit energy use* 26.60 27.40 51.78 *GJ / Sales (KRW in 100 millions) ※Data for 2014 –Including construction and ready mixed concrete EN23. Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method (Unit : ton) Classification 2012 2013 2014 Onsite waste Recycled 3,047 2,400 1,383 Entrusted 73,025 52,674 2,504 Aspect : Effluents and Waste Subtotal 76,072 55,074 3,888 Designated waste Entrusted 214 160 197 Subtotal 214 160 197 EN15-18. GHG emissions Total 76,286 55,234 4,085 (Unit : tCO2e) (Unit : %) Classification Scope of Data Collection 2014 Classification 2012 2013 2014 Direct GHG emissions Buildings 966.37 (Recycled waste / total waste) x 100 3.99 4.34 33.87 (Scope 1) Construction 4,025.63 ※Scope of data : System performance of domestic construction sites and the Plant Equipment BG ’s Equipment 11,512.50 CPE Business Division of Changwon Plant 1 & 2 The data of recycled waste include the amount of waste recycled by entrusted firms Ready mixed concrete 13,846.83 Subtotal 30,351.24 Indirect GHG emissions Buildings 3,181.11 (Scope 2) Construction 8,989.31 Equipment 20,603.58 Ready mixed concrete 3,146.38 Subtotal 35,920.38 Total 66,271.49 62 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report CSR Performances Aspect : Employment Aspect : Occupational Health and Safety Total Number and Rates of Employee Turnover by Type of Injury and Rates of Injury, Occupational Age Group, Gender, and Region Diseases, Lost Days, and Absenteeism, and Total Doosan E&C is operating the Retention program for staff and assistant Number of WorkRelated Fatalities, by Region manager positions to reduce turnover rate. Our executives visit project Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 sites once a month to listen to opinions of site workers and solve probTotal employees 18,144 12,252 10,669 lems, which helps raise their satisfaction. Persons Industrial victims 40.21 63.71 42.67 (Unit : %) Industrial injury rate % 0.29 0.52 0.40 Classification 2012 2013 2014 ※Total employees = Regular employees Gender Male 9.7 18.3 13.4 Industrial victims = No. of converted industrial victims Female 7.3 23.2 9.6 Industrial injury rate = Converted industrial injury rate 2013 : Data announced by the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency Age group 20s 8.2 9.1 15.2 2014 : Expected data under review by the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency 30s 8.6 14.6 11.2 (expected to be announced in July 2015) 40s 9.3 26.7 18.8 50s and over 17.2 20.3 9.1 Return to Work and Retention Rates after Aspect : Training and Education Parental Leave, by Gender (Unit : %) Average Hours of Training Per Year Per Employee by Classification 2012 2013 2014 Gender, and by Employee Category Rate of employees who Male took parental leave Classification Unit 2012 2013 2014 Female 100 100 100 Rate of return to work Male Total training hours for executives 792 1,024 613 after parental leave Total training hours for employees 108,372 100,760 134,468 Female 63.2 69.2 33.4* Hours Rate of over 1-year Male Annual average hours of training 68.98 67.13 72 retention after return per employee Female 63.2 69.2 0 (total hours / total employees) to work Average costs of training per 872,000 666,000 367,602 ※The number of reappointed employees compared to the previous year decreased by one person, employee KRW but a huge ratio difference occurred due to the small number of the parameter (3 persons) (total costs / total employees) Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance and Career Development Reviews, by Gender and by Employee Category (Unit : Persons) Classification 2012 2013 2014 Percentage Total employees (LA1) 1,829 1,787 1,832 of regular No. of employees 1,427 1,257 1,392 performance and received regular career development performance reviews reviews 63 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Aspect : Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of the BOD and Employees (Unit : Persons) (Unit : Persons) Developing Classification 2012 2013 2014 Classification 2012 2013 2014 People BreakBOD members Inside director 2 2 2 Breakdown of Total employees 1,829 1,787 1,849 down of employees Outside director 4 4 4 Under 30s 245 243 194 executives Executives between 30s and 50s Male 189 181 143 Male Female 56 62 51 Reliable Female Operating 30s~50s 1,421 1,317 1,395 Executives over 50s 6 6 6 Male 1,355 1,254 1,313 Male 6 6 6 Female 66 63 82 Female Over 50s 163 227 260 Appendix ※Outside directors are not included in the calculation of total number of employees. Male 161 227 260 Female 2 (Unit : Persons) Classification 2012 2013 2014 Total employees 1,829 1,787 1,849 Employment type Regular 1,571 1,553 1,642 Aspect : Local Communities Non-regular 258 234 207 Socially Female 124 125 133 marginalized Percentage of Operations with Implemented Local Disabled 25 24 29 Community Engagement, Impact Assessments, and Veterans 23 23 24 Development Programs Age group 20s 245 243 194 30s 776 717 752 Classification Details Unit 2012 2013 2014 40s 645 600 643 Investments in Donation KRW in 966,386 196,380 247,548 50s and over 163 227 260 social contribution thousands Position Executive 37 37 32 Participation in No. of social 25 41 121 social contribution contribution No. Senior manager 229 193 206 programs Manager 689 640 696 No. of 536 800 1,884 Assistant manager 418 379 356 employees participated Persons Staff 274 256 230 in social Others 182 282 329 contribution 64 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report Independent Assurance Statement To : The Stakeholders of Doosan E&C Our findings The assurance provider reviewed the report draft and presented our opinions, and made amendments of the report when necessary. On the Introduction and objectives of work basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our IMCSR (the ‘assurance provider’ hereafter) has been engaged by Doosan opinion that : E&C to conduct an independent assurance of its 2014 Doosan E&C CSR •Doosan E&C has established appropriate systems for the collection, Report (the ‘Report’ hereafter). This assurance statement applies to the aggregation and analysis of relevant information. The assurance prorelated information included within the scope of work described below. vider arrived at the conclusion that the content of this Report is accuThis information and its presentation in the Report are the sole responrate and reliable, and reflects the CSR management performance void sibility of the management of Doosan E&C. The assurance provider was of significant errors or biases. The information is presented in a clear, not involved in the drafting of the Report. Our sole responsibility was to understandable and accessible manner, and allows stakeholders to provide independent assurance on its content. form a balanced opinion over CSR performances of Doosan E&C during the reporting period; Scope of work •The Report properly reflects the organization’s alignment to and The assurance process was conducted in line with the requirements of implementation of the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) principles the Assurance Standard AA1000AS (2008) Type1 assurance. The scope of of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness in its operations. Further work included: detail is provided below; •Data and information included in the Report for the reporting period; •Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and Alignment with the principles of AA1000AS (2008) processes, used to collect, analyze and review the information reported; •Evaluation of the Report against the main principles of the AA1000 Inclusivity Assurance Standard (2008); Doosan E&C is operating appropriate processes and channels to ensure Inclusivity stakeholder engagement. Doosan E&C has gathered major concerns Materiality and opinions from key stakeholders, including its customers, employees, Responsiveness shareholders, investors, business partners, local communities and gov•Evaluation against GRI G4 ‘In Accordance’ Criteria; ernment through stakeholder communication channels. The moderate level of assurance has been applied. Materiality Methodology The Report addresses the range of environmental, social and economic As part of its independent assurance, the assurance provider undertook issues of concern that Doosan E&C has identified as being of highest the following activities: material importance. The identification of material issues has considered •Interviews with relevant personnel of Doosan E&C; both internal assessments of risks and opportunities to the business, as •Review of documentary evidence produced by Doosan E&C; well as stakeholders’ views and concerns. •Audit of performance data; •Site visits; •Review of data and information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and review; •Review of stakeholder engagement activities; Our work was conducted against standard procedures and guidelines for external assurance of CSR reports. 65 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Responsiveness Limitations and Exclusions Doosan E&C has responded to those issues it has identified as material. Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information reThe Report presents related performances in its Disclosures on Managelating to: ment Approach (DMA) sections. In particular, it is highly evaluated that •Activities outside the defined assurance period; Developing Doosan E&C has set goals and strategies, implemented management •Expressions of opinion, belief, aim or future intention by Doosan E&C People system and programs, measured performance, and managed change. and statements of future commitment; •Based on our work, it is our opinion that the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4. Further detail is Statement of independence, impartiality and provided below; competence Reliable No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with DooOperating General Standard Disclosures san E&C. We have conducted this assurance independently, and there The assurance provider reviewed General Standard Disclosures, and has been no conflict of interest. believes that the Report meets the Core Option requirements of General The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance Standard Disclosures. over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, and an excellent understanding of standard Appendix Specific Standard Disclosures methodology for the assurance of CSR reports. The assurance provider reviewed Material Aspects, DMAs and Indicators, and believes that the Report meets the Core Option requirements of Specific Standard Disclosures. June, 2015 Key areas for ongoing development Hyun Lee, CEO&Founder, IMCSR Based on the work conducted, we recommend Doosan E&C to consider the following : •Doosan E&C is advised to consider development of CSR Key Performance Indicators against areas and issues of concern where they do not already exist and incorporating or refining existing performance measures through the use of reporting guidelines such as the GRI G4; •Doosan E&C is advised to implement more strategic stakeholder engagement programs by identifying key stakeholders, and build the management system in order to manage and report stakeholder engagement performance; 66 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report UNGC UN Global Compact Compliance with Principles On April 30, 2014, Doosan E&C joined the UN Global Compact, which is a voluntary corporate initiative that promotes and encourages corporate social responsibilities, to comply with ten principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. This reaffirmed our commitment to participate in global standards on corporate social responsibilities and our willingness to fulfill sustainability management domestically and internationally. We will continue to make a concerted effort to comply with the UNGC’s ten key principles by respecting rights of human and labor, developing ecofriendly technologies and products, and raising the bar of management and inspection for the eradication of misconducts. Classification Principle Activities of Doosan E&C 1. We support and respect internationally declared Human Rights. We comply with the Labor Standard Act and ILO Rules and Human Rights operate the whistle-blowing system and grievance treatment 2. We do not engage in infringement of Human Rights. system to ensure the rights of employees. 3. We acknowledge rights to freedom of association and collective We guarantee union activities of employees and operate the bargaining. Labor-Management Council and meetings. 4. We abolish all kinds of forced labors. We prohibit all kinds of forced and children’s labor in compliLabor ance of the Labor Standard Act and ILO Rules. 5. We effectively abolish children’s labor. We have fair employment and performance evaluation policies 6. We effectively abolish children’s labor. and processes and prohibit wage discrimination by gender. We developed an integrated energy management system and established GHG inventory to respond to global warming is7. We support preventative approach to environmental issues. sues. Also, we installed the standby power cutoff and all lightsout devices to reduce power consumption and introduced rainwater reusing system to cut down on the use of water. We obtained the green building certification and eco-friendly Environment 8. We take the lead in taking bigger environmental responsibilities. building certification and encourage the purchasing of construction materials with the eco-friendly mark. In order to operate eco-friendly architecture and building, we 9. We support environmentally-friendly technology development are developing technologies that uses new and renewable enand its diffusion. ergies by taking into consideration geothermal-using system and solar hot water system. We have the Code of Ethics and operate the Compliance Man10. We strive to eradicate all kinds of corruption including unjust Anticorruption agement Committee and Compliance Management Bureau to enrichment and bribe. faithfully monitor and inspect ethical management activities. 67 GRI G4 Index Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement General Standard Disclosures Code Code Description Page External Assurance Strategy and Analysis Developing People G4-1 CEO Message 8, 9 64~65 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 9 64~65 G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 14~17 64~65 G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters 0 64~65 Reliable G4-6 The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant 12~13 64~65 Operating operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 12 64~65 G4-8 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 12~13 64~65 G4-9 Scale of the organization 60, 63 64~65 Appendix G4-10 Status of employment type, contract, and region 63, 13 64~65 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 60 64~65 G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 49~51 64~65 G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain 12 64~65 G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 21 64~65 G4-15 List Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or 66 64~65 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and / or national / international advocacy organizations in which the 69 64~65 organization Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 12~13 64~65 G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 24~25 64~65 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 26~27 64~65 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization 24~27 64~65 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 24~27 64~65 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 0 64~65 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 0 64~65 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 24~25 64~65 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 24~25 64~65 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 24~25 64~65 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and 24~25 64~65 how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 0 64~65 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 9 64~65 G4-30 Reporting cycle such as annual, biannual 0 64~65 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 0 64~65 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 67~69 64~65 G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 64~65 64~65 Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 20 64~65 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 18 64~65 68 Doosan E&C 2014 CSR Report GRI G4 Index Specific Standard Disclosures CATEGORY : ENVIRONMENTAL Code Code Description Page External Assurance Energy Generic DMA 45 64~65 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 46, 61 64~65 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 46, 61 64~65 EN5 Energy intensity 61 64~65 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 61 64~65 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 46, 61 64~65 Effluents and Waste Generic DMA 45 64~65 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 61 64~65 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 61 64~65 Products and Services Generic DMA 44 64~65 EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 44~48 64~65 CATEGORY : SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Code Code Description Page External Assurance Employment Generic DMA 30 64~65 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 62 64~65 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, 62 64~65 by significant locations of operation LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 62 64~65 Occupational Health and Safety Generic DMA 34 64~65 LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor 34 64~65 and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, 62 64~65 by region and by gender LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 34~35 64~65 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 34 64~65 Training and Education Generic DMA 30 64~65 LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and 41 64~65 assist them in managing career endings LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 62 64~65 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Generic DMA 37 64~65 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, 63 64~65 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 69 Doosan E&C Responsible Engagement Specific Standard Disclosures CATEGORY : SOCIAL SOCIETY Code Code Description Page External Assurance Developing Local Communities People Generic DMA 39 64~65 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 39~40, 63 64~65 Reliable Operating CATEGORY : SOCIAL PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Code Code Description Page External Assurance Customer Privacy Generic DMA 52 64~65 Appendix PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 53 64~65 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data There is no 64~65 Complaints. Association Membership Association Korean Association of Construction Complaints Control Korean Society of Transportation The Korean Steel Structure Association Changwon Branch of Korea Industrial Safety Association (Civil Engineering) Incheon Smart City Association Korea Listed Companies Association Gyeongnam Branch of Korean Nurses Association Korea Society of Water Environment Korea institute for Structural Maintenance Inspection Korea IR Service Ulsan and Gyeongnam Branch of Construction Association of Korea Korea Water Resource Association Korea Construction Procurement Part Association Korea Environmental Preservation Association Korea Fire Facility Association Korean Tunelling and Underground Space Association Korea International Trade Association Gyeongnam Environmental Engineer Association Korea Electrical Contractors Association Korean Society for Rock Mechanics Seoul Chamber of Commerce & Industry Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Information & Communication Construction Korean Road Forum The Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry Korea Federation of Construction Contractors Association Korea Mecenat Association Korea National Committee on Large Dams Korea Employers Federation Korea Specialty Contractors Association Korea Economic Research Institute Korea Facility Management The Korean National Committee of Korea Mech Const Contractors Association World Road Association The Federation of Korean Industries The Korean Society for Noise and Vibration Engineering The Construction Management Association of Korea Korea Developer Association Korea Industrial Technology Association Korean Institute of Fire Science & Engineering The Korea Railway Association Korea Remodeling Association Korean-American Association Korea Green Building Council Korea Road & Transportation Association Korea Housing Association Changwon Chamber of Commerce & Industry The Korean Society for Railway Construction & Residence Study Group Korean Association of Air Conditioning Integrated Defense Association of Refrigerating and Sanitary Engineers Korean Society for Advanced Composite Structures Korean Military Supply Union Changwon Industrial Complex Korean Society of Hazard Mitigation Plant Manager Association Korea Construction Value Engineering The Society of Air-conditioning and Research Institute Computational Structural Engineering Institute of Korea Refrigerating Engineers of Korea Gyeongnam Employers Federation Korea Society of Civil Engineering The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers PR Association of Changwon Industrial Complex The Korea Construction Transport New Technology Association Korean Railway Construction Engineering Association The Korean Institute of Electrical and Gyeongnam Industrial Security Association Electronic Materials Engineers The Korea Institute of Building Construction Korean Society for GeoSpacial Information System Korea Standards Association Architectural Institute of Korea The Korean Society of Disaster Information The Korean Railway Electricity Technology Association Association of Construction Safety Fair Competition Federation Korea River Association The Korean Institute of Illuminating and Maekyung Safety & Environment Institute (SEL Club) Electrical Installation Engineers The Korean Regional Development Association Korean Society of Water and Wastewater Association of KOSHA 18001 for Construction Business Korean Society of Road Engineers Construction Business CS Council The Korean Association of Construction Environment Construction Vision Forum Korea Association of Machinery Industry Association of Construction Safety Manager Korean Geotechnical Society Wings of Happiness Council Education Development Association Korea Concrete Institute Seongjohe – Hydrocarbon Machinery Department Korea Environmental Preservation Association This report has been printed with environmentally-friendly paper that used soy ink. 726, Eonju-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel +82-2-510-3114 Fax +82-2-540-5221
