CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 The Adecco Win4Youth ambassadors 2014 at the top of the ‘Col du Tourmalet‘ climb. The Adecco USA Street Day 2015 ‘Dream job‘ wall. Nanjing Youth Olympic Games 2014 participants at the Athlete Career Programme space, learning about networking and time management. Visit csrr.adecco.com Contents 4 Key figures 5 About Adecco 8 Message from the Corporate Governance Committee Chair and the CEO 10 Our business & CSR 17 Our CSR strategy 22 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Economic dimension 27 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Social dimension 63 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Environmental dimension 66 Our sustainability performance and goals 68 External acknowledgements for our sustainability performance 70 GRI G4 Standard Disclosures 89 GRI G4 Content Index 89 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) 98 Further reading 105 Glossary 108 CSR Governance and contacts 111 Imprint CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 2 better work, better life We inspire individuals and organisations to work more effectively and efficiently, and create greater choice in the domain of work, for the benefit of all concerned. Our business has a positive impact on millions of people every day. Helping people to ‘better work, better life‘ is our common purpose and the way in which we contribute to society. This is what we do, this is what we know about, this is what we care about, this is what we are all about. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 3 G4-27; G4-PR6 32,000~ 700,000~ 100,000+ 5,400~ Key figures FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT ASSOCIATES ON CLIENTS BRANCHES IN OVER 60 EMPLOYEES 1 ASSIGNMENT DAILY 2 EVERY DAY 2 COUNTRIES & TERRITORIES 1 Labour market facts & trends 1 1 Year-end 2012 2 Average 2012 60.9 MILLION IN PROVIDING WORK­ AS AN INDUSTRY, AGENCY WORK IN PLACE ACCESS WE HAVE MADE A 2013 TO YOUNG PEOPLE PLEDGE TO UP-SKILL The role of our industry Agency workers tend to be young 65 MILLION PEOPLE Providing employment for millions • On average, 65% of agency workers • 12 million agency workers were are under 30 years of age The industry confederation is employed daily in 2013 whereas: • On average, 40% of agency workers strengthening its role. Collectively, we • Over 4 million agency workers are under the age of 35. made 5 pledges in May 2012 to build in Europe better labour markets and provide • Over 3 million agency workers work opportunities and hope to milin the US lions of people: • Over 1.2 million agency workers SKILL SETS OF • Support 280 million people in their job life in Japan AGENCY WORKERS • Help 75 million young people enter the labour market Two thirds of agency work is medium• Up-skill 65 million people, giving to high-skilled work them more work choices AGENCY • 22% high-skilled • Create 18 million more jobs EMPLOYMENT • 45% medium-skilled • 33% low-skilled • Serve 13 million companies with the right talents to succeed 1 WORK BY SECTOR Most agency workers employed in services and manufacturing • 37% services EMPLOYABILITY INCLUSION • 32% manufacturing Agency work contributes to Agency work enhances labour market • 9% construction employability participation for vulnerable groups • 7% public administration • In Germany, 17% of agency workers • 62% gained work skills • 4% agriculture • 59% received job experience are of a foreign nationality • In Belgium, 4.6% of agency workers • 59% strengthened their résumé • 49% got access to permanent have an impairment • In France, people under 25 years old employment LENGTH OF • 38% gained self-confidence account for 25% of all agency ASSIGNMENT • 35% improved their work habits workers 77% of agency work assignments are over 1 month • On average, 48% of assignments are LIFELONG LEARNING over three months • On average, only 25% of assignAgency work contributes to lifelong ments are under one month learning • In 14 countries, a total of almost 1.5 • Multiple consecutive assignments can be a result million workers is trained annually while an amount of EUR 676 million is invested. 1 Source: Ciett – Economic Report 2015 edition (based on data of 2013/2014). CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 4 G4-4; G4-6; G4-8; G4-9; G4-10 31,000+ 650,000+ 5,100~ FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT ASSOCIATES ON BRANCHES IN OVER 60 EMPLOYEES 1 ASSIGNMENT DAILY 2 COUNTRIES & TERRITORIES 1 1 Year end 2014. 2 Average 2014. About Adecco THE SERVICES WE OFFER THE PROFILES OF OUR CANDIDATES Gross profit split by service line Revenue split by business line 9% 24% 74% 8% 51% 5% 12% 2% 4% 9% 2% Temporary 74% Industrial 51% Finance & Legal 4% Permanent 9% Office 24% Medical & Science 2% Career Transition 8% Information Technology 12% Solutions 2% Outsourcing, Talent Development Engineering & Technical 5% and other services 9% OUR GEOGRAPHIC PRESENCE In over 60 countries Revenue split by segment & territories France 23% North America 19% UK & Ireland 10% Germany & Austria 8% Japan 5% Italy 6% Benelux 5% Nordics 4% Iberia 4% Australia & New Zealand 2% Switzerland 2% Emerging Markets 10% LHH 2% CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 5 2014 in brief REVENUES UP 4% 17% EPS GROWTH FURTHER SHARE IN CONSTANT BUYBACK CURRENCY Basic earnings per share increased to New programme of Revenues increased EUR 3.62. up to EUR 250 million to EUR 20.0 billion, launched in driven by the on­ November 2014. going recovery in STRONG CASH the USA, a strong GENERATION rebound in southern ACQUISITION Europe, and contin­ Cash flow from ued growth in the operating activities Adecco acquired emerging markets. increased signifi­ OnForce to expand cantly to EUR 785 its Beeline VMS million. service offering. EBITA MARGIN INCREASED BY 40 BPS 2 MILLION KM DIVIDEND FOR WIN4YOUTH INCREASED AGAIN EBITA margin excluding restructur­ Over 29,500 Adecco Dividend per share ing costs increased colleagues cycled of CHF 2.10 1, up 5% to 4.8%. over 2 million km to compared to last ensure a Group year. donation to 5 foun­ dations supporting 1  As proposed by the Board of Directors. youth development. Note: For key data 2010–2014, refer to inside back cover of the Annual Report 2014. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 6 Which country welcomed them? The top 15 Adecco Host Countries: Candidate Candidate International International 427 over over Mobility Mobility2014 2014 15 2400 2400 215 Netherlands Norway Finland 23 54 candidates candidatesfound foundan aninternational Belgium Canada 302 120 international 23 Ireland Switzerland Singapore work opportunitythanks workopportunity thankstotoAdecco Adecco 25 ++21% 38 99 21% UK compared comparedwith with 50 USA New Zealand 93 United Arab Emirates the theprevious previousyear year ACROSS BORDERS – CANDIDATE France 30 Qatar WHERE DID OUR CANDIDATES GO? INTERNATIONAL 37 Colombia MOBILITY WHICH Where Wheredid COUNTRY didour ourcandidates candidatesgo? WELCOMED go? Through our Candidate International Mobility (CIM) programme, THEM? Which Whichcountry countrywelcomed welcomedthem? them? Adecco helped over 2,400 people find new employment across borders in 2014. This is an increase of 21% compared to 2013. TheThetop top1515Adecco AdeccoHost HostCountries: Countries: From which country did our WITHinternational A FOCUS candidates ALWAYS came from? 427 427 15 15 215215 Norway Norway ON ThePEOPLETop 10 Source – BETTER Countries: WORK Netherlands Netherlands Finland Finland BETTER LIFE 2323 5454 Belgium Belgium Poland France UK USA Philippines Denmark Spain Portugal Hungary Ukraine Canada Canada 23 23 302 302 120 120 756 343 308 230 111 101 69 53 25 14 Ireland Ireland Switzerland Switzerland Singapore Singapore • Coaching, career guidance and new skills improve employability 38 38 25 25 UKUK 9999 50 USA 50 USA NewNew Zealand Zealand • Consecutive assignments – assignments provide 93 93 United Arab United Emirates Arab Emirates France a variety of experiences to upgrade skills sets France 3030 • International mobility bridges the talent gap Qatar Qatar 37 37 Colombia Colombia THE PROFILES OF INTERNATIONAL CANDIDATES Which are the profiles of our international candidates? From Fromwhich whichcountry countrydid didour our THE COUNTRIES international international candidates candidates THEY came CAME camefrom? from? Management 9 FROMTheTheTop – THE Top1010Source TOP SourceCountries: Countries: 10 Education 67 Poland Poland France France UKUK USA USA Philippines Philippines Denmark Spain Denmark Spain Portugal HungaryUkraine PortugalHungary Ukraine Hospitality 78 756756343 343308 308230 230 111 111 101 101 69 69 53 53 25 25 1414 White Collar 80 Engineering and Technical 331 Logistics 362 Healthcare 380 Adecco is covering the full range of services satisfying the needs of candidates, associates and companies at every stage Which Whichare arethe theprofilesprofilesofofour in their development. They range from permanent placement our IT 515 international and international temporary staffing services candidates? candidates? for general and professional Trade and 598 skill sets to career transition or outplacement service. We also Construction support Management companies and employees Management 99 when reorganisations take place due to mergers and acquisitions or as a result to reducedEducation business activity. During Education 6767 the transition phase, employWhich were the type of placements ees receive training and support to move to the next step in for those candidates? their Hospitality career. Hospitality 7878 Temporary Contracts White WhiteCollar Collar 8080 1450 Temp Engineering Engineering to Perm 60% and and Technical Technical 331331 54 Logistics Logistics 362 362 2% Healthcare 380 380 12% Healthcare 26% IT IT 515 515 Perm Contractors Trade and Trade and 294 Construction 598 598 622 Construction CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 7 G4-1 better work, better life – working for a purpose Dear Stakeholder, Seven years after the financial crisis, some promising signals The Adecco Way to Work™ provides youngsters with muchare emerging from the world economy. But many regions, needed work experience and training, creating opportunities notably much of southern Europe, are still mired in uncertainty via internships and apprenticeships within the Company or amid patchy recovery. More broadly, the dramatic pictures of with our client partners. This year, 34 youngsters from around people defying the elements to gain a better life have brought the globe have the chance to become ‘CEO for One Month’ home the scale of global geopolitical and economic chalof a country where Adecco operates in and, for one, to become lenges. global ’CEO for One Month’. ‘Street Day’ is a key event when thousands of Adecco colleagues offer a helping hand with job In the labour market, high unemployment, particularly among search advice and training workshops, as well as raising young people, exacerbated by skills gaps and mismatches awareness around the serious issue of youth unemployment. between people’s abilities and their locations, remains central. In June 2015, Adecco joined the European Alliance for ApprenMatters are complicated by three other key trends: the soticeships (EAfA) with the Adecco Way to Work™ programme. called ‘talent crunch’, which signifies the challenges of an By pledging 5,000 apprenticeships in Europe by the end of ageing population and also the impact of increased automa2017, we confirm our commitment to fight youth unemployment tion; companies’ constant search for greater flexibility to stay and boost young people’s employability through valuable competitive; and the tendency of ever more workers to view work-based training opportunities. Win4Youth supports founthemselves as self-employed contractors rather than staying dations giving youngsters a better start in life and work, tied for ever to a single firm. and the IOC and IPC Athlete Career Programmes coach elite Olympic and Paralympic athletes to be successful in the tranTogether, these challenges have broadened and strengthened sition from sports to work life. our purpose – internally for our colleagues, and for society at large. Our goal starts with getting people into jobs and supFor our associates, we aim to provide security in flexibility. We porting our clients with the flexibility and diversity that allows offer training and lifelong learning to develop new skills as them to stay competitive and innovative. Via our Candidate Interwell as consecutive assignments and a path that aims to pave national Mobility programme, for example, we strive to comthe way to a permanent position. France has seen the introbat mismatches of talent by helping people to move to countries duction of the first ‘permanent’ temporary contracts (‘interim where their skills are needed, assisting clients in finding CDI’) and Adecco is already changing lives by providing these. skills that are in short supply in their home markets. And our Together with INSEAD and Singapore’s Human Capital Leaderaims extend to championing the cause of the unemployed ship Institute (HCLI), we foster discussion on how to nurture and ensuring that people of any age, ability, gender, skill set talent in almost 100 countries through the Global Talent Comand background receive the opportunity to enter the workpetitiveness Index. And through our foundations in France, force. Inclusion is central to our purpose and is thus an integral Spain and Italy, along with other programmes around the part of our global programmes. world, we endeavour to support the more vulnerable members of society to gain meaningful employment. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 8 We ensure we work with those who share the same values of at Adecco is not just a job for our colleagues, but a way of doing business, respecting human & labour rights, fostering making a difference and a source of pride. inclusion and focusing on a healthy and safe work environment. And via the Adecco Academy, we equip our colleagues We’re also proud to be recognised for our activities in the Ecowith the skills and attitudes to excel through a broad range nomic, Social and Environmental sphere. For the fourth year of courses and development programmes. We continue to running, Adecco has ranked among the Leaders in the Dow minimise the impact of our activities on the environment by Jones Sustainability World & Europe Indices, with a Silver Class raising awareness internally and by finding more sustainable distinction, amongst other accolades. ways of working with clients and suppliers. We sincerely thank all our colleagues, associates and candiWe do all of this because it is our passion and makes good dates, clients, suppliers and our investors – collectively our business sense. It is very rewarding when both our employees stakeholders – for their backing and confidence in the Adecco and external stakeholders recognise our efforts. We climbed Group and for continuously supporting us in working for our six places in this year’s Great Place to Work list to 13th among purpose. Europe’s top 25 multinationals – demonstrating that working Alain Dehaze Wanda Rapaczynski Chief Executive Officer 1 Member of the Board of Directors, Chairwoman, Corporate Governance Committee 1 As of September 1, 2015. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 9 G4-2; G4-25 We believe work is a basic human need. Our responsibility is to bring to life the principle of ‘better work, better life’ amongst all our stakeholders. Our business & CSR How CSR relates to our business better work, better life In our global organisation, spanning over 60 countries, CSR Colleagues Associates/ is part of our business strategy, overseen by the Corporate Ý Þ Candidates Governance Committee and the CEO and is the designated better work, responsibility of management throughout our business better life operations. Clients ß à Public Space CSR Governance within the Adecco Group Board of Directors As the world’s leading provider of HR solutions, Adecco believes work is a basic human need. Our responsibility is to Corporate Governance Committee bring to life the principle of ’better work, better life’ amongst all our stakeholders. ’better work, better life’ is our job. Every Executive Committee Expert Groups day, we help many companies to succeed by bringing together work teams with skills and attitudes that best match their CEO Adecco Group Head Group needs. Every day, we ensure that 650,000 associates worldCommunications wide have the best possible jobs. We help our employees and associates to succeed and grow by training, coaching and We participate in the Dow Jones Sustainability Assessment, recognition of their achievements. In effect, they choose to the Carbon Disclosure Project, and the FTS4Good Index Series. work with us. We also submit our Communication on Progress (CoP) on a yearly basis to the UN Global Compact and apply the Global Better work, better life is what our more than 31,000 colReporting Initiative GRI Guidelines. The current CSR Report is leagues around the world live up to every day when they supprepared ‘in accordance’ with the ´Comprehensive´ option of port people to achieve their full potential, irrespective of eththe Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI G4 guidelines, and has nicity, ability, gender, or age. successfully completed the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. Work is the foundation of personal and family life, corporate and organisational success, social stability and economic development. Choice in the domain of work supports people to develop and apply their talents and it gives a purpose to people’s lives by building a sense of inclusion in society. This is what we at Adecco are all about. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 10 G4-56 Our values & leadership principles • We are passionate about people: our colleagues, candidates, associates and clients Our core values are at the very heart of how we operate. They • We make a difference for millions of people every are shared and brought to life by all our employees around year the globe. Our global Win4Youth and Adecco Way to Work™ • We find people work, give them experience and initiatives are two examples of how we live by our values (you the opportunity to build their future can read more in our Social Programmes and Initiatives’ sec• Q uite simply, what we do is not a job, it’s our tion starting on page 26). These are our shared core values: passion Values & Leadership Principles • Work is a basic need and a basic right: by finding people the right job, we provide them and their family with an income, status and a future • We promote diversity, equality and inclusivity in ’better work, the workforce better life’ • We lead by example, we act with integrity and respect Our core values • We volunteer personal time and contribute to our communities • We take ownership and stand by our own results • We act upon opportunities • We learn fast from success and failure Our leadership principles • We inspire others and continuously seek innovative solutions Leadership principles Values • People who have values and make decisions, who establish priorities, who can analyse and solve • We share clients and associates across branches, problems and who answer questions concretely business units and countries and appropriately without letting their ‘sense of • We share ideas and best practises self‘ cloud their answers. • We help our colleagues to grow personally and professionally • People who know how to reach out to other peo• We work hard and play hard; we have fun in what ple‘s hearts, who are able to make the most of we do. others, appreciating and respecting them, and are able to focus the energies of their co-workers and • We build lasting relationships with our clients and colleagues on a common objective. associates • We create value for our clients: • People who love their work and are willing to go We provide them with the best talent on time the extra mile. We help them to be competitive through flexibility • We partner with our associates in their career development We find them the best jobs to fit with their personal and professional life We advise them in their career progression and support their learning CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 11 G4-2; G4-25; G4-PR6 Our role as the world‘s leading provider of HR solutions Economies ADECCO GROUP Enterprises Individuals Our role Individuals For individuals, we offer legally recognised and regulated work opportunities, facilitate on-the-job training, and We are conscious of our role towards all stakeholders in the enhance occupational and geographic mobility. HR services markets where we operate. We maintain a constant dialogue companies also create stepping-stone opportunities and enwith employers and employees as well as with social, governhance labour market participation for under-represented or ment, and business stakeholders to create more and better vulnerable groups to gain work experience and to secure comwork opportunities for individuals worldwide. Economies, enplementary incomes (e.g. students, part-timers, retirees, terprises, and individuals all have to face seasonal, cyclical, youngsters, people with a disability). By offering flexible work and structural market changes. As a labour market intermedisolutions, we increase job options and enable workers to imary, we help them to adapt and react to these challenges. prove their work-life balance. Individuals benefit from a greater choice of work and from improved employability. Economies As an HR services company, we turn available work into jobs and thereby support economic growth. Labour Evidence 1 shows that temporary agency work facilitates the market efficiency is increased through our deep understanding transition from unemployment to work, from temporary to perof companies’ needs and people’s work or education aspiramanent jobs, from education to work for young people. In the tions to provide the needed match between supply and deUSA, nearly 90% of agency workers report that agency work mand. We increase labour market participation by enhancing made them more employable by developing new or improving the employability of workers, creating new work solutions, and work skills (62%), receiving on-the-job experience (59%), fostering geographic and occupational mobility. As a result, strengthening their CV (59%), and helping to get a foot in the our industry provides economies with the required flexibility for door for a permanent job (49%). Across Europe, agency work is increased competitiveness and sustained economic growth. recognised as an effective channel to find a permanent job as well as a first job. In Europe, 35% of agency workers are below HR services reduce the time lag between recovery and job cre25 years of age; for them, agency work is often the first opporation, and increase the range of employment choices and tunity to gain work experience. opportunities for people. Research studies 1 increasingly recognise the positive role that HR services companies play in the According to agency workers, most of them use agency work economy. They reduce the two dimensions of unemployment: to gain experience and develop their skills and find a job structural and frictional. quickly. In several European countries, training funds managed by social partners have been established to facilitate access to Countries with higher agency work penetration rates are also vocational training for agency workers. the ones with lower unemployment rates. Agency work does not substitute permanent contracts: 74% of user organisations would not consider hiring permanent workers as an alternative to taking on agency workers, and 62% of them would not create jobs if they had no access to private employment services. 1 Source: Confederation of Private Employment (Ciett), various publications. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 12 G4-25 Our industry increases the efficiency of labour markets, raises the competi­ tiveness of companies, and creates jobs that would not otherwise exist. Enterprises HR services companies help enterprises to adapt Wider skills gap While demand for labour in many econobetter and faster to economic cycles, thereby maintaining and mies has shifted to more specialised roles, the supply of increasing their competitiveness. Expertise in workforce manlabour has not been able to adapt. The unemployment rate agement and the speed of execution make HR companies a among workers with lower qualifications has increased in the valuable partner for enterprises to manage their complex developed countries and a high number of specialised roles workforce planning as well as the risks. Companies get access remain vacant. The staffing and recruitment industry can help to talents or improved skills of workers. Through increased to narrow this gap by accessing additional demographic flexibility, companies are in a position to protect core activities groups (e.g. students, part-timers, retirees), by taking full adand cope with unpredictable changes in the market environvantage of its global presence and pool of candidates, and by ment. facilitating mobility. Research2 suggests that an estimated 76% of employers use It exemplifies that our business is not just about recruitment agency work to respond to changing business demands and but also about training and providing lifelong learning to fluctuations in activity. increase employability. The industry’s contribution to the labour market 2 Each day, Greater mobility and more independent contractors Nowa12 million workers (FTEs) are employed through agency work. days, individuals are more willing to move across borders Each year our industry: to pursue work opportunities and enhance their careers. At • Supports 60.9 million people in their job life the same time, more experienced people increasingly offer • Helps 24.4 million young people enter the labour market their services as independent contractors. These trends satisfy • Up-skills 8 million people, giving them more work choices the need of companies for greater flexibility and better job• Creates 4 million more jobs profile matches in order to overcome the growing talent short• Serves 2.3 million companies with the right talents to age in many industries. succeed. Appropriate regulation The regulatory framework of labour Improving economic trend At the beginning of a recession, markets in individual countries has a significant influence companies react to lower demand by reducing staff. Typically, on the size of HR services markets and growth rates. The apthe first ones to be let go are temporary workers, while compropriate regulation of the HR industry, and in particular the panies try to keep permanent employees. However, at the temporary labour market, balances flexibility with security for beginning of a recovery, temporary workers will usually be companies and workers alike, and drives the efficiency of the first to be hired. Permanent jobs will only be created labour markets. Each market requires appropriate regulation when the economic environment becomes more stable and to increase efficiency and allow HR services companies to confidence improves. Therefore, permanent employment play their role in creating jobs and increasing labour market growth lags behind temporary growth. The position in the cycle participation. also has a strong impact on career transition. The longer and deeper a recession, the more career transition is needed. Increased flexibility Greater flexibility in dealing with peaks and troughs in demand is achieved by companies employing temporary workers as a part of their workforce. Current production trends, oriented towards made-to-order, are structurally increasing the need of companies for flexible staffing levels. The inventory-to-sales ratio in all businesses in the USA declined by 14% 3 between 1992 and 2014. These trends are expected to continue and should further drive demand for temporary staffing. 2 Source: Confederation of Private Employment (Ciett), various publications. 3 Source: United States Census Bureau. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 13 G4-2; G4-15; G4-PR6 Regulatory environment Europe 2020 — smart, sustainable and inclusive growth Europe 2020 is the European Union’s ten-year jobs and growth To maximise the benefits of HR services in delivering greater strategy. It was launched in 2010 to create the conditions for labour market efficiency, relevant regulation should balance smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. The strategy was initiflexibility with security for both workers and businesses. ated against a background of lower growth and productivity Adecco is supportive of international instruments that provide levels than in other developed countries and a rapidly deterioguidelines to properly regulate private employment services, rating economic and social environment, in the wake of the such as the ILO Convention at global level and the EU Agency worst global financial crisis the EU has ever faced. The aim is Work Directive at European level. to improve the EU‘s competitiveness while maintaining its social market economy model and improving significantly its ILO Convention 181 Along with its accompanying Recommenresource efficiency. There are five main priorities that have dation 188, ILO Convention 181 encourages the effective operbeen agreed for the European Union to achieve by the end of ation of services provided by private employment agencies, 2020: and especially temporary work agencies. The convention was Employment adopted in 1997. It recognises the role HR services companies 75% of the 20to 64-year-olds to be employed play in a well-functioning labour market and emphasises the Research and development (R&D) protection of the workers using their services. As ILO Conven3% of the EU‘s GDP to be invested in R&D tion 181 only provides the framework within which HR services Climate/energy companies should operate, member countries implement it in Greenhouse gas emissions down 20% to 30% compared to 1990 accordance with their national labour legislation. 20% of energy from renewables 20% increase in energy efficiency To date, ILO Convention 181 has been ratified by 30 countries. Education Adecco supports efforts at national level with national legislaReduce the rates of early school leaving below 10% tors to ratify ILO Convention 181. Achieve that 40% of 30to 34-year-olds complete third-level education EU Agency Work Directive The EU member countries were Social inclusion and poverty reduction required to implement the EU Agency Work Directive in their Have 20 million fewer people in or at risk of poverty and own legislation by the end of 2011. Key elements of the Direcsocial exclusion tive are the recognition of agency work, the removal of unjustified restrictions against the use of temporary work, and the Progress towards the Europe 2020 targets is encouraged and establishment of the equal treatment principle (unless national monitored throughout the EU’s yearly cycle of economic and collective labour agreements with social partners set excepbudgetary coordination. All Member States have committed to tions to the principle). Since the end of the transposition deadachieving the Europe 2020 targets and have translated them line, the industry has faced an uneven implementation of the into national targets. Directive across the EU. Adecco, Eurociett, and the national Read more associations continue to advocate for the correct implementation of the Directive, focusing on the appropriate regulation and lifting of unjustified restrictions. Local laws Across the globe, Adecco encounters considerably different regulatory schemes and drives the efforts of national associations to improve labour market efficiency. In most markets where Adecco operates, company representatives are engaged in the dialogue with national authorities to foster appropriate labour market regulation and define the proper regulatory environment for the provision of private employment services. In regions where the staffing industry is less mature, much emphasis is placed on setting up the proper regulation of the industry in order to differentiate properly regulated agencies from rogue providers. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 14 G4-18; G4-24; G4-27 Materiality – choosing our sustainability priorities Our stakeholders’ concerns Work is a key part of life and contributes to a well-functioning society. The labour market influences and is influenced by individuals, small and medium businesses, global corporations, investors, and society at large. Their concerns in the CSR ambit co-shape our agenda. Our main stakeholders and their concerns (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) Our employees and associates Concerns Our employees Employees, candidates and associates, all socio-economic • Work as a basic need backgrounds, ages and abilities • Work generates income, is a basis for independence • Work as opportunity, as a pathway into a personal future • Work as social value which creates and fosters relationships Our clients Small and large, global and local, private and •  Human Resources management as a key factor for competitive public employers from all industry sectors advantage and growth • Top talents for top jobs • The right person at the right time • Flexibility in the ever evolving markets Our investors Individual and institutional investors, • Profitability and return on investment analysts and stock market index providers • Sustainable growth • Corporate Governance • Risks and opportunities • Socially and environmentally responsible investments The concerns we learn Society at large from stakeholder diaCommunities, governments and related bodies, media, • Employment rates logue help us to prioritise research institutes, etc. • Work as social integration for vulnerable groups • Undeclared work as a burden for social costs our CSR core subjects Decent work conditions • and issues. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 15 G4-18; G4-19 Adecco provides opportunity for young people Youth unemployment rates 2014 15–24 year-olds, as % of total labour force 2014 % (15–24 year-olds) 100 60 80 40 60 40 20 20 ia m n ai s nd ile nd ia ce l ga ay ia m n ai s nd ile nd ia ce l ga ay en iu Sp la Ch la rb an rtu rw en iu Sp la Ch la rb an rtu rw ov lg Fin Se Fr No ov lg Fin Se Fr No Sl Be er Po Sl Be er Po th th Ne Ne 15–24 year-olds, amongst 15–24 year-olds, amongst all Source: ILOSTAT Adecco associates employed in local labour market Adecco‘s age distribution shows substantially higher rates of young people compared to the national labour markets (source: ILOSTAT). This demonstrates Adecco‘s contribution to inclusion of young places into the labour market. Choosing our sustainability priorities To define our priorities, we assessed the generic CSR core subjects as provided by ISO 26000, the GRI G4 guidelines and the Integrated Reporting (IR) framework and SASB 5 (i.e. human rights, labour practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, community involvement 6) against our stakeholders’ concerns as well as against the nature of our HR services business, the scope of our company and our sphere of influence. This resulted in the following materiality matrix, from which we derived our six strategic focus areas (page 19). Our strategy reflects how CSR relates to our business and mirrors our core competences, strengths and operational abilities, as well as supporting how we can make a difference in the world of work. Materiality matrix: How we prioritise issues in respect of the nature of our business and the concerns of our stakeholders (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) High Environment Workplace Diversity & Human Rights • Energy and resources Inclusion • Anti-discrimination consumption • Labour integration • Fundamental rights at work • Climate change • Job creation • Engagement with vulnerable Labour Practices groups • Training & development • Health & safety • Decent work ­conditions Data Security Professional Integrity Stakeholder concern • Policies and practices relating • Professional integrity and duty to collection, usage, and of care by management retention of customers (clients, • Fair operating practices candidates, associates) Anti-corruption • Disclosure of security breaches Fair competition information • Disclosure of legal and regulatory fines and settlements associated to above Consumer issues (HR services do not relate to How we prioritise the ISO consumers, but to employees 26000 core subjects and and corporate clients) issues related to our Significance & relevance for Adecco Group business and the conLow High cerns of our stakeholders. 5 SASB: Sustainable Accounting Standards Board 6 ISO 26000, 7 core subjects CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 16 We believe work is a basic human need. Our responsibility is to bring to life the principle of better work, better life amongst all our stakeholders. Our CSR strategy The three dimensions of CSR Identifying, mitigating and managing risks is part of our culture. Our enterprise risk management process at the Adecco Our CSR strategy is aligned with our core business, in reGroup has strategic and operational dimensions. Whilst the sponse to global trends in our industry and to the requests focus is on analysing, managing, and mitigating risks, we also and feedback we receive from our employees, associates/ aim to identify opportunities for business development. The candidates and our clients. process is overseen and approved by the Board of Directors. The enterprise risk management process comprises two interCorporate Social Responsibility is the responsibility of com­ acting and integrated levels: country/global business lines panies towards the three dimension of sustainability which and corporate. On a regular basis, all countries and global culminates in a ’triple bottom line’: business lines perform risk assessments on the risk categories that can have a significant impact on their operations, quanti1. Economic fying both Gross Risk and Net Risk. Furthermore, our risk man2. Social agement process is used to identify business opportunities, to 3. Environmental improve our performance towards employees as well as services and data protection towards clients and associates. All It is all about how we manage our impact on the economy, countries perform risk assessments on a regular basis and social affairs and the environment. The goal is to integrate report their results to Group Management. Risks identified at economic, social and environmental targets into our corporate country and corporate level are treated as opportunities for activities in a way that fulfils the requirements of each of the improvement. The key risk areas include: economic environthree dimensions without compromising on any one of them. ment; employee, associate and client attraction and retention; For Adecco, this means the following: IT technology and data protection; changes in the regulatory/ legal and political environment; compliance with laws; and Economic dimension: Our Corporate Governance disclosure disruptive technologies.3 We are dedicated to earning the trust reflects the requirements of the Directive on Information Relatand loyalty of our employees, associates, clients, shareholding to Corporate Governance, issued by the SIX Swiss Exers and the communities in which we operate by performing change 1. Adecco’s principles take into account the recommenour work in accordance with our Code of Conduct which is dations set out in the Swiss Code of Best Practice for anchored in our Core Values and in our Leadership Principles. Corporate Governance 2. It sets forth the standards and expectations that we must fulfil in our work and the way we do business, aiming at high standards with regards to ethical and legal conduct. 1 As amended on 29 October, 2008. 2 As amended on 29 September, 2014. 3 Adecco Group Annual Report 2014, p. 30, 31. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 17 G4-EN32 Customer satisfaction as a result of our services rendered is Adecco adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. key. Our core competences include providing flexible workIn November 2003, the Adecco Group became the first comforce solutions and matching clients’ needs with the right canpany in its industry to sign the United Nations Global Compact didates‘ skills. In an environment of cyclical and seasonal (UNGC). In October 2008, UNI Global Union and Ciett Corpochanges in demand, we help our clients to adapt their workrate Members, including the Adecco Group, signed a Memoforce needs accordingly and provide people with diverse work randum of Understanding (MoU) to consolidate the industry’s experiences and educational background with employment. In global social dialogue to achieve fair conditions for the tempothe economy at large, more customisation and made-to-order rary agency work industry. These two public endorsements strategies impact the production cycle and reduce the predictare due to the fact that Adecco Group acknowledges also recability of our clients’ business development. To keep our assoognises to the: ciates’ satisfaction high, we offer interesting jobs and condi• ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at tions through consecutive assignments, attractive wages and work training modules that improve their skills and qualifications. • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy Ensuring transparent and ethical practices, the Supply Chain • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises has become increasingly important in recent years. In 2012, we issued a Supplier Code of Conduct and questionnaire for Human & Labour Rights practices are fundamental for our major suppliers to ensure that our supply chain adheres Adecco’s successful business operations with employees, to the highest ethical principles. In 2015, we have further associates and candidates as well as client companies and strengthened the focus on our major suppliers by working its supply chain. together with EcoVadis 4 through its collaborative platform which provides access to the sustainability scorecards of our To strengthen our role as the industry leader, it is our priority main suppliers. EcoVadis ratings will further support us to to assist our employees in achieving their full individual potenreduce risks, as well as drive performance and eco-innovation tial. Talent Management has been a critical component of the in their supply chain. HR strategy within the Adecco Group for many years, through a collaborative effort between the Group initiatives and the Social dimension: Through the yearly release of our dedicated local programmes in the countries where we operate. Our Communication on Progress (CoP), which is published on our ultimate goal is to attract and retain the best talent and to website and submitted to the UN Global Compact, we report ensure that our leaders can continue to deliver on the overall on the processes and tools used to identify and prioritise critiAdecco Group strategy. The four components of the Adecco cal social issues within our business and CSR strategies. We Group Talent Management framework are: identification of apply the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporthigh potentials, development, performance management, and ing Framework as it helps us to measure and report transparfinally, succession planning. For our candidates and associently and with accountability on our CSR performance. The ates, the acquisition and ongoing development of vocational materiality matrix according to ISO 26000 and GR4 guidelines and transferable skills is a passport to employment, income enables us to report the sustainability information that matters and a sustainable career in a changing economic and labour to our business and the concerns of our stakeholders and to market environment. Public and private employment services operate in a socially responsible way. In addition, we respond play an important role in developing and delivering training to and are measured by RobecoSAM’s Dow Jones Sustainabiland re-skilling programmes. ity Indices (DJSI) assessment, the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Investor/Climate Change and Supplier Modules, and the Much of our day-to-day work involves integrating people into ­FTS4Good Index Series. the workforce: from unemployment to work; from education to work; from job to job; from temporary to permanent emAs a strategic partner of the World Economic Forum and parployment. Agency work creates jobs that would not otherwise ticipant in their regional events around the globe, we support exist, enhancing companies’ competitiveness and workers’ the Forum’s commitment to improving the state of the world employability. Through select global and local projects and by creating greater choice in the domain of work and by unour three Foundations in France, Italy and Spain, we make locking potential in individuals, enterprises and society in gensure that people at risk of exclusion because of disabilities, eral. age, ethnicity, gender or long-term unemployment get additional support to achieve ’better work, better life’ and have an active role in society. 4 EcoVadis through its collaborative platform provides Supplier Sustainability Ratings for global supply chains. Its CSR assessment methodology that covers 150 purchasing categories, 110 countries, and 21 CSR indicators. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 18 Three Dimensions of CSR Economic cy ien ffic ic E Eco -Ef om fici on better work, en -Ec better life cy cio So Social Environmental Socio-Ecologic Efficiency Economic Social Environmental · Business Excellence · Training & Development · Environmental conscious behaviour · Governance & Compliance · Human & Labour Rights · Reducing consumption · Risk Management & Mitigation · Integration · Lowering CO2 emissions · Customer satisfaction · Diversity & Equal Opportunities · Supporting clients with their environ· Supply Chain management · Health & Safety mental targets The Adecco Group strives to prevent accidents, injuries and Environmental dimension: As the global leader in HR serdiseases and furthers health, safety and well-being in the vices, we are conscious of the environmental impact our opworkplace through special training and measures for employerations can have and the difference we are able to make by ees and associates. We conduct risk assessments of workacting responsibly. We have introduced processes and tools places in order to provide health and safety training to our to identify and prioritise critical environmental issues within associates who are exposed to certain hazards when entering our business operations as part of our focus on improving our new and unfamiliar workplaces. We instruct our employees environmental performance. In order to evaluate and reduce about how to improve their workstation by using the right our carbon footprint in a consistent and structured manner, equipment properly. The Adecco Group strives to meet all stawe measure and report on environmental commitments in the tutory health and safety obligations. In addition, we encourAdecco Group’s CSR Report and CoP as well as through our age our employees and associates through global and local participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the initiatives to engage in sports activities which enhance their RobecoSAM’s Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. The measurephysical and mental well-being. ment of our CO2 emissions is centralised thanks to the ‘myclimate’ database which helps us to break down our environmental impact into Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. We have replaced our environmental policy with more comprehensive environmental guidelines which outline to all stakeholders, where the priorities lie in considering the impact of our daily operations. Our country organisations in Spain, Norway and Sweden are currently ISO 14001 certified. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 19 G4-27 The six strategic focus areas have been defined in alignment with our company strategy and cover the most material issues for our main stakeholders. Our six strategic focus areas Our six strategic focus areas ‘better work, better life’ is our job. Every day, we help compaEnvironmental Responsibility nies succeed by bringing together work teams with skills and attitudes that best match their needs. We ensure that our associates worldwide have the best possible jobs. EmployDiversity & Equal ment is key to a healthy economy and reduces the welfare Opportunities burden. Most importantly, it gives people dignity and purpose through their contributing to society every day. To demonstrate our commitment to ‘better work, better life’ for better work, Human & all our stakeholders and to constantly improve our perfomIntegration better life Labour Rights ance, we participate in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index where in 2014, for the fourth consecutive year, Adecco was recognised as one of the top-scoring companies in the Commercial & Professional Services Industry Group. In addition, we Team, Training & Health & respond to Investor and Supplier modules in the Carbon DisDevelopment Safety closure Project and to the FTSE4Good Index Series review. Since 2003, we have submitted our Communication on Progress (CoP) on a yearly basis to the UN Global Compact and apply the GRI Guidelines. Corporate social responsibility for Adecco is our responsibility towards the three dimensions of sustainability: economic, social, and environmental. Team, Training & Development: Currently, around 7 million Our goal is to integrate all economic, social, and environmenjobs don’t get filled despite high unemployment rates. This is tal aspects into our CSR strategy so that we fulfil the requireespecially true in European countries such as Greece, Spain, ments of each of the three dimensions without compromising Italy, and France but also in the USA, Australia, and Japan. on any one of them. At the same time, our strategy supports This is to a large extent due to a mismatch between available the challenges and demands of our core business, taking into skills and educational qualifications and the requirements of account global trends in our industry as well as requests and the business world. Adecco and its industry can contribute to feedback from our employees, candidates and associates, solving these issues by retraining and upgrading workers’ clients, and the broader public. skills and through such initiatives as our Candidate International Mobility programme. HR services companies help peoOur corporate social responsibility reflects our business values ple enhance their employability through career counselling, and goals, which is why we report on the following six straeducation, and continuous training, connecting people with tegic focus areas, as they have a major impact and value for job opportunities globally. our Company and society in the current labour market environment. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 20 G4-27 Integration: Every company’s workforce needs people with 1. T he state duty to protect against human rights abuses by diverse skills sets and from all backgrounds with regard to third parties, including business abilities, age, ethnicity, or gender. Integrating people into the 2. T he corporate responsibility to respect Human Rights workforce through agency work and making companies’ workforces more diverse is a central part of our business. Jobs 3. G  reater access by victims to effective remedy, both judicial offer people work experience and an income. Consecutive and non-judicial. The Guiding Principles on Business & assignments provide people with a variety of work experiHuman Rights define what companies and governments ences, enhance their adaptability to different roles and teams, should do to avoid and address possible negative human and serve as a stepping stone to a permanent position for rights impacts by business. In the meantime, a number individuals who otherwise could become marginalised. of guiding materials were published and the development of national action plans is addressed by the CSR peer reDiversity and Equal Opportunities: Engagement with our emview process with EU Member States. ployees and associates is one of six strategic priorities for the Adecco Group. Our employees and associates are key conIn October 2011, the European Commission published a new tributors to our success. Therefore, our approach to diversity policy on CSR for the period 2011–2014 in order to create conand equal opportunities and our open company culture help ditions favourable to sustainable growth, responsible business the Adecco Group to attract, motivate, and retain talented behaviour and durable employment generation in the medium employees and associates. The success of the Sochi Olympic and long term. As a result, in June 2013, the European Comand Paralympic Winter Games 2014 was an example of what mission issued Sector Guides on Implementing the UN Guiddiverse teams can accomplish. The team – which grew from 6 ing Principles on Business and Human Rights for three busito 109 people in one year – managed to screen over 112,000 ness sectors including a guide for the Employment and applications, conducted 36,000 interviews and offered jobs to Recruitment Agencies’ sector. Thanks to a multi-stakeholder 5,330 candidates. Only 8% of the candidates came from consultation, including Ciett and its members, the content of Sochi, 62% were recruited from other cities in Russia and the the guide is balanced and reflects the real issues faced by our remaining 30% were non-Russian candidates from 25 counindustry. Adecco has published guidelines on Human & Latries. Adecco Russia hired 24% young people who were under bour Rights which reflect the size and maturity of our comthe age of 25 years and 15% who were over the age of 45 pany. They provide guidance and raise awareness amongst years. 61% were between 25 and 45 years old. Adecco enall our stakeholders. sured that all associates received decent wages, housing for three to seven months and a partial compensation for travelEnvironmental responsibility: Since 2010, environmentally ling to Sochi. conscious management, monitoring, and reduction is carried out in the following areas: Health & Safety: We are committed to the health and safety of our employees and of the associates working with our cli1. E lectrical energy consumption ents. Our industry is unique. We do not directly control the 2. M  obility: company car mileages and air miles flown workplace of our associates. Therefore, we must properly se3. O  ffice supply: paper and toner consumption lect, train, and equip our associates before assigning them 4. O  ffice equipment: computers bought and replaced to a job. It is of utmost importance to ensure that our clients adhere to the highest safety standards for associates to conThis applies to 15 of our largest markets and emerging marduct their tasks in a safe and healthy workplace with adekets as of 2014 (France, North America, UK & Ireland, Gerquate supervision. For our employees, we encourage a many, Japan, Italy, Netherlands, Belgium, Norway, Sweden, healthy lifestyle through our Win4Youth programme whereby Spain, Singapore, Switzerland, Argentina and Mexico) as well all employees around the world can ensure a Group donation as to the joint global and Adecco Switzerland headquarters. to children in need by taking part in sports activities. The countries represent over 85% of our business operations Human & Labour Rights: In recent years, human and labour in terms of revenues. By reducing our CO2 emissions, we rights have become an increasingly important aspect to busiwill save costs due to the lower consumption of resources nesses and within corporate social responsibility. On 16 June which will benefit the Company’s overall performance as well 2011, the UN Human Rights Council endorsed the ”Guiding as our clients’ through the services they receive from us. Principles on Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations ’Protect, Respect and Remedy’ Framework” proposed by UN Special Representative John Ruggie which rests on three pillars: CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 21 G4-EC8 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Economic dimension Global programmes and initiatives manage supply chain CSR risks and stimulate innovation with our providers which in many cases are also our clients. Excellence Awards In 2014, Adecco Group Excellence Awards All employees of the Adecco Group are asked to perform their were presented to nine winning teams recognised for the outbusiness activities with the highest level of integrity and comstanding results they achieved living our five core values of pliance within the laws and regulations of the markets where team spirit, customer focus, passion, responsibility and entreAdecco operates. This also reflects our expectations towards preneurship. Adecco Group Spain won the overall Excellence our suppliers. We recognise the variety of legal and cultural Award as well as the International Sales Award for their outenvironments, in which our suppliers operate, therefore our standing performance, while Adecco Belux (Belgium and LuxSupplier Code of Conduct provides a framework of minimum emburg) were recognised for their employee engagement – requirements, which are applicable in the vast majority of situone of Adecco’s strategic priorities. The 2014 award for Service ations. In 2013, we increased our focus on Bribery & CorrupExcellence was this time presented to a colleague from Adection prevention. Our employees are expected to perform a co France. Other winners included Adecco France and Italy, high-level check on the supplier’s reputation with regards to Adecco Asia and Adecco Poland as the best Emerging Market. Anti-Bribery & Corruption. Last but not least, our JV FESCO Adecco in China was awarded as the best Emerging Market Zone. Enterprise Risk Management The enterprise risk management process at the Adecco Group has strategic and operational dimensions. Whilst the focus is on analysing, managing, and mitigating risks, we also aim to identify opportunities for business development. The process is overseen and approved by the Board of Directors. Adecco’s Risk Management Steering Committee supports the countries when identifying risks and has defined 15 overarching risk categories, which can have a significant impact on Adecco’s results and reputation. The defined risk categories are divided into externally and internally driven risks. Our risk management activities consist of risk identification, risk assessment, risk response, and risk moniTeam Adecco Spain celebrating their two awards for the overall best perfortoring. All countries and global business lines perform regular mance and excellence in International Sales during the Adeccco Leaders risk assessments on the risk categories that can have a sigConference 2015. nificant impact on their operations, quantifying both Gross Risk and Net Risk. Gross Risk is an estimate of the likelihood of Focus on our suppliers In July 2012, we published our Suprisk occurrence and the potential impact on the financial replier Code of Conduct as well as a supplier questionnaire. sults in the worst-case scenario. Net Risk is an estimate of the They are distributed to our major suppliers in order to ensure likelihood of risk occurrence and the potential impact on the they adhere to the highest standards. The Code of Conduct financial results taking into account the risk mitigation effect of describes the expectations of the Adecco Group towards its Management Controls. More information can also be found in suppliers, vendors, contractors or any other organisation with our Annual Report 2014. whom Adecco conducts business. In 2015, Adecco Group signed up for a Corporate subscription with EcoVadis to further CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 22 G4-49; G4-50; G4-57; G4-58; G4-EC8; G4-HR2; G4-H3 Completed online training on fundamental ethical business practices (% of all employees) 2013–2015 100 Adecco Code of Conduct Business Ethics: An Introduction 95 Conflicts of Interest 90 Information Security 85 Bribery & Corruption 1 Global Health & Safety 80 Global Competition 2015 2014 2013 Insider Trading (launched in 2014) 1 More details shown in respective chart on page 23. NB: According to usual staff turnover, the actual training completion rate stays always below the ideal of 100%. ACE training & reporting The Adecco Compliance & Ethics GTCI 2015 – The second edition of the Global Talent Com(ACE) training is our nine-module online training programme petitiveness Index In January 2015, the 2014 edition of the for employees on the following topics: Code of Conduct; Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI) was released durBusiness Ethics; Bribery & Corruption prevention; Global Health & ing the World Economic Forum. The study, which focuses on Safety; Resolving Conflicts of Interest; Global Competition; the topic of ‘growing talent for today and tomorrow’, covering Information Security & E-mail and Insider Trading. It prepares our 93 national economies, across all groups of income and levels employees to handle ethical and legal challenges which they of development, was produced in collaboration with the Humay encounter in their day-to-day work. All employees are man Capital Leadership Institute of Singapore (HCLI) and required to complete six of the mentioned training modules. Adecco Group. As in 2013, GTCI rankings are dominated by The module on Global Competition is specifically targeted to European countries, with only six non-European countries in Sales professionals and the Health & Safety module to branch the top 20: Singapore (2), the United States (4), Canada (5), managers. Australia (9), New Zealand (16) and Japan (20). The GTCI The newest module on Insider Trading, launched in March measures a nation’s competitiveness based on the quality of 2014, takes into account the revised Swiss rules on insider talent it can produce, attract and retain. The 2014 index chamtrading and market manipulation in line with existing standpions include a significant number of small high-income econards in the EU. The Adecco Compliance & Ethics (ACE) Reportomies including Switzerland at number one, followed by Sining Tools are designed to assist employees, associates and gapore and Luxembourg in second and third place, other stakeholders in reporting actual or potential violations of respectively. The GTCI covers national and organisational pathe law or Adecco Group policies, procedures or of the Code rameters and generates insights to inspire action. Based on of Conduct. Any stakeholder may report to the Board of Direcfeedback and analysis following the release of GTCI 2013, this tors allegations of fraud and violations of the law, the Group year’s index analyses 65 variables (up from 45 last year). policies, the procedures or ethical standards of conduct by the Visit the GTCI website Adecco Group or any of its employees or agents. Follow on Twitter: #GTCI2014 Download the GTCI 2014 infographic ACE reporting Watch the GTCI 2014 video graphic Allocation of reported issues in 2014 (in %) Employment Practices Internal Workplace Conduct Other (i.e. fraud, internal business operations, regulatory non compliance, conflict of interest) CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 23 G4-57; G4-EC8; G4-SO4; G4-SO4 Completed online training on Bribery & Corruption prevention (% of all employees in question) 1 100 80 60 May 2013 40 May 2014 20 April 2015 1 pe pe ica pa n c a di ro ro er ifi In Eu Eu Am Ja ac rn n -P te er tin ia es st La As W Ea 1 USA and Canada run their own ACE awareness training, not the global one, thus not included in this statistics. NB: Due to normal staff turnover, the actual training completion rate always stays below the ideal of 100%. Corporate Governance – Remuneration In accordance with Bribery & Corruption prevention and detection Companies the new Swiss Ordinance Against Excessive Compensation in like Adecco doing business globally are under increased presPublic Corporations (the “Ordinance”) which came into force sure to improve their anti-corruption and bribery compliance on 1 January 2014, Adecco has introduced the election by the programmes in order to prevent and detect potentially imshareholders of the Chairman, the members of the Compenproper payments that put the company at risk. Adecco’s Bribsation Committee and the Independent Proxy Representative ery & Corruption prevention and detection programme has as of the AGM 2014. Adecco has conducted the required yearbeen developed to ensure the Group’s compliance with applily individual elections of its Board of Directors for the last ten cable legislation while remaining flexible to business needs years. The Company has been committed to following best and cultural differences. It expresses our attitude towards practices in Corporate Governance for many years. AccordBribery & Corruption in all its forms: It is one of zero tolerance. ingly, the Remuneration Report has also been subject to an Fundamental to the programme is the ‘tone from the top’ by advisory vote annually. As of the AGM 2015 on April 21, in line which business leaders are expected to provide visible and with the requirements of the Ordinance, Adecco submitted to explicit support and commitment to the programme. Employits shareholders for approval: the maximum remuneration of ees and any third party acting on Adecco’s behalf may not the Board of Directors for the upcoming office period (AGM to provide anything of value to either government officials or priAGM) and the maximum total remuneration of the Executive vate parties to obtain or retain business or a business advanCommittee for the next fiscal year. In continuation of its existtage. Similarly, employees may not request or accept bribes or ing practice, Adecco undertakes in its ‘Articles of Incorporaother improper financial advantages. The Group Policy on tion’ to submit the annual Remuneration Report to an advisory Bribery & Corruption prevention has been approved by the vote of its shareholders also in the future. As a result, the Adecco Board of Directors. The Bribery & Corruption prevenshareholders will keep the possibility to examine the remution and detection programme includes a policy, risk assessneration actually paid against the maximum total amount that ment, education/guidance and training, due diligence procewas approved by the General Meeting and to voice their opindures and audit-testing processes. ion. In 2015, shareholders approved the maximum total We are committed to doing business lawfully, ethically and amount of remuneration of the Board of Directors for the office with integrity. A guide provides employees with a broad unperiod from the AGM 2015 until the AGM 2016 as well as the derstanding of Adecco’s five bribery and corruption prevention maximum total amount of remuneration of the Executive Comprinciples: mittee for the fiscal year 2016, with 96% and 95% favourable 1. Do not offer or accept bribes votes respectively. The Remuneration Report 2014, which in2. Understand the policies and corruption risks cludes details of the actual remuneration paid, was approved 3. Respond by shareholders in an advisory vote with 88% of votes in fa4. Document vour. 5. Report We are convinced that the new provisions of the ’Articles of These principles should be followed along with the relevant Incorporation’ as adopted by the AGM 2014, adequately local management policies that apply in addition to specific meet the requirements of the Ordinance and Adecco as the work responsibilities. world’s leading company in its industry with an international executive management team. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 24 G4-26; G4-57 In order to further show our CEO level commitment, we have economic recession, how to re-enter the job market and job signed the World Economic Forum ‘Partnering Against Corruption security. The French associate board is not limited to a certain Initiative’ (PACI), a global platform centred on the PACI Principles age group, but includes 150 associates between 21 and 60 for Countering Corruption The initiative creates a more visible, years old, from all backgrounds, rural and urban settings. dynamic and agenda-setting platform, working with committed They work in both professional and general staffing jobs. business leaders, international organisations and governments to address corruption, transparency and emerging-market risks. Data security & protection The Adecco Group has implementComprising nearly 100 active companies, PACI is one of the ed an IT Policy Framework around legacy Sarbanes-Oxley constrongest cross-industry collaborative efforts at the Forum. trols, called RIM (Records & Information Management) which specify the protection, the sustainability and the quality of the Customer Satisfaction (G4-26) The Global Satisfaction Survey information. This Framework has nine Policies and 38 Stand(GSS) was introduced in July 2008 across the Adecco Group as ards which are aligned to both ISO27001 and COBIT. Additiona mandatory tool to measure client, associate and candidate ally, Adecco has in place a Global Data Protection Policy (and satisfaction and as a way to anticipate potential business other local Policies) with special emphasis on personal data. risks. Not only does the survey measure satisfaction, it is also The purpose of this global Policy is to provide an adequate level used as a way to assess potential market-specific business of protection for all personal data collected and used by risks. It aims to provide the Adecco Group leadership team Adecco, on or offline, or by manual or automatic means, inwith strategic insights on customer needs and wants and our cluding digital recording (audio or video) through different competitive positioning in the market to capitalise on our requirements including the compliance of the IT Policy Framestrengths, address our shortfalls and shape our service delivwork. ery. The goal was to implement an effective measurement system that enables systematic, fast measurements of client, Select country initiatives and programmes associate and candidate satisfaction through web surveys at country level. For the 2014 reporting period, we tracked the satisfaction of our clients, associates and permanent placement candidates from 43 business units in 28 countries. To date, 15 brands of the Adecco Group are participating in the GSS covering over 90% of Adecco’s business. Countries are encouraged to add their country-specific questions to the survey. The GSS is also a major source of information for the preparation and roll-out of global strategic initiatives (e.g. Global Market Segmentation Programme; Global Branding Project). The GSS methodology is a key element to measure the success and impact of such global actions from an exterSpanish Business leaders and members of the OIE joined together to find nal perspective as well as to derive concrete actions ensuring solutions on how to combat youth unemployment. a continuous improvement cycle across the globe. The Observatory for Innovation and Employment: OIE In Getting close to Gen Y – the Adecco associate boards 2014, the ‘Observatorio de Innovación en el Empleo’ (OIE) was Knowing and understanding one of your main stakeholder created by Adecco Spain as an incubator for creative initiatives groups is key. That is why Adecco has created its associate and actions in employment. Its goal is to foster societal change boards. The global associate board has 200 Gen Y (18to 26thanks to the collaboration of private companies from all secyear-old) members from five regions, 19 different countries tors, looking for solutions to improve the labour market situation coming from rural and urban settings, with diverse educationin Spain, which despite reforms is still challenging for many al levels. The platform allows us to be in close contact with people and companies. Adecco promotes the OIE as an initiative representatives of Gen Y, understand their perception of our for action not reflection together with its 25 member companies. company, detect trends, exchange ideas, know about their The first topic which was addressed in February 2014 was youth needs and wishes on the ‘Future of work’ and inspire our emunemployment still peaking at 52,4% in Spain, and the discrepployees. The interaction which is structured around the four ancy between the skills universities teach and what companies key themes ‘celebrating life’, ‘live and learn’, ‘social bonding’ are looking for in their future employees. A survey conducted and ‘onor offline, there is no line’ will support Adecco to be amongst university students showed that eight out of ten youngclose to the next generation of colleagues, candidates and sters have low expectations of being able to work in Spain and associates and to develop future-proof solutions and services. they are willing to develop their professional career abroad. In France, a local associate board was launched to address OIE website the most relevant labour market topics for French people: the Watch the OIE video CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 25 G4-EC8 Generation Z – Getting ready for Asia’s next workforce It is important to know our main stakeholders – our employees, candidates and associates. That is why Adecco Asia1 conducted a survey on Generation Z (Gen Z), people born between 1995 and 2009. Asia’ s tight labour markets and low unemployment mean that companies must continually review how to effectively recruit and retain the best people in their workforce. After Gen X and Y, Gen Z has emerged on the radar screen as part of the group entering the workforce. Adecco Asia conducted 948 online surveys in nine markets1 in January 2014 amongst Gen Z (50% male and female) representatives. Gen Z seems to be the most disruptive generation. Instead of waiting for ideas to filter through the generations that came Youngsters on their way to find out what their dream job is in the Adecco before them, Gen Z are go-getters and trendsetters. There are session held during the four-day event ’Osons la France’. also interesting regional differences. In South East Asia, for example, Gen Z is more confident than their counterparts in Groupe Adecco France founding partner of ‘Osons la Greater China and North Asia about how well their education France’ and the first Economic Summit To challenge France – will prepare them for the workplace. A common denominator this is essentially what the Forum called ‘Osons la France’ was is that social media has demolished all barriers to communiall about. A four-day event to demonstrate that France is a cate about brands and products, meaning that corporations country that promotes innovation and creates employment as potential employers will be more intensively researched opportunities despite the stagnant economy, that the country and scrutinised by job seekers than ever before. has been experiencing over the past years. The goals of the Read more summit were to reconcile the French people and to foster a Infographic on Gen Y vs. Z Adecco US positive spirit amongst everyone which in the current environment. Groupe Adecco France as a founding partner was preAdecco UK & Ireland: Stemming the gap Adecco Group’s sent with a booth providing information on how the staffing Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI) highlighted the industry can positively contribute to innovation through a varipotential of the UK as a hub for many forward-thinking comety of services, for example the ‘CDI intérimaire’, a new perpanies, attracting bright young talent from across the world. manent contract in France, which provides associates of emWomen make up nearly half of Britain’s workforce, but only ployment agencies with a monthly income, even if they are one in ten have a position in Science, Technology, Engineering not placed into an assignment. Adecco also advocated the and Mathematics (STEM) fields. While the advancement of importance and benefits of a diverse workforce including peoSTEM skills is fundamental to the future success of the country, ple from all backgrounds, ages and with different abilities. In encouraging more women to pursue a career in STEM needs addition to client meetings, a mobile App guiding people to to be part of the solution as we simply cannot afford to be their dream job and candidate job dating fair was organised using only half of the nation’s brains. Adecco Group UK & Irewith 100 candidates and 10 clients resulting in an 87% match land embarked on an independent research study to undersuccess rate. A session to explain and talk about the econstand why this ‘leaky pipeline’ persists and establish how we omy, its terms and interdependencies for children was held to can encourage young girls to study STEM subjects and ensure create awareness among the younger members of society. they pursue a career in the sector. The beginning of the Forum was dedicated to the first Economic Summit which during two days brought together over Adecco UK & Ireland’s previous research ‘Unlocking Britain’s 30 speakers including business leaders, politicians and acaPotential’, showed what actions should be taken to tap into demia from a variety of countries, amongst them also the the great potential of the overall workforce. But it was essenGroupe Adecco France CEO. tial to understand how to mine a wider talent pool for STEM Osons la France website roles and above all challenge gender bias perceptions, such Economic Summit website as STEM being ‘just for boys’. Group Adecco France blog Read more Infographic on STEM skills Adecco US 1 Adecco Asia includes the following 9 countries: China, S. Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 26 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Social dimension Win4Youth This very successful employee engagement programme has grown from strength to strength over the past five years. Colleagues all over the globe take part in sports events, united behind a great cause that allows us to live our values to the full and embrace a healthy lifestyle. In our free time, we clock Three out of the 86 Win4Youth ambassadors at the finish line of the mythical climb of the ´Col du Tourmalet´ in 2014. up kilometres and turn them into a Group donation to foun­ dations supporting youth development, giving youngsters in need a better start in life and work. Our associates and clients Win4Youth. They all lived an unforgettable and rewarding are also warmly invited to join us. experience working with the young people and sharing their expertise of the world of work. In 2014, our chosen sport was cycling with a goal of 2 million kilometres by year end. As the highlight event, on 30 August, Lee Hecht Harrison (LHH) won the race, recording the most 86 Adecco Win4Youth ambassadors from 35 countries cycled kilometres per person – a total of 1,042 kilometres – and Japan up the ´Col du Tourmalet´ in the French Pyrenees – the reranked first overall with an outstanding 230,377 kilometres nowned climb which is part of the Tour de France. Over 29,500 collected. An amazing result achieved by our colleagues, assoAdecco colleagues worldwide joined the cause in 2014 along ciates and clients, from all our countries and brands. with 2,616 associates and 10,540 clients. This enabled us to exceed our highly ambitious target with a final total of 2.2 Since the launch of Win4Youth in 2010, sports events have million kilometres. Five foundations, working with children and been organised in all our countries in running, biking and teenagers in Cambodia, Argentina, Portugal, Poland, and Italy swimming contributing to Group donations each year to youth benefited from our sports activities: A total donation of USD employment and development programmes around the 375,000 was made by the Adecco Group. The godfather of world. By the end of 2014, a total of more than 1.7 million Swiss Win4Youth 2014 was Alessandro Zanardi, a former Formula francs have been donated by the Adecco Group and country One driver as well as Paralympic hand biker, winning both organisations over the five years of the programme’s existgold and silver medals at the London Paralympic Games 2012. ence. Win4Youth Kick-off Camp 2014 For the first time this year, we organised volunteering weeks in Win4Youth 2014 ‘Col du Tourmalet’ video the five foundations for ten colleagues from the countries and business lines that contributed the most kilometres to CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 27 “ There is something very special in the way Adecco treats its people. As a Win4Youth ambassador, I once again had the chance to experience that Adecco is ‘The Best Place to Work’. If you are ready to commit and contribute on a high level, if you are ready to go the extra mile – Adecco offers unlimited opportunities.” Virpi Ojakangas, Director HR & Development, Adecco Finland G4-EC8 Global engagement Win4Youth Win4Youth activities in more than 60 countries Win4Youth performance (in km) Nr. of events, involved clients and employees Sports activity: running, cycling, swimming 35,000 2014 2,500,000 Beyond target 2013 30,000 Target 2012 2,000,000 25,000 2011 20,000 1,500,000 2010 15,000 1,000,000 10,000 500,000 5,000 Events Clients Employees Cycled Run Triathlon Cycled Run 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Charitable donations from Win4Youth As every year, we have our Win4Youth godparent. In 2015, we Donations (in USD) for integration initiatives 2010–2014 are fortunate to have a three-time Olympian in triathlon, gold medallist in London 2012 as well as a five-time European 500,000 Champion in the role of godmother to motivate all employees! 400,000 Nicola Spirig, from Switzerland is a true inspiration: An elite athlete for more than 15 years, with a degree in law and 300,000 mother of a small son. We are very proud to have her as part 200,000 of the team! Nicola will give her full suppport by participating 100,000 in the triathlon in Mallorca to support our ambassadors and motivate all our colleagues around the globe. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Win4Youth video Kick-off Camp 2015 In 2015, the sixth year of Win4Youth, triathlon is our chosen sport, which means that all colleagues can clock up kilometres by swimming, cycling and running. This year’s goal is to achieve more than 1,750,000 kilometres! The Adecco Win4Youth 2015 team of 81 ambassadors are training to face the ŠKODA Triathlon in Palma de Mallorca. This is the largest triathlon circuit in Spain. Our 31,000 colleagues, our associates and clients in more than 60 countries will be contributing to the ambitious goal and ensure a donation to selected eight foundations in Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Colombia, Greece and the US which were chosen by Adecco colleagues, thanks to the global selection process that we introduced in 2014. Nicola Spirig, Win4Youth Godmother 2015, wins the women‘s triathlon gold medal at the London 2012 Olympic Games after one of the closest finishes in Olympic history. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 29 “To be a Win4Youth ambassador is a responsibility towards Adecco but also towards all the foundations that count on us. The programme epitomises our values of Passion, Team Spirit and Responsibility.“ Delmindo Martins, Branch Manager Adecco Switzerland Select country initiatives and programmes Ajilon cyclists take to the streets of Perth @ APPEA The APPEA (Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration Asso‘La Vuelta’ by Adecco Spain After the global Win4Youth kickciation) conference is the biggest oil & gas conference in Ausoff event in April 2014, Adecco Spain decided to contribute tralia with over 3,000 delegates from the Asia-Pacific region. kilometres through the tour of Spain by organising Win4Youth The 2014 conference was held in Perth and Ajilon, sponsored cycling and spinning events in the following 15 cities: Madrid, a number of events, including the APPEA Cycle Rides & Tour. A Valencia, Barcelona, Malaga, Bilbao, San Sebastián, Vitoria, 70-kilometre ride took place on Sunday, 6 April, and a 10-kiloZaragoza, Pamplona, Las Palmas, Sta. Cruz de Tenerife, Lanmetre ride on 7 and 8 April 2014. zarote, Vigo, Santander and Torrelavega. Thanks to the fan37 cyclists from the oil & gas industry took to the streets of tastic participation of 1,400 people, riding their bikes or spinPerth on Sunday, riding a total of 2,590 kilometres. The early ning, more than 32,250 kilometres were achieved between morning rides on Monday and Tuesday added another 350 30 May and 2 June 2014. kilometres. In addition, at the Ajilon conference stand, the team had organised for stationary bikes to encourage conference delegates to join in as well. In total, 3,083 kilometres for Win4Youth were collected, creating stronger bonds with conference visitors, amongst the team and encouraging physical activity. It was a fantastic exposure for Win4Youth, with many cyclists asking about the initiative and the charities supported. Every contribution counts! The children of our Adecco colleagues in Spain get to know the Win4Youth spirit by participating actively. Additionally, Adecco Spain organised a series of sports and other activities such as cart races, table football and handicrafts for the children of our Adecco colleagues. The goal was to get them excited about and engaged in Win4Youth and to be part of the experience together with their parents. The Ajilon Australian colleagues who organised the Win4Youth client cycling event during the APPEA conference in Perth. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 30 Top performers of Asia run and swim The top Performers‘ Club and Client Champions Winners were running for Win4Youth early in the morning in Dubai at the Adecco Asia Performers‘ Club. This is indeed a great way to start the day for the region’s top performers. One swimming and two running events were organised over the three days. In the future, our Regional Head of Asia Pacific will arrange a Win4Youth event at every regional event. The Programme has become part of the culture of the Asia region. Adecco Asia‘s top performers during one of their Win4Youth runs. Adecco Chile engages associates An amazing event was organised at the Adecco University in the city of Marbella in A proud team of clients and Adecco cyclists at the Passo dello Stelvio in Italy, June 2015 with 150 associates and employees. 80 participants adding funds to one of the chosen foundations: ’Beyond the Moon’ in 2014. decided to complete 8 kilometres running and walking and 70 took up the challenge on a bike, collecting a total of 1,480 kiloCycling for ‘Beyond the Moon’ In June 2015, the two former metres for Win4Youth and the children in need. Win4Youth ambassadors from Adecco Belgium headed with a delegation of colleagues and clients to Bormio, Italy. Their mission to collect kilometers by cycling through the long, steep and snowy mountains of Lombardia and bring the ‘Beyond the Moon’ flag to the top of the Passo dello Stelvio (2758 m). ‘Beyond the Moon‘ was one of the chosen foundations in 2014 that Win4Youth supported. The organisation offers families with a seriously ill child the opportunity to enjoy a memorable, cost-free vacation in a child-friendly environment and to spend carefree quality time together, far away from hospitals and treatments. Adecco Chile's 150 associates and colleagues who during a course at the Adecco University in the city of Marbella (Chile) contributed 1,480 kilometres Win4Youth website for Win4Youth. Win4Youth on Facebook Win4Youth on Twitter CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 31 G4-EC8 “I’m very proud that with this initiative, we can contribute to the success of youngsters in their job search.” Otto Vég, Country Manager Adecco Hungary Adecco Way to Work™ Unemployment, especially youth unemployment, remains alarming, notably in Europe, which is only at the start of a slow and bumpy recovery. Worldwide, more than 200 million people are without work – almost 40% of them are 25 or younger. At the same time, eight million jobs are vacant in the US and Europe alone. In the rest of the world too, skills shortages and talent mismatches are worsening, damaging human capital and productivity. Adecco’s clear goal with Adecco Way to Work™ is to tackle youth unemployRegional Head Federico Vione together with Federico Sattanino, Adecco Way ment actively. to Work™ ambassador, and a student during the Street Day 2015 in Italy. Adecco Way to Work™ is a global initiative involving Adecco The Adecco Experience This programme tackles youth unememployees in more than 50 countries around the world. Our ployment by offering young people quality internships and goal is to address the mismatch of skills and experience that work-based training opportunities that help them build up is proving the main obstacle for young people entering the their CVs and increase their employability. workforce. The Adecco Way to Work™ initiative consists of In 2014, the format of the work experience was adapted so three programmes: the Street Day, the Adecco Experience and that more young people could get the opportunity of a onethe ’CEO for One Month’. month internship. Until 12 June 2014, talents could apply for 100 Adecco Experiences in over 50 countries. Adecco partStreet Day On 26 March 2015, for the third year in a row, nered with 80 leading brands such as IKEA, Microsoft, Nestlé, more than 7,300 Adecco employees in over 1,130 cities Adidas, Honda, HP, Haribo, BMW, Olympic Commitee, IBM, in 54 countries hit the streets to help combat youth unemployHenkel, Pepsico and Nespresso to make this possible, ment reaching an estimated 1.2 million people. Some 470 and received very positive feedback. We were able to place schools and universities were visited and a total of 1,000 90 youngsters in one-month paid job experiences. The candicoaching sessions were held, including more than 1,700 dates were given the chance to learn key skills in a wide Adecco branch open days. The sessions included tips on best range of roles in some of the most exciting companies in the practice, advice on interview techniques and CV preparation, world. The programme’s biggest success is that more than as well as motivational letters. 50% of the youngsters who participated in the Adecco Experience are now employed and all of them are also part of the Adecco’s 2015 Street Day took to almost 2.2 million the numAdecco Way to Work Ambassador Community. ber of people reached since launch in 2013. Watch the Adecco Way to Work™ Street Day 2015 video CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 32 Adecco Way to Work™ 2015 ADECCO EXPERIENCE STREET DAY CEO FOR ONE MONTH • Commitment to provide youngsters • 26 March: Global Adecco Street Day • Local CEOs for one month appointed with quality internships and in 54 countries in 34 Adecco countries during July work-based training opportunities • Workshops, career advice and and August 2015 • Over 1,800 opportunities provided coaching sessions to job seekers in • Top 10 country CEOs attend the boot by July 2015 public spaces, schools and camp to run for Adecco Group ’CEO universities for One Month’ • Over 1,2 million people reached • Adecco Group ’CEO for One Month’ in 2015 on assignment during September/ October 2015 Our challenge for 2015 between January and December is to increase the number of opportunities, providing a minimum of 1,000 quality internships for youngsters in over 60 countries where Adecco is present. To make this commitment real, Adecco is asking for the active involvement of its clients at local and global level, tracking results through monthly reports on the Adecco Way to Work™ digital platform. Each one of these youngsters is part of the Adecco Way to Work™ movement, as a statement of Adecco’s commitment to help solve youth unemployment in collaboration with partner brands. A special focus is put on the quality of the internship experience in terms of length (minimum one month or 160 hours); fair compensation; it must be a learning experience which is inspiring and valuable to the youngster; and it has to be concluded with a feedback and final evaluation process. Adecco is offering its services with regards to selection and recruitment process for free. Watch the Adecco Experience 2014 teaser video Adecco Experience website Steven Pauels, an Adecco Experience 2014 participant in Belgium, loves the outdoor and found the perfect match with A.S. Adventure, where he did his one-month internship as store manager. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 33 “We are here to support our young gen­ erations to help them understand the way to work and find job opportunities. Adecco Way to Work™ 2015, LET‘S GO!” Adecco Japan colleague “As a CEO, you have to be able to develop, manage and energise your team. That’s why a CEO is a Chief Energising Officer. Energy comes from passion, being passionate about your company, your teams, your customers.“ Nico Reeskens, Country Manager Adecco Belgium Global engagement Adecco Way to Work™ ‘CEO for One Month‘ In 2014, the Adecco Experience candidates were encouraged to apply for a unique opportunity: to Adecco Way to Work™ Street Day – People reached become the ‘CEO of Adecco for one month’. 46 put themselves forward for the challenge to work under the direct supervision 1,400,000 of the Adecco Group CEO. Thanks to their performance on the job, the host companies’ evaluation and the way they shared 1,200,000 their experience with their generation through social media, five young women and five men all between the ages of 17 1,000,000 and 28 earned their place in the final selection phase – a Boot Camp. The participants from the Netherlands, Slovakia, UK, 800,000 2015 Taiwan, Italy, France, US, Germany, Colombia and Spain faced 600,000 2014 a series of interviews, business assignments and challenges to test their soft skills and fit for the role. 2013 400,000 Paola Ospina, a 26-year-old Colombian was named ’CEO for One Month’ 2014. Paola was mentored by Adecco Group CEO 200,000 from 30 August to 30 September. One of her first assignments during the intense CEO experience started with the visit of a client event, held during the Davis Cup 2014 semi-final between Switzerland and Italy in Geneva. After successfully comAdecco Way to Work™ Street Day – pleting her assignment, Paola was offered a job and is now Activities and engagement working as part of our Adecco USA Marketing team. 2,000 1,800 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 Paolo Ospina with the semi-finalists Switzerland and Italy of the Davis Nr. of Nr. of schools/ Branches Cup, that the Adecco Group sponsors, in her role as ’CEO for One Month’. cities with universities providing activities cooperating ’Open House’ ’CEO for One Month’ 2014 Boot Camp video ’CEO for One Month’ 2014 Candidate videos 2013 2014 2015 CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 35 G4-EC8 “This was the greatest opportunity that ever happened to me. It changed my life. I’m so grateful to Adecco and wish other people could have the same opportunity.“ Paola Ospina, Adecco Experience participant, ’CEO for One Month’ 2014 and current Adecco USA employee Select country initiatives and programmes Groupe Adecco France Street Day On 26 March, in 36 cities around France, our teams were on the street to provide advice and support on how to prepare for job interviews, write a compelling CV and how to find opportunities and never give up – even in a challenging labour market. Over 800 branches held open days and 1,972 employees were out on the streets to approach people actively by providing flyers and advice. In total 598,800 people were reached online, on the streets and by e-mail, including 6,300 students. Some 90 schools and universities were contacted and 1,157 job offers posted online. Around 926 events and activities took place. Amongst them, a job dating was organised jointly between Some of the ten finalists from the ’CEO for One Month’ Boot Camp 2014 after Spring France, an Adecco subsidiary, and Nestlé at their successfully completing a challenge. Headquarters in Noisiel as part of the ‘Alliance for YOUth’ initiative with 10 candidates. The ‘Alliance for YOUth’, founded by ‘CEO for One Month‘ 2015 This year, between 23 February Nestlé in 2013, brings together leading companies in Europe and 1 May, youngsters from all over the world were able to who recognise that youth unemployment is a major social and apply via the ‘CEO for One Month’ App. The 34 candidates economic issue and are committed to helping to solve it. Its who were chosen from more than 18,000 applicants and went goal is to create 20,000 positions for young people across through a thorough selection process have been working as Europe by 2016. the ’CEO for One Month’ in their country of residence. This Watch the Groupe Adecco France Street Day video 2015 unique work experience gives them the chance to learn directly from Adecco’s senior management to boost their career prospects during the months of July and August. The young CEOs comprise men and women from as far afield as Australia, Mauritius, Taiwan, Colombia and the US. The ten most successful youngsters will progress to a final round which consists of a three-day boot camp in Madrid, Spain, in September. They wil be assessed by an Adecco jury that comprises representatives of different functions and countries. The selected youngster will take up his or her role as the ’CEO for One Month’ of the Adecco Group between September and October under the guidance of our global CEO. ’CEO for One Month’ 2015 teaser video ’CEO for One Month’ 34 candidates video 2015 ’CEO for One Month’ 2015 tips and tricks video ’CEO for One Month’ on Instagram The Groupe Adecco France team during the Street Day in Paris was joined by the French minister of labour and employment, François Rebsamen. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 36 University Days in Belgium Youth unemployment is also a major concern amongst university students in Belgium: 90% say they see it as a priority to be addressed. More than 1,000 students from six Belgium universities joined the Adecco ‘University Days’ which were held as part of the Adecco Way to Work™ initiative. The target was to reach students completing their last year of university and show them how Adecco can support them in their job search, the importance of social media, and to motivate them to apply for the ’CEO for One Month’ in Belgium including a training on how to conduct a successful job interview. Over 800 students were contacted by Adecco and some 45 job interviews were conducted. Adecco Netherlands created a speed dating activity during their Street Day. Adecco Thailand: Do what you love and you will love what you do Our colleagues in Adecco Thailand reached out to over 180 youngsters in the streets and to 42,000 people via e-mail. They cooperated with 36 universities and provided 238 future talents with free one-on-one coaching sessions, tips on résumé writing and interview techniques. Additionally, they invited candidates to conduct an online assessment and debriefed them on results. And they provided a talent sort game and a ’selfie’ booth for further engagement. Watch the Adecco Thailand Street Day video Adecco Belgium visited six universities to show students, completing their final year, how Adecco can support them in their next career step. Speed dating in the Netherlands The Adecco Street Day in the Netherlands was another great success: Activities took place in 40 cities. A speed dating was organised by Adecco for youngsters showing them tips and tricks to present themselves effectively in a one-minute pitch. They also had the opportunity to get their CV checked by our experts. Having Adecco out in the streets is especially important in this country as around 60% of youngsters get their first job through agency Interactive career discussions in a fun setting during Adecco Thailand’s Street work. Mohammed Assad, ’CEO for One Month’ finalist in 2014, Day sparked a lot of interest amongst youngsters. joined Adecco Netherlands during the Street Day because he wanted to give back what the Adecco Experience and ’CEO for The Adecco Group through Adecco Way to Work™ also shares One Month’ Boot Camp did for his professional development. its knowledge and expertise via its online career centre and a In total, over 46,000 people were reached during the Street calendar of workshops in schools and universities, to reinforce Day and Lodewijk Asscher, Dutch Minister of Social Affairs and students’ future employability. Employment, joined in to show his support for our initiative. Adecco Way to Work™ website Adecco Way to Work™ on Facebook Adecco Way to Work™ on Twitter Adecco Way to Work™ YouTube channel CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 37 G4-EC8 ”Thanks to the agreement with the CONI 1, we can support elite athletes in the development of their career path beyond sports through the right advice and tools. And we are able to present world-class talents to our clients. Federico Vione, Regional Head, Adecco Italy, Eastern Europe, Middle East, North Africa and India on time management and networking targeted to their talent and career development beyond sports and competition. The IPC Athlete Career Programme has increased its focus on workplace inclusion and workplace accessibility of Paralympic athletes through a series of events, which began in 2014 in Italy, Belgium and Brazil and will continue up to and beyond the IPC Inclusion Summit held during the Rio Paralympic Games International Olympic Committee & International 2016. Paralympic Committee Athlete Career Programmes While life as an elite athlete and life in the business world may A further 8-year commitment to elite athletes seem to have few similarities, achieving success in the field of In the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic year, the IOC and the IPC play and in a corporate environment requires similar personal both extended their commitment to the Athlete Career Protraits and qualities. There are many transferable skills develgramme by each signing a further 8-year contract with the oped by athletes during their sporting career that can prove to Adecco Group in July and September 2012, respectively. be invaluable in a professional capacity, such as the ability to Press release IOC ACP perform under pressure, dedication, self-motivation, time manPress release IPC ACP agement, and a winning attitude. Making the transition from a sports career into the job market can be a difficult process, “Combining sport with educawhich is why the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and tion or work has become inthe International Paralympic Committee (IPC) Athlete Career creasingly challenging for athProgrammes are proving to be such a vital resource for Olymletes nowadays. This is where pians and Paralympians with one eye on the future. Since the ACP can help, by providing 2005 and 2007, respectively, the IOC and IPC in cooperation them with training opportunwith the Adecco Group have been providing educational, life ities and job placements, and skills, career development, and job placement expertise to thus achieving both sport and help elite athletes successfully prepare for and transition into life goals.“ the workforce. IOC President Thomas Bach Since the programmes were launched, more than 35 National Olympic and Paralympic Committees have cooperated with “The transition from competiAdecco to deliver the programmes in their countries. Together tion to the workplace can be a with outreach activities, delivered in countries that do not curdifficult and daunting task for rently have a local agreement in place, and during the Youth many. However, thanks to the Olympic Games as well as through open online courses, more cooperation with Adecco it will than 22,000 elite athletes from over 180 countries have rebe far easier for athletes, who ceived support since the start of the programmes. Over 2,000 have many skills ideal for the athletes aged 15–18, coaches, and National Olympic repreworkplace, to make the move sentatives were reached by the IOC ACP during the Nanjing smoothly and successfully.” 2014 Youth Olympic Games (YOG) in China through workshops IPC President Sir Philip Craven 1 CONI: Comitato Olimpico Nazionale Italiano (National Olympic Committee of Italy). CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 38 “Initially, after I finished rowing in London, I had a sense of emptiness. Since I started preparing for life after rowing, it provided me with a sense of comfort. I didn’t like the idea of coming out of rowing and having nothing. That scared me.“ Storm Uru, New Zealand, Olympic medallist in lightweight double sculls and MBA student at Oxford University Outreach IOC & IPC Athlete Career Programme development Nr. of athletes ACP delivery beyond NOC/Adecco agreements or global reach Adecco works with the IOC and NOCs around the world to deliver career development workshops in countries beyond the Adecco global footprint. Outreach training in 7,000 2014 continued to grow and took place in the following regions: Africa (Mali and Senegal), the Americas (Peru, Chile, 6,000 Guatemala, San Salvador, St Lucia and Grand Cayman), Asia, 5,000 Middle East (Iran), Europe (Cyprus, Czech Republic) and Oceania (Cook Islands, Palau, Guam, Fiji, Samoa and Vanuatu). 4,000 This shows the Olympic Movement’s global commitment to prepare athletes for life after sports whatever country they 3,000 come from. In 2014, several IOC Athletes’ Commission members and former Olympians as well as Adecco managers 2,000 joined the sessions as trainees, with the aim of learning how 1,000 to conduct workshops in the future. In total, 748 athletes were reached in the mentioned training sessions. 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Further developing the ‘train the trainers’ programme will alWinter Summer Winter Summer Winter low the IOC ACP Outreach Programme to expand in frequency Olympic Olympic Olympic Olympic Olympic Year Year Year Year Year and geographic coverage. Read about the Outreach training in Oceania Base Outreach YOG MOOC The Outreach training continued with strong performance in 2015 with activities in the Middle East (Lebanon, Qatar, Kuwait) the Americas (Panama, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Venezuela), Africa (Rwanda, Ivory Coast, Cameroon, Seychelles, Mauritius, Malawi) and Asia (South East Asian Games). Paralympic athletes have been invited to join Outreach training sessions as of 2015. Read about the Outreach training in Rwanda IOC press release on West Africa and Central America CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 39 “It‘s a great opportunity to come across people that are like-minded, share information and feel that you make a bit of a change to someone‘s life.“ Tracy Hardy, ACP Manager Adecco New Zealand Second Summer Youth Olympic Games 2014 in Nanjing leverage the supportive network around them. These two The International Olympic Committee Athlete Career Proworkshops were presented in digital format as part of the gramme (IOC ACP), in cooperation with Adecco Group, YOG’s ‘Compete, learn and share’ programme. The App is reached more than 3,000 young athletes, coaches and Naavailable in ten languages, allowing youngsters to keep learntional Olympic Committee representatives during the Nanjing ing and getting guidance after the YOG. Youth Olympic Games (YOG) in China. Between 16 and 28 AuPress release Youth Olympic Games 2014 gust, 15to 18-year-old athletes from all over the world attendAccess the YOG ‘Compete, learn and share‘ website ed workshops on time management and networking targeted Discover the IOC ‘Sport up your life‘ game to their talent and career development beyond sports and competition. A new digital App was introduced to better reach IOC Athlete Learning Gateway Following the IOC Athletes’ and keep in touch with these young athletes beyond the YOG. MOOC which was launched during the Sochi Winter Games in 2014, the Athlete Learning Gateway was developed. The online platform provides resources for elite athletes to study while training and competing. The content is categorised into three series: ‘Business of Sport’, ‘Sports in Society’ and ‘Science of Sports’. The Athlete Learning Gateway is available for all athletes at any time free of charge and features academic lecture, videos created by leading academics and professionals from the world of sport and content from the IOC ACP. They also include practical insights from top athletes, coaches and inspirational leaders. ’Athlete Learning Gateway’ website Athletes at the Nanjing Youth Olympic Games 2014 enjoy some time off from competition, and learn about time managament and networking, using the new mobile App. The IOC and Adecco educational programme aims at enhancing youngsters’ life skills and talent development, enabling them to become champions for life by learning from their peers as well as from Olympic role models. The ‘Act on your Time’ exercise is designed to increase champions’ awareness and focus on good time management practices, while ‘Balance your Act’ teaches athletes how to effectively develop and CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 40 “Being a super star on one day and entering the business world as a complete beginner the next day can be difficult. So I think athletes getting career experience while they are still training is crucial for them to make a smooth transition.“ Angel Bovée, former three-time US national boxing champion and Program Specialist, Athlete Career and Education Program, Adecco USA Celebrating ten years of the IOC ACP and the seventh IOC Select country initiatives and programmes ACP Forum in Lima, Peru Between 26 and 28 May 2015, the National Olympic Committee (NOC) of Peru co-hosted around IPC ACP Inclusion event series In 2014, the IPC and Adecco 85 participants from 37 countries. Those attending included launched the Inclusion event series as part of the IPC Athlete athletes, members of the IOC Athletes’ Commission and Career Programme to further increase awareness on workNOCs, IOC sponsors and Adecco representatives. place inclusion for para-athletes. This series of events is a Everyone gathered to exchange knowledge and best practices build-up to the next IPC Academy Inclusion Summit which will on achieving life-long success for the world’s elite athletes take place during the Rio 2016 Paralympic Games. Paralympic both on the field of play and in their later careers. It was also athletes consistently demonstrate how they overcome adveran event to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the IOC ACP in sity and achieve greatness. They build bridges, create social cooperation with Adecco Group and to plan ahead taking into awareness and are ambassadors for all people with an imconsideration the Olympic Agenda 2020 with its recommenpairment. dation 18 to put the athletes’ experience at the heart of the Olympic Games and support elite athletes on and off the field Adecco Italy launches the Inclusion event series The first of play. Inclusion event took place in Milan, Italy, in October 2014. It included a presentation on the benefits of diversity and was combined with a networking sporting activity for company representatives and athletes. The IPC Athletes’ Council was represented by Teresa Perales, Paralympic multiple Gold medallist in swimming. 7 companies were represented and 15 para-athletes attended the event. Photo: Credit IOC Victor Idrogo Adecco Belgium celebrates the second Inclusion event On December 3, 2014 – the international day of people with a disability, the second Inclusion event was held at Adecco Belgium. The day was kicked off with an athlete training workshop, followed by a joint athletes’ and company session. The IOC, NOC and Adecco teams including Athletes’ Commission members Marc Herremans, para-triathlete, former Win4Youth godfather, and the Peruvian NOC during the 7th IOC Athlete Career Programme Forum. and coach was invited to share his personal experience as a para-athlete and why inclusion of people with a disability is Watch the IOC ACP ten-year celebration video fundamental for society. In total, 13 companies and 14 athletes Olympic Agenda 2020 attended. Another Inclusion event was held in France in June 2015 during the Roland-Garros tennis tournament. The event was also the platform to extend the ACP agreement between the Comité Paralympique et Sportif Français (CPSF) and Groupe Adecco France for another two years. Paralyympic athletes and companies get to know each other during the speed dating held as part of the Inclusion event. Video Belgium Inclusion event 2014 Groupe Adecco France blog on Roland Garros 2015 CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 42 The ACP in Serbia involves coaches On 14 November 2014, Lillehammer Youth Olympic Games 2016 and Adecco NorAdecco Serbia and the NOC invited 30 sailing coaches from way The second Winter Youth Olympic Games will take place different cities around the country to an ACP workshop in Lillehammer in 2016. As Adecco Norway is an official with the goal to make them aware of the importance of balsponsor and supplier, the team has already reached out 180 ancing athletes’ lives between training, competition and students from the sports gymnasium in Lillehammer to coneducation or a job. It is an important goal of the Athlete Career duct an ACP workshop. Many of these young top athletes will Programme to have the buy in from an athletes’ entourage, be competing during the Youth Olympic Games 2016. The as especially coaches are main influencers of elite athletes. Outreach training consisted in career reflection and advice as well as interactive games including the new digital App about networking and time management. Adecco Serbia and the Serbian NOC with the 30 sailing coaches who came together to learn about the importance of balancing training, competition and education for their athletes. Handicap & employment – Adecco Foundation France presents talents Trésor Makunda (athletics) and Michaël Jéré­ As a preparation for the second Youth Olympic Winter Games in Lillehammer miasz (wheelchair tennis) are fantastic ambassadors when it in 2016, an ACP workshop was held by Adecco and the Norwegian NOC for 15to 18-year-old athletes from a local sports gymnasium in Lillehammer. comes to showing the abilities of para-athletes. Together, they starred in a video with a well-known actor and journalist to celebrate the week dedicated to ‘Handicap & Emploi’. Both para-athletes demonstrate the capabilities they have naturally or have developed due to their disability, and show how important it is for companies and society in general to focus on the ability of each person rather than on any disability. Read the press release Video Trésor Makunda Video Michaël Jérémiasz Website ‘Handicap & Emploi’ Adecco ACP pages Adecco Intern & Olympic Hopeful blog Adecco ACP YouTube channel IOC ACP pages IPC ACP pages IOC ACP compilation videos 2014 Michaël Jérémiasz, Paralympic Gold medallist, IOC ACP YouTube channel at the Beijing Olympic Games who transformes disability into ability. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 43 G4-26; G4-EC8; G4-LA2; G4-LA10 Employee satisfaction Great Place To Work® results – survey cycle 2014/2015 Trust index average (average of organisation & workgroup results as used for the Best workplaces competitions) 100 80 60 40 20 0 -20 rg k ar HQ m n ai a bi ay UK en nd s Z /N nd nd an y ru ke y il az ce pa n bu iu Sp m rw ed la la Pe an m nm p lg No la lia Fin er rm Tu r Br Fr Ja xe De ou Be lo Sw er ra itz Ge Gr Co th st Lu Ne Au Sw Score achieved 2014/15 Variance from last year Benchmark (top 10 on best workplace list) Our global programmes and initiatives in the strategic focus areas Team, Training & Development Global programmes and initiatives Adecco is a Great Place To Work® Every year since 2004, we have been conducting the Great Place to Work® survey. The survey is now carried out in 44 countries (up from 28 in 2014) The Adecco European HR team united to celebrate Adecco‘s 13th rank on the and across our global business lines and brands such as BeeEurope top 25 Best Multinational Workplaces list. line, LHH and Pontoon, representing over 98% (up from 80% in 2014) of our employees. Our goal is to be recognised as an 10,000 Adecco employees in 12 European countries particiemployer of choice, not just in our own industry, but amongst pated, responding in conjunction with a Cultural Audit conother world-leading companies. The Great Place to Work Trust ducted by Great Place to Work® between September 2014 and Index© is an employee survey tool that measures the level of March 2015. The results showed Adecco people feel proud to trust, pride and camaraderie within workplaces. The overall make a difference every day in their communities by helping result for the Group improved in 2015 compared to 2014. The people to find the best job and by matching the right profiles greatest improvement was seen in the dimensions ‘trust, pride as well as finding the right solutions for our clients. and team spirit’ in 2015. For the second time, Adecco made Read more about the Great Place To Work® the ranking of top multinational workplaces in Europe – climbing to rank 13 in the top 25 Best Multinational Workplaces in Europe list. The group advanced by 6 places compared to 2014. In 2015, 10 Adecco countries in Europe qualified for the Great Place to Work® national ranking, including Denmark, Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium, Netherlands, Sweden, Spain and the UK. For the first time, Italy and Adecco’s Swiss headquarters entered their national rankings. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 44 G4-LA10 Through this course, colleagues gain a LEADING WITH greater awareness of a changing world LWI INNOVATION and develop an understanding of the impact digital media and technology have on society, communication, and brands. It challenges existing ways of thinking and working whilst building compeThe Adecco Academy The Adecco Academy provides a solid tence and confidence within the digital space. Colleagues get foundation for the Group’s global training and development to experience digital media through tangible tasks and exofferings catering for a wide variety of employees. The proplore digital opportunities within their own business. The programmes are organised under thre pillars: leadership, service gramme showcases best practice examples of what other & sales and operations. organisations have implemented, with a special emphasis on the service industry. Leadership Through our leadership programmes, in cooperation with three of the best business schools in the world, INSEAD in France, IMD in Switzerland, and Hyper Island in SweService & sales den, more than 1,100 of Adecco’s managers have been trained to improve their leadership skills. High Intensity Training, or HIT as it is HIGH INTENSITY commonly referred to, has been enhancThis programme is designed around our HIT TRAINING ing Adecco colleagues’ sales and recruitSENIOR six strategic priorities. The basic concept ing skills in over 28 countries since 2006. SLDP LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM is to combine each of these with cut­tingedge academic thinking, practically This training programme is targeted at colleagues with a retail addressing the challenges facing the Adecco Group and its focus, both in the Professional and General Staffing businesses. Senior Management team. Attending colleagues engage in active and practical discussions concerning various initiatives Colleagues learn the basics of sales, recruiting, order mainteand leave the programme with a clearer focus and a personal nance, and operational efficiencies. We discuss global best action plan on what we can do to further progress on specific practices and work through techniques in a classroom setting, initiatives. Furthermore, participants have the chance to to adapt these best practices to local realities. Learning techapply the concepts introduced to real business challenges niques include large group discussion, role plays, and culturthey face at the Adecco Group. ally adapted small group discussions. This course focuses on leadership situaValue Focused Selling goes beyond ba3 LEADERSHIP tions our colleagues experience and the VALUE sic sales techniques and delivers a triedPROGRAM VFS FOCUSED SELLING behaviours they require to be an effecand-tested approach focused on consultive leader. The colleagues receive intative selling methodologies. It has been tense individual feedback and coaching and gain a better delivered to Adecco colleagues in over 18 understanding of why people behave as they do. Colleagues countries since 2009. work in small teams with an experienced leadership coach: learning through deep self-assessment, role play, outdoor Colleagues learn how to engage clients in a way that helps exercises and debriefs, case studies, group work, and video them understand what is important to our clients (value) and (observing their own behaviour on film). The emphasis is on how to then customise a solution to meet those wants and experiences – they experiment with their own behaviour and needs. The course introduces a process with a practical appliactions to find out more about themselves and others. cation that guides colleagues throughout the entire sales process, giving them a better way to qualify and quantify the sales potential. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 45 G4-LA10 “Better work, better life is not just a claim for Adecco, but what we stand for and what we care about for our employees, our candidates and our clients.“ Mark De Smedt, Chief Human Resources Officer Adecco Group The Service Excellence Course has been STEP stands for ‘Short Term Exchange SERVICE EXCELLENCE designed and built and is delivered by Program‘. It is offered to colleagues at SEC COURSE Adecco, for Adecco. It is aimed at raising branch manager level or equivalent who awareness of our customer needs and have the opportunity to work for Adecco expectations, and how we can exceed in another country for one month, either job-shadowing a colthese. league or through an exchange by switching workplaces with an employee who works in the same function. The course is designed especially for Branch and Business P P P Unit Managers as they have the most access to and impact The new 'Perm Placement Program' was on our customers. Participants work through a series of dislaunched in spring 2015. This proPERM PLACEMENT PROGRAM cussions, activities, and experiences to adapt a common cusgramme is designed for permanent tomer service framework for key interactions with their cusplacement consultants and their managtomers. Since the launch of the programme at the end of 2011, ers. It provides tools to effectively lead a permanent placemore than 3,500 colleagues have been trained. ment team and deliver superior permanent placement services. The new Sales Leadership Course was SALES launched in January 2015. It provides The High Performers Exchange is providLEADERSHIP SLC COURSE our sales leaders with tools and models ing employees at levels CEO-2 to CEO-4 that enable greater success with existing with a short-term international exchange and prospective clients. that lasts between two and four weeks. The learning experience is achieved by job-shadowing a colleague or colleagues in another country to get real-time dayOperations to-day learning. This highly intensive programme develFor a global company which has operaM B A ops the skills that are needed to meet empowering communication tions in over 60 countries, it is essential HIGHLIGHTS the demands of general management that employees are able to understand responsibilities and effective leadership and express themselves in ideally more in an operations environment. than one language. The content is geared to the challenges of our industry and Speexx provides courses in five European languages: English, the unique needs of our business while still bringing innovaSpanish, French, Italian and German. And students with mothtion from other industries and leveraging the expertise of the er tongue background in 13 different major language groups world-class INSEAD faculty members. can benefit. Speexx is now available across all devices (PC, Mac, tablet or smartphone) offering students even more flexibility and motivation to learn anytime, anywhere. Speexx website CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 46 G4-10; G4-EC8; G4-LA1; G4-LA10 Retention rate 2010– 2014 in % 75/75/76/76/76 80/81/81/80/81 73/70/74/70/65 67/62/62/68/69 90 70 50 Group Europe North Rest of world America 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Select country programmes and initiatives Adecco Italy – passion as a guiding principle The ‘work in passion’ project was launched at the 2015 annual kick-off meeting of Adecco Italy. The initiative has the goal to showcase what makes Adecco a company that looks after talent and nurtures its employees' ambitions and aspirations: in other words, a real Great Place to Work. Throughout the year, a variety of important workplace employee topics will be addressed to further strengthen employee retention, engagement and become an even greater and more productive place The ’Passion for Connection’ is part of the internal ’Work in Passion’ camto work: paign launched by Adecco Italy. 1. Passion for networking 2. Passion for training Adecco Spain’s ‘Talent Factory’ Adecco Spain has introduced 3. Passion for development the ‘Talent Factory’, a project for youngsters who wish to fur4. Passion for parenting ther develop their professional skills and grow their entrepre5. Passion for connection neurial spirit. The goal is to reduce the existing gap between 6. Passion for life-work balance what youngsters learn during their studies at universities and 7. Passion for technology what companies are actually looking for. Therefore, the ‘Talent 8. Passion for responsibility Factory’ is working closely with academia to address the right 9. Passion for health & well-being issues and topics. One of the last initiatives that was organised through the ‘Talent Factory’ and which was supported by To epitomise and bring to life these passions, Adecco Italy another Adecco initiative, the ‘Observatorio de Innovación en employees have put together an internal campaign to remind el Empleo’ (OIE), was to offer youngsters the opportunity to colleagues to live all passions equally and on a daily basis. job-shadow executives for one day in order to get an insight into various industries, companies, and job profiles. The jobshadowing initiative was eye-opening for both youngsters and executives as both found they understood each other’s needs and positions better after spending one day together. ´Talent Factory´ website ´Talent Factory´ on Facebook ´Talent Factory´ blog CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 47 G4-EC8; G4-LA10 Number and length of assignment per associate in 2014 (select countries) 9 400 8 Average length of assignment (days) 350 Nr. of assignments per associate 7 300 6 250 5 200 4 Average length of assignment (left axis) 150 3 2 • Nr. of assignments per associate 100 (right axis) 1 50 0 ce n ai m UK nd do r a di an Sp iu la In Fr lg Fin ua Be Ec Temporary work legislation and culture vary from country to country. This leads to different temporary work patterns: from many, but short assignments (e.g. France, Spain, Belgium) to few, but long assignments (e.g. Finland, Ecuador, India). Adecco Germany at women&work For the third consecutive Training investments in associates in 2014 year, Adecco Germany was present as main sponsor at the EUR per 1,000 working hours largest career fair and congress for women in Germany. The conference serves as a platform to exchange know-how on 250 labour market trends and is ideal for networking. The event is 200 targeted specifically at women, from students and graduates 150 to experienced professionals, as well as those returning to the Investment in associates’ training depend on various factors: trainworkforce after a break. In addition to company presentation 100 ing costs/training; mandatory sessions, there are one-on-one meetings which take place training by regulations; need for 50 training (cf. attainment level: chart during the congress. on the right). The event offers women additional support on self-marketing, ce an s nd n ai la nd rw ay la Sp personal brand positioning, speed-mentoring and interview Fr er er No th itz Ne Sw techniques and it features discussion panels, presentations and elevator pitches from companies and entrepreneurs. women&work website Educational attainment level of associates % of all workers in temporary sector 100 80 60 Unknown/other High 40 Medium 20 Low a in A s nd n ai an y a di ay nt US rw la Sp rm In ge er Ge No Ar th Ne The average educational attainment levels of tempory associates vary very much from country to country (source: Ciett economic report 2015), and therefore require different training needs. Adecco Germany colleagues engage with young women at the women&work career fair, the largest of this kind in Germany. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 48 G4-11; G4-LA4; G4-HR9 Human & Labour Rights sentative in the negotiation process as an expert to the employee representatives. Its first meeting took place on 3 Global programmes and initiatives and 4 June, 2014 at the Adecco Group Headquarter in Zurich, Switzerland. Adecco Human & Labour Rights Guidelines Working with Background on European Works Council over 31,000 employees, 650,000 associates on daily assignments with more than 100,000 clients in over 60 countries, European Commission E&RA2 Sector Guide on Business & requires a strong focus on Human and Labour Rights. In 2013, Human Rights In December 2011, IHRB3 and Shift4 were sewe published our Guidelines on Human & Labour Rights which lected by the European Commission (Directorate-General for also address adherence of our clients and suppliers. Adecco Enterprise and Industry) to develop sector-specific guidance upholds the principle that the inherent dignity and the equal on the corporate responsibility to respect human rights, as set and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is out in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world as Rights. The development of sector-specific human rights guidset forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The ance is one of the deliverables of the European Commission’s responsibility to respect Human & Labour Rights is a global policy on corporate social responsibility, adopted in October standard of expected conduct for all business enterprises 2011. Further to a public consultation, the services of the Eurowherever they operate, even beyond national laws and conpean Commission decided that guidance would be developed ventions. Our company aims to implement the United Nations for employment and recruitment agencies (E&RA), information ’Protect, Respect and Remedy’ framework which was enand communications technologies (ICT) companies, and oil dorsed by the United Nations Human Rights Council on 16 and gas companies. The development of this Guide involved June 2011. Adecco recognises that the Guiding Principles proextensive research and multi-stakeholder consultation. Ciett, vide an authoritative global standard for preventing and adthe World Staffing Association, was involved in the drafting dressing the risk of adverse impacts on human rights linked to process from the beginning with a mandate on the Advisory business activity. Board. Adecco has actively supported and contributed to the Adecco’s Guidelines on Human & Labour Rights various drafting and consultation phases. The final guidelines were published in June 2013. Signing of European Works Council Agreement Between Download the E&RA Sector Guide 1999 and 2011, Adecco engaged in a European-wide exchange of transnational information through the ‘Platform for Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining: Adecco Communication in Europe’ (PACE). Situation of our associates in %, worldwide On 11 December 2013, the Adecco Special Negotiation Body signed the Adecco European Works Council Agreement, in Associates in ’free’ or ’mostly free’ accordance with the provisions set out in the: countries 1 95% • Directive 97/74/EC and Directive 2009/38/EC Associates covered by Collective Labour • UK Statutory Instrument 1999 No. 3323 Agreements: 41% • Community Charter of Fundamental Rights for Workers and Associates in ’partly free’ countries 1 3% • Institutional Treaties of the European Union. Associates in ’repressive’ countries 1: 2% Associates in ’very repressive’ countries 1: The purpose of a European Works Council (EWC) is to bring no operations in such countries together employee representatives from the various European countries in which a multinational company has operations. 1 Regarding level of workers’ rights: rating by Freedomhouse (www.freedomhouse.org) The EWC process foresees that employee representatives are informed and consulted by central management on transnational issues of concern to the company’s employees. The Adecco EWC is composed of employee representatives from all EU Member States where Adecco has operations – including Norway and Switzerland – as well as Adecco management representatives and is led by our global Chief Human Resources Officer. UNI Europa was involved with a repre2 Employment & Recruitment Agency. 3 Institute for Human Rights and Business. 4 Shift is an independent, non-profit center for business and human rights practice. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 49 G4-EC8 “Our scale and wide range of resources help us hire the most talented and capable people, regardless of gender, age, race, national origin, language, beliefs, differing physical abilities or any other factors.” Adecco Group North America The European Network Against Racism (ENAR) The Adecco 2013 with a video message from the Regional Head and Group has been an active member of the ENAR Equal@work Adecco diversity specialists and one-hour interactive group initiative since 2009. This pioneering expert group brings tolearning sessions using a comprehensive slide deck and the gether businesses committed to diversity and inclusion (Adecparticipation from management. Since 2001, the ’Pôle de lutte co Group, EY, Groupe La Poste, L’Oréal and Sodexo) with noncontre les discriminations’ put in place tools, awareness traingovernmental anti-racist organisations, Trade Union ing and audits of business services. They also provide a hotrepresentatives, State Authority representatives and Equality line for employees and associates. Every complaint received is Bodies. Together, we work on developing new ways to ensure analysed and addressed accordingly. A diversity charter was the full participation of ethnic and cultural minorities in the signed between Adecco and Mozaïk HR experts joining forces labour market. ENAR Equal@work has issued recommendato increase employment of people living in sensitive urban tions to the EU authorities on monitoring diversity; best praczones where unemployment is at around 38% for people actices addressing reasonable accommodation of cultural divertively looking for work. This will allow companies offering emsity in the workplace; and glass ceilings for migrants, amongst ployment opportunities to increase their workforce diversity. other topics. At the same time, a focus has been set on driving Groupe Adecco France CSR Report and creating research to achieve equality for all in the labour market since 1999. Adecco Asia and the One Young World summit The 6th One Young World summit will take place in Bangkok between 18 In December 2014, Adecco participated in the ENAR 6th Equal@ and 21 November 2015. This year, some 1,300 delegates work seminar in Brussels. The main conference topic was how between the ages of 18 and 30 from 196 countries and over to deal with the question of Equality Data Collection. The ENAR 100 ambassadors and observers will be debating issues that Equal@work platforms are yearly events which bring together fall into the following categories: businesses, social partners, NGOs, public authorities and acaHuman Rights; demics committed to diversity and inclusion and to find soluYouth Unemployment; tions so that ethnic and religious minorities can fully particiGlobal Business and Leadership; pate in the labour market. The diversity management Government and Sustainable Development; and practices as well as concrete actions and recommendations Education. are shared with EU and national decision-makers. The young leaders feel that these are the most pressing isRead more sues. No youth-dominated event outside of the Olympic 5th ENAR Equal@work meeting Report Games represents more countries than One Young World, a ENAR Shadow Reports registered charity in the US and England. One Young World ambassadors are currently involved in over 600 projects in 150 Select country programmes and initiatives countries worldwide. Adecco Asia launched a regional application and selection process for employees from Hong Kong, Groupe Adecco France committed to non-discrimination Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and VietDiscriminatory practices in the labour market are a reality and nam with the goal to select the one representative who wishneed to be addressed actively. Therefore, since 2010, Groupe es to enhance his or her leadership skills and feels strongly Adecco France has been using a 5-module e-learning training about supporting positive change for society. – mandatory for all employees – providing practical and legal Young World Summit website support on non-discrimination. The training was stepped up in CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 50 G4-10; G4-LA12 Age distribution amongst Adecco Group employees, in % (select countries) 100 60< 50 –59 80 40 –49 60 30 – 39 20­–29 40 20 m an y ce ly Ita s nd n ai nd UK in a il az ile ico a di ica pa n e or lia iu an Sp la nt Ch ex In er ra lg rm Fr la er Br Ja ap st Be Ge er itz ge M Am ng Au th Sw Ar Si Ne rth No Adecco Colombia and ´Fundación Ideas para la Paz´ Adecco Argentina a member of CONAETI Since 2007, Adecco Adecco Colombia is engaged in a multi-stakeholder initiative Argentina is one of 90 members of the network of companies resulting from the Free Trade Agreement between the Columagainst child labour which undertakes initiatives in cooperabian and the Swiss Government. Various companies, the tion with the Argentinian Ministry of Labour, Employment and Swiss and the Columbian Governments and the NGO ‘FunSocial Security and the National Commission for the eradicadación Ideas para la Paz’ signed the ‘compromiso ético’, fotion of child labour (CONAETI). On 12 June, the International cusing on the respect of Human Rights. Since the beginning of Day against Child Labour, Adecco participated in the aware2012, regular meetings have taken place, focusing on explainness campaign against child labour organised by the ILO, the ing the concept and importance of International Humanitarian Argentinian Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social SecuLaw and the ‘Guías Colombia’ on Human Rights and Internarity and CONAETI. tional Humanitarian Law, led by the NGO ‘Fundación Ideas Network of companies against child labour website para la Paz’. The ‘Guías Colombia’ share the purpose of defining, promoting and adopting clear patterns and standards Adecco Italy certified with SA8000 In 2014, Adecco Italy repertaining to Human Rights and International Humanitarian ceived its SA8000 certification, one of the first auditable social Law for business operations in complex scenarios like concertification standards for decent workplaces, across all intemporary Colombia. dustrial sectors. It is based on the UN Declaration of Human On an industry level, within ACOSET5, Adecco has been Rights, conventions of the ILO, UN and national law and co-driving two initiatives under the Human Rights umbrella: measures social performance. The certification takes a man• The focus on Health and Safety at work, with the objective agement systems approach that companies must adopt in of Adecco Colombia reaching the target of zero employee order to ensure that compliance with the standard are conand associate accidents. tinuously reviewed. SA8000 requires companies to have • The potential support of collective bargaining and freedom adopted policies and procedures that protect the basic human of association measures, as the workers representation rights of workers. landscape is poor in Columbia. Guidelines for implementation: Ethical Commitment of Swiss Companies in Colombia 5 ACOSET is the Confederation of Colombian Staffing Agencies (Asociacón Colombiana de Empresas de Servicios Temporales). CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 51 G4-EC8 “Who you are – the background you come from – still has too great an influence on whether you find a job, are able to hold onto it, or see your wages rise.“ Confederation of British Industry (CBI) Diversity & Equal Opportunities Global programmes and initiatives World Economic Forum – winning talent The Adecco Group joined the World Economic Forum as an Industry Partner in September 2009. In December 2011, the Company became a ‘Strategic Partner’ together with 110 global companies. In January 2015, the Adecco Group was represented at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos by a delegation of five representatives from the Group’s Executive Committee and Adecco Staffing North America. In addition, our CEO was part of a panel on ‘Winning with Talent’. The goal of the Annual Meeting is to improve the state of the Spring Professional’s Serge Shine during the World Economic Forum Regional world which gave the Adecco representatives the chance to Meeting in East Asia (Indonesia). participate and contribute to the following sessions: Global economic growth employment with a focus on talent, Adecco part of global apprenticeships coalition In May human capital, youth employment, demography and women 2014, Adecco joined the Global Apprenticeships Network leaders (GAN), a global coalition of companies calling for greater comEconomies: Europe, the USA and the G20 mitment and investment in work-based training. The GAN and Entrepreneurship and business leadership its members seek to address global skills shortages and to Anti-Corruption create opportunities for young people. The coalition focuses As Strategic Partner, Adecco is also involved and present in on improving the status of apprenticeship programmes by the World Economic Forum’s Regional Meetings. In 2015, they offering apprenticeships as well as internships and by sharing take place in East Asia (Indonesia), Latin America (Mexico), best practices with other companies and labour administraMiddle East & North Africa (Jordan) and Africa (Cape Town). tions. International companies such as Telefónica, Ericsson, The Annual Meeting of New Champions will take place in Huawei Technologies, UBS, Jindal Steel & Power and Samsung China and the Economic Summit in India, where our local Electronics have to date also joined the GAN initiative. The leaders are involved to co-shape the agenda on job creation. network is supported by the International Organisation of Employers (IOE) and the Independent International Business AsDuring the World Economic Forum in Davos, Adecco, together sociation (BIAC) which advises government policy makers at with INSEAD and the Singapore’s Human Capital Leadership the OECD and related platforms. In April 2014, at the G20Institute (HCLI), launched the 2014 Global Talent CompetitiveOECD-EC conference on ’Quality Apprenticeships’ in Paris, repness Index which focuses on the role of talent growth, includresentatives from the G20 and OECD governments, as well as ing formal education, lifelong learning and access to growth social partners and companies, concurred on the importance opportunities. of focusing on work-based training schemes to ensure job CEO interview during the Annual Meeting 2015 opportunities for youth and skills for business. A survey on Read more on ‘Winning with Talent’ apprenticeship practices conducted in the G20 countries by GTCI infographic the IOE, BIAC and GAN found that governments’ efforts were inadequate in involving business in apprenticeships systems. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 52 International over Mobility 2014 G4-LA12 2400 Candidate candidates foundInternational an international work opportunity thanks to Adecco over Mobility 2014 + 21% 2400 compared with the previous year candidates found an international A further workmilestone opportunity on the journey thanks of the GAN was the launch to Adecco Where didGAN ourNational candidates go? +21% of the Spanish compared with (GNN) in June 2015. It Network Which is country the first local networkwelcomed in Western the yearthem? previous Europe with GNNs already in place in Turkey and Indonesia, the GAN is a driving force in The topwork creating 15 Adecco opportunities Host forCountries: youth in several countries all Where did our candidates go? over the world. Which country welcomed them? GAN Global website The principles GAN top 15 Adecco Host Countries: 427 15 GAN Turkey brochure 215 Netherlands Norway Finland IOE-BIAC-GAN survey 2014 Mark De Smedt, Chief Human Resources Officer, represented the Adecco 427 54 15 Group in Riga for the pledge of 5,000 apprenticeships through the Adecco 23 215 Norway Belgium Finland Way to Work™. Canada Candidate International 23 Mobility CIM Netherlands 302 – providing 120 the right skills and23 54 Ireland diverseBelgium Switzerland Singapore teams Adecco’s Candidate International Canada 25 302 120 Mobility 38 programme 23continues Ireland UK toSwitzerland extend Singapore its activities.99 In June Adecco Way to Work™ joins the European Alliance for 50 USA New Zealand 2014,38 the CIM Global25 Transition UK 93 Centre was launched 99 United Arab Emirates with an Apprenticeships In June 2015, the Adecco Group through its 50 USA New Zealand France expert team of three93working out Arabof Poland to match candiAdecco Way to Work™ initiative joined the European Alliance France United Emirates 30 dates with job opportunities transnationally 30 with Qatar our clients. In for Apprenticeships (EAfA). By pledging 5,000 apprenticeships 2014, Adecco 37 37 Colombia found 2,400 candidates an international job. Qatar Colombia in Europe by the end of 2017, Adecco confirms its commitment The main source countries include Poland, France, the UK, to fight youth unemployment and boost young people’s emUSA, Philippines and Denmark, providing more than 100 canployability through valuable work-based training opportunididates each. The main host countries, welcoming over 100 ties. Through practical training combined with school-based people each, were Norway, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Sineducation, the apprenticeship model has been recognized in From which country did our From gapore international which and country New Zealand. candidates did Profiles came our most in demand were from? Europe as one of the most effective schemes to develop emtrade and construction workers, IT specialists, healthcare proployable skills and facilitate youngsters’ transition from educainternational The Top 10logistics fessionals, candidates Source experts Countries: came from? and engineers/technicians. tion to the labour market. Adecco will meet the EAfA pledge by ThePoland Top Visit theFrance 10 Source CIMUKwebsite Countries: USA Philippines Denmark Spain Portugal Hungary Ukraine contributing its expertise and developing innovative solutions 756 343 308 230 111 101 69 53 25 14 for both partner companies and young employees. Successful Poland France UK USA Philippines Denmark Spain Portugal Hungary Ukraine examples are already in place in countries like France, where 756 343 308 230 111 101 69 53 25 14 Adecco has developed the most comprehensive offering of ‘Agency Apprenticeship Contracts’ in the country. Belgium has also recently launched a new solution with ‘The Beginners’ Contract’, offering youngsters an internship at partner companies, followed by a temporary or permanent contract. Which are the profiles of our Read more international candidates? Visit the EAfA website Management 9 Employees with a disability in select subsidiaries Which are the 67profiles of our Education % of headcount international candidates? 14 Hospitality 78 12 2013 809 Management White Collar 10 2014 Engineering andEducation Technical 67 331 8 Logistics 362 6 Hospitality 78 Healthcare 380 4 White Collar 80 IT 515 2 Engineering Trade and andConstruction Technical 331 598 il az do r ly pa n m an y ce Ita iu 362 Logistics Br ua an Ja Be lg rm Fr Ec Ge Which were the type of placements for those candidates? Healthcare 380 The chart shows Adecco subsidiaries, which report more than 1% employees with a disability in 2013 or 2014. This diversity indicator depends also on local definitions on Temporary disability. Private data protection laws in many countries do not allow to track this indicator. Contracts IT 1450 515 Temp CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 53 to Perm Trade and 60% 54 Construction 598 Adecco Group contributes to the Employers’ Guide for QualAdecco UK & Ireland – Getting girls into STEM Adecco ity Internships The European Youth Forum launched the EmGroup’s Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI) highlighted ployers’ Guide to Quality Internships, a “how-to guide” for emthe potential of the UK as a hub for many forward-thinking ployers wishing to establish quality schemes – with the aim to companies, attracting bright young talent from across the address and increase the quality of internships across Europe. world. Women make up nearly half of Britain’s workforce, but The Employers’ Guide to Quality Internships has been develonly one in ten have a position in Science, Technology, Engioped in cooperation with partners companies including neering and Mathematics (STEM) fields. With the advancement Abbvie, Adecco Group, EPACA, EUK Consulting, Microsoft and of STEM subjects skills fundamental to the future success of TITAN CEMENT GROUP. The Guide outlines key criteria that UK plc, encouraging more women to pursue a career in STEM make an internship a good experience for both the young perneeds to be part of the solution. Adecco Group UK & Ireland son and the employer. Employers can actively contribute to the embarked on an independent research study to understand development of young people by ensuring that an internship why this ‘leaky pipeline’ persists and establish how we can provides a learning experience with proper supervision and encourage young girls to study STEM and ensure they pursue the opportunity for career development. It is a win-win situa career in the sector. In addition to surveying 3,000 14to ation: Companies get access to new talents, increase motiva16year-olds, university students and female STEM employtion and engagement of their teams, and can leverage opporees, Adecco spoke to people in the industry, and gathered tunities for public-private partnerships. first-hand insight from schoolchildren, teachers and profesAdecco Group also signed the Youth Forum’s European Charsionals. ter for Quality Internships and Apprenticeships. The Charter Read the Press Release advocates for employers and politicians to commit to quality Access the report standards and to apply a clear and coherent code of conduct. Access the guide Adecco Foundation Spain and its guide to employment For Read the Charter 15 years, Adecco Foundation Spain has been changing lives Read the press release every day for people who find it not that easy to enter the Visit the European Youth Forum website workplace. Since 1999, some 227,114 people with diverse backgrounds, abilities and skills have found employment Local programmes and initiatives thanks to the support, innovation and dedication of the Adecco Foundation. A campaign to celebrate the anniversary 4th edition of the euro engineering ‘Sales CAMPUS‘ was launched, called #CambiandoVidas – changing lives, and Young professionals coming right out of university are offered a guide was published with 15 tips for job seekers. the euro engineering ‘Sales CAMPUS‘. It is a 12-month proDownload the guide gramme divided into four modules that offers youngsters their Blog Adecco Fundación first professional experience in account management. Euro #CambiandoVidas on twitter engineering is looking for talents who are interested in technical developments and want to become experts on how to 15 market and sell products. The one-year educational experiAniversario ence provides participants with both theoretical as well as practical know-how. 15 años, 15 consejos Read more para buscar empleo Watch the euro engineering Sales CAMPUS video euro engineering website 15 RECOMENDACIONES DE EXPERTOS PARA TENER éxito en tu proceso de búsqueda de empleo CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 54 G4-EC8 Integration ers’ organizations around the world. In 2014 and 2015, they took place in India, Japan, Peru, China and Brazil. The meetGlobal programmes and initiatives ings have addressed questions on hiring people with disabilities, benefits of creating a diverse workforce, disability and Adecco’s involvement with the Global ILO Business and equality trainings and how the private sector as well as emDisability Network People with disabilities make up around ployers’ organizations can play a more active role and drive 15% of the world’s population. This amounts to over one billion the disability inclusion discourse forward. people, making them the largest minority group. As an emILO Business & Disability website ployer of over 10,000 people with disabilities per year, we ILO Member publication ‘Business as Unusal’ bring considerable experience to the Global ILO Business and ILO Global Business & Disability Network Annual Report 2014 Disability Network through our membership and role on the Steering Committee. The Network is comprised of representaAdecco and another 200 companies joined forces under the tives from multinational enterprises, employers’ organisations Nestlé Alliance for YOUth As part of our commitment to fight and business networks, and selected non-governmental and youth unemployment and provide young people with work disabled peoples’ organisations. It assists companies with the experience, Adecco joined the Nestlé Alliance for YOUth proinclusion of people with disabilities into the workforce and gramme in June 2014. The 200 company strong European fosters the development of a workforce culture that is respectnetwork met together in September 2014, pledging to create ful and inclusive; promoting the hiring, retention and profesmore than 100,000 opportunities for young people in the comsional development of people with disabilities. By 2015, the ILO ing years. The Alliance for YOUth committed to work hand in Global Business and Disability Network strives to be recoghand with policy makers and the education sector to foster nised by international organisations, multinational enterprises both job employability and job creation. and employers’ organisations as the global reference network to address disability in the workplace. According to a survey which was carried out for the Alliance initiative, 23% of young people in Europe see unemployment In 2014, collaboration among members further developed and as the biggest problem faced by society over the next five grew. A one-day meeting where multinational corporations to ten years. And some 55% of those questioned who were came together in Switzerland was held in October. ILO Director unemployed said that governments were most to blame for General, Guy Ryder, opened the day stressing the significance not resolving the lack of opportunity for young people. of the topic for society as a whole and within the ILO. ParticiAround 2,000 young people across the UK, Germany, France, pants included Network members, ILO staff members, and Italy and Spain, aged between 18 and 29, took part in the representatives from permanent missions and other UN agensurvey. The results also revealed that 40% of those within the cies. They all shared their experiences and ideas on trans21 to 24 age group feared that job prospects in their country forming their workplaces into inclusive environments for peowere not good over the next 12 months. ple with disabilities. The event was also a platform where the company highlight publication was launched which showA moderated panel discussion with company leaders followed cases good initiatives and highlights on disability inclusion by a debate with youngsters took place at Nestlé’s Head­ initiatives and programmes of the Network member companies. quarters in Switzerland where all participants could share and . discuss their concerns as well as the way forward to accomplish the ambitious goals of creating the needed workplace opportunities for future generations. Learn more about the Alliance for YOUth Watch the webcast Alliance for YOUth YouTube channel Guy Rider, ILO Director General, speaking to the ILO Global Business & Disability Network Members during the first worldwide meeting on making workplaces inclusive for people with disabilities. Since its existence, the Network has organized ten meetings (regional and national) to promote disability-related employment policies and practices among companies and employCSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 55 G4-EC1; G4-EC8; G4-SO1 People with disabilities integrated into the labour market Number of individuals 16,000 Other business units1 Adecco Belgium 14,000 Adecco Italy & 12,000 Adecco Foundation Italy Adecco Spain & 10,000 Adecco Foundation Spain 8,000 Adecco France & 6,000 Adecco Foundation France 4,000 2,000 2004 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1 2014: Argentina, Mexico, Hungary, Serbia, Ukraine. We run similar integration programmes in the USA, Netherlands, Australia, Japan and Thailand. Private data protection laws in many countries do not allow to track the number of individuals with a disability inserted into the labour market. Our charitable foundations Adecco Group and its three Helping people with disabilities: 52% major foundations in France, Spain and Italy – often in partnership with respected organisations – are involved in a range Americas: USA, Japan of international, national and local programmes to help Mexico, Argentina Other: Hungary, groups ‘at risk’ of exclusion from the workforce because of France Serbia, Ukraine, disability, age, ethnicity or gender. Our Adecco foundations Italy Australia, Thailand are funded by contributions from Adecco and other compaSpain nies and organisations committed to supporting our integraNetherlands & tion efforts. Belgium In close to 52% of its global markets, Adecco Group runs specific programmes to Adecco Foundation France, created in 2002 integrate people with disabilities into the labour market. • Purpose: Assist, support and train disadvantaged people to ensure their integration into the workforce. • Activities: The foundation develops and runs social partnerships with various non-profit organisations in three fields: Helping young job seekers: 54% education, career orientation and professional integration. In 2014, 31 non-profit organisations were supported and France Middle/Eastern 400 Adecco employees volunteered time to participate in Spain Europe: Croatia, local solidarity initiatives. Italy Greece, Hungary, • The Foundation also runs the French Athlete Career ProSerbia, Turkey, Japan Ukraine gramme helping elite, Olympic and Paralympic athletes USA with their transition into the labour market. Netherlands Other: Argentina, • Employees (FTEs): 2.8 (400 volunteers) Poland Thailand • Annual donation by Groupe Adecco France: EUR 350,000 • Foundation budget: EUR 600,000 (EUR 350,000 in donation, In close to 54% of its global markets, Adecco Group runs specific programmes (Adecco Way to Work™ not included) to integrate young job seekers into the labour market. EUR 250,000 in training tax) • Community investment: 2,529 h • Beneficiaries from the Adecco Foundation France activities: 8,545 Helping mature job seekers: 42% • Beneficiaries from Groupe Adecco France programmes (Disability & Skills programme, Espace Emploi Handicap & France Compétences): 5,600 Italy Adecco Foundation France website Spain Adecco France ‚Emploi & Handicap‘ website USA Netherlands Other: Argentina, Serbia In close to 42% of its global markets, Adecco Group runs specific programmes to integrate mature job seekers into the labour market. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 56 G4-EC1; G4-EC8 Adecco Foundation Italy, created in 2001 Adecco North America supports veterans and their spouses • Purpose: Assist, support and train disadvantaged people to Adecco USA has been recognised as a military-friendly emensure their integration into the workforce. ployer, helping veterans and military spouses around the • Activities: The foundation runs several partnerships and inicountry fulfil their career goals. Through the Career Connectiatives to integrate people with disabilities, single women tions program, Adecco USA partners with military organisawith family responsibilities, long-term unemployed, mature tions to find temporary and full-time employment for veterans workers (50+). and military spouses as well as provide assistance with career • Employees: 7 development. Adecco is consistently named ‘Top Military • Annual donation by Adecco Group Italy: EUR 300,000; other Spouse Friendly Employer’ by Military Spouse Magazine and companies: EUR 43,422 credited as a Top Military Friendly company by G.I jobs. In the • Foundation budget: EUR 380,000 year 2014, Adecco placed over 6,000 veterans and military • Beneficiaries from Adecco Foundation Italy: 444 (362 vocaspouses in jobs. tional training, 177 integrated) Read more • Beneficiaries from Adecco Group Italy programmes: 19,489 Watch the video (611 people with disabilities, 5,100 mature (50+), 13,778 young (18–24). Supporting mature workers in Chile Adecco Chile together Adecco Fondazione website with a partner company, ‘La Caja de Compensación La Araucana’ has developed an employment programme which Adecco Foundation Spain, created in 1999 seeks to reintegrate mature workers into jobs. An agreement • Purpose: Assist, support and train disadvantaged people to was signed by the management of both companies and an ensure their integration into the workforce. Providing servicarticle was published in one of Chile’s magazines to raise es to companies with regards to their implementation of awareness of the support provided through the programme. CSR programmes and action plans as well as policies, with In a third step, the search for job offers to be filled with potenthe goal to enhance diversity within their workforce. tial candidates is underway in cooperation with client compa• Activities: The foundation runs several partnerships and nies. A four-month university programme which was launched training, employment and integration initiatives. in 2013, also offers the candidates to refresh their skills and • Employees (FTEs): 112 (3,236 volunteers) know-how in language, mathematics, as well as social and • Annual donation by Adecco Group Spain: EUR 220,000 natural sciences. All participants are required to do a final • Foundation budget: EUR 12,595,820 (2014) exam and receive a certificate upon successful completion. • Foundation budget: EUR 11,890,991 (2015) • Investments in PP/Community Partnerships: EUR 9,912,476 Adecco Chile awarded For its continuous engagement and • In 2014, employment was made possible for 2,859 disabled support with regards to workplace inclusion for people with a people, over 782 single mothers and/or victims of violence, disability, Adecco was awarded by Mutual Seguridad as ‘Em870 mature people (45+), including 650 people at risk of presa Socialmente Inclusiva’ (ESI). exclusion. • Beneficiaries from Adecco Foundation activities: 18,708 Adecco Fundación website Select country programmes and initiatives Adecco Groupe France introduces Humando The ‘Résau Adecco Insertion’, the first temporary employment integration network in France, launched Humando in Sep­ tember 2014 through the merger of three brands. The network's goal is to accompany more than 8,000 people with their career development annually. In total, 65 branches across the country are part of the ‘Résau Adecco Insertion’. Humando is positioned as a key player for integrating people at the edge of exclusion into the workplace thanks to its presence with 12 branches, its 950 clients and 1,550 candidates. Humando website Résau Adecco Insertion website Catherine Merello, HR Director, and Carolina Letelier, recruitment & selection, received the inclusion award on behalf of Adecco Chile by Mutual Seguridad. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 57 G4-SO1 “As an HR company, we are constantly looking for opportunities and innovative programmes to support people with their integration into the labour market.“ Suyin Palma, Head of Selection, Adecco Chile FESCO Adecco and the project ‘SMILE’ FESCO Adecco has a Pre-labour market support for children, cooperation with Clover Children Rehabilitation Kindergarten youth & students: 63% of Shanghai. The organisation is one of the listed NGOs that helps children with autism to practice communication and Mexico & Germany social skills. On International Children’s Day, FESCO Adecco Argentina Italy brought 30 volunteers comprised of employees, associates North America Spain and respective family members who joined a half-day event in Eastern Europe Japan Shanghai. A donation of books and school supplies was Sweden & Vietnam & Thailand made to the organisation and information was shared about Finland autism by personnel of the Kindergarten. France The volunteers also undertook social activities and games with In 63% of its global markets, Adecco Group runs specific programmes (Adecco Way to the children, all serving the purpose of relationship building Work™ not included) to integrate young job seekers into the labour market. and to increase knowledge about autism. Helping immigrants and other groups of vulnerable unemployed: 53% Australia Germany Canada Italy USA Spain France Sweden In 53% of its global markets, Adecco Group runs specific programmes to integrate immigrants and long-term unemployed into the labour market. 30 Adecco employees, associates and their families spending their time Helping elite athletes: in 65% of Adecco’s markets with autistic children and making some donations such as books, pens and 15 ’Keeptags’ a kind of GPS that helps keeping the youngsters safe. Europe North America South America Asia Australia & New Zealand In 65% of its global markets, the IOC and IPC Athlete Career Programmes in cooperation with Adecco are currently being delivered to integrate active and retiring athletes into the labour market. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 58 Adecco Foundation Italy receives Hyatt Community Grant Through the Hyatt Community Grants, Hyatt wishes to give back to the communities they are working in by also involving their employees. Adecco Foundation Italy proposed a project with regards to the integration of people at risk of social and labour market exclusion, especially women such as single mothers, women with disabilities and female victims of domestic violence. The goal is to reintegrate these target groups back into the workplace through a variety of career guidance and development as well as job placement. Hyatt employees are encouraged to participate with the Adecco Foundation in these activities for them to expand and deepen their community ties and act as local philanthropists. This, amongst other critera, convinced Hyatt to direct the financial grant to Adecco Italy‘s Foundation. ProServ‘s Manuel Fink together with Artur Wist who, after a successful internship, also passed his forklift drivers licence and has started his first job. ProServ is driving workplace inclusion Together with BvE (Berufsvorbereitende Einrichtung), an institution for vocational training, in 2012 ProServ, an Adecco Group Germany subsidiary, started a cooperation to train and integrate 16to 20year-old youngsters with learning difficulties or a mental impairment. BvE’s role is to support the youngster with training and the necessary support in education while work opportunities through internships are organized with partner companies such as ProServ. Under the guiding principle ‘Learn how to work while you work’, BvE and ProServ set up internships for two students, one of them with autism. After a successful internship experience, the autistic youngster was offered an apprenticeship and he even obtained his forklift drivers A proud Adecco Foundation Italy team with the Hyatt Community Grant licence. Having achieved all of this, he has now started his check that will provide help to women in need and allow Hyatt employee first job. Through the positive experience and good cooperaengagement in their local community. tion between BvE and ProServ, both organisations are motivated and energised to continue their mission and drive inclusion for all in the workplace. Visit the ProServ website Visit the BvE website CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 59 G4-57; G4-EC8; G4-LA6 “Adecco recognises that people are our biggest asset. It goes without saying that they must be provided with a healthy and safe work environment.” Lee Jackson, Health & Safety Manager Adecco Group UK & Ireland Health & Safety Supporting employee health and well-being In most countries, we have health and safety guidelines for employees and Global programmes and initiatives offer psychological hotlines or even direct access to a psych­ ologist. We provide our employees – if their job allows – with A safe and healthy working environment for associates the necessary IT tools to work from home or any other place, The Adecco Group strives to prevent accidents, injuries and helping them to fulfil their daily tasks in the best and most diseases in the workplace. Recognising the risks our associproductive way possible. In many countries, we grant paterates are exposed to when entering new and unfamiliar worknity leave and offer childcare assistance through agencies or places, the Adecco Group meets all statutory health and safecooperate with local day-care facilities in order to keep womty obligations. In order to ensure a fair basis for compa­rison of en in the workforce. our safety performance among our country organisations, we Through our Win4Youth project, we also engage our employlook at the development of accident frequency rates (AFR), ees to join in sports events during and after working hours. rather than comparing absolute AFR values. This is This contributes to enhanced passion, camaraderie, team due to the fact that our involvement in the various business spirit and well-being across departments and hierarchies. In sectors – and thus various risk potentials – varies significantly many countries, there are one or two yearly events for our from country to country. employees to celebrate as a team and enjoy themselves in an informal setting. Our standard measures are based on five cornerstones: 1. Health and safety coordinators and committees Development of Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) for associates 2. Risk assessment in the workplace with regular follow-ups 2012–2014 in select countries, rebased to 1 as of 2012 3. Employee testing, training and induction ;JH+ 4. Medical checks in accordance with local regulations 1.4 5. P  ersonal protection equipment provided by Adecco or ;J9+ 1.2 client companies. ;+ 1.0 !#'#4#+ Employee Global ACE Training on Health & Safety In 2014, :J]+ I$#'2)+ 95% of all required global employees successfully completed 0.8 _)$(#'7+ the online Global Health & Safety ACE training module on ?0#3'8%#`' :JV+ work-related hazards and illnesses. The training emphasises 0.6 ?O3%N)$.# the importance of safety training and accident and incident :JH+ aFDG$).#'4 0.4 reporting. Users also learn about ways to increase safety in the workplace and how to implement healthy workplace be:J9+ 0.2 haviours by giving advice on ergonomics, and how people :+ interact with workplace tools, equipment and their working 0 2012 9:;9+ 2013 9:;=+ 2014 9:;H+ environment. Canada Spain Staffing France Switzerland Germany UK & Ireland CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 60 G4-LA6 Development of Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) 2007–2014 in France, our second largest market (17% of Adecco Group‘ associates), rebased to 1 as of 2007 1.00 0.95 0.90 0.85 0.80 0.75 0.70 0.65 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 S@ve compétence: S@ve compétence: S@ve compétence: first implementations expanded to industry and roll-out of version 2.0 in construction sector transport sectors (Adia) (Adecco Groupe France) Health&Safety Plan 2010–2014 Implementation Select country programmes and initiatives Learning by playing: Adecco Training, our brand for internal and external training, has developed an innovative learning Groupe Adecco France – Health & Safety awareness and experience called ‘Sécurijeux’ which provides information training for employees, associates and clients S@ve compéabout safety in an entertaining way. Two teams compete tence is an online training tool to evaluate the know-how of against each other, on how they deal with a workplace acciassociates with regards to safety issues in a working environdent. Both teams need to analyse the situation and respond to ment. The test is focused on how risks are evaluated as well as some questions related to the incident. This teaches particithe behaviour and technical knowledge of the associates. After pants to act and react in the right way when confronted with the assessment, the associate is debriefed by a consultant, risks, apply the right measures and protocols and be prewho highlights good and bad practice. pared for any eventuality. By the end of 2014, 650 branches were using the online training for positions in the industrial, logistics and transportation Health & Safety a priority for Adecco UK & Ireland In 2014, industry. The training has helped to reduce accidents signifiboth Adecco UK & Ireland received their CHAS certification. cantly. With 720 buyer members and over 62,000 suppliers, CHAS is the largest organisation for health and safety pre-qualification The goal for 2015 is to reduce accidents by an additional 15%. in the UK. It is available to suppliers and to organisations Another measure which will be implemented is to analyse all looking for suitably competent suppliers. CHAS is not just for accidents that lead to associates and employees being absent construction companies, it assesses health and safety for all from work for more than four days. types of suppliers, from care services to professional services companies to designers and consultants. The French Olympics for safety Groupe Adecco France says “yes” to safety and “no” to accidents. In April 2014, the Safety Olympics were launched. Five principles are applied by colleagues in France with clients and associates: an annual client meeting on 28 April, addressing workplace safety (28 April being the International Day of Safety); check on associates’ workplaces; initiate safety talks with clients and associates; create safety awareness with branches by producing posters; analyse any accidents with inability to work for more than four days. The performance of colleagues accomplishing the five tasks will be monitored and awarded. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 61 Adecco Luxembourg and Spain hold OHSAS 18001 Getting back to work support by Adecco New Zealand certifications Following the introduction of a health and safety Accidents, injury, illness or disability may occur and it is theresystem for employees and associates in Luxembourg, the fore crucial to support employees in the return to work proOHSAS 18001 certification confirmed that the company applies cess. Adecco New Zealand through its occupational rehabilithe very highest standards. It enabled the company to imtation practice and processes has a strong focus on prove its health and safety processes and thus reduce Accirehabilitation assistance. It assists with occupational rehabilident Frequency Rate (AFR) significantly. tation for employees who have sustained an injury, illness or disability. Adecco’s Health & Safety policy refers therefore to Adecco Spain holds OHSAS 18001 In addition to its OHSAS rehabilitation through restoration of the employee’s independ18001 certificate which Adecco Temporary Staffing holds, ence and optimal physical, psychological, social and vocaemployees in Adecco Spain learn about prevention of ill tional function. health and the lifestyle which contributes to good health Adecco will begin coordinated, early and automatic interventhrough the programme ‘A tu salud’. It provides information tion with suitable support and direction for employees. This is on topics such as nutrition, fitness and cardiovascular risks aligned with any medical recommendations to ensure optimal and how to prevent them as well as workshops on how to management practices are adopted. At all times the rights, avoid back problems. Employees also have access to a mediwelfare and confidentiality of the employee are respected. cal helpline offered through Vodafone for any questions. Adecco believes that healthy and balanced employees provide better service quality for our clients, are more productive and competitive and have lower absentee rates. In addition, healthy people contribute to a good team spirit and higher retention rates. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 62 G4-EN18; G4-EN19 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Environmental dimension Global programmes and initiatives • increasing the proportion of environmentally friendly paper where paper is needed Further reducing our CO2 emissions Since 2010, environ• encouraging the re-use and recycling of paper mental conscious management, subsequent monitoring and • encouraging the use and recycling of other recyclable prodreduction are carried out in the areas of: ucts such as toners, cardboard, PET containers • encouraging our Business Units to incorporate environmen1. Electrical energy consumption tal considerations into the procurement of goods and ser2. Mobility: company car mileages and air miles flown vices. 3. Office supply: paper and toner consumption 4. Office equipment: computers bought and replaced The Adecco Group expects that improving its environmental performance will impact the following: in our now 15 largest markets and emerging markets (France, North America, UK & Ireland, Germany, Japan, Italy, Nether1. Our CO2 footprint on the environment lands, Belgium, Norway, Sweden, Spain, Argentina Mexico 2. Financial performance and Singapore), including the joint global & Adecco Switzer3. Being a credible company for investors and analysts land headquarters. These countries represent over 86% of our 4. B  eing a trustworthy partner and employer to our clients, business operations in terms of revenues. In the past three associates/candidates and employees years, we have made the following steps: Our Environmental Guidelines In 2012, we published Environ1. Identified our Carbon Footprint in 15 major countries and mental Guidelines which build on and replace our 2007 Envimarkets including global HQ ronmental Policy. We are conscious of the impact of our op2. Used the data for all stakeholder enquiries erations on the environment and of the difference we can 3. S tarted reducing our CO2 emission through targeted make by acting responsibly. Our environmental commitments projects and progress are reported annually in the Adecco Group’s CSR 4. Communicated about it accordingly to all stakeholders. Report and CoP as well as through our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the RobecoSAM’s Dow In addition, in 2012, the Adecco Group set an emission reducJones Sustainability Indices. tion target of 12% by 2022 and we expect to reach this goal Access our Environmental Guidelines through concrete action points. For the measurement and calculation of our data according to Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, Greenhouse gas efficiency performance: we use a customised platform called ‘myclimate’. Average CO2 e emission (Carbon Dioxide equivalent) (metric tonnes, scopes 1, 2 & 3) With our business activities as a service provider, our action 10 points include: per million • decreasing our use of electricity and fossil energy 8 EUR revenues • decreasing the amount of CO 2 emissions through the reduc6 Target per tion of air miles flown million EUR 4 • increasing the number of environmentally friendly cars in revenues 2 our fleets or decreasing car usage per FTE • decreasing the amount of paper used and increasing the 2012 2013 2014 2015 2022 Target per FTE use of electronic documents CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 63 G4-EN1; G4-EN3; G4-EN15; G4-EN16; G4-EN17; G4-EN19 Global performance indicators Our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) Total emissions extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) Source Scope (100% FTEs) metric tonnes CO2e (CO2 equivalent) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Own business cars 1 (direct) 35,893 39,551 51,562 81,423 85,683 47% 38% 47% 16% 15% Electricity 2 (indirect) 33,379 37,408 1 52,372 1, 2 62,609 70,663 43% 43% 31% 28% 25% Electricity 3 (indirect) 9,231 10,231 1 14,351 1, 2 27,275 30,615 43% 43% 31% 28% 25% Own business cars 3 (indirect) 7,776 8,569 12,686 45,989 46,631 47% 38% 47% 16% 15% Air travel 3 (indirect) 25,429 11,608 12,908 7,372 6,407 83% 58% 39% 28% 10% Paper 3 (indirect) 1,593 1,974 2,0451 2,368 2,458 58% 58% 42% 34% 18% Toner 3 (indirect) 397 492 5092 596 642 58% 58% 42% 34% 18% New lap & desktops 3 (indirect) 1,152 2,681 2,694 2,497 2,446 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% More details on emissions and measurement methodology are provided in our Carbon Disclosure Project assessment: www.cdproject.net. Our materials and water consumption Total consumption extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) Source (100% FTEs) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Material Purchased paper (office supply, does not 1,094 metric 2080 metric 994 metric 1,845 metric 1,898 metric include printed matter) tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes 58% 58% 42% 34% 12% Toner (calculated from paper consumption) 109 kg 208 kg 100 kg 185 kg 189 kg 58% 58% 42% 34% 12% Our electricity and vehicle petrol consumption Total consumption extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) Source (100% FTEs) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Energy source Electricity (from 76,018 114,202 138,182 145,081 160,014 national grids) MWh MWh MWh MWh MWh 43% 43% 31% 28% 25% Green electricity (from 100% renewable sources) 520 MWh 1,444 MWh 3,275 MWh n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 12,876,760 15,608,240 21,502,000 Vehicle petrol litres litres litres n.a. n.a. 38% 38% 35% 0% 0% 1 GHG emissions from electricity were restated for 2012 and 2013. The reported electricity consumptions for 2014 revealed that some consumption values were overestimated in the past years. Presumably, in major markets some very energy-intensive sites (e.g. due to IT server stations or similar) were prorated on country level. The restatements lead to about 30% lower GHG emissions from electricity (Scope 2 and Scope 3). This is all within the uncertainty range of up to 40%, as always indicated in the CDP investor and supply chain modules. 2 Emission coefficients for electricity (ecoinvent Database v2.2) have been updated since 2011 due to latest scientific findings. This resulted in substantial lower emission values. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 64 G4-EN15; G4-EN16; G4-EN17 Select country programmes and initiatives Adecco Group Germany offsetting CO2 Emissions The Adecco Switzerland goes for eco-efficiency and quality As German Railway company DB of September 2014, 94 VW Polo cars provide our employees provided certification to Adecco from Adecco Switzerland with mobility but also eco-efficiency Group Germany as part of its when meeting with clients around the country. With 100 corporate programme, ‘bahn. branches in 50 locations, a high-quality car fleet in every recorporate’ for using their serspect is key. The new VW Polo matches Adecco’s needs in vices and completing a total of terms of sustainability, flexibility and efficiency: The car uses 2,285,782 kilometres in 2014. only 4.7 litres per 100 kilometres and has a CO2 emission perThe electricity consumed was formance of 107 grammes per kilometre. 100% covered by renewable energies. This means that all emissions caused by business travels with the German Railway were emission-neutral. Bahn.corporate Australia: Change in supply chain as an opportunity In 2014, global procurement changed their supplier for printers and joined global agreement Adecco Group put in place with one company. This gave Adecco Australia the push to focus Norway, Sweden and Spain ISO 14001 certified To date, on ways to reduce paper consumption and costs. They impleAdecco in Norway, Sweden and Spain have been ISO 14001 mented the usage of recycled printing paper and configured certified and renewed certifications. The ISO 14000 family of all printers to dual side and black & white printing by default. standards addresses various aspects of environmental manTo print one-sided only and in colour, employees need to agement and provides practical tools for companies and orchange the settings which helps to save paper and toner. In ganisations looking to identify and control their environmental addition, all users were provided with a password for printing impact and constantly improve their environmental performance. which has to be entered at the actual printing machine. If this is not carried out in time, the print request will not be completAdecco Argentina launches ed and erased. internal awareness campaign In April 2014, Adecco Argentina Groupe Adecco France’s ‘Covoiturage’ keeps growing To started its campaign called minimise their emissions, in 2012 Groupe Adecco France intro‘Reduce, recycle and re-use’. duced a service called ‘Covoiturage’, or car-pooling, for its One of its goals is to bring employees and associates. The dedicated website gives emdown the average monthly paployees the chance to share cars and find potential passenper consumption from 260,000 gers. ‘Covoiturage’ has grown to 4,000 users and is used by all to 195,000 sheets. In order to subsidiaries and major brands within Groupe Adecco France. achieve this, Adecco has been Visit the new ’Covoiturage’ website measuring consumption on a monthly basis in Headquarters but also at branch level and 2014 Greenhouse gas emissions split by source around the country together with employee information, including screen savers to get Electricity (scopes 2 & 3): 37% people engaged and to support the campaign by small beBusiness cars (scopes 1 & 3): 38% havioural changes. Adecco Argentina has appointed ambasAir travelling (scope 3): 22% sadors in different locations which drive internal recycling efIT equipment (scope 3): 1% forts and even organised meetings with government officials. Paper & toner (scope 3): 1% Further activities as part of the campaign include: electronic invoicing, sustainable supply procurement, reducing the usThe GHG split indicates Adecco Group’s environmentally most material issues: age of water and energy, recycling and donations of IT materi1) Mobility business cars and air travelling: high impact with 61%.. als, further implementing electronic invoicing with clients (in 2) Electricity consumption: highest impact with 37%. 3) Office supply (paper & toner) and IT equipment: reasonable impact with 2%. 2011, 60% of clients used electronic invoicing, in 2014 the number went up to 98%). CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 65 Measuring our CSR performance through KPIs and targets Our sustainability performance and goals In order for us to steadily improve our business and CSR perbetter life’ amongst all our stakeholders and make us a reformance and identify shortfalls, we have introduced clear sponsible player in our industry and beyond. Outlined below KPIs for the various areas in the Economic, Social and Environare the areas of measurement and the respective KPIs as mental dimension. This will support our goal of ’better work, well as the current status of performance. Dimension Area KPIs Status Economic Corporate Governance • Board structure • Non-executive Chairman • Responsibilities & Committees • Transparency • Diversity • Board Effectiveness • Transparency Senior Remuneration • Median compensation Risk & Crisis Mgmt. • Responsibility • Risk mapping • Risk Response Strategy Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ • Focus Corruption & Bribery • Systems/procedures • Policies • Coverage • Reporting & breaches Customer Relationship Mgmt. • Satisfaction measurement • Feedback process • Market segmentation Supply Chain Mgmt. • Supplier segmentation (tier 1, 2 and high-risk) • Risk management process • Risk management measures • Supplier Standards, Policy, CoC • Capacity building/joint initiatives • Leveraging opportunities Very good to good performance Good to medium performance Improvements needed CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 66 Dimension Area KPIs Status Social Social Reporting • CoP/CSR Report • Materiality framework Diversity & Equal Opportunities • Measuring diversity internally • Measuring diversity with associates • Partnerships • Training employees Integration • Integration of mature, young, disabled, athletes, women with family responsibilities into labour market • PPP and community initiatives • Company partnerships • Community hours by employees • Financial investment Human and Labour Rights • Global/local initiatives and commitments • Employee training discrimination • Coverage Freedom of Associaton/collective bargaining • Strike days employees/associates • Code of Conduct/ACE training • Reporting & breaches • Human & Labour Rights guidelines • Forums/events participation Health & Safety • Accident Frequency Rate associates • Nr. of accidents associates • Occupational fatalities associates • Absenteeism employees • Health and well-being initiatives employees • Health & safety traininig • Health & safety policy • Psychological hotline Environmental Environmental Reporting • Coverage • Public reporting on performance • Results from assessments (DJSI, CDP, other) Environmental Policy/ • Environmental Guidelines Mgmt. System • Certification (ex. ISO 14000) Eco-efficiency • Measuring Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions in centralised system • Reduction targets Very good to good performance Good to medium performance Improvements needed CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 67 G4-PR5 External acknowledgements of our sustainability performance Adecco amongst Industry Group Leaders for the fourth Other ratings we have received: consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability World & Europe Indices Enhanced rating in the Carbon Disclose Project (CDP) In 2014, Adecco S.A. received confirmation of its continued Adecco’s efforts in measuring and reporting its greenhouse inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI) World and Eugas emissions were acknowledged in CDP’s evaluations rope Indices. In addition, Adecco S.A. has been recognised as 2014: Adecco achieved a disclosure score of 72 (CDP Supply the Leader in the Commercial & Professional Services Industry Chain average 53) and was placed in performance category Group by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices in collaboration Band C (CDP Supply Chain average C). with RobecoSAM. Adecco was benchmarked against the largCDP website est companies worldwide undergoing an in-depth analysis of financially material economic, environmental and social pracEcoVadis – Gold ratings tices. The Adecco Group and Groupe Adecco France were both givThis includes innovation and supply chain management, clien gold rating in the EcoVadis 2014 assessment which indimate strategy and stakeholder engagement, with a special cates our ‘Advanced’ CSR engagement. The EcoVadis methodfocus on industry-specific risks and opportunities. RobecoSAM ology framework assesses companies’ policies and also invites over 3,000 publicly traded companies, including 800 measures the reporting published on the environment, labour companies in emerging markets, to report annually on their practices & human rights, fair business practices and sustainsustainability practices. able procurement. The assessment conducted by CSR experts Read more about RobecoSAM and S&P Dow Jones Indices on is made on the basis of the company’s responses and supthe DJSI annual review 2014 website. porting documents to a survey which is dynamically adapted to country, sector and size, as well as public and stakeholder Adecco S.A. has received Silver Class distinction for its (NGOs, trade unions, press) information publicly available. excellent sustainability performance EcoVadis website In January, RobecoSAM published its Sustainability Yearbook 2015. As one of the top-scoring companies in our industry, Adecco S.A. has qualified for inclusion in the 2015 Sustainability Yearbook and has received Silver Class distinction for its excellent sustainability performance. Sustainability Yearbook website CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 68 DJSI Assessment – Results Adecco Group Scorecards 2009–2014 100 80 Best Company on a Global Basis within 60 Industry Group 40 Industry Average on a Global Basis 20 Adecco 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In 2013, the Adecco Group was recognised as the Leader in the Commercial & Professional Services Industry Group by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices in collaboration with RobecoSAM. In 2014, Adecco scored 1 point behind the Leader position. SXI Switzerland Sustainability 25® – Adecco amongst the most sustainable Swiss companies in 2014 The SXI Switzerland Sustainability 25 Index® includes 25 stocks from the SMI® Expanded Index with the best sustainability scores. The index is weighted based on free-float market capitalisation, with a single component’s weight capped at a maximum of 15%. A total score is derived for each company provided by a third-party research provider. The higher the score, the more sustainable the company. All companies that are considered sustainable and belong to the SMI expanded Member 2014/2015 are eligible and ranked according to their total score. The index is built out of the SMI expanded and a rebalancing is implemented yearly as part of the ordinary review in September. The SXI Switzerland Sustainability 25® was launched on 17 June 2014. Read more DJSI World • sustainability-indexes.com • DJSI Europe sustainability-indexes.com • FTSE4GOOD Global Index ftse.com/ftse4good • FTSE4GOOD Europe Index ftse.com/ftse4good • ECPI Ethical Index Global ecpigroup.com • ECPI Ethical Index Euro ecpigroup.com • Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register forumethibel.org • DAXglobal® Sarasin Sustainability Germany (TR) EUR dax-indices.com • Pictet-Ethos CH – Swiss Sustainable Equities pictetfunds.com • STOXX® Global ESG Leaders indices stoxx.com • Vontobel Fund – Global Responsibility Swiss Equity vontobel.com CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 69 GRI* G4 Standard Disclosures 71 Organisational profile 78 Identified material aspects and boundaries 78 Stakeholder engagement 79 Governance, commitments, and engagement 80 Economic indicators 86 Labour practices 87 Human Rights 88 Society 89 GRI G4 Content Index 89 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) * The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is explained in the Glossary under ´GRI´, page 106. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 70 This section provides the GRI standard disclosures which are Furthermore, the following documents were signed between not covered in the main part of this Report nor in the Annual Eurociett and UNI-Europa (the European level), since the MoU: Report 2014 yet. The reference numbers in the following section are those used in the GRI G4 Guidelines. For a complete • Eurociett/UNI-Europa: joint Declaration on the Sectoral overview and the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service Social Dialogue on Agency Work, signed in 2000 organisational mark (i.e. the formal confirmation that this re• Eurociett/UNI-Europa: joint Declaration within the frameport has undergone and successfully completed the GRI Matework of the Flexicurity debate as launched and defined by riality Disclosures Service) please see the GRI G4 Content Inthe EU Commission, signed in 2007 dex on pages 89–97. • Eurociett/UNI-Europa: joint Declaration on the Directive on working conditions for temporary agency workers, signed in 2008 Organisational profile • Eurociett/UNI-Europa: joint Declaration on Training for Temporary Agency Workers: joint actions developed by sectoral G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective social partners play a key role in facilitating skills upgrad­bargaining agreements ing, signed in 2009 In the Temporary Agency Work (TAW) industry, a multitude of • Eurociett/UNI-Europa: joint Recommendation on Temporary Collective Bargaining Agreements (CLAs) stipulates the frameAgency Work facilitating transitions in the labour market, work relationship and functioning of workers and companies highlighting our efforts and role in the various phases of rights and responsibilities. There are great differences in transitions our workers go through, signed in December the coverage of employees by CLAs per country, depending 2012. on national legislation. The countries with the highest percentage of employees covered by CLAs are countries with mature labour legislation, mostly in Europe. However, significant difG4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period ferences are also to be found within Europe. We can identify regarding size, structure and ownership three different types of CLAs: Company CLAs (signed between March 2014: Adecco S.A. has been informed that the Jacobs user companies and their employees), TAW Industry CLAs group (comprising Jacobs family members, Jacobs Holding (signed between the HR Services’ National Association and AG, Jacobs Foundation and other affiliated entities) completed Industry Trade Unions) and Employer Association CLAs signed the previously announced placement to the market of 30.2 on behalf of the HR Services Industry with National Sectoral million registered shares of Adecco S.A. corresponding to apTrade Unions. Due to the number of countries (and national proximately 16.0% of the company. The placement was carried labour legislation frameworks), Adecco operates in, and the out through an accelerated bookbuilt offering to institutional variety of CLAs (according to Country, Industry, Sector and investors at a price of CHF 71.50 per share. Customer) it has engaged in, the Adecco Group has only approximate records of the percentage of employees covered by August 2014: The Adecco Group announced the acquisition of CLAs. For the percentages, please refer to chart “Freedom of OnForce, Inc. OnForce’s freelancer management system (FMS) Association & Collective Bargaining” on page 49. provides cloud-based solutions for companies to manage their use of freelancers/independent contractors. These soluIn November 2008, UNI Global Union and Ciett Corporate tions complement the vendor management system (VMS) proMembers, including the Adecco Group, signed a Memoranvided by Adecco’s Beeline business. The merger of these two dum of Understanding (MoU) which set the foundation of the offerings will create a unique integrated solution for compasectoral social dialogue for agency workers to achieve fair nies to source talent through multiple channels. conditions for the TAW industry and the 12.4 million temporary agency workers on assignment daily around the world. The March 2015: Adecco Group announced the acquisition of agreement is global in scope with mutual commitments to Knightsbridge Human Capital Solutions for an enterprise value – amongst others – respect the freedom of association and of CAD 80 million. Knightsbridge is the market leader in Canathe right to collective bargaining as guaranteed by the Interda in career transition, talent and leadership development national Labour Organization, ILO. and recruitment services, with revenues of CAD 56 million in 2014 from these activities. Knightsbridge will be combined with Adecco subsidiary Lee Hecht Harrison, the global leader in career transition and talent mobility. 1 Spot exchange rate: 101.36 YEN/EUR. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 71 May 2015: Adecco Group announced that CEO Patrick De G4-16 Principal memberships in industry and business Maeseneire has decided to leave the Adecco Group and will associations hand over his duties at the end of August 2015. The Board of Directors appointed Alain Dehaze as the new Chief Executive Principal memberships and affiliations on corporate level: Officer as of September 1, 2015. Alain Dehaze is currently Regional Head of France and member of the Executive Commit• Ciett and Eurociett The Adecco Group is a member of Ciett, tee since 2009. Dominik de Daniel, CFO Adecco Group, decidEurociett, Ciett South East Asia Taskforce, and Ciett&LA, ed to leave the Company at the end of July 2015. More details respectively the International, European, Asian and Latin in press release. America Confederations of Private Employment Agencies. Ciett is the authoritative voice representing the common July 2015: Adecco Group announced the appointment of interests of the agency work industry and consists of 40 Christophe Catoir as the Regional Head of France and memnational federations from EU and EFTA and seven of the ber of the Executive Committee. Christophe Catoir succeeds largest staffing companies worldwide: www.ciett.org Alain Dehaze, the designated Chief Executive Officer of the • ILO Global Business & Disability Network The Adecco Adecco Group, and take up his new role as of September 1, Group is a founding member of the orginial Business & 2015. More details in press release. Disability network (founded in December 2004) by European companies to improve access for disabled people to the laAugust 2015: Adecco Group announced the appointment of bour market. In 2012, the Network was formally established, Hans Ploos van Amstel as Chief Executive Officer and Member and it continues to sharing business cases and experiences of the Executive Committee for the Adecco Group as of Sepon disability management among the Network members: tember 1, 2015. Hans Ploos van Amstel succeeds Dominik de www. businessanddisability.org (see page 55 of this report). Daniel who decided to leave the Company at the end of July • World Economic Forum Strategic Partner The Strategic 2015. More details in press release. Partners community comprises a select group of 100 leading global companies selected for their alignment with the G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Forum’s commitment to improving the state of the world. approach or principle is addressed The Adecco Group joined the World Economic Forum as The risk management process at the Adecco Group has straIndustry Partner in 2009 and become an Industry Partner in tegic and organisational dimensions. Besides monitoring, an2011 (see page 52 of this report). alysing and mitigating risks, the aim is also to identify oppor• economiesuisse The Adecco Group is member of the Swiss tunities. This makes it obvious that the precautionary Business Federation, the largest umbrella organisation approach (which indicates that lack of scientific certainty is no representing the Swiss economy. Its mission is to create an reason to postpone action to handle potential risks) is inherent optimal economic environment for Swiss business and to to Adecco Group’s risk and opportunities management. Furpromote sustained growth as a prerequisite for a high level ther information, see Annual Report 2014, p. 103, Note 18. of employment in Switzerland. • Avenir Suisse The Adecco Group is a sponsor of the indeG4-15 List of externally developed economic, environmenpendent think-tank for economic and social issues. Avenir tal and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to Suisse aims to ensure that Switzerland offers opportunities which the Adecco Group subscribes or which it endorses for future generations – for independent development, citizen sovereignty and prosperity. The think-tank wants to • UN Charter of Human Rights address important topics ahead of time, stimulate public • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at debates with the help of innovative proposals and contribwork ute to strengthening Switzerland as a location. • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multi• European Alliance on Skills for Employability (EASE) The national Enterprises and Social Policy Alliance on Skills for Employability is a multi-stakeholder • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises initiative under the EeSA (European e-Skills Association) umbrella framework, supporting the EU Growth & Jobs Strategy by working in partnership to help bringing technology skills, competencies and training to Europeans underserved by technology. Adecco has been a member since 2011. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 72 • Nestlé Alliance for YOUth programme The Nestlé Alliance for YOUth aims to bring together private companies, alongside European institutions and national governments, in the fight against youth un-employment. Adecco as the world’s leading provider of HR solutions, contributes its labour market expertise and helps young people develop the skills they need to succeed. • Global Apprenticeships Network (GAN) The GAN is a network of companies that seeks to address global skills shortages and create opportunities for young people. The coalition focuses on improving the status of apprenticeship programmes by offering apprenticeships and internships and by sharing best practices with other companies and labour administrations. Adecco joined the GAN in 2014 as part of other international companies such as Telefónica, Ericsson, Huawei Technologies, UBS, Jindal Steel & Power and Samsung Electronics. • European Alliance for Apprenticeships (EAfA) In 2013, the European Commission launched the European Alliance for Apprenticeships (EAfA) to promote apprenticeship schemes and initiatives across Europe by bringing together public authorities, businesses, social partners, education providers and youth representatives. The Adecco Group joined the European Alliance for Apprenticeships (EAfA) in 2015 with the Adecco Way to WorkTM programme. Principal memberships at country level: The Adecco country organisations are generally members of the local chambers of commerce as well as of our industry associ­ations such as the national confederations of private employment agencies, etc. In addition, our Adecco country organisations and brands are also cooperating with many governmental and not-for-profit organisations locally to make the labour market accessible for all. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 73 Adecco Argentina • US Chamber of Commerce in Argentina (AMCHAM) Adecco Argentina is a member and participates in their CSR annual meeting. • Spanish Chamber of Commerce in Argentina Adecco Argentina is a member and participant of local activities. • French-Argentinian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCIFA) Adecco Argentina is a member and participant of local activities. • Swiss-Argentinian Chamber of Commerce Adecco Argentina is a member and participant of local activities. For the full overview, please visit: Adecco Argentina CSR Report Adecco Australia • RSCA The Recruitment & Consulting Services Association Australia & New Zealand (RCSA) is the leading industry and professional body for the recruitment and the human resources services sector in Australia and New Zealand. It represents over 3,300 company and individual members. Ajilon Australia • AIIA The Australian Information Industry Association (AIIA) is the peak representative body and advocacy group for the ICT industry in Australia. • IPAA The Institute of Public Administration Australia (IPAA) is the nationwide professional association for those involved in public administration. • ITCRA Information Technology Contract & Recruitment Association Ltd. Recognising, supporting and promoting excellence in the ICT contracting and recruitment market. • IIBA (Western Australian and South Australian Regions) The International Institute of Business Analysis (IIBA®) is the independent non-profit professional association serving the growing field of Business Analysis. • AHRI The Australian Human Resources Institute (AHRI) is the national association representing human resource and people management professionals. • AIM The Australian Institute of Management (AIM) is Australia's largest professional body for managers. The sole purpose of AIM is to promote the advancement of education and learning in the field of management. Adecco Belgium • Federgon Adecco Belgium is a member of the national staffing association for HR service providers. • Voka This is the Flanders' Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the most representative employers' organisation in Flanders, representing over 18,000 companies in Flanders and Brussels, including Adecco Belgium. • VDAB Adecco Belgium is part of the Flemish Government Organisation for Employment VDAB. • Forem This is the Walloon Government Organisation for Employement of which Adecco is a member. Additionally, Adecco Belgium is a member of a variety of regional Chambers of Commerce as for example BECI, CCILBn CCIHO, etc.) • VMA This an independent, Belgian not-for-profit organisation for leaders, by leaders. • ADM This is a platform where people share knowledge, network and collaborate on IT and its applications in different operational fields. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 74 Adecco Group France • Association Française des Managers de la Diversité (AFMD) French Diversity Managers Association to promote diversity management to line managers, 120+ members (Groupe Adecco France’s CSR Director holds the presidency). • IMS Entreprendre A club of over 200 of France’s top companies committed to improving their impact on society (Groupe Adecco France is represented on the Board of Directors). • Observatoire de la Responsabilité Sociétale des Entreprises (ORSE) A French network designed to study and promote socially responsible investment (SRI), corporate social responsibility and issues related to sustainable development. • The French Réseau Adecco Insertion are members of the Conseil National des Entreprises d’Insertion, a federation of enterprises working on labour integration for low-skilled and unemployed people. • Club Etre A national network of enterprises for disabled people. • Club Handicap & Compétences A corporate initiative on disability and inclusion initiated by Adecco France’s Espace Emploi Handicap & Compétences . • FACE (Fondation Agir Contre les Exclusions) A network of enterprises, institutional actors and pressure groups, aiming to prevent and fight exclusion. • Charte de la Diversité (Diversity Charter) A charter signed by enterprises showing their commitment to fight discrimination at work and the goal to reflect the diversity of the French population in the labour market. • Charte de la Parentalité A charter to promote parenthood at work. • Pas@Pas A web-based portal to promote diversity in the supply chain by promoting companies with a focus on Employment and Inclusion (Groupe Adecco France is represented on the Board of Directors). • Charte de l’apprentissage A charter signed by enterprises which aim to promote professional integration of young people into the labour market by using a specific work contract between a company and a student. The students spend half the time working for the company and the other half learning at school. • Charte Entreprises et Quartiers A charter signed by enterprises to promote their commitment towards members of disadvantaged neighbourhoods, to raise awareness and undertake actions towards employment opportunities. • Enactus France This is the French operation of the global Enactus network, a community of students, academics and business leaders who develop social entrepreneurship within universities and engineering & eusiness schools (Fondation Groupe Adecco is a member of the Board). • EPA (Entreprendre pour Apprendre) This is an NGO dedicated to the development of entrepreneurialand business-related skills for youth (Fondation Groupe Adecco is a member of the Board). For the full overview, please visit: Adecco Group France’s CSR Report Adecco Germany • Zukunftsvertrag Zeitarbeit (Future contract for temporary employment) is an initiative by the leading staffing companies in Germany. Its goal is to develop and implement innovative employment concepts. • Hanse-Aerospace e.V., Hamburg, is Germany’s largest association of small and medium-sized aerospace companies. The members represent a wide spectrum, ranging from development companies, manufacturers and maintenance companies to aerospaceoriented service companies. Training schools, universities and universities of applied sciences complete the membership. A total of 14,000 staff – about 15% of all personnel employed in the German aviation and space industries – work for Hanse-Aerospace members. DIS AG Germany • Supporting Partner of brotZeit e.V., an association with a focus on children from difficult socio-economic backgrounds. • Zukunftsvertrag Zeitarbeit (see above under Adecco Germany). TUJA Germany • Supporting partner of roterkeil.net, an association fighting sexual abuse of children. • Hanse-Aerospace e.V., Hamburg (see above under Adecco Germany). Adecco Japan • Global Compact Network Japan The local network of the UN Global Compact. • Japan Staffing Service Association Adecco Japan is a member of the national Staffing association. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 75 Adecco Netherlands • ABU Adecco is a member of the Dutch association of temporary work agencies. • FIRA Adecco Netherlands is using this digital platform where companies can register to assess their suppliers with regards to their CSR practices for clients (buyers). FIRA verifies the information and ensures the information provided is accurate. • JINC A non-profit organisation which helps young people get in contact with businesses. • Avans Hogeschool den Bosch This is one of the largest further education colleges in the Netherlands and Adecco Netherlands supports their job fairs. • KNVB Talent Team Adecco scouts for interns for the Royal Dutch Football Association. • MVO Nederland A knowledge and network organisation which encourages companies to be socially responsible. • STOOF This organisation helps flex time workers to develop through education. Via STOOF, Adecco is also involved in the Lezen en Schrijven project of the Stichting Lezen & Schrijven Foundation, which is committed to reduce illiteracy in the Netherlands. Ajilon Netherlands • The Nederlandse Biotechnologische Vereniging, an association for professionals who work in the Life Sciences industry. Adecco Norway • Global Compact Nordic Network The local network of the UN Global Compact. Adecco Poland • Polish HR Forum Initiative of leading companies from the employment agencies sector, operating to promote the highest ethical standards, develop the employment agencies sector in Poland, and influence trade unions, authorities and government administrative bodies. Adecco Russia • APEA (Association of Private Employment Agencies) This is the biggest association of the Employment Agencies of the Russian Federation, created by Adecco Russia and three other main industry players. The mission of the Association is to create an educated market with unique standards and code of ethics, supporting the Government to create standards and certification for the Private Employment Agencies. • Chambre de Commerce et d`Industrie Franco-Russe (CCIFR) The French Chamber of Commerce in where Adecco participates as an active speaker and organiser of business events. Adecco Spain & Adecco Spain • Club de Excelencia en Sostenibilidad A business association by a group of major Foundation companies with the commitment to sustainable growth within the economic, social and environmental dimension. • UN Global Compact Spain The local network of the UN Global Compact Network where Adecco Spain is co-founder. • Fundación Másfamilia A foundation with a focus on the development of better protection and an enhanced quality of life for families. • AEF The Spanish Association of Foundations is a private association of public interest, which brings together foundations from all geographical areas and disciplines with the goal of enhancing the influence of Foundations in Spain. • CEOE The Spanish Confederation of Employers’ Organisations A Spanish institution that represents the Spanish business community. It includes state-owned and private companies in all sectors. It’s a member of BusinessEurope. • Seres Foundation A non-profit organisation which fosters and promotes strategic business actions that contribute to the overall improvement of social issues with a focus on disadvantaged groups. • Ability Club A network which has the goal to enhance and share best practice which have been identified through the Telefónica Ability Awards. • Observatorio de Innovación en el Empleo (OIE). The Observatorio de Innovación en el Empleo (OIE) is a private-sector initiative established in 2014 with the goal to improve the Spanish labour market. • DirActivas An initiative started by Adecco as a result of the concern of a group of women entrepreneurs which as its goal has to raise awareness about the importance of the role of women in the labour market. • Proyecto Unidos A programme done by universities and companies to accompany, guide and prepare students with disabilities during their academic career and when entering the labour market. • Foretica Enterprise 2020. Enterprise 2020 (E2020) has the purpose to raise awareness about the European strategy on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) launched by the European Commission in 2011. For the full overview, please visit: Adecco Spain’s CSR Reporting Adecco Sweden • Global Compact Nordic Network The local network of the UN Global Compact. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 76 Adecco Switzerland • Swiss Economic Forum (SEF) The SEF is the premium economic leadership event in Switzerland. It strives to inspire creative thinking to reach new horizons and provoke action among entrepreneurs, business leaders, politicians, scientists and start-up companies. • Swiss Leadership Forum (SLF) The SLF is one of the leading economic forum’s in Switzerland. It supports and inspires entrepreneurs, decision-makers and economic leaders in advancing the competitiveness of the Swiss economy. Adecco Thailand • CCF Community Children Fund Foundation Adecco Thailand is a member of the CCF (Under the Royal Patronage of HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn). The Foundation provides dedicated care and development to help children gain better education, health, vocational skills and life skills. They work with family and community to promote children to become lead change agent for their community. • A-Chieve This is a Social Enterprise Organisation which empowers youth to reach full potential and live a passionate life by connecting career mentors and the world of work together with its students. Office Angels UK • Employers’ Forum on Disability An employers’ organisation focused on the issue of disability in the workplace. • Race for Opportunity Committed to improving employment opportunities for ethnic minorities across the UK. It is the only race diversity campaign that has access to and influence over the leaders of the UK’s best-known organisations. • Opportunity Now An organisation for employers who are committed to creating an inclusive workplace for women. Opportunity Now empowers employers to accelerate change for women in the workplace because it makes good business sense. • Employers’ Forum on Belief An independent employers’ network developed by employers themselves to share good practice on religion, belief and non-belief in order to make the most of their diverse workforce. • Employers’ Forum on Age An independent network of companies who recognise the need to attract and retain valuable employees whatever their age. • Stonewall’s Diversity Champions programme, Britain’s good practice forum in which employers can work with Stonewall, and each other on sexual orientation issues. Adecco USA • National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) This organisation provides a direct link between corporate America and minority-owned businesses. • Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) This WBENC is the largest third-party certifier of businesses owned, controlled, and operated by women in the United States. • National Business Disability Council (NBDC) The NBDC is the leading resource for employers seeking to integrate people with disabilities into the workplace and companies seeking to reach them in the consumer marketplace. • Wounded Warrior Project (WWP) A foundation that provides programmes and services to severely injured service members during the time between active duty and transition to civilian life. • National Urban League A non-partisan civil rights organisation that advocates on behalf of African Americans and against racial discrimination in the United States. • Abilities, Inc. This organisation prepares adolescents and adults with all types of disabilities (cognitive, physical, learning, developmental) and levels of experience for entry or re-entry into the workforce by assisting them in securing pre-employment services as well as employment. • Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) This national non-profit organisation made up of parents, families, friends, and straight allies uniting with lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people is committed to advancing equality through its mission of support, education and advocacy. • World Diversity Leadership Summit (WDLS) The yearly event explores local, state, and national best practices on how to foster diversity, spur innovation, and experience growth in the workplace. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 77 Identified material aspects and Stakeholder engagement boundaries G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder consultation G4-20 Material aspects within Adecco Group The material aspects as presented in the materialty matrix • Global Satisfaction Survey (GSS), see page 25. (G4-19, page 16) mainly within Adecco Group include: • Internationally centralised employees survey: The Great Place to Work® Trust Index, see page 44. • Human Rights (anti-discrimination; fundamental rights at work) The Group Communications and Investor Relations Depart• Labour Practices (training & development; health & safety; ments stand as a point of contact for stakeholders. These decent work conditions) include the press, investors and analysts, our employees, • Professional Integrity (professional integrity and duty of care candidates and associates, work councils, unions and the by management; fair operating practices, anti-corruption, ILO, companies, governments, NGOs and society at large. The fair competition, disclosure of legal and regulatory fines main channels of information include the Annual Report, the and settlements associated to above) CSR Report, regular press releases (available on www.adecco. • Workplace Diversity & Inclusion (labour integration; job com), e-mails, the AGM as well as webcasts. creation; engagement with vulnerable groups). General stakeholder consultation is mostly handled by the However, any issues with the above mentioned aspects are business units at country level. Such consultations mainly adalso considered as material outside our organisation: dress our candidates and associates, clients and employees, be it through self-completion questionnaires or interviews G4-21 Material aspects outside Adecco Group (mostly for associates and employees), or regular feedback The material aspect mainly outside Adecco Group is the one processes (mostly concerning clients). that refers to: The Group Investor Relations & Communications Depart• Environment (energy and resources consumption; climate ments maintain contact with the financial community and the change) media through the Annual Report, the CSR Report, quarterly Furthermore all above mentioned aspects (material within presentations and webcasts/calls on the company results, Adecco Group) are considered as material also outside the roadshows, interviews and participation at investor conferencbusiness: They affect directly or indirectly our external stakees. They provide transparent and consistent information and holders such as – mainly – our associates and clients, but also interactive communication through the adecco.com website society at large. to enhance understanding of Adecco’s business as well as to explain implied risks and opportunities. G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatement of information Society at large is very much affected by the dynamics and There were no developments within our business that would the development of the labour market, which at the same time require any restatement of information provided in our pre­ is the Adecco Group’s field of business. The Group therefore vious CSR Reports. There was a restatement in the environconsiders society at large as a very important stakeholder mental reporting (greenhouse gas emissions), as explained in group for dialogue, and aims to contribute to a positive defootnote 1, p. 64. velopment of the labour market through corporate research community engagement and partnerships. These include: • Industry research about staffing and agency work, published by Ciett. Adecco is a founding member of the International Confederation of Private Employment Agencies. • Global knowledge about labour market trends, published by the World Economic Forum. Adecco Group is a Strategic Partner of the World Economic Forum since 2011. • Regional and local surveys and research conducted or co-issued by Adecco and local partners such as the Adecco Swiss Job Market Index at the University of Zurich, the monthly Adecco Job Creation Index in UK and the DIS AG Fachkräftekompass . CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 78 Governance, commitments, and engagement G4-37 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into provide recommendations to the Board of Directors account regarding remuneration, including the results of The shareholders’ rights are published in the Annual Report votes on remuneration policies and proposals 2014, page 141 ff. Adecco S.A.’s Investor Relations DepartShareholders were asked to approve for the first time at the ment publishes its contact details and relevant publications, AGM 2015 the maximum Board and EC compensation for such as quarterly, half-year and full-year results. There is also theoffice period AGM 2015 to AGM 2016, and for 2016, respecan opportunity to request information and make contact on tively. Shareholders approved the maximum total amount of the Investor Relations section of our website (www.adecco. remuneration of the Board of Directors for the office period com). This allows for all shareholders to approach Adecco S.A. from the AGM 2015 until the AGM 2016 as well as the maxiwhenever necessary. The Group Communications Department mum total amount of remuneration of the Executive Comis the main point of contact for all other stakeholders (see also mittee for the fiscal year 2016, with 96% and 95% favourable G4-26). votes, respectively. The Remuneration Report 2014, which Adecco Group Compliance & Ethics (ACE) reporting includes details of the actual remuneration paid, was apThe Adecco Compliance & Ethics (ACE) Reporting Tools are proved by shareholders in an advisory vote with 88% of votes designed to assist employees, associates and other stakein favour. holders in reporting actual or potential violations of the law or Adecco Group policies, procedures or of the Code of Conduct. Any stakeholder may report to the Board of Directors allegations of fraud and violations of the law, the Group policies, the procedures or ethical standards of conduct by the Adecco Group or any of its employees or agents. Calls and written correspondence made to the Company or to its Board of Directors via the respective hotline numbers or address will be received 24 hours a day, seven days a week, by a third-party service provider on the Adecco Group’s behalf. In accordance with instructions issued by the Corporate Governance Committee and the Audit Committee of the Adecco Group’s Board of Directors, related to accounting, internal controls, auditing matters, corporate governance, safety, health or environmental issues, or any other significant legal or ethical issues relating to the Adecco Group, will be dealt with by the Group Compliance Office. This, unless they are of trivial nature or otherwise not related to the aforementioned topics. Where deemed appropriate, such reports will be forwarded directly to the intended member of the Board of Directors. G4-40 Process for determining the expertise required of Board members The Nomination & Compensation Committee (“NCC”) assists the Board of Directors in establishing principles for the selection of candidates for election or re-election to the Board of Directors, including candidates for committees of the Board of Directors, and giving recommendations on compensation of the members of the Board of Directors. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 79 Economic indicators workers out of poverty. We expect climate change mitigation to lead to new profiles both in developed countries and in G4-EC1 Economic key data emerging markets. For the time being, we have a workgroup in place comprised of sales specialists who are monitoring Overall economic key data, see pages 4–6; and Adecco and exchanging best practices with regards to the sustainable Group Annual Report 2014, pages 39–58. energy sector, its job profiles, trends and needs. More details about risks and opportunities related to climate Adecco donations for philanthropic purposes: change are provided in our Carbon Disclosure Project assessment: www.cdproject.net. Purpose Donations by Adecco Reference in 2014 G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Adecco Foundation France EUR 350,000 page 56 The Adecco Group does not receive any material financial Adecco Foundation Italy EUR 300,000 page 57 subsidies for its business from governments. However, some Adecco Foundation Spain EUR 220,000 page 57 of our social contributions at local level are subsidised (in Adecco Foundation Germany EUR 50,000 total, ca. EUR 18.6 million, mainly through – but not limited to Adecco USA, various Community Partnerships EUR 80,000 – our main foundations (see EC2 on this page). These include Win4Youth labour integration projects and joint programmes with govHelping Young People Succeed USD 460,000 page 27–31 ernmental organisations. These subsidies do not contribute to our business operations, but support our efforts in helping disadvantaged and unemployed people re-/integrate into the Main investments in philanthropic activities: labour market. Activities/programmes Investments/budgets Reference G4-EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage in 2014 compared to local minimum wage Adecco Group is a decentralised, global enterprise, with some Adecco Foundation France* EUR 600,000 page 56 5,100 branches in more than 60 countries, managing over Adecco Foundation Italy* EUR 380,000 page 57 650,000 associates at any given time in all professions and Adecco Foundation Spain* EUR 12.6 million page 57 business sectors. We have for the time being decided not to Adecco Foundation Germany EUR 50,000 report in relation to this GRI economic performance indicator, Adecco USA, various Community Partnerships EUR 80,000 but may consider to do so at a later date. Win4Youth Helping Young People Succeed USD 460,000 page 27–31 G4-EC6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community * Co-funded by external sources, such as subsidies/taxes in France, Spain, Italy, and The procedures for hiring senior managers are generally third-party donations (Italy, Spain). carried out at country level with local talents. Generally, our management and senior management in our country G4-EC2 Financial implications of climate change organisations are hired from the respective countries or are The efforts to address climate change represent business recruited from within the existing Adecco Group talent pool. op­portunities for us. Due to climate change and increased focus on alternative G4-EC8 Indirect positive economic impact of services proenergy, this has become an important topic for our industry vided primarily for public benefit also in terms of the creation of new job profiles. Through The following table provides an overview of partnerships and renewable energy from alternative sources such as wind joint programmes at country level for public benefit: energy, solar energy and biomass, green technology, new job profiles and client needs are emerging. In accordance to the ILO report Working towards sustainable development: opportunities for decent work and social inclusion in a green economy , the transformation to a greener economy could generate 15 to 60 million additional jobs globally over the next two decades and lift tens of millions of CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 80 Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme Adecco Group • European Network Against Racism (ENAR) Expert Group on employment with multi-stakeholders: European institutions, NGOs, National Authorities Against Discrimination, Trade Unions and corporations (Adecco Group, IBM, L’Oréal, Sodexo). • ILO Global Business & Disability Network The ILO Global Business and Disability Network is a network of multinational enterprises, employers' organisations, business networks and disabled persons' organisations who share the conviction that people with disabilities have talents and skills that can enhance virtually any business. The Network´s mission is to raise business awareness about the positive relationship between the inclusion of people with disabilities in the workplace and business success. It serves companies of all sizes and markets by encouraging knowledge-sharing and joint activities thus building disability expertise, facilitating the development of national networks and promoting the business and human rights cases for disability inclusion in the workplace. • International Olympic Committee • Agreement with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to sup• International Paralympic Committee port elite athletes with career counselling and job placement. • Agreement with the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) to support elite athletes with career counselling and job placement. • Training and labour integration of elite athletes Adecco country organisations currently hold local agreements with their National Olympic and Paralympic Committee in over 30 countries and provide career counselling and job placement support to elite athletes. Adecco Argentina • Asociación Civil DIGNIDAD • Educational and job training for people over 45 years-old. • Asociación Civil María de las Cárceles • Recycling and donation of IT materials by Adecco for their Programme Second opportunity . • Asociación Civil Techo • Support from Adecco volunteers to build houses in disadvantaged areas. • Corporación del Desarrollo de Gualeguaychú (CODEGU) • A programme to raise awareness about CSR amongst Argentinian companies. • Fundación CILSA • Financial support for educational grants for young people with a disability with the purpose of labour market integration. • Fundación AVON • Strategic Alliance to provide educational seminars about Labour Rights to women who experienced domestic violence. • Fundación Garrahan • An environmental programme, Adecco participates in to collect and recycle paper and plastic caps. For the full overview, please visit: Adecco Argentina CSR Report Adecco Australia • Volunteering Western Australia This is a not-for-profit organisation which connects thousands of volunteers to many community organisations. The organisation aims to build strong communities through volunteering and provide a range of resources, services and support so that people in Western Australia are aware of, and understand, the nature and scope of volunteer activity. • Corporate Volunteer Council The Corporate Volunteer Council (CVC) is a coalition of businesses that recognise and promote the importance of workplace volunteering. The CVC provides professional guidance, development, support and networking opportunities. CVC members benefit from the sharing of knowledge and resources and gain a greater awareness of the needs of their local community. • Foodbank NSW and Foodbank WA Providing food to people in need in the states of New South Wales and Western Australia. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 81 Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme • Save the Children Australia Australia´s largest aid and development agency dedicated to helping support and protect children in need. • Princess Margaret Hospital Foundation The main fundraising body for Princess Margaret Hospital for Children in Perth, Western Australia. • Starlight Children’s Foundation Dedicated to brightening the lives of seriously ill and hospitalised children and their families by using positive distraction. Adecco Belgium • Network For Training Entrepreneurship NFTE Belgium Adecco is a Golden Partner of NFTE. Teaching entrepreneurship to low-income youth, helping them to become economically independent members of society. • Close The Gap, an international not-for-profit organisation with Adecco assists with IT equipment supplies. All our computers a focus on improving local knowledge and putting local talent to and PC-screens are given to Close The Gap. The donations work by offering cost-efficient IT solutions to projects in amounts to about 700 pieces every year. developing countries • Attitude & Coaching program in Belgium with Marc Herremans The aim of this program is especially for young people, just as our godfather. graduated or long unemployed to help them in a quicker and more efficient way to a employment. Adecco Canada • Skills for Change (SfC), Canadian non-profit agency • Learning and training opportunities for immigrants and refugees Groupe Adecco France • European Network Against Racism (ENAR) (see above under Adecco Group) • ILO Global Business & Disability Network (see above under Adecco Group) • European Association of Service Providers for People with EASPD is the European Association of Service Providers for people Disabilities (EASPD) with disabilities and represents over 11,000 social services and their umbrella associations. The main objective of EASPD is to promote equal opportunities for people with disabilities through effective and high-quality service systems . • Agefiph, Association for Disabled Workers’ Integration Labour integration programme for disabled and unemployed people. • Direction for Integration & Citizenship (Ministry of Internal Affairs) Programmes for people at risk of exclusion such as migrants, and National Agency for Social Cohesion and Equality minorities, etc. • Réseau Adecco Insertion (Adecco’s subsidiary for labour Labour integration programme for low-skilled, unemployed integration through temporary work, in partnership with Groupe people. Idées) • Pôle emploi (French national public job centre) Labour programme for long-term unemployed people. • Ministry for Work and Social Affairs The department is in charge of professional education, labour law, social dialogue and health & safety in the workplace. • Conseil National des Missions Locales (CNML) The French national offices for young unemployed people with social difficulties. • Pôle emploi The organisation is in charge of employment in France. More details on CSR-related partnerships in France are provided in the French rapport de responsabilité sociale et environnementale (RSE) CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 82 Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme Adecco Italy and Adecco Italy Foundation • Public Employee Services, regional and local communities Labour integration programmes for throughout the country • People with disabilities • Private associations and foundations throughout the country • Long-term unemployed • People over 40 • Single mothers • Athletes • Università degli Studi di Padova • Research and publications on labour market developments, in • Istituto Boselli di Torino particular concerning socially disadvantaged people. • Istituti Tecnici e Professionali di Padova • Preparing students for labour market entry. • Università degli Studi di Milano • Università degli Studi di Torino More details on CSR-related partnerships in Italy are provided in the Bilancio Sociale 2014 of the Adecco Foundation Italy. Adecco Netherlands • JINC (business-financed association to support literacy of young Adecco organises practical interview courses at high schools in people with difficult socio-economic backgrounds) Amsterdam-West for underprivileged youth. Each year, about 1,000 students attend the courses. • Foundation Lezen en Schrijven Adecco is involved in the Lezen en Schrijven project of the Stichting Lezen & Schrijven foundation, which is campaigning to reduce illiteracy in the Netherlands. • Project Frisse Start Adecco is involved in a sports project for unemployed people to help them reintegrate into the labour market. • Public authorities of Almere Programme Duurzaam werken aan werk – a business initiative with the government in Almere to reduce unemployment. • KNVB Talentteam Adecco collaborates with the KNVB to provide traineeships for candidates in soccer associations. Adecco Poland • Education First, world leader in the organisation of foreign “Global Intern 2012” competition. Adecco Poland is HR partner of language courses this project. The main prize is a three-month internship in three independently selected cities around the world, in which EF has its own language schools. • Autocreation Foundation A programme to support long-term unemployed of various social backgrounds (youth, 50+, women 35+, migrants). • European Management Assistants in Poland Advisory & training project to help office workers (assistants, office managers, receptionists) find employment. • TEB Education Training programme for students after secondary school enhancing successful job search, preparation of applications and interviews. • State College of Shorthand and Foreign Languages Labour integration programme for college graduates. • Amnesty International in Poland Cooperation in the recruitment of people for Amnesty International information activities. Adecco Russia Business Advisory Board of Disability Adecco is a member of the Business Advisory Board of Disability. It addresses topics and issues around people with a disability together with suppliers, partnership organizations and companies who are members of the Business Advisory Board. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 83 Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme Adecco Spain and Adecco Foundation • Ministry for Work and Social Affairs Labour integration programmes for • Public Employee Services, regional and local communities • (long-term) unemployed people throughout the country • disabled people • Private associations and foundations throughout the country • people over 45 • single mothers • athletes and ex-athletes • También Foundation Labour integration programmes for people with disabilities. • Deporte y Desafio Foundation • La Caixa Foundation • Down’s Syndrome Foundation • 120 further local foundations and associations • FEFN, Spanish Federation of large families Online training for the mothers of large families. • Foundation Másfamilia Focus on the development of better protection and an enhanced quality of life for families. • University of Lérida Development of software to better accommodate the needs of • University of Castilla La Mancha people with disabilities in the workplace • Polytechnic University of Madrid • Club de Excelencia en Sostenibilidad Business association of large companies committed to sustainable growth within the economic, social and environmental dimensions. • Universities of Barcelona, Cádiz, Huelva, Sevilla, Internacional Programmes to improve the employability of students with de Catalunya Miguel Hernández de Elche disabilities. • Gresol Foundation, a recognised platform for analysing and Adecco Foundation sponsors the category social commitments of exchanging socio-economic opinions the Gaudí Gresol awards to recognise companies in Catalunya. • European Commission DG Employment, Social Affairs and Equal Partnership on the European Day of People With Disabilities. Opportunities • UN Global Compact Association Spain Local network on CSR issues, including annual Communication on Progress (CoP) • Crecer+ The programme offers employment and training opportunities to young people and encompasses five countries in Latin America and Spain. It is done in cooperation with Endesa. A complete list of partnerships is provided in the Spanish Adecco Foundation’s Memoria 2014 . Adecco Sweden • Arbetsmarknadskunskap Adecco Sweden and Arbetsmarknadskunskap join together on a programme to fight youth unemployment. Arbetsmarknadskunskap has as its goal to provide students with regards to career counselling looking at needed job profiles and how what it takes for these jobs. Adecco Switzerland • ORIF – Intégration et formation professionelle Collaboration with 30 Adecco branches. The project supports the integration of people in difficult situations (eg. accident, disability, illness) into the labour market. • Pro duale Berufsbildung Schweiz Adecco Switzerland is a member of the not-for-profit organisation Pro duale Berufsbildung Schweiz . The organisation, through its activities, promotes the apprenticeship system in Switzerland and encourages youngsters to opt for an apprenticeship to start-off their workplace career. • Stiftung für Kinder in der Schweiz The Foundation Kinder in der Schweiz supports disadvantaged children with their individual problems independently of their religious, cultural and social background. Support is provided with their education and by furthering their individual well-being. • University of Zurich, Institute of Sociology Issuing and publishing the quarterly Adecco Swiss Job Market Index ASJMI, www.stellenmarktmonitor.ch. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 84 Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme Adecco UK & Ireland • Great Ormond Street Hospital A wide variety of local fund-raising activities across the UK to • Help for Heroes support the charity of the Great Ormond Street Hospital in London and Help for Heroes which supports wounded military personnel. Badenoch & Clark UK • Disability Symbol – Positive about disabled people Support for disabled people looking for jobs by connecting them with companies experienced in hiring, retaining and developing the abilities of disabled staff. Adecco USA • Military Spouse Employment Partnership The Military Spouse Programme is a targeted recruitment and employment solution for military spouses and employers. • Employer Partnership of the Armed Forces Hero 2 Hired: an initiative to recruit, train and put skilled Reservists to work while on inactive duty with the Army. • US Chamber of Commerce Hiring Our Heroes, an initiative to help veterans, transitioning service members, and military spouses find meaningful employment. • NBDC – National Business and Disability Council Enhancing the workplace and opportunities for disabled • Abilities, Inc. workers. • Just One Break, Inc. • Work Without Limits – Adults and Children with Learning Disabilities • National Urban League An organisation that seeks to empower minorities and women in the areas of employment, health and education. • Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) Labour integration support for Lesbian, Gay, Bi-sexual, • Human Rights Campaign Transgender (LGBT). • SAGEWorks • And about 50 further partner organisations supporting the integration of people from minority groups into the workforce. G4-EC9 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation The procurement of goods, materials and services is usually not directly related to our products and services but rather to our business operations. We have global supplier agreements for some goods and services but most suppliers are chosen by our country organisations. Currently, Adecco’s supplier diversity efforts are focused in the US and Canada through the engagement of minority and women owned businesses in the procurement process. The vast majority of our spend with diverse suppliers is through staffing partners proactively engaged as subcontractors. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 85 Labour practices G4-LA7 Programmes in place regarding serious diseases There are appropriate measures in place to meet work-re G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are lated needs for training and prevention – e.g. for associates in not provided to temporary or part-time employees the health care industry – depending on local conditions and Legally provided benefits (such as contributions to health care, requirements. Education, training, counselling, prevention, disability, maternity, education, holidays, and retirement) vary and risk-control programmes to assist employees regarding from country to country as do local laws and regulations. We serious diseases are addressed as needed to protect our adhere to at least the minimum requirements of local laws for employees and associates. associates. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreeSome benefits for employees may depend on position and ments with trade unions number of years served. For associates, we offer talent develAdecco Group has not signed a formal agreement covering opment services, including training, coaching and counselling, health and safety topics with any trade union. At corporate to enable all our associates to reach their professional goals and national level, issues on health and safety are addressed and potential. by Adecco and necessary measures are taken to guarantee that the highest standards are adhered to. Due to the number of countries, Adecco operates in, the variety of law and reguG4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational lations and the wide range of agreements with trade unions ­changes regarding the handling of health and safety issues, in many We meet all applicable laws, regulations, and standards countries the Adecco Group has to date no consolidated overwhere we do business. The Adecco Group employees receive veiw of the health and safety topics covered in formal agreeinformation on operational changes through their representaments with trade unions. tives on the national works councils or enterprise committees, with notice periods varying according to the agreement at G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, national level. In line with EU regulations, the Adecco Group by employee category has been following the minimum notice period regarding Training for employees and associates is a top priority for the operational changes stipulated in the PACE Agreement (until Adecco Group. However, a Group-wide standardised method2011) for Countries of the European Economic Area and Switology to measure and consolidate training hours and budgets zerland. As of 2012, Adecco engaged in the process of setting on global level has not yet been implemented. Our training up the Adecco European Works Council, in line with the recast measures encompass a wide and manyfold spectrum of actviDirective of the European Works Councils, which will regulate ties, mainly including for formal internal and external training the minimum notice period regarding operational changes courses, individual online training at work and at home, and once the new Agreement is signed. informal training on the job (see pages 44-48). G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies joint management-worker health and safety committees Details on the composition of the Board of Directors and the Adecco Group does not run any formal joint managementExecutive Committee are provided in the Annual Report 2014, worker health and safety committees. At corporate and pages 128–131, 137–140. national level, issues of health and safety are a key focus for Nr. of Adecco and measures are in place, adhering to the highGovernance bodies 2012 Male Female nationalities est standards (see strategic focus areas ‘Health & Safety’, Board of Directors (total 8 members) 7 1 6 pages 60–62. Due to the number of countries, Adecco operates in and the variety of regulations regarding health and Executive Committee (total 12 members) 12 0 7 safety issues, the Adecco Group has no record to date of the percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. More details on gender distribution: see chart in the Annual Report, page 24. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 86 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by emHuman rights ployee category Adecco Group provides equal employment opportunities to G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements all employees and candidates, regardless of race, gender, that include Human Rights religion or any other discriminatory category. This also applies Our Code of Conduct, which covers aspects of Human Rights, to compensating any employees and associates fairly for their is applicable to our whole business and all our country organwork. isations. We have a joint venture (set up in 2010) in Shanghai with FESCO, one of the leading HR service companies in China. Under the terms of the joint venture, FESCO and Adecco hold G4-LA16 Grievances about labour practices filed, 51% and 49% of the equity, respectively. All employees from addressed, and resolved through formal grievance FESCO Adecco have been requested to complete the Adecco Adecco Denmark Adecco Denmark detected missing pension Compliance & Business Ethics online training including the payments to associates working at a client in the period from modules on the Code of Conduct and Bribery & Corruption as January 2010 to October 2014 amounting to EUR 340,000. well as the other six modules (see page 23). In this period, 419 associates out of 2,500 associates were affected by this mistake. Adecco fully acknowledged the inadvertence and retroactively paid EUR 510,000 including a G4-HR2 Employee training on policies and procedures, 4% additional fee for the late contribution which cannot be concerning aspects of Human Rights reclaimed. All our employees must do an online training course on our Adecco USA: Around 150 associates, employed by Adecco Code of Conduct, and on business ethics (see page 23). USA in the San Francisco Bay Area provide same-day and overnight delivery for a client´s shipping service. The workers claim that 1. Adecco requires them to sign two-year employG4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination ment agreements, 2. they experience poor working conditions and actions taken and 3. have a lack of employee benefits. The workers have We are not aware of any allegations against Adecco regardtherefore filed to join a union and elections to join the Union ing discrimination in 2014. We do not report the number of were held on 19 and 21 August 2015, with a majority in favour internally witnessed, reported and mitigated incidents of disof joining the Union. Adecco recognises the right of collective crimination, because such numbers may be misleading due to bargaining and freedom of association and the Company materiality. However, calls and written correspondence via our was engaged in the election process and is supportive of Ethics & Compliance website made to the Board of Directors any direction freely chosen by the associates. The case is still via the phone numbers or address provided can be received ongoing. 24 hours a day, seven days a week by a third-party service provider with whom Adecco has contracted to receive such messages on Adecco’s behalf. In addition to alleged cases G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental of discrimination and harassment on global level, country leave, by gender operations have additional systems in place to address any For the time being, we can report against this indicator for the allegations/incidents. Adecco Group Headquarter and Adecco Switzerland 2014: 100% return to work after parental leave of female employees. No male employees took parental leave in 2014. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 87 G4-HR5 & G4-HR6 Operations identified as having signifiSociety cant risk for incidents of child labour (HR5) and forced or compulsory labour (HR6) – and measures taken In most countries and territories where the Adecco Group G4-SO3 Business units analysed for risks related operates, Human Rights are embedded and respected in to corruption both national law and general business practices. According The company’s risk management process is led by the global to relevant ILO studies*, the risk exposure to child and forced Risk Management Steering Committee and seeks to identify, labour occurs mainly in Latin America and the Asian Pacific mitigate and manage risks with the support of global risk coarea. These regions represent about 25% of Adecco Group’s ordinators on a regular basis. In December 2012, our Bribery business. The Adecco Group has issued Human Rights Guide& Corruption Policy was published and distributed in all our lines and contributed to the European Commission E&RA Seccountry organisations and an ACE training module on Bribery tor Guide on Business & Human Rights (see page 49). Further & Corruption was launched (see page 24) information is also provided in the Adecco Code of Conduct and the Adecco Human & Labour Rights guidelines. G4-SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions * ILO Global child labour developments: Measuring trends from 2004 to 2008; ILO Minimum Estimate of Forced Labour in the World. We are not aware of any substantial political contributions during the reporting period. According to our Bribery & CorG4-HR9 Percentage and total number of operations that ruption Policy and our Code of Conduct, no political contribuhave been subject to ­Human Rights reviews and/or impact tions are permitted in order to secure political or commercial assessments influence. Political contributions have to be documented in In most countries and territories where the Adecco Group opwriting and may only be made against written receipt. erates in, Human Rights are embedded and respected in both national law and general business practices. However, a few G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antisubsidiaries are operating in some defined ‘countries of contrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes cern for Human Rights’ by EIRIS. The current list of 28 countries We are not aware of any substantial legal actions against is based on the Freedom House list (see www.freedomhouse. Adecco for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monorg), amended according to further information, including the opoly practices in 2012. In July 2013, the French competition annual reports from Human Rights Watch and Amnesty Interauthority commenced an investigation of Adecco and certain national. This list (FTSE4Good inclusion criteria, p. 6) contains of its competitors in France with regards to alleged violations three countries where the Adecco Group operates: China, of French competition law. Adecco is fully cooperating with the Colombia, and Vietnam. Our operations in these countries authority. represent about 2.5% of the Adecco Group’s employees and associates. In 2012, a Human Rights risk checklist, specifically G4-SO8 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws focusing on the labour-related Human Rights, was shared and regulations with the Country Managers of the above mentioned countries On 10 February 2015, after closing a discrimination case from including Russia. No significant Human Rights risks were 2001, Adecco Belgium was found guilty and had to retroacidentified. tively pay EUR 25,000 to SOS Racisme and FGTB each. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 88 GRI G4 Content Index UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) Content guidance UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) The various case studies featured in this report give an insight into our activities in line with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. For more details on our progress in relation to the UNGC principles, please refer to the GRI G4 Content Index on next pages. GRI Reporting Framework The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting on country level For further examples of Adecco serves as a recognised framework for reporting on an organiGroup’s CSR engagement at country level, please refer to the sation’s economic, environmental, and social performance. It respective country websites. We would like to highlight the is designed for use by organisations of any size, sector, or CSR Reporting of Groupe Adecco France, following the law location. The Global Reporting Initiative provides a valuable known as ‘Grenelle II’, voted by French Parliament on 29 June perspective on the sustainability status and performance of 2010 and promulgated on 12 July 2010 which newly defined the Adecco Group. The current CSR Report is prepared ‘in acpublic reporting on sustainable development for major corpocordance’ with the comprehensive option of the Global Rerations in France. Furthermore, we recommend the CSR porting Initiative’s G4 guidelines, and has successfully comReporting of Adecco Argentina and of Adecco Spain. pleted the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. An in-depth account of our CSR strategy, initiatives and performance can be found on the relevant Adecco corporate webpages and in our next full CSR Report, published in August 2017. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 89 Legend AR14 Reference to page number in Adecco Annual Report 2014 Reported www Link to Internet document Partly reported Not reported, see reference  ­provided for reason of omission GRI G4 UNGC Description Reference Code principles or short answer Strategy and analysis G4-1 1–10 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 8–9 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Key impacts: 4–7, 10, 12–14; risks and opportunties: AR14 29–31, 103 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the reporting organisation Adecco S.A. (Holding) G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 5; AR14 18, 19–20 G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters Glattbrugg, Switzerland G4-6 Number and names of countries in which the Adecco Group operates 5; AR14 115 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Adecco S.A. is a stock corporation (société anonyme) organised under the laws of Switzerland. G4-8 Markets served, including geographic breakdown, sectors served and 5 types of customers G4-9 Scale of the Adecco Group 5–6; AR14 171 G4-10 6 Total workforce 5, 47, 51; AR14 43, 24 G4-11 3 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 49–50, 71 G4-12 Adecco Group’s supply chain 21, 64, 65, 67 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 8, 71 Commitments to external initiatives G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle 16–18, 63, 72 is addressed AR14 103 (note 18) G4-15 Externally developed, voluntary charters and sets of 17–19; 72 principles which the organisation endorses G4-16 Principal memberships in industry and business associations 17–19; 72–77 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 The entities included in the organization 5, AR14 115 G4-18 Process for defining report content 15–16 G4-19 List of the material aspects (materiality matrix) 16 G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organisation 78 G4-21 Aspect Boundaries outside the organisation 78 G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatement of information 78 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods No significant changes CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 90 GRI G4 UNGC Description Reference Code principles or short answer Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups 15 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 10, 12–13 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder consultation 78, 25, 44 G4-27 Key topics and concerns 4, 15, 20–21 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided Calendar year 2014 (some important developments from 1st HY 2015 are included) G4-29 Date of most recent previous report CSR Report 2013/2014, published in August 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding this report 112 G4-32 GRI Content Index 91–99 G4-33 Current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for this report This report has not been assured externally. Our Annual Report is assured externally. AR14 118–119. Governance G4-34 Governance structure AR14 128–141 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social AR14 136 topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Executive-level positions with responsibility for economic, environmental AR14 137–141 and social topics G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest govern79; AR14 141–145 ance body G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees AR14 128–141 G4-39 Executive functions of the Chairman of the Board The Chairman has no executive functions. G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body 79; AR14 135 (point 3.4.3) and its committees G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest AR14 141–145 are avoided and managed G4-42 Highest governance body’s role in setting purpose, values and strategy AR14 136 G4-43 Processes for enhancing the Board of Directors’ own collective knowledge AR14 132–136. The Board of Diof economic, environmental and social topics rectors takes care of enhancing it's collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-44 Processes for evaluating the Board of Directors’ own performance AR14 132–136. The Board of Directors discusses and assesses its own and its members’ performance. G4-45 Board of Directors’ role in risk management AR14 29, 30, 103 (note 18) G4-46 G4-47 G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves Since 2013 (CSR Report the organisation’s sustainability report 2012/2013), the sustainability report is subject of review and formal approval by the Board of Directors. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 91 GRI G4 UNGC Description Reference Code principles or short answer G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 23; www G4-50 Nature and number of critical concerns that were communicated to 23 the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-51 Remuneration policies and performance criteria for the Board of Directors AR14 147–149 and the Executive Committee G4-52 Process for determining remuneration and involvement of remuneration AR14 147–149. International consultants independent external consultants were commissioned to provide a compensation benchmark analysis in 2013 and 2014. G4-53 Stakeholders’ views taken into account regarding remuneration 79 G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid The ratio of the mean employindividual in each country of significant operations to the median annual ee compensation (on global total compensation for all employees level) and the total annual compensation of the Chief Executive Officer: ca. 0.01. G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organisaNot yet tracked. tion’s highest-paid individual in each country to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees Ethics and Integrity G4-56 10 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 11 Adecco Group Code of Concuct www Adecco Group Human and Labour Rights Guidelines www Adecco Group Supplier Guidelines www Adecco Group Environmental Guidelines www G4-57 10 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful 23–25, 60 behavior G4-58 10 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical 23; www or unlawful behavior Economic Performance Indicators DMA EC Disclosure on management approach EC AR14 14–17 G4-EC1 Economic key data 6; AR14 171; – Investments in philanthropic activities 56–57 G4-EC2 7 Financial implications of climate change 63; 80 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligation AR14 85–87 G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 80 G4-EC5 6 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum Reason for omission: 80 wage G4-EC6 6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from 80 the local community G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Not relevant. supported G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts 22–62, 80-85 G4-EC9 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers 22, 85 CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 92 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Environmental Performance Indicators DMA EN Disclosure on management approach EN 63; www G4-EN1 7, 8 Materials used by weight or volume 64 G4-EN2 8 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Percentages not known G4-EN3 7, 8 Energy consumption within the organisation 64 G4-EN4 8 Energy consumption outside the organisation Not known G4-EN5 8 Energy intensity Not known G4-EN6 8, 9 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Not known G4-EN7 8, 9 Reduction in engergy requirements of products and services Not known G4-EN8 7, 8 Total water withdrawal by source Not relevant G4-EN9 8 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water The Adecco Group is an HR G4-EN10 8 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and re-used solutions provider; its operations therefore do not have G4-EN11 8 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, a significant impact on water protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas sources, protected areas, G4-EN12 8 Significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas habitats and biodiversity. G4-EN13 8 Habitats protected or restored G4-EN14 8 Conservation list species affected by operations G4-EN16 7, 8 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 64, 65 G4-EN15 7, 8 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 64, 65 G4-EN17 7, 8 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 64, 65 G4-EN18 8 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 63 G4-EN19 8, 9 Reductions of greenhouse gas emissions 63, 64 G4-EN20 7, 8 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not relevant G4-EN21 7, 8 NOx , SOx , and other significant air emissions by type and weight Not relevant G4-EN22 8 Total water discharge by quality and destination Not relevant G4-EN23 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Not relevant G4-EN24 8 Total number and volume of significant spills Not relevant G4-EN25 8 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed The Adecco Group is an hazardous HR solutions provider and G4-EN26 8 Water bodies significantly affected by discharges of water therefore does not deal with waste/water deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII. G4-EN27 7, 8, 9 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Not relevant G4-EN28 8 Percentage of products sold that have their packaging materials reclaimed Not relevant G4-EN29 8 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations The Adecco Group is not aware of any incidents or fines for non-compliance with any applicable international, national or local environmental regulations in 2014. G4-EN30 8 Significant environmental impacts of transportation Not relevant CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 93 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer G4-EN31 7, 8, 9 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type The Adecco Group currently does not have any specific environmental protection budgets. Our investment is reducing our CO2 emissions. G4-EN32 8 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria No percentage available yet. However, cf. page 18 and supplier code of conduct: www. G4-EN33 8 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the The Adecco Group is not supply chain aware of any negative environmental impacts in its supply chain. G4-EN34 8 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and The Adecco Group is not resolved aware of any such grievances. Social Performance Indicators: Labour Practices DMA LA Disclosure on management approach LA: overview 17–21; AR14 21–24, 25–28 G4-LA1 6 Total number of new hires and employee turnover 47; AR14 43 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 44–46; 86 part-time employees G4-LA3 6 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 86 G4-LA4 3 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 49; 86 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management – 86 worker health and safety committees G4-LA6 Type and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, work-related 60–61; 86 fatalities G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their 86 occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Reason for omission: 86 G4-LA9 6 Average hours of training per year per employee Reason for omission: 86 G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning 44–48; AR14 22–24 G4-LA11 6 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 80–100%. More info: 44–48; development reviews AR14 22–24 G4-LA12 6 Composition of governance bodies and workforce 51, 53, 86; AR14 23, 24, 128–141 G4-LA13 6 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Reason for omission: 87 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria No percentage available yet. However, cf. page 17 and supplier code of conduct: www G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in The Adecco Group is not the supply chain and actions taken aware of any negative labor practice impacts in its supply chain. G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 94 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights DMA HR Disclosure on management approach HR: overview 17–21, 49–51; www G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements that include Human Rights 87 G4-HR2 1, 2 Employee training on policies and procedures, concerning aspects 87 of ­Human Rights G4-HR3 6 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 23, 87 G4-HR4 3 Operations and suppliers in which the rights for freedom of association see HR9 and collective bargaining are at significant risk – and actions taken G4-HR5 5 Operations and suppliers in which child labour is identified as significant 88 risk – and m­ easures taken G4-HR6 4 Operations and suppliers in which forced labour is identified as significant 88 risk – and measures taken G4-HR7 1 Percentage of security personnel trained in Human Rights Adecco Group is not in need of specific security personnel to protect its offices. G4-HR8 1 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people See HR3 G4-HR9 1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 49, 88 assessments G4-HR10 2 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria No percentage available yet. However, cf. page 18 and supplier code of conduct: www G4-HR11 2 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the The Adecco Group is not supply chain and actions taken aware of any negative human rights impacts in its supply chain. G4-HR12 1 Number of grievances related to Human Rights filed, addressed and r­ esolved The Adecco Group is not through formal grievance mechanisms aware of any substantial grievances related to Human Rights filed in 2014. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 95 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Society DMA SO Disclosure on management approach SO: overview 17–21; • DMA on business ethics 17–18, 23–25; • DMA on community involvement 12–13, 27–43 • DMA on compliance 14, 17–18, 21, 23–25; AR14 31, 54, 121–145 G4-SO1 1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Up to 65%, depending on impact assessments, and development programmes programme. More details: 56, 58. G4-SO2 1 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local comIn 2014, we did not become munities aware of any Adecco Group oper­ations with significant negative impacts on local communities. G4-SO3 10 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 88 G4-SO4 10 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 24 G4-SO5 10 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken In 2014, no incidents of corruption were reported. G4-SO6 10 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 88 G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monopoly p ­ ractices In July 2013, the French comand their outcomes petition authority commenced an investigation of Adecco and certain of its competitors in France with regards to alleged violations of French competition law. Adecco is fully cooperating with the authorities. G4-SO8 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and ­regulations EUR 50,000 regarding a case in Belgium dating back to 2001. Details on page 90. G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on No percentage available yet. society However, cf. page 18 and supplier code of conduct: www G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply The Adecco Group is not chain and actions taken aware of any negative human rights impacts in its supply chain. G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved The Adecco Group is not through formal grievance mechanisms aware of any substantial grievances about impacts on society filed in 2014. CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 96 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility DMA PR Disclosure on management approach PR 12, 17–18 PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and Both our staffing process safety impacts of services are a ­ ssessed for improvement with our clients and our job placement processes with our candidates/associates foresee specific health and safety measures and assessments: cf. 60–62. G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and safety Adecco Group is not aware impacts of products and services of any significant incidents of non-compliance with regulations in this context in 2014. G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required and services subject to such The essential product and serinformation requirements vice information with regards to HR services is set forth in the respective recruitment, staffing, placement and employment agreements. These comply with respective local laws and regulations. G4-PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and service To date, the Adecco Group is information not aware of any significant incidents of non-compliance concerning our HR services information. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 25, 68–69 G4-PR6 Sale of products that are banned in certain markets respectively subject of Perceptions and regulations of stakeholder questions or public debate temporary staffing differ from market to market. More info on this product and its regulations: Cf. 4, 12–14, 102. G4-PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing Adecco Group is not aware of ­communications any relevant ­infringements of the law in this context in 2014. G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses Adecco Group is not aware of of customer data any such breaches in 2014. G4-PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning In the HR services industry, PR9 products and services comes up to SO8 (see above). CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 97 Further reading Publications by the Adecco Group interviewed the recruiters to discover how companies operate on social media, which tools they use, and what they look for and other industry-related studies in their recruiting process. Read more (Global Report) For further knowledge resources, please visit Read more (Regional and Local Reports) Adecco Group’s ’Industry Insights’ on: www.adecco.com Adecco Group Asia Whitepaper: Generation Z – The next Adecco Group global & local insights generation of workers in Asia (2014) Generation Z (Gen Z) is the most disruptive generation in Adecco Group: Global Talent Competitiveness Index modern history. Instead of waiting for ideas to filter through (GTCI) 2014 the generations that came before them, Gen Z are go-getters Launched for the first time in 2013, the Global Talent Comand trendsetters. Social media has demolished all barriers petitiveness Index (GTCI) is an annual benchmarking study to communicating about brands and products, meaning that measuring the ability of countries to compete for talent. The corporations as potential employers will be more intensively Index ranks over 90 leading economies according to their researched and scrutinised by job seekers than ever before. ability to grow, attract and retain talent. The GTCI combines the How does this play out in Asia? In some markets, falling birth academic research and expertise of INSEAD and Singapore´s rates in countries such as Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore and Human Capital Leadership Institute (HCLI) with the business Taiwan, and even the one-child policy in China, mean that experience and perspective of Adecco, the world leader in societies will need to rely on a ‘smaller pool’ of workers to supHuman Resources solutions. The 2014 GTCI report focuses on port them, and to repair the environmental and debt problems the role of talent growth in enhancing countries´ competitivethat previous generations have sometimes created. ness. The 2014 edition, launched on 20 January, 2015 in Davos Read more during the World Economic Forum, shows the importance of high-quality education and education system reform, the need Adecco Fundación Spain: 15 years, 15 tips when looking for to provide young people with skills that match the needs of a job (Spanish, 2014) businesses, and the path that countries should follow to grant 15 years of existence cannot be achieved without celebration. a bright and equal future for generations to come. And this is what Adecco Fundación wishes to do with everyRead more body who on a daily basis passes by their offices: people with Watch the video an impairment, mature people over 45, women with nonshared family responsibilities, or victims of domestic violence. Adecco Group Asia Whitepaper: For all these people, Adecco Fundación produced this illusPowering down – Why ‘workations’ don’t work (2014) trated guide that presents 15 tips and guidance when looking Regardless of where people work, or what kind of job function for employment. they have, vacation time has always been seen as a muchRead more needed breakaway from work — a time to recharge, rest and relax, and get away from the stress that comes with many Adecco Group Russia: Our advice in a changing world – jobs. The hoped-for result is that we return to the workplace The perspective of the Russian market in 2016 (2014) with a renewed sense of determination and productivity. In Adecco welcomes the legal certainty the recently ratified lacountries like Singapore, the study found that 54% of those bour law in Russia brings to the Russian labour market. It is in surveyed said that they would be on a reduced ‘business-asline with the request of our industry to fight rogue providers usual’ mode during their vacation. What is even more alarming and formalise employment. The ratified law recognises well is that another 28% stated that they were going to be working regulated staffing agencies, delivering the broad range of primore than three hours a day even while on vacation. This bevate employment services as key players of the labour market. haviour is almost precisely mirrored in Hong Kong, where the Read more (Q&A on the legal aspects) ‘serious workaholics’ number 26% of the survey respondents. Read more Adecco Group Social Recruiting Study (2014) Adecco conducted a survey between 18 March and 2 June, 2014, collecting responses from 17,272 candidates and 1,501 recruiters from 24 countries. The goal was to understand how candidates search for jobs on social media, which tools they use, and how they present themselves online. Adecco also CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 98 Adecco Spain: CSR Report 2013 (Spanish, 2014) Adecco USA: Career Advisor (ongoing) Adecco Spain shows their commitment to society and the Adecco helps job seekers connect with great opportunities world of work in its CSR Report 2013. Their report is about the by sharing know-how on what works in a job search and positivie impact that the HR industry has for many people and what doesn't, providing most valuable job seeking insights on businesses. interviewing, job evaluation, do’s and don’ts when starting a Read more job and general career advice. Read more Adecco Singapore: Singapore children show desire to mould future generations (2014) Groupe Adecco France: ‘Handicap & Emploi’ – numbers and Adecco Singapore announced the results of the 9th Annual actions 2014 (French, 2015) Adecco Children’s Career Survey. Every year, Adecco conducts Groupe Adecco France published its activity report on achievea survey of school children living in Singapore to learn more ments with ‘Handicap & Emploi’ in 2014. An expert network about their career aspirations and thoughts about the future. of 34 agencies across France has been established over the The responses received give an interesting, and entertaining, past years and is evaluated annually in France, with a focus peek at how the future workforce of Singapore views ‘Workon increasing employment opportunities for people with an ing Life’. While last year’s survey revealed that becoming the impairment. By March 2015, over 80 agencies had received ‘Boss’ was the top aspiration among participants, civic and the specific label which is achieved by complying with seven community consciousness appeared to be the trend throughgolden rules of recruitment and employment for people with out 2014, with children aged 7 to 14 opting for ‘Teacher’ as a disability. their top career choice. Read more Read more Adecco Australia: Adecco Employment & Talent Report Adecco Australia: Whitepaper series on ‘The reality (2015) of talent’ (2015) This is the second edition of the Adecco Employment and TalAdecco Australia is covering the hottest topics in human reent Report. It provides expert analysis of the Australian labour sources, talent management and engagement, in its series market and a detailed review of sectors. The report also inof Whitepapers. Uncover the latest HR industry insights, news cludes results from the Adecco candidate and client surveys and views about social media, diversity and the workplace of which provide important insights into the job market. tomorrow. Read more Read more Adecco Group Asia: Whitepaper – Creating value from Adecco Vietnam: Children Career Survey (2015) internship programmes (2015) The fourth annual ‘Adecco Children’s Career Survey’ in Every year across Asia, thousands of fresh graduates and Vietnam has revealed that becoming a Doctor is still the top college students on school break look towards adding to their choice – similar to results from the same survey conducted résumés by securing an internship at a prestigious company. in Thailand. The survey also shows that 85% of the young Regardless of how internships are viewed, one thing has respondents believe it is more important to spend time with always been true – not only can the right internship make a family than to make lots of money – proof that our children do significant difference to a future career – but it can also supcare a lot. port organisations to receive new ideas and input. Read more Read more Watch the video summary Watch a short introduction Adecco USA: 'better work, better life' blog (ongoing) Adecco Fundación Spain: Annual Report / Work helps define who we are and contributes to our hapMemoria 2014 (Spanish, 2015) piness and to find passion in the workplace and in life. The 2014 was a strategic year for the Adecco Foundation Spain. Adecco USA blog provides insight on how people can improve It celebrated its 15 years of existence, and the Foundation their career, find the job that makes them happy and also grew to 112 people with 16 subsidiaries across Spain, working provides real-time examples of people who found their pasevery day to achieve one single goal: bringing employment to sion with the support of Adecco. people who are in the weakest positions within society. Read more Read more Additional publications CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 99 Adecco UK & Ireland: Why girls are stepping out of the Adecco USA: A job hunting guide for graduates (2015) STEM (2015) As a recent or soon-to-be college graduate, there is plenty of Recent research from Adecco Group UK & Ireland has rereason for excitement and optimism. The economy is recovervealed fresh insight into the difficulties employers, educators ing, and companies are investing in their workforces. Comand policy makers face in encouraging girls and women to pany leaders are also embracing the millennial generation, as pursue an interest in Science, Technology, Engineering and they bring valuable traits to the table, including adaptability, Maths (STEM). 'The Gender Agenda: STEMing the gap’ reambition, a desire to learn and a knack for tech. So how do search, commissioned by Adecco Group UK & Ireland, follows they land not just any job, but the right job? How do they start recent reports that there are still too few women entering and a fulfilling career? An infographic provides tips and tricks on remaining in engineering, manufacturing and IT despite efhow to effectively navigate the job-hunt process. forts to improve the gender balance in these fields. Read more Read more Read the Press Release Adecco USA: Generation Z vs. Millennials in the Workplace (2015) Fondazione Adecco per le pari opportunità: Each generation brings to the workplace its own expectations Report on p ­ rogress/Progetti 2014 (Italian, 2015) and motivations, as well as challenges. With Baby Boomers stayThe Adecco Foundation for Equal Opportunity published its ing at work longer than their predecessors, and the emergence Report on Progress 2014. It provides an overview of how the of Generation Z (those born after 1995) just around the corner, Italian Foundation promotes and develops projects for people workplaces around the world are becoming highly diverse and at risk of exclusion and how it supports their integration into dynamic environments. the labour market. Read more Read more Adecco Argentina: CSR Report 2014 (Spanish, 2015) Adecco Group Asia: Retention through retraining – Adecco Argentina published its 9th CSR Report. Sustainability the 2015 approach (2015) is an integral part of Adecco Argentina's business and how In generations past, it would not have been unusual to hear they operate. Adecco also holds regular meetings with its main about employees staying with a company for 25 years. Staying stakeholders such as employees, associates and candidates as with a company meant gaining seniority and respect and after well as clients and suppliers to address concerns and new solumany, many years of loyal service, of helping to make the comtions and programmes to meet stakeholders' needs. pany profitable and build it up. Such employees were rewarded CSR website with care packages and a pension plan that would help ensure Read the CSR Report 2014 (full version) that retired workers would no longer have to work and could Read the CSR Report 2014 (exec. summary) retire in peace. In today’s workplace context, this sounds almost too good to be true. Adecco Medical France: CSR Report 2014 (French, 2015) Read more For the first time in 2015, Adecco France Medical publishes its CSR Report according to French legislation which requires comGroupe Adecco France: CSR Report 2014 (French, 2015) panies with more than 500 employees to provide an insight into Groupe Adecco France will publish its 2014 CSR Report in their CSR activities at least every three years. The report focuses September 2015. The Group puts to work each day around on 5 priorities: Raise awareness amongst employees for people 130,000 people through its 1,000 branches with 5,100 employwith a disability; engagement with one of the main stakeholder ees across the country. Their CSR Report shows their strategic groups – our associates; focus on our employees; reward our priorities including health & safety, inclusion, training & develassociates’ business conduct through certification; and a focus opment, anti-discrimination and environmental responsibility. on environmentally sustainable business operations. CSR website Read more Read the CSR Report 2013 CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 100 Global insights ENAR’s 5th European Equal@work report: Glass ceiling for ethnic minorities (2014) Industry-related publications Ethnic and religious minorities and migrants are known to keep their heads down and to play by the rules. The hope is GRI: Sustainability Topics for Sectors: What do stakeholders that if they work hard enough, their talents will be recognised want to know? (2013) and rewarded, they will be hired for interesting jobs, be wellThe publication presents lists of relevant sustainability topics paid and respected, and finally be able to advance in their for a variety of business activities identified by five stakeholder careers. But in the same way that the ‘glass ceiling’ affects groups – business associations, labour representatives, civil women, minorities continuously experience the fact that society organisations, information users, and experts. In total, however hard they work and regardless of their qualifications 194 organisations related to the different stakeholder groups and skills, the white, native-born men — and women in this either contributed directly or were researched as part of this instance — around them continue to be promoted faster and effort. This study generated 2,812 topics which were related to be paid more. 52 business activity groups. Read more Read more Additional reports PwC: The Future of Work – A journey to 2022 (2014) EcoVadis: New Guide on Sustainability in Real Life (2014) Tremendous forces are radically reshaping the world of work as The guide, which was produced as a collaboration amongst we know it. Disruptive innovations are creating new industries the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition® (EICC®), the Global and business models and destroying old ones. New technoloe-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) and EcoVadis, includes case gies, data analytics and social networks are having a huge studies and an implementation guide that provide a review of impact on how we communicate, collaborate and work. Many challenges and field-tested solutions designed to help comof the roles and job titles of tomorrow will be the ones we have panies overcome barriers and improve their triple bottom line. not even thought of yet. This report takes you on a journey to The report is a practical tool for suppliers to identify the busi2022 and explores how the changing business landscape will ness value of CSR for their company and autonomously impleimpact people management strategies. ment responsible business practices and to gain the benefits Read more highlighted in the report. Read more Aviva: A Roadmap for Sustainable Capital Markets (2014) For generations, policy makers have sought to align the inThe Guardian: Sustainable Business Case studies: terests of the financial markets and society. Nowhere is this Innovation and inspiration in Corporate Sustainability (2014) tension more keenly and persistently felt than in the relentlessAt a time when corporate-business-as-usual mentality will no ness of the capital markets to allocate capital to short term, longer suffice, it is inspiring to see so many projects which are unsustainable uses and policy makers’ need to plan for the actively pursuing meaningful sustainability. This eBook profiles long-term and tackle a range of environmental and social the winners in each category from small to medium and large issues, such as poverty, climate change and human rights. The businesses working to integrate sustainability into their busipurpose of this report is to provide people involved in policy ness model. making with specific suggestions as to how they can move the Read more capital markets onto a more sustainable basis. Read more ILO: Business as unusual – Making workplaces inclusive of people with disabilities (2014) ENAR: Annual Report 2013 (2014) The inclusion of people with disabilities in the workplace is The European Network Against Racism (ENAR) stands up no longer absent from the business agenda. Nonetheless, against racism and discrimination and advocates for equality, managers still struggle in implementing inclusion strategies solidarity and well-being for all in Europe. We connect local effectively. Based on examples from 15 multinational compaand national anti-racist NGOs throughout Europe and act nies, employers’ organizations and business networks, this as an interface between our member organisations and the publication presents key factors leading to the successful European institutions. We voice the concerns of ethnic and inclusion of people with disabilities in the workplace. religious minorities in European and national policy debates. Read more Read more More publications CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 101 KPMG International: Sustainable Insight – The essentials of The World Economic Forum Human Capital Report 2015 materiality assessment (2014) Talent, not capital, will be the key factor linking innovation, Materiality is the principle of defining the social and environcompetitiveness and growth in the 21st century. Better data mental topics that matter most to your business and your and metrics are critical to this understanding. The Human stakeholders. Some 80% of the world’s largest 250 companies Capital Index quantifies how countries are developing and already identify material sustainability issues in their reportdeploying their human capital and tracks progress over time. ing. Yet the process of identifying material issues is a chalThe report provides comprehensive information on the talent lenge. This guide was published in response to the growing base in each country, including information on education levfocus on materiality in reporting frameworks and accounting els of the employed, unemployed and the inactive members standards. of the population as well as the specific qualifications of the Read more latest entrants to the workforce. Read more UN Global Compact: Guide to Corporate Sustainability (2015) The Guide lays out five defining features of corporate sustainEY: Transparency in focus 2014 (German, 2015) ability, which the Global Compact asks businesses to strive This is the third study by EY Switzerland amongst 110 major Swiss towards – looking at why each element is essential, how companies to understand their practice and status with regards business can move forward and what the Global Compact to sustainability management. It provides insights on how Swiss is doing to help. Foremost, they must operate responsibly companies report on their sustainability achievements, including in alignment with universal principles and take actions that the development of the implementation of GRI guidelines. support the society around them. Then, to push sustainability Read more deep into the corporate DNA, companies must commit at the highest level, report annually on their efforts, and engage REC Code of Professional Practice (2015) locally where they have a presence. The Recruitment and Employment Confederation UK (REC) Code Read more (English) of Professional Practice creates a clear framework of values Read more (Japanese) and principles that support and underpin the meaning of REC Membership. Adherence to the Code actively demonstrates ILO Global Business & Disability Network: Annual Report your commitment to professional and ethical recruitment. The 2014 (2015) Code focuses on outcomes and the impact of agencies’ conThe ILO Global Business and Disability Network is a network of duct on others whilst conducting their day-to-day activities. multinational enterprises, employers’ organisations, business Read more networks and disability organizations around the world who share the conviction that people with disabilities add value to Deloitte: The 2015 Deloitte Millennial Survey (2015) workplaces. Since 2010, this joint initiative of the ILO Bureau Findings from Deloitte´s fourth annual Millennial Survey show for Employers’ Activities and the Gender, Equality and Diversity that business, particularly in developed markets, will need Branch in the Conditions of Work and Equality Department has to make significant changes to attract and retain the future gathered 45 multinational enterprises and employers’ organiworkforce. According to the results, business should focus on sations and business networks from a diverse range of sectors. people and purpose, not just products and profits in the 21st Read more century. Deloitte surveyed 7,800 of tomorrow's leaders, from Past Annual Reports 29 countries, on effective leadership and how business operates and impacts society. World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Report Read more 2014–2015 (2015) The Global Competitiveness Report 2014–2015 assesses the MIT Sloan Management Review: Joining Forces competitiveness landscape of 144 economies, providing inCollaboration and Leadership for Sustainability (2015) sight into the drivers of their productivity and prosperity. The The importance of sustainability as a business issue has report provides a platform for dialogue between government, steadily grown over the past two decades. Most businesses business and civil society about the actions required to imunderstand that their sustained success depends upon the prove economic prosperity. Competitiveness is defined as the economic, social and ecological contexts in which they operset of institutions, policies and factors that determine the level ate. But the stability of those contexts can no longer be taken of productivity of a country. The level of productivity, in turn, for granted. The physical environment is becoming more sets the level of prosperity that can be earned by an economy. unpredictable, a more interconnected global economy is Read more altering social conditions, and technological innovation is transforming the nature of consumption and production. Read more CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 102 G4-PR6 ILO: World employment and Social Outlook 2015 (2015) Vigeo: What do companies report? (2015) Six years after the start of the financial and economic crisis, This is the second Vigeo study on the worldwide evolution of the global economy has entered a phase of tepid economic Corporate Responsibility reporting practices between 2008 growth. Global economic growth remains significantly below and 2014. The rising expectations towards the companies to pre-crisis trends and is too slow to close output and employmake them develop information concerning Governance and ment gaps that opened due to the crisis. The slowdown in the integration of environmental, social, societal and ethical economic activity is especially pronounced in Central and dimensions of their activities are unprecedented. The Key South Eastern Europe and CIS, East Asia, Southeast Asia and findings of this study are clear. Most listed companies have the Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean and North Afunderstood the importance of talking about their corporate rica. Economic growth has accelerated somewhat in some responsibility. advanced economies and in South Asia, Middle East and Read more Sub-Saharan Africa – but not enough to offset the slowing of activity in other regions. Ciett: Economic Report 2015 Edition (2015) Read more Each year, Ciett collects data on the private employment services industry. Most data is reported by Ciett members, but World Economic Forum: Global Risks report 2015 (2015) some other external sources are used as well to create the The 2015 edition of the Global Risks report completes a annual Ciett Economic Report. In February 2015, the latest decade of highlighting the most significant long-term risks report was published, with data on the market in 2013 and worldwide, drawing on the perspectives of experts and global some additional data from 2014. decision makers. Over that time, analysis has moved from risk Read more identification to thinking through risk interconnections and the potentially cascading effects that result. Eurofund: Early childhood care – Accessibility and quality of Read more services (2015) Access to early childhood education and care (ECEC) services RobecoSAM: The Sustainability Yearbook 2015 (2015) and the quality of such services are important issues that are This year’s edition of The Sustainability Yearbook is the culmigaining greater prominence in the EU. This study presents nation of two decades’ worth of rigorous research and conevidence on the elements of working conditions and intinuous dialogue with thousands of companies. But there still service training that increase the quality of ECEC. Concerning seems to be a language barrier between companies and the the accessibility of ECEC services, the report describes good investment community when it comes to corporate sustainpractices gathered in the form of case studies that have been ability. In order to capture a complete picture of a company’s evaluated and that describe additional resources for the inclutrue value, investors need quantitative sustainability data that sion in mainstream ECEC services of children with disabilities is both comparable and financially relevant. This is where inteor learning difficulties, those in a vulnerable social situation grated reporting of financially material sustainability data and those who belong to disadvantaged groups. comes in. Read more Read more European Youth Forum: An employers’ guide to quality Tennaxia, ReScore, Triana: Effective CSR Data internships (2015) Management (2015) This guide is aimed at employers who are interested in setIn an age when hard data is the foundation of most corpoting up internship schemes or who would like to improve the rate decisions, for many companies the process of tracking internship opportunities they offer to young people. It is the sustainability information is woefully inadequate and out of outcome of a collaborative project, led by the European Youth date. In order to realise the full value of managing sustainForum, involving the following employers and employer orability performance, companies should have an efficient sysganisations: Abbvie, The Adecco Group, Microsoft, European tem to collect and analyse CSR data. In this study, we review Public Affairs Consultancies’ association, EUK Consulting, Titan the main market drivers pushing US companies to report Cement Group. sustainability data, identify what sustainability professionals Read more look for in CSR data solutions, assess the current market for CSR reporting tools, and analyse key CSR data management solutions. Read more CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 103 CDP Supply Chain Report 2014–15: Supply Chain Burson-Marsteller & IMD: Keeping it real – How authentic is Sustainability Revealed: A Country Comparison (2015) corporate purpose? (2015) Climate change is once again rising up the global agenda. Six years after the financial crisis of 2008 shook public confiPhysical climate, regulatory and consumer preference changdence in corporations, corporate reputation is showing signs es expose supply chains to growing levels of climate risk. of improvement – but significant challenges remain. Less than Uneven responses among suppliers present threats and opa quarter of the general public in the developed world say that portunities for companies at the top of supply chains. For the corporations were humbled by the financial crisis, and even first time, CDP and Accenture have analysed this data at the C-Suite business leaders overwhelmingly agree with the view national level to assess the relative climate risk faced by supthat corporations are not acting more responsibly than before. ply chains in 11 key markets, the preparedness of these supply Read more chains to manage these risks and the propensity of suppliers to work with their customers to reduce risk and seize climate ILO: Decent Work, Green Jobs and the Sustainable Economy opportunities. (2015) Read more Decent Work, Green Jobs and the Sustainable Economy demonstrates that green jobs can be a key economic driver, as Vigeo: Paying the penalty – The cost of CSR misconduct the world steps into the largely uncharted territory of building (2015) a sustainable and low-carbon global economy. Enterprises, For this study, Vigeo observed more than 2,500 listed compaworkers and governments are not passive bystanders in the nies around the world, offering evidence of the existence of great transformation that is urgently needed in our economies. a strong link between CSR principles, goals and management They are essential agents of change, able to develop new and consequent legal risks and costs incurred by companies. ways of working in sustainable enterprises that safeguard the Read more environment, create decent jobs and foster social inclusion. Read more GRI, Fundación ONCE: Disability in sustainability reporting (2015) European Parliament: Report on the Green Employment GRI, together with Fundación ONCE – a leading organisation Initiative – Tapping into the job creation potential of the of the European Network for CSR and Disability (CSR+D) – regreen economy (2015) cently launched a new guide to help organisations communiThe report sets out an integrated framework for employment cate their commitment to respecting and promoting the rights and labour market policies at the EU and national levels to of people with disabilities. The guide is a practical tool that support transition towards a green economy and outlines rehelps organisations publicly communicate their commitment lated opportunities and challenges, presents policy responses, to respect and advance the rights of people with disabilities. and puts forward priorities for action. The communication Read more stresses the shift to a green and resource-efficient economy as an opportunity to enhance competitiveness, well-being, and SGS: ISO/DIS 9001 – What You Need to Know (2015) sustainable and high-quality employment. This document aims to provide an insight into the contents of Read more the current Draft revision ISO/DIS 9001 issued in May 2014 (DIS 9001). Its goal is to provide an overview of the key changes GRI & RobecoSAM: Defining Materiality: What matters most to Quality Management Systems (QMS). At this stage in the to Reporters and Investors (2015) ISO 9001 revision process, it is not certain that all of the proThe question ‘what material topics are identified by different posed requirements will be fully adopted in the final published stakeholder groups?’ is a critical one, both for reporters and version of the Standard, but it is wise to consider their likely report users. To contribute to this discussion, GRI launched the implications and allow time for organisations to prepare themresults of its first research into material topics by sector in May selves well in advance of final publication which is due to be 2013, in the publication ‘Sustainability Topics for Sectors’. This published by the end of 2015. research publication is an indirect continuation of the previRead more ous. It aims to help companies understand better how various stakeholders – namely investors – approach materiality. Read more CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 104 Glossary Adecco Group Foundations The Adecco Group Foundations the welfare of its employees, the community, society at large in France, Spain and Italy are not-for-profit organisations that and the environment. CR encompasses corporate governance, directly or indirectly help disadvantaged groups enter the economic, social and environmental responsibilities. CR is labour market. The foundations focus on the needs of target backed by UN initiatives such as the Global Compact and is groups, and build an important basis for the Adecco Group’s the subject of several standardisation initiatives such as the social commitments. GRI, the AA1000 series and the ISO 26000 guide. Ageing workforce The next few decades will see substantial DAXglobal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland The DAXglodemographic changes due to the ageing of the workforce. bal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland Index tracks Swiss comThis development will reshape all aspects of our lives, includpanies with sustainable performance. The Swiss index is ing businesses, workplaces, health and education systems, based on the 50 largest companies in terms of market capirequiring active intervention by all concerned. talisation and on the sustainability criteria defined by the SaraCandidate Any person interested in becoming an associate sin Sustainability Matrix, which combines an industry rating or having a permanent placement. and a company rating, and takes into consideration direct and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Independent not-for-profit indirect ecological and social effects. dax-indices.com organisation holding the largest database of primary corpoDiversity A range of visible and invisible differences that exist rate climate change information in the world. cdp.net between people. By managing diversity, we can take advanCarbon footprint The sum of all emissions of CO2 (carbon tage of these differences and create a productive environment dioxide), which are induced by activities in a given time frame. in which everybody feels valued, where talents are fully utiCiett The International Confederation of Private Employment lised, and in which organisational goals are met. Agencies. Ciett is the authoritative voice representing the comDow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) The Dow Jones Susmon interests of the agency work industry and consists of 40 tainability World Index was launched in 1999 as the first global national federations from EU and Efta and six of the largest sustainability benchmark. The DJSI family is offered cooperastaffing companies worldwide. Its main objective is to help its tively by RobecoSAM Indices and S&P Dow Jones Indices. The members to conduct their businesses in a legal and regulafamily tracks the stock performance of the world’s leading tory environment that is positive and supportive. companies in terms of economic, environmental and social ciett.org criteria. The indices serve as benchmarks for investors who CO2 equivalent (CO2e) An accounting value for greenhouse integrate sustainability considerations into their portfolios, and gas (GHG) emissions: These are generally expressed as a provide an effective engagement platform for companies who weight of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). This is because want to adopt sustainable best practices. other GHGs may have a different global warming potential ­sustainability-indices.com from carbon dioxide and it is usual to combine the effect of EIRIS A leading global independent, not-for-profit organisation all greenhouse gases into one number for CO2e. which conducts independent research into the environmental, Code of Conduct A document referring to companies’ policy social, governance and ethical performance of companies. statements that define ethical standards for proper practices eiris.org for individuals and the organisation. ESI Ethibel Sustainability Indices provide a comprehensive CoP Business participants in the UN Global Compact make a perspective on the financial performance of the world’s leadcommitment to comply with the Global Compact’s ten princiing companies in terms of sustainability, for institutional invesples, including them in their business strategy and their daytors, asset managers, banks, and retail investors. Ethibel Susto-day operations. At the same time, companies are required tainability Indices list the pioneering companies, as well as to issue an annual Communication on Progress (CoP), a public those whose performance is rated within the average for the disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing sector and which meet certain financial criteria. The ESI are the ten principles, and in supporting broad UN development owned by Vigeo. Ethibel.org goals. unglobalcompact.org Ethical Index Euro The Ethical Index Euro is part of E. Capital Corporate governance Corporate governance encompasses Partners’ ECPI Index Family. The development of the underthe full range of principles directed towards shareholders’ lying criteria for the indices is based on client consensus, interest, seeking a good balance between direction, control sustainability and good business behaviour, the UN Declaraand transparency at the highest company level while maintion of Human Rights, the ILO Protocol, as well as the work of taining decision-making capacity and efficiency (source: Swiss academic institutions and NGOs involved in human rights and Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance). environmental questions. e-cpartners.com Corporate (Social) Responsibility (CR or CSR) The definition Eurociett The European Confederation of Private Employment CR/CSR is still evolving. It addresses the concept that, beyond Agencies. See under ‘Ciett’. eurociett.eu merely conducting its business and adhering to legal guidelines, an organisation has obligations such as looking after CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 105 Eurofound The European Foundation for the Improvement of Integrated reporting (IR) IR is enhancing the way organisaLiving and Working Conditions is a European Union body. It tions think, plan and report the story of their business. Organiwas set up to contribute to the planning and design of better sations are using IR to communicate a clear, concise, integratliving and working conditions in Europe. Eurofound’s core ed story that explains how all of their resources are creating business is both research and communicating the results of value. It is an outcome of integrated thinking about material that research. eurofound.europa.eu issues, both – financial and non-financial, that aim to increase Flexicurity The term refers to the combination of labour marbusiness performance and success. ket flexibility in a dynamic economy with security for workers. ISO 26000 A Guidance on social responsibility issued by the Flexicurity is a three-sided mix of flexibility in the labour marInternational Organisation for Standardisation for all types of ket, combined with social security and an active labour market organisation in both the public and private sectors. It provides policy with rights and obligations for the unemployed. guidance on how businesses and organisations can operate FTSE4Good The FTSE4Good Index Series is a series of benchin a socially responsible way. This means acting in an ethical marks and tradable indices for socially responsible investors. and transparent way that contributes to the health and welThe indices are used as a basis for regional and global index fare of society. iso.org tracker funds – a range of structured products – and as a Key performance indicator (KPI) A parameter used to deterstock selection platform for actively managed funds. The index mine whether the desired input or outcome has been inclusion criteria have been designed to identify companies achieved. that meet globally recognised and accepted, socially responOECD The goal of the Organisation for Economic Co-operasible criteria as they evolve. ftse.com tion and Development (OECD) is to promote policies that will GHG Greenhouse gases are those gases which trap the heat improve the economic and social well-being of people around in the atmosphere and thus cause global warming. The princithe world. oecd.org pal greenhouse gases that enter the atmosphere because of Public-Private Partnership (PPP) All forms of cooperation human activities are: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), between public authorities and the private sector. PPP is benitrous oxide (NO2) and various fluorinated gases. The Greencoming an increasingly important factor in the labour market house Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) is the most widely used owing to the need for greater flexibility on the part of cominternational accounting tool for government and business panies, safeguarding of social security for employees and the leaders to understand, quantify, and manage greenhouse gas growing importance of career changes. emissions. ghgprotocol.org RobecoSAM An investment specialist focused exclusively on Global Compact Launched at the UN headquarters, New Sustainability Investing. It offers asset management, indices, York, in July 2000, the Global Compact is a voluntary corporengagement, voting, impact analysis, sustainability assessate citizenship initiative with a vision of a more sustainable ments, and benchmarking services. Asset management capand inclusive global economy. It has two objectives: to encourabilities cater to institutional asset owners and financial interage the adoption of its ‘Ten principles’ in business activities mediaries and cover a range of ESG-integrated investments (in around the world, and to help achieve the UN’s human and public and private equity). robecosam.com labour rights goals. unglobalcompact.org Ruggie Guidelines The United Nations Human Rights Council GRI Global Reporting Initiative. GRI is an international indeendorsed a new set of Guiding Principles for Business and pendent organization that helps businesses, governments Human Rights designed to provide for the first time a global and other organizations understand and communicate the standard preventing and addressing the risk of adverse imimpact of business on critical sustainability issues such as pacts on human rights linked to business activity. The Guiding climate change, human rights, corruption and many others. Principles are the product of six years of research led by ProGRI provides the world’s most widely used standards on susfessor Ruggie from Harvard University, on how States and tainability reporting and disclosure, enabling businesses, govbusinesses should implement the UN ‘Protect, Respect and ernments, civil society and citizens to make better decisions Remedy’ Framework. business-humanrights.org based on information that matters. globalreporting.org Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions The conILO The International Labour Organisation (ILO) is the tripartite cept of Scopes defines the boundaries between three different UN agency that brings together governments, employers and types of indirect and direct emissions: Scope 1 are direct emisworkers of its member states in common action to promote sions, Scope 2 are emissions associated with the generation decent work throughout the world. ilo.org of electricity, heating/cooling, or steam purchased for own ILO Global Business & Disability Network The ILO Global consumption, and Scope 3 are indirect emissions other than Business and Disability Network consists of multinational enthose covered in Scope 2. ghgprotocol.org terprises, employers´ organisations, business networks and Secondary HR suppliers Other recruitment agencies, which disabled persons´ organisations who share the conviction that Adecco Group, in the role as first human resources supplier to people with disabilities have talents and skills that can ena specific client, may use for staffing procurement. hance virtually any business. businessanddisability.org CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 106 Skill shortage Is an economic condition in which there are insufficient qualified candidates/employees to fill the marketplace demands for employment at any price. SRI Stands for Socially Responsible Investment, an investment strategy that takes into account a company’s ethical, social and environmental performance as well as its financial performance. Stakeholder Individuals in, or representatives of, a group who have for various reasons an interest in a company such as the Adecco Group. This includes people who are directly or indirectly affected by the Company and its actions. Sustainability This is based on a simple principle: Everything that we need for our survival and well-being depends, either directly or indirectly, on our natural environment. Sustainability creates and maintains the conditions under which humans and nature can exist in productive harmony, that permit fulfilling the social, economic and other requirements of present and future generations. UNI Global Union The global union for skills and services. It is the biggest grouping of individual trade unions in the world with more than 900 affiliated unions in 150 countries and 20 million affiliated members. uniglobalunion.org CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 107 CSR Governance and contacts within the Adecco Group Board of Directors Rolf Dörig Chairman of the Board of Directors Thomas O’Neill Vice-Chairman, Nomination & Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance Committee BoD responsibilities at committees David Prince, Chairman Audit Committee Dominique-Jean Chertier Jean-Christophe Deslarzes Alexander Gut Kathleen P. Taylor Alexander Gut, Chairman Nomination & Compensation Committee Thomas O’Neill Wanda Rapaczynski Wanda Rapaczynski, Chairwoman Corporate Governance Committee Didier Lamouche Thomas O’Neill David Prince Corporate functions Alain Dehaze Chief Executive Officer* Hans Ploos van Amstel Chief Financial Officer* Mark De Smedt Chief Human Resources Officer Sergio Picarelli Chief Sales Officer Pierlaurent Barbieri Head Group Internal Audit Hans Brütsch Head Group Compliance Reporting & Corporate Secretary Stephan Howeg Global Head Group Communications & CSR Patrick Kleffel General Counsel Frank Meyer Chief Information Officer Country contacts Argentina Esther Parietti Director Social Responsibility Jesica Lores Manager Social Responsibility Australia & New Zealand Rick Khinda Marketing & Communications and CSR Belgium Anke Rinkes HR and Product Manager Disability Canada Shari Angle VP Talent & Communications, HR and CSR Denmark Vibeke Jacobsen HR Manager and CSR Eastern Europe Evangelia Isari Marketing Manager and CSR Finland * as of September 1, 2015 CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 108 Arto Toyra Intl. Account Manager and CSR France Christophe Catoir President, Adecco Group Foundation France Jean-François Connan Head Responsibility & Social Innovation, Groupe Adecco France Bruce Roch CSR & Solidarity Manager Groupe Adecco France, General Delegate, Adecco Group Foundation France Johan Titren Equal Opportunities Manager, Groupe Adecco France Renaud Joubert Manager Sport & Insertion programme, Adecco Group Foundation France Iberia & LATAM Francisco Mesonero Fernández de Córdoba General Manager Fundación Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM Pablo García Menchén Communications Manager Fundación Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM India Binny Pappachan Marketing & Communications and CSR Italy Claudio Soldà General Secretary Adecco Fondazione and Public Affairs Adecco Italy Japan Tsuyoshi Nakano CSR Japan & Asia Mexico Erika de la Barrera Analyst and CSR Netherlands Rinus Wittenberg Marketing Manager and CSR Norway Anne-Stine Talseth Director Corp. Communications and CSR North America Tyra Tutor Corporate Development and CSR Rachelle Chapman ‘Career Connections Programme’ Switzerland José M. San José Marketing Director and CSR Fabienne Wildbolz Media Relations and CSR Sweden Fred Lafquist Sponsoring and CSR Charlotte Norden Director Marketing and CSR UK & Ireland Sid Barnes Head CSR and Managing Director IT, Telecommunications & Engineering businesses Lee Jackson Health & Safety Manager and CSR Gemma Jones Health & Safety and CSR CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 109 Imprint Registered office Adecco Group S.A. (Holding) CH-1275 Chéserex Contact details Adecco Group management & consulting S.A. Sägereistrasse 10 CH-8152 Glattbrugg T +41 44 878 88 88 Group Communications & CSR T +41 44 878 87 87 Press.Office@adecco.com http://media.adecco.com sustainability@adecco.com http://csrr.adecco.com Investor Relations T +41 44 878 89 89 investor.relations@adecco.com http://investor.adecco.com Adecco Group on the Internet www.adecco.com www.adecco.com/csr/default.aspx Imprint Publisher: Adecco management & consulting S.A., Glattbrugg August 2015 CSR Report & CoP 2014/2015 111 adecco.com
