UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TRINIDAD CEMENT LIMITED: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT: 2014 July 06, 2015. To All Stakeholders: Profile Trinidad Cement Limited (TCL) operates the only cement manufacturing plant in Trinidad and Tobago. The company’s primary activity is the manufacture and sale of Portland Pozzolan Cement, Ordinary Portland Cement and Class G High Sulphate Resistant (HSR) Oilwell Cement. The plant is a wet process with its quarry operations at Mayo Village which is approximately 7 miles east of Claxton Bay (south central of Trinidad) where the cement is manufactured and port facilities, sales and administration offices are located. The company celebrated its 60th anniversary in 2014. Progress 2014 The year 2014 marked a time of significant change at Trinidad Cement Limited (TCL). The company, under new leadership, underwent a successful period of financial and operational restructuring, MESSAGE FROM redounding to the continued success of the organisation. THE GENERAL Commitment MANAGER (AG.) Trinidad Cement Limited reaffirms its support and commitment to the principles of United Nations Global Compact Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and AntiCorruption. This report provides a view on the company’s focus and actions during the past year (2014) in an attempt to reinforce the principles of the Global Compact as part of TCL’S business strategy, culture and operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Jinda Maharaj General Manager (Ag.) Trinidad Cement Limited 2 Our Vision We are a World Class Group of Companies, committed to Leadership in the Regional Business Community and Progressive Partnering with all our Stakeholders through: • A Focus on Customer Satisfaction with Quality Products and Services • Superior Financial Performance and Rate of Return to our Shareholders • Growth through Diversification and Expansion in our Core VISION & MISSION Competency and through Nurturing Strategic Alliance • The Continuous Empowerment of our Family of Employees Participating in a Network of Mutual Support Our Mission Statement To be a Profitable World Class Cement Company Satisfying the Needs of its Customers, Shareholders and Employees through the provision of High Quality Products and Services in a safe and healthy Environment while Optimizing its Natural and Technological Resources and Sustaining Growth and Development 3 Human Rights: Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of specific human rights issues for the company (i.e. based on assessment of human rights risk). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. • TCL will lead the local and regional business community in achieving greater sustainable development and progressive partnering with all our stakeholders including our Employees, Customers, Shareholders, Communities, Government, NGOs and wider Caribbean region. It is of mutual interest to the Company, Community and Country for TCL to operate responsibly and develop products and services that address social and environmental challenges. • We will:Continually improve our efforts to corporate sustainability leadership and involve our employees in our social HUMAN RIGHTS responsibility projects. Participate in local networks or seek ways of benefiting from the transfer of knowledge and expertise. Listen and respond to the varied concerns of all our stakeholders • TCL is guided by its policy to create a family of employees where individuals feel confident that they are participating, contributing, recognized and rewarded for the success of the company…where employees are valued as precious, special people, secure in the knowledge that the company will at all times seek their long term interests and be supporting in times of need…where Health and Safety concerns are paramount and accidents and non-existent…where the company is concerned about employee’s family life and creates work systems and after work activities to support this ideal…where employees really feel that the company sees them as individuals, encouraging self-development, growth, progress and advancement, not only in their careers but also in their personal lives…and where honesty, integrity, fair play, trust and respect about and employees feel pride in their association with the company and each other. • Employees are primarily regulated by the company’s Code of Conduct. • Employees have received training related to Code of Conduct. • Policy issues are set out by TCL Group Human Resources and compliance in daily work is the responsibility of the 4 Company Managers. Human Rights: Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of specific human rights issues for the company (i.e. based on assessment of human rights risk). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Non-Harassment Policy It is the policy of the company that all employees have the right to work in an environment free of harassment, whether that harassment is based on sex, race, age, religion or gender. As a consequence, the company prohibits harassment of its employees in any form by Supervisors, Co-workers, Customers of Suppliers. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and HUMAN RIGHTS respond to Human Rights violations. • TCL continues to successfully host of programmes and policies in place such as: -The On-boarding Programme: this programme ensures that new employees are properly oriented and inducted into the various functions of the Company’s operations via the 12-day departmental orientation schedule. The Leadership Development Programme: held on a Managerial level in early 2014, this programme sought to harness stronger leadership capacities and working relationships between management and staff. The Apprenticeship Programme: The apprenticeship programme offers an opportunity to ensure that the theoretical knowledge and accompanying skills required for this manufacturing industry occurs in a controlled environment which allows for a proper technical foundation for the trainee to be established and to have the adequate transferability of skills for the sustainability of our unique business. The Student-Holiday Programme: Nineteen (19) students were exposed to on-the-job training at TCL as well as Presentation Skills, Customer Service and HR Tips for Recruitment. 5 Human Rights: Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. • Staff Volunteerism -Mayaro Relief Assistance: following massive flooding to the eastern coast of Trinidad (Mayaro district), the Management and Staff of Trinidad Cement Limited, under the General Manager’s CSR helm, conducted a successful relief drive, via the provision of food and other household items to the affected persons of this area. Beach-Clean Partnership with the Energy Chamber: in September 2014, TCL was one of the key HUMAN RIGHTS companies which actively participated in the annual Energy Chamber Beach Clean-up exercise. TCL’s volunteers assisted with the thorough clean of the Quinam Beach in Siparia. -Provision of Recreational and Sporting Grounds: Corosal Community: The residents of the rural village of Corosal (on the outskirts of TCL’s Mayo Quarry) were given a new sporting ground from TCL which is used for both their leisure and sporting activities. The official handing-over ceremony was done on site in July 2014. -Annual Christmas Party – Underprivileged Children of Mayo Village: Once again TCL supported the children of Mayo Village through the provision of a Christmas party and treat. At this event, the children were given presents, food and were exposed to many fun games and entertainment provided by TCL! • The value of diversity at TCL is shared with the hosting of many programmes throughout the year such as Carnival celebrations, Easter Observances, celebration of the 52nd Anniversary Independence of Trinidad and Tobago, Divali Celebrations, Fun and Family Day, Eid ul Fitr, Children Christmas Party etc. The programmes covered national celebrations, cultural and religious holidays to benefit the organization and the employees for a sense of belonging, which in turn increases their commitment to the company and allows each of them to 6 contribute in a unique way. Human Rights: Assessment, Policy and Goals Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Employee Morale Survey In keeping with TCL’s efforts to create an environment which motivates and cultivates employee job satisfaction, TCL routinely audits its internal customer satisfaction to measure the level of employee morale across the organization. The main objective of this survey is to determine the internal climate within the Company and to measure the overall level of internal satisfaction pertaining to key organizational issues. The Employee Morale Survey is intended to establish new baselines of employee satisfaction and engagement against which improvements can be made and the changes assessed at another time in the future. By assessing and determining the factors impacting employee HUMAN RIGHTS satisfaction, engagement and job performance and identifying the management and organizational strengths and weaknesses, the organization can better determine the courses of action that may be needed to increase the levels of morale. The next Morale Survey is scheduled for 2015. Performance Evaluation TCL’s annual performance appraisal was conducted for all permanent employees who have been with the company for at least six (6) continuous months before he/she is reviewed. Quarterly appraisals were conducted on an informal basis and year end appraisals were submitted at the end of year. All evaluations are conducted in a fair and equitable manner and provide the appraisee and appraiser with a way of measuring appraisee’s efficiency and effectiveness as a Team Member. The results of the evaluations allow the manager/supervisor to make decisions regarding training, compensation, promotion, job assignments, retention and long range planning including succession planning. The performance evaluation is conducted in a way that allows the employee to be an active participant, thereby helping individuals to contribute to their development in a direct way. 7 Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. • TCL continues to uphold the freedom of association of its employees and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Implementation LABOUR Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. • Through the company’s relationship with Unions and other representative associations, the long term development of the company is sustained, both to the benefit of the and the company by maintaining a level of competitiveness adapted to its economic environment. • The company is committed to paying employees equitably, providing and facilitating satisfactory working conditions and in return expects employees to perform at a high standard and be loyal to the company. Employees are encouraged to solve problems by discussing them openly with their supervisors/managers or the Human Resources Department. • Trinidad Cement Limited is committed to minimizing occupational risks to the health of its employees, 8 contractors, customers, suppliers, visitors and the community. Labour Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. • The Performance Management Committee, which was revitalized during 2013, continued to operate in 2014. Under this new system, the appraisal period saw a change from October to September to January to December, bringing it in alignment with the system being used for Managers and Senior Staff. Additionally, a Mid-Year Review replaced the Quarterly Appraisals in the current system. LABOUR • Quarterly Performance Reviews for all JS, HRWP & EPA Employees were formalized during 2013 and progressed in 2014. These reviews ensure that the performance of all employees is monitored and tracked on a continuous basis. 9 Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Trinidad Cement Limited is committed to: ENVIRONMENT • a preventative approach to environmental challenges; • promoting greater environmental consciousness and responsibility; • the procurement of services, plant & equipment that are environmentally compliant. • In 2014, TCL re-affirmed its ongoing commitment to pollution prevention, compliance with legal environmental requirements, and dedication to continual improvement of its environmental performance. 10 Environment Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. TCL has continued to effect numerous methods toward the continued sustainability of our environment. These include: • Maintenance and Servicing of Dust Collectors throughout the Claxton Bay facility to improve efficiency and thereby eliminate or reduce any dust emissions. ENVIRONMENT • TCL has continued to demonstrate its Corporate Social Responsibility via its partnership with the Ministry of Works and Infrastructure (Trinidad and Tobago) to maintain and beautify the Claxton Bay highway flyover embankments. • The company once again held its Health, Safety, Security & Environment (HSSE) Village at the TCL Claxton Bay plant and Mayo Quarry in 2014. The village comprised different booths with each focused on different aspects of HSSE at TCL from Scaffolding Safety to Personal Security Awareness to Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). The HSSE Village was aimed at providing employees with awareness-level HSSE training to improve their knowledge, understanding and application of HSSE in the field and at home. • Beach-clean exercise: TCL was one of the partnering organizations with the Energy Chamber of Trinidad and Tobago’s annual Beach Clean exercise. 2014 saw the company’s participation at Quinam Beach, Siparia. • The company’s HSSE department organized a successful World Environment Day 2014 Observance which featured numerous informative booths including: Nature Seekers, The Office of Disaster Preparedness (ODPM), The Forestry 11 Division and many more! Environment Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. • Weekly Plant Walks conducted by Management and Staff continue to bring significant improvement in housekeeping and dusting and pride in plant. • A Housekeeping KPI Inspection program was initiated, to present a quantitative analysis of the housekeeping at TCL. The main areas of the plant (Kilns, Mills, Packing Plant/Jetty)were consistently monitored to ENVIRONMENT determine trends and gauge performance, by monitoring the following: a) Material Spillage b) Dust c) Scrap and maintenance spares and equipment d) Garbage e) Tools, Equipment f) Personal Effects g) Machinery/Motors equipped with guards etc. h) Electrical Safety Compliance i) Tidinessorderly arrangement of equipment and materials • No exceedances with the Noise Pollution Rules, 2001 were recorded for TCL Claxton Bay. • Ambient Air Monitoring (PM 10) carried out. No exceedances recorded. 12 Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. • In accordance with its published Code of Ethics and Business Conduct employees must not defraud or attempt to defraud any customer, supplier, shareholder or other person with whom TCL communicates or does business. In particular, employees must always make truthful statements, both verbally and in writing about the company’s products, services and financial condition. Any employee found to be attempting fraud or engaging in fraud or ANTI-CORRUPTION bribery will be subject to strict disciplinary action, up to and including termination. The company reserves the right to refer such matters to public authorities for possible criminal prosecution. • Strict compliance with competition and antitrust laws around the world is essential. Employees and other representatives of the company must avoid even the appearance of such conduct. Such conduct includes – agreements of joint actions between competitors regarding prices, bids, products or territory allocations or divisions, selection of customers or suppliers or limits on production, inventory or research and development; and agreements with customers or licenses regarding the minimum resale price at which they will sell TCL goods and services. • Material non-public information often called “insider information” shall not be used by employees for their own gain or for the gain of others, friends, relatives or other employees. 13 Anti-Corruption Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. • Reporting Procedures and Investigation First Report – employees may lodge a first report verbally to the Human Resource Manager or Department Head who may subsequently require that the complaint be placed in writing so as to facilitate the investigative process. ANTI-CORRUPTION • Second Report – should an employee be dissatisfied that any action is not taken as a result of the first report, he/she must submit a written complaint report to the General Manager and copied to the Group Human Resource Manager. The GM can then launch a full-scale investigation utilizing all resources available to his office and shall seek the assistance of the Group HRM in the investigation proceedings. TCL Group will investigate all reports of suspected violations of law or the Code, including anonymous ones. Employees must cooperate in the investigation of reported violations. • Identity Protection The identity of any person making an allegation will be kept confidential until a formal investigation is launched. Thereafter, the identity of the person making the allegation will be kept confidential, if requested, unless this is incompatible with a fair investigation (e.g. The need of the person(s) against whom the allegation is made to know the identity of his/her accuser) or unless there is an overriding reason for disclosure. Provided that the allegation has been made lawfully, without malice and in the public interest, the employment position of the person making it will not be adversely affected by reason of making the allegation. The TCL Group will not disclose the identity of anyone who reports a suspected violation or who participates in a related investigation unless the employee submitting the report authorizes such disclosure or such disclosure is 14 required by law, regulation or legal process. Anti-Corruption Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. • TCL’s Internal Audit Department provides an independent, objective surveillance of the company’s activities designed to add value and improve on the company’s operations. This is a systematic, approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risks management, control and governance processes. • The scope of internal auditing ensures compliance with all the rules and regulations of financial and management reporting. The Internal Auditors submits its monthly and quarterly reports to management and ANTI-CORRUPTION the Board of Directors respectively regarding its findings with recommendations on executing the specific responsibilities. • Management is therefore responsible for the preparation of financial statements that gives a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB and for such internal control as management deems necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements as free from material misstatements. 15 REPORT COMPILED AND SUBMITTED BY: THE END MS. MARIA LEWIS COMMUNITY RELATIONS OFFICER TRINIDAD CEMENT LIMITED * 07-JULY-2015 16
