The e Finnaiir Way Our Code of Con nduct and the attributes of success Respponsibility is an integral part of all Fiinnair opera tions. Succe essful organissations havee an eye on the t future an nd invest in responssible and susstainable competitiveneess. This Cod de of Conducct is based onn the princip ple that everrything we do at Finnair must – and will be – evaaluated against the highest ethical bbusiness stan ndards. Bacckground Wha at is a code oof conduct an nd why do we w need onee? Finnaair is a comppany in a commplex, highlyy technical buusiness, and it has operations and suupply chain partners p in dozeens of differeent countriess, each with varying v lawss and customms. Moreoverr, our workfoorce is not on nly culturallyy diverrse, but highhly specialised and thus not n always faamiliar with other o aspects of Finnair ooperations. In such an envirronment, a ccode of cond duct gives us all a wider, sshared framework in which to suppoort each othe er and pursue our ultim mate businesss goals in a goal‐oriente g d, developinng, encouragging, caring and a fair atmoosphere. The ese are in facct the key k leadership and emplo oyee attributes of Finnaiir personnel – and they area the essenntial ingredie ents for leadiing ourselves and ou ur company to t success. This Code of Con nduct has beeen approved B d by Finnair'ss Executive Board and Booard of Direct b evaluated and ctors. It will be revissed as necesssary at regular intervals. I. Good governance All Fiinnair's operrations are governed by laws l and reggulations andd supervised by the relevvant authoritties. We com mply with internationaal and local laws and regulations eveerywhere we operate, and require thee same from m our businesss partnners. This Coode of Condu uct further urges us to exxceed minimum requirem ments, while also detailin ng our uncoompromisingg ethical stan ndards. The responsibilitty for regulattory compliance lies withh the personss defined and approved bby the autho orities. Finnaair is also subject to su upervision reelating to finances and innformation security. The company’s iinstructions for f internal control state that the managger in charge of each unitt or function is responsib ble for arrangging internal control with hin his or o her unit orr organisation. The internal conttrol environm ment compriises roles, reesponsibilitiees, documentted principlees for interna al control as well as th he company'ss values and ethics. The roles and ressponsibilitiess are complia ant with the Finnish Com mpanies Act, the Finnish Corporatte Governancce Code for ListedL Compaanies and the regulations governing the aviation industry. Th he interrnal audit fun t the Audit Committee of Finnair's Board nction regulaarly reports to B of Direectors. The results of thee workk related to tthe Audit Committee's co ontrol functi on are reporrted to Finna air's Board off Directors. Socieety: Our com mmitment to o openness Respponsible com mmunication is one of the e fundamenttal requirements for maintaining goood relations with w all stakeeholders. Wee are open, honest h t and timely in all our commun nications. Wee take differeent perspecttives into conssideration an nd respect all stakeholders’ views of oour operatio ons. We welcome open a nd constructtive discussio on, bothh internally and externally. Every employee has the dutyy to commun nicate matte rs related to o responsibillity to the relevant target o their area of groups. Those in supervisoryy roles have a further dutty to communicate goals,, operations and results to their own n workk communityy and create a work envirronment thaat enables ge enuine constructive discuussion. In lin ne with thesee principles, Finnair’s com mmunicationns are also in n compliance e with regulaations govern ning listed companies and liimited liability companie es, as well as the obligations of the Finnish Act onn Cooperatio on within Unde ertakings and the communications guidelines of the State Ow wnership Ste eering Departtment. Public affairs and d lobbying Aviattion is a stricctly regulated d industry. As or us to participate in disccussions and A such, it is iimportant fo d decision‐ making that conccern Finnair's operating conditions. c Finnaair pursues its interests in i an ethicallly sustainabl e manner byy appropriate ely introduciing its views,, perspectivees and technical t exp pertise wherre necessary. The aim of Finnair's lob bbying activitties is to maiintain relatioonships conccerning relevvant policy an pate in relevvant negotiattions. Finnairr is a membeer of various aviation industry nd to particip associations, succh as AEA and d IATA. Finnaair monitors the legality and ethicalitty of public aaffairs and lo obbying activvities as part of the comp pany's general supe ervision and aaudit processses. Corruption and b bribery: Zeroo tolerance Finnaair does not condone corruption in any a form. Ideentifying and d assessing co orruption rissks are part of o the generaal risk assessment a ccarried out by b the compa any and its bbusiness unitts. Finnaair's procureement policyy sets clear principles p to eensure ethiccal purchasing. Finnair exxpects its sup ppliers also to act in acccordance wiith the comp pany's ethical standards. Finnair's pro ocurement operations o arre based on the t objectivee and fair treatment t m T persons making off suppliers. The proc urement deccisions at Fin nnair must allways be fully independeent of the business b parttners concerrned. A Finna air employeee must declare himself/herself disquaalified due to o bias wheneever they are required d to make a decision perrtaining to a contract or business b ationship invvolving familyy relationships, rela ownership in thee company co oncerned (wwith the exce ption of a reeasonable share of owne rship in a listted companyy) or any other o busineess or debt reelationship external e to Fiinnair. Supe ervision relatting to the prrevention off corruption iis the respon nsibility of ea ach Finnair eemployee as well as thosee in charge of business functions and the inte ernal audit. TThe internal audit monito ors compliannce with the key principlees of the Code C of Cond duct as part of analysing and control ling businesss processes and a through special inspections. Acce epting or giving bribes is strictly forbidden. Givingg and accepting business gifts should be avoided where possiible without acting co ontrary to goood mannerss. We expectt our employyees to be ca apable of usinng their own n best discrettion, and if in doubt, o of consultingg their superiiors. Where necessary, re elevant trainning will be aarranged. No child c labour Finnaair does not condone thee use of child d or forced laabour at anyy stage of its value chain. The compan ny complies with law ini all its operrations and requires r p the same from i ts business partners. Wee also requiree that our emmployees and partn ners comply with the principles of the UN Declarration of Hum man Rights in n all Finnair ooperations. Fair competition n Finnaair complies with compeetition law in all operatio ns. The Finnair Legal Affa airs Departmment regularlly assesses th he risks related to competition law l associate ed with part nership agre eements and other operaations. The department d is responsible for isssuing instru uctions and arranging a tra ining on com mpetition law w. Spon nsorships an nd other com mmercial sup pport Finnaair only engaages in paid sponsorship s s. The compaany chooses its partners carefully. Chharitable pro ojects under the company's corpo orate responsibility initiatives do not generally involve any fin nancial consiideration. More detailed instrructions are p provided in the t sponsorsship guidelinnes. II. Our O promiise to custtomers The aviation a induustry constitutes a deep and heavily regulated vaalue chain of numerous ssuppliers of products p andd serviices. Finnair,, as an airlinee and as a service compaany at the top p of this chain, creates vaalue for the customer byy offerring a single, seamless an nd high qualiity service foor transportin ng people an nd their posssessions to th heir destinattions safelly and on timme. This means we have a responsibillity to the cu ustomer for thet overall qquality of tha at experiencee, regardless of wh hether we prroduce a parrticular serviice ourselvess or outsource it to a bussiness partner. Finnaair is committted to actin ng honestly and respectinng the promiises it makess while also ccomplying with industry regulations. We w welcome cusstomer feedback in all ci rcumstancess, because it gives us thee opportunityy to rectify mistakes, develo op customer service and evaluate bussiness partne ers. Safety Fligh ht safety is always the number one prriority in all ooperations and the comp pany makes nno comprom mises on safeety unde er any circum F mstances. Saffety is also Finnair’s first priority in ground opera ations and att every stage e of the custo omer journney. Prod duct liability The most significcant product liability considerations iin Finnair's operations o arre related to maintenancce, catering and a ground service o operations ass well as dam mage to and ddelays with passengers, p baggage andd cargo. Therre are also significant indem mnification liaabilities relatted to EU an d United Staates legislatio on on consum mer protectiion and passenger rights. From the customer's pe erspective, t he most imp portant product informattion is that re elated to thee cond ditions of carrriage and cu ustomer righ hts. Customer data Finnaair respects tthe privacy of o its custommers and is coommitted to ensuring that personal ddetails and other o custom mer inforrmation are p processed ap ppropriately. We do our best to guarrantee the co nd accuracy of onfidentialityy, security an custo omer data under all circu umstances. AtA all stages oof travel we process perssonal detailss in complian nce with the legislation on personal data and a regulatio ons issued byy the authorrities in the countries c which we operate in w Packkage tours Packkage travel operations carried out by Finnair subssidiaries com mply with the e Finnish Packkage Travel ActA and geneeral industry terms and condition ns. The Finnissh Consumerr Ombudsmaan supervises the contra ctual practicces of packagge traveel service prooviders and compliance c with w the req uirements co oncerning gu uarantees aggainst bankru uptcy. The guarrantees of tour operatorss belonging to t the Finnai r Group are in the form of o bank guarrantees. Carggo In caargo transporrt, the comp pany is responsible for traansporting customers’ ca argo in the coondition in which w it has been b entru usted to us, and in comp pliance with internationa i l and national regulation ns. Respponsible Finn nair Finnaair's committment to social responsib bility is refleccted in its strrategy, as weell as its key ssuccess factoors of freshn ness, creattivity and quuality. Our Vision 2020 also expressess our desire to t be a respo onsible citizeen of the world and the bestb choicce for passen ngers who prioritise quality and envi ronmental and a social aw wareness. Finnaair historically has been aleading airline in the fieeld of corporrate responsibility, report rting on its en nvironmentaal impaact since 19997, and becoming the firsst airline to rreport accord ding to GRI guidelines g in 2008. The co ompany takees envirronmental perspectives into consideration in all operations and a supportss the IATA obbjective of ze ero‐emissionns aviattion. We com mply with exiisting environmental legiislation while e striving to exceed the rrequirementts set by the authorities. Finnaair aims to continue bein ng a pioneer in evaluating, reporting and reducinng the environmental imp pacts of opperations. III. Personne P l Finnaair employeees conduct their persona al and work‐rrelated affairrs in a way th hat preventss conflicts of interest and d doess not compro omise imparttiality. We respect r indivviduality For the t sake of jo ob satisfactio on, occupatio onal wellbeinng and motivvation, it is im mportant thaat we respecct and value all Finnaair employeees as individu uals and givee everyone t he opportun nity for self‐e expression w within the limmits set by thee requuirements of their job. Prommoting equality in a plan nned and goa al‐oriented m manner Finnaair does not discriminatee based on gender, age, eethnic or nattional origin,, nationality,, language, re eligion, convviction, opinion, health, disability, d sexxual orientattion or otherr personal reasons or circcumstances. Other perso onal reasoons or circummstances maay refer to, fo or instance, w wealth, famiily or domicile. Finnaair does not condone dissturbances or o harassmennt in the worrk community. Reportingg infractions is every employee's rightt and the com mpany is determined to ttake steps to o intervene in all cases. Finnaair offers equal opportun nities for eve eryone with regard to reccruitment, work w perform mance, career progression and developmen nt. Finnair im mplements th he equal pay principle based on the Finnish F Equallity Act. Finnaair gives both men and women w equaal opportunitties for balan ncing work an nd family lifee. Safety is everyon ne's responssibility Finnaair's general principles on o occupatio onal and corpporate safetyy are the bassis for develooping safety. Everyone shares the respo onsibility for safety. s Everyy employee iis expected to t be prepare ed to identifyfy hazards, prevent damaage and, where neceessary, act co orrectly in exceptional cirrcumstancess and in respo onse to an acccident or otther event involving damagee. Every Finn nair employe ee complies w with safety in nstructions and a guidelinees, and assumes responsibility forr the safety of o their workk environmennt. No tolerance forr harassment Finnaair complies with proced dures jointly agreed by thhe employer and employyees for the pprevention of o harassmen nt and inappropriatte conduct. The T procedure is based oon the Finnish Act on Occcupational Saafety and He ealth and complies with the model recommended by the Finnissh Ministry of o Social Affa airs and Heal th. How w can I ensuree compliancce with the Code C of Condduct? The Code C of Conduct applies to every Fin nnair employyee and boarrd member. If a Finnair F emplooyee suspectts, or knows, that anotheer employee e is in violatio on of companny rules, legiislation or accepted practices, he or shee must reporrt this to his oor her superrvisor or, alte ernatively, too the personnel managerr of his or o her unit. Iff the supervissor who rece eives the repport, determine that the observed vioolation warra ants further actioon the matteer is investigaated and the necessary aaction taken upon having g determinedd the facts off the case. When W the existence e of a violation iss ambiguous or the violattion is significant in magnitude, the m matter must always be repo orted to the uunit's executtive team or, if the matteer concerns members m of an executivee team, to thhe company'ss Execcutive Board or Board of Directors. Finnaair takes violations of thee Code of Co onduct seriouusly and the company is determined to take actio on if employees, execcutives or anyy members of o the Board of Directorss are in violattion of these e principles. PPenalties and other conssequences att Finnair are determined by the naturre of the violation. Violattions of the CCode of Conduct that aree nal penalties, as determinned by the authorities. also violations off the law aree also subjectt to further ccivil or crimin a The way w forward d Our ethical princciples requiree that we are e open and ddirect and haave the coura age to highligght occasionns when the Code of Coonduct is nott being adheered to, even n when they may be unplleasant. Rem maining silennt in the facee of misconduct is aggainst our priinciples. Management, peersonnel and d their repressentatives haave a mutual obligation to t foster onggoing, constrructive dialoggue, in ann open and tiimely manneer, on the isssues and cha llenges facin ng Finnair. The business environmen nt we operatee is subje ect to rapid cchanges, andd it is in our best b interestt to face them m together. By co omplying witth these prinnciples we ca t an develop a n effective, trust‐based w work commuunity – and build b a strongg founndation for our future.
