KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 Contents Editorial Policy Contents / Editorial Policy 1 The Konica Minolta CSR Report is published to inform all stakeholders about the Group’s corporate social responsibility Introduction 2 initiatives. With sections addressing each type of stakeholder, the Message from the President 3 report discusses the Group’s progress and provides information Overview of the Konica Minolta Group 5 about new initiatives and goals for the company, focusing on Konica Minolta’s CSR issues identified as being very important to society and having a 7 substantial impact on the Group’s business. To facilitate communication with stakeholders around the world, the report is Special Feature 1 published in five languages: Japanese, English, Chinese, German, Sharing Green Innovation 13 and French. Sharing Environmental Management Technology and Know-how with Customers, Suppliers, and Society Report Boundary Special Feature 2 This report covers Konica Minolta, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. When data is given on a specific subset of Customer-centric Innovation 17 companies, the boundary is separately indicated. Facing Customer Problems to Create Satisfaction Note: In this report, “Konica Minolta” refers to the Konica Minolta Group. and Happiness “Konica Minolta, Inc.” refers to Konica Minolta, Inc. alone. Exercising Responsibility for 21 Reporting Period In principle, the report covers activities from April 1, 2014 to the Global Environment March 31, 2015. Some sections may include information on Green Products 25 earlier initiatives or more recent activities. Green Factories 27 In this report, “fiscal 2014” refers to the fiscal year starting April 1, Green Marketing 29 2014 and ending March 31, 2015. Earning the Confidence of Customers 31 Publication Date August 2015 (Next report: scheduled for August 2016; previous report: August 2014) Assuring Product Safety and Preventing 32 Quality-related Problems Increasing Customer Satisfaction 33 For Further Information More detailed information about the Group’s CSR activities is available at: http://www.konicaminolta.com/about/csr Cooperating with Business Partners 35 Page on the website Promoting CSR throughout the Supply Chain 36 Relevant information available on the website The documents below are available for download at: Growing Together with Our Employees 39 http://www.konicaminolta.com/about/corporate/ document_download.html • Company Brochure • CSR Report • Environmental Report Leveraging and Developing Diverse Human 40 Resources • Annual Report • Intellectual Property Report Fostering a Culture Committed to “Health-First” 41 Promoting Occupational Health and Safety Reference Guidelines 42 The 4th edition (G4) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Hand-in-Hand with Society 43 GRI / ISO26000 / United Nations Global Compact Content Indices Implementing Social Contribution Activities 44 around the World Management System 45 Disclaimer In addition to facts about past or present circumstances, this report contains Data 48 descriptions of the Group’s current plans and projections for the future. These descriptions are based on information that is currently available and have been Expert Opinion of Konica Minolta’s CSR Report 51 deemed reasonable based on the Group’s current status. The Group’s actual performance could differ from its predictions due to future changes in the External Assurance 52 business environment. 1 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 Introduction C r e a t i n g N e w Va l u e f o r a S u s t a i n a b l e Wo r l d Konica Minolta’s mission is “The Creation of New Value.” The company exists for this very purpose: to use creative ideas to deliver tangible new value in order to resolve the challenges faced by customers and the broader society. In order for companies to be sustainable in the times ahead, they will have to contribute to the resolution of social challenges while continuing to grow. In other words, they will be required to create value for both the company and society. In cooperation with its stakeholders around the globe, Konica Minolta aims to establish itself as a company that is vital to society by continuing to create new value that brings innovation to the world. Konica Minolta Philosophy KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 2 Message from the President Creating New Value by Pursuing Both the Resolution of Social Issues and Growth as a Company The Value Creation Konica Minolta Strives For determination to fulfill this responsibility was made evident with the creation and implementation of Eco Vision 2050. As Corporate value is the combination of shareholder value and our long-term environmental plan, Eco Vision 2050 consists social value. I believe that there are two components to that of long-term environmental goals with three areas of focus, social value: CSR management and the social significance of including an 80% reduction in CO2 emissions over the the company’s business itself. It is my conviction as a product life cycle compared to fiscal 2005. businessperson that we must increase Konica Minolta’s Konica Minolta is committed to reducing environmental social value in order to achieve its management vision of impact in all of its business processes, from product establishing itself as a global company that is vital to society. development to procurement, production, distribution, sales Since its formation, Konica Minolta has experienced and service, collection, and recycling. Along the way, we aim continuous growth under its management philosophy, “The to create new value, socially and economically, by pursuing Creation of New Value.” In order for us to continue this both environmental commitment and corporate growth. This sustainable growth over the next 50 or 100 years, it is is the foundation of our environmental management. Toward important that we not only create economic value, but also that end, two ongoing endeavors are necessary: societal value. This is why we are a company that takes technological and business innovation. social responsibility seriously and commits itself to To illustrate Konica Minolta’s technological innovation, I contributing to the protection of the global environment and would like to cite the organic light emitting diode (OLED) the resolution of social issues—not a company that just lighting. In addition to being extremely energy efficient, OLED provides the products and services required by customers lighting is thin and flexible, giving a high degree of freedom in and returns the profit obtained to shareholders applications. I think that it will enable the creation of new, and employees. previously unheard-of forms of lighting. What’s more, in our All of Konica Minolta’s global businesses aim to provide core Business Technologies Business, we are working on new value to customers and society through innovative renovating the business model itself. We’re aiming to reduce products and services. Konica Minolta’s fundamental growth environmental impact by limiting excess printing and waste strategy is the creation of new value by offering solutions to through the spread of digital printing systems that print only diverse challenges through its technological and the amount needed at the time needed. business innovations. In the textile printing industry, we’ve greatly contributed Based on this approach, we have initiated the Medium to the reduction of environmental impact by cutting CO2 Term Business Plan, TRANSFORM 2016. Under the strategy emissions through conversion to inkjet printing. This is just outlined in TRANSFORM 2016, we are specifically focusing one example of how we are making contributions to the on customer needs and social challenges. With the global environment by leveraging our technical prowess to implementation of this plan, we aim to create new value that give shape to the things needed by our customers and helps to enrich society by using our technology and society. know-how to help solve the world’s diverse challenges. Becoming a Global Company That is Vital Contributing to Solutions for Global Challenges to Society and Environmental Problems Presently, Konica Minolta operates with over 40,000 In recent years, the international community has been facing employees practicing the Konica Minolta philosophy at sites a variety of challenges, ranging from economic disparity to in 50 countries. Aware of the magnitude of our influence as a conflicts, poverty, and hunger. Global environmental global company, we participate in the UN Global Compact problems in particular are a pressing issue. As a corporate and implement initiatives in this regard. Our participation executive, I believe that global companies, including Konica exemplifies to the international community our resolve to Minolta, have a responsibility to contribute to a sustainable fulfill our diverse social responsibilities in the areas of human society by reducing their environmental impact. Our rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. 3 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 With respect to human rights and other social issues in As we pursue further growth as a global company that the supply chain, we work with our suppliers on CSR is vital to society, I invite you to look forward to what Konica procurement. Beyond practicing ethical corporate behavior Minolta will achieve in the future. ourselves, we expect our suppliers to cooperate in improving respect for basic human rights and providing a decent working environment. Through this collaboration, we strive to solve social issues together. Additionally, we are strengthening measures to ensure our compliance with conflict minerals regulations in order to prevent human rights infringements stemming from conflict. Shoei Yamana These commitments and initiatives have led to Konica Minolta’s inclusion in global SRI indexes as well as high President and CEO marks in ratings by CSR research institutions. Konica Minolta, Inc. Contributing to the solutions of social challenges by combining the wisdom and skills of the Group’s 40,000 employees and charting a growth strategy to achieve it is my mission as president. It is what a global company must do. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 4 Overview of the Konica Minolta Group Business Domains Business Segment Applications Principal Products and Services Business • MFPs (Multi-functional peripherals) • OPS (Optimized Print Technologies • Laser printers Services) Business • Facsimile machines • MCS (Managed Content Office Services Services) • Software and peripheral devices • Cloud services 80.8% • Digital color printing systems • Marketing Print of sales • Digital monochrome printing systems Management (MPM) • Digital color-proofing systems • Marketing Management Commercial and Service (MMS) Industrial Printing • Prepress production systems • Inkjet printheads • Inkjet inks • Inkjet textile printers Industrial • TAC film for LCD polarizers Business • VA-TAC film for increasing viewing angle • High-precision photo plates Performance • Barrier film Materials • Mirror film • Functional film for windows 11.1% • Organic light emitting diode (OLED) lighting of sales • Lens units • Illuminance meters Optical Systems • Pickup lenses for optical disks • Spectroradiometers for Industrial Use • Spectrophotometers • Spectrometers Healthcare • Digital X-ray diagnostic imaging • Jaundice meters Business systems (CR, DR) • Diagnosis medicine • Digital mammography • Medical ICT services • Diagnostic ultrasound systems Healthcare 7.8% • Medical imaging filing systems • All-in-one medical imaging information of sales workstations • Pulse oximeters Corporate Data Company name Konica Minolta, Inc. Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Operating Income/ Head office 2-7-2 Marunouchi, Operating Income Ratio (Billion yen) (Billion yen) (%) Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan 1,200 75 Operating Income 15 President and CEO Shoei Yamana Operating Income Ratio 66.2 1,011.7 Established December 22, 1936 943.7 58.1 Paid-in capital 37,519 million yen 800 777.9 767.8 813.0 50 10 (as of March 31, 2015) 40.0 40.3 40.6 Fiscal year-end March 31 5.0 6.2 6.5 400 25 5.1 5.3 5 Number of employees Non-consolidated: 6,348 (as of March 31, 2015) Consolidated: 41,598 0 0 0 (as of March 31, 2015) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 5 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 Features of the Konica Minolta Group Global Network Covering 150 Countries Konica Minolta has Group sites in 50 Asia (excluding Japan) Asia (excluding Japan) countries with a sales and service and other regions Japan and other regions Japan network covering approximately 150 countries. The Group has more than 243.8 billion yen 203.6 billion yen 12,350 12,154 40,000 employees, and they support 24.1 % 20.1% 30 % 29% business of customers around the Sales Number of world, from a global and local by Region Employees viewpoint, as One Konica Minolta. by Region Total Total 1,011.7 41,598 billion yen Europe Europe United United 328.6 billion yen States 9,048 States 32.5 % 235.6 billion yen 22 % 8,046 23.3 % 19 % “Genre-top Strategy” That is Competitive in Fields with High Added Value Konica Minolta concentrates its efforts and investments in fields with high added value where it can leverage its Wireless A3 color MFPs cassette-type advantages, such as with A3 color have a top-class share of the market DR system MFPs and digital color printers in the outside Japan. has a top-class share of Business Technologies Business, the market in Japan. digital radiography (DR) in the Healthcare Business, and TAC film in the Industrial Business. The Group has Digital color printing systems acquired large shares in each field. have a top-class share of VA-TAC film the market outside Japan. for increasing viewing angle has a top-class share of the global market. Note: Konica Minolta’s estimate based on outside data for 2014 Highly Transparent, Sound, and Efficient Corporate Governance System Konica Minolta, Inc. has adopted a General Meeting of Shareholders “company with committees” system. It has established three committees— Candidate Candidate appointment Reporting appointment nominating, audit, and compensation Chaired by and dismissal and proposals and dismissal committees—in addition to the Board a director Board of Directors President & CEO who is not of Directors, enabling the management an executive officer Reporting supervisory function of the directors to Executive Officer be separated from the business Nominating Committee execution function of the executive Executive Officer officers. Chaired by Furthermore, a director who is outside directors Audit Committee Executive Officer not an executive officer serves as chair of the Board of Directors, and the Compensation Committee three committees are all chaired by outside directors, thereby enhancing the management supervisory function. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 6 Konica Minolta’s CSR Basic Approach Konica Minolta aims to establish itself as an innovative, commitment to acting in compliance with international social constantly evolving company that is vital to society by putting norms such as the United Nations Global Compact, in which into practice its management philosophy, “The Creation of the company participates, and the Universal Declaration of New Value.” This is why the Group strives to contribute to the Human Rights. resolution of societal challenges by creating value that improves the quality of our world through its business endeavors. Konica Minolta’s CSR activities are guided by this The Global Compact’s Ten Principles management philosophy and vision, and they are based on Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of its Charter of Corporate Behavior. The Konica Minolta Group Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Guidance for the Charter of abuses. Corporate Behavior is Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; shared globally and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory illustrates desirable Labour labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and behavior in each of the Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment categories included in the and occupation. Charter of Corporate Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Behavior as a basis for Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment responsibility; and understanding and putting Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of the Charter into practice. environmentally friendly technologies. The Group Guidance Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, articulates Konica Minolta’s including extortion and bribery. Management Philosophy The Creation of New Value Konica Minolta Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Corporations, in addition to being economic entitles engaged in the pursuit of profit through fair competition, should be beneficial to society at large. For this reason, the Konica Minolta Group shall behave in a socially responsible manner and shall have all of its directors, officers and employees clearly acknowledge the spirit of this Charter of Corporate Behavior. Senior management shall recognize that the fulfillment of the spirit of this Charter is its own role and responsibility and shall take the initiative to ensure that all directors, officers and employees fully understand the Charter. In addition, management shall constantly pay attention to the opinions of internal and external parties and shall promote the implementation of effective systems to secure ethical corporate behavior. 1. Beneficial and safe products 5. Contribution to society We shall strive to earn the confidence of consumers and clients We shall, with a global perspective, affirmatively make contributions to through the development and provision of socially beneficial products society while respecting local customs and cultures. and services with the utmost consideration for safety. 6. Respect for employees 2. Fair and transparent corporate activities We shall endeavor to make the lives of employees comfortable and We shall, in the pursuit of fair and transparent corporate activities, fulfilling, provide a safe work environment, and respect each employee’s comply with laws and social regulations and act in accordance with personality and individuality. international rules and the articles of incorporation. 7. Responsible actions 3. Communications with society and information disclosure In the event of a violation of the principles of this Charter, in order to We shall communicate with society at large and disclose corporate solve the problem senior management shall investigate the cause of the information fairly and adequately. violation and develop reforms to prevent its recurrence in accordance 4. Environmental protection with corporate compliance procedures. Prompt public disclosure of precise information and an explanation regarding the violation shall be We shall acknowledge the seriousness of global environmental issues made and responsibility for the violation shall be clarified. Strict and fair and shall act voluntarily and affirmatively to protect the environment. disciplinary action shall be taken including with respect to senior management where necessary. 7 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 CSR Management System At Konica Minolta, the executive officer responsible for CSR, meets in a timely fashion to deliberate, keeping CSR at the who is appointed by the Board of Directors, carries the forefront of management decisions. duties and authorities concerning the entire Group’s CSR. Regarding environmental management, safety and Directly reporting to him or her is the CSR, Corporate quality control, the Corporate Social Responsibility Division Communications and Branding Division, which sees to the reports to the executive officer responsible for these issues. implementation of CSR management for the entire Group. The division organizes committees and meetings composed The manager of the CSR, Corporate Communication and of managers responsible for each of these three areas, and Branding Division reports the progress of CSR activities to drafts policies, constructs systems, and manages progress the executive officer responsible for CSR, while also on a Group-wide basis. reviewing measures and making proposals. Regarding matters of great importance, the Management Council Board of Directors Appointment Reporting Appointment Reporting Executive Officers Executive Officer in charge of CSR Decision-making on CSR strategy, Decision-making on each division’s strategy, commitment to goal achievement Coordination commitment to goal achievement Communication of policy Reporting Communication of policy Reporting Corporate planning and management divisions CSR, Corporate Communications and Branding Division Goal setting and progress management Coordination Monitors each division’s goal setting and progress Daily dialogue Stakeholders Employees Customers Shareholders/investors Business partners Local and global communities Disclosure of CSR information Characteristics of Stakeholders Tools and Opportunities for Communication • Providing customer service via websites and call centers Konica Minolta does business around the world. Major customers of Konica • Providing product information via websites and newsletters Customers Minolta’s main business operations are corporations, government agencies, and • Conducting customer satisfaction surveys P31 • Exchanging information via visits to customers hospitals. • Exchanging information at showrooms and trade shows • Holding seminars Konica Minolta procures raw materials, parts and components from different • Holding suppliers’ meetings Business Partners companies depending on the type of business. The majority of these suppliers are • Procurement Collaboration System P35 located in Japan, China, and elsewhere in Asia. • Conducting CSR surveys (self-assessment questionnaires) Shareholders Since Konica Minolta has relatively high ownership by institutional and foreign • Shareholders’ meetings • Briefings for investors and Investors shareholders, the company is expected to take part in IR initiatives proactively on • Visits to investors • Briefings for business analysts and institutional investors a worldwide basis. • Annual reports • IR website Website Konica Minolta employs 41,598 people worldwide. Of those, 29% are in Japan, • Interactive intranet • Group journal • Employee attitude surveys Employees 22% are in Europe, 19% are in North America, and 30% are in China and • Dialogue with labor unions • Offering internal help line systems • Exchanging opinions during inspection tours of production sites by senior P39 elsewhere in Asia, and others (Figures are based on total regular employees of staff consolidated companies, as of March 31, 2015). • Holding town meetings attended by senior staff • Activities that contribute to local communities Local and Global Konica Minolta operates in countries across the globe, and acts as a responsible • Community briefings and invitational events Communities • Sending speakers to lectures and places of education member of every community where it operates. • Industry group activities • Environmental reports and websites P43 • Public relations activities through publishing international publications and websites As a manufacturer, Konica Minolta engages in various operations that impact the Global environment. For instance, it generates CO2 emissions, which contribute to • CSR reports, environmental reports, and websites Environment climate change because of the use of materials derived from petroleum, which is • Community briefings and explanatory meetings • Collaboration with research institutions P21 a dwindling natural resource, and this affects ecosystems in various ways. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 8 Konica Minolta’s CSR Identify Material CSR Themes and Setting Goals At Konica Minolta, Inc., the CSR, Corporate Communications of ways. In addition, it considers international guidelines & Branding Division coordinates with the corporate planning related to CSR, including the UN Global Compact and ISO and management divisions within the Group to identify 26000. Further, it summarizes and organizes risks and material themes and set goals for CSR activities and monitor opportunities considered when formulating business plans in their progress and outcomes. each business field. Based on the results, the Group selects By identifying material themes and setting priority goals the issues that are most material to society and that have a for CSR activities, Konica Minolta aims to address issues great impact on business and identifies them as material that are most important to stakeholders by analyzing themes and sets priority goals. feedback obtained by communicating with them in a variety Flow for Identifying Material CSR Themes and Setting Goals Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Ascertain societal demands Summarize and organize Identify material themes risks and opportunities and set goals Ascertain the issues that are most Summarize and organize risks and Identify the issues that are most important to stakeholders opportunities considered during the material to society and have a great Consider international guidelines establishment of business plans for impact on the Group’s business and related to CSR (i.e. Global each division establish priority goals Compact, ISO 26000) Konica Minolta’s Inclusion in Socially Responsible Investment Indexes Konica Minolta has been included in several international RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook’s Gold Class rating socially responsible investment (SRI) indexes. The company (its highest CSR rating), the Prime rating for CSR by has been included in the World category (three years oekom research AG, Forum Ethibel’s Ethibel Pioneer and straight) and Asia Pacific category (six years straight) of the Ethibel Excellence investment universes. Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) issued by Additionally, Konica Minolta was included in the U.S.-based Dow Jones and Swiss-based RobecoSAM. Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) 2014 and The company has also been included in the FTSE4Good the Japan 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) Global Index for 12 straight years as well as the of CDP, an international NGO attempting to create a Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index sustainable economy. Konica Minolta was the only (MS-SRI). Japanese company to be included in both the CPLI and Konica Minolta has received high marks from various CDLI in the information technology sector this year. other SRI research institutes, such as inclusion in the (As of March 31, 2015). 9 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 Konica Minolta’s Material CSR Themes Material CSR Themes Boundary GRI G4* Aspects Higher Assuring product safety and preventing quality-related problems Group Customer Health and Safety Social Importance Increasing customer satisfaction Group Suppliers Supplier Labor Practices / Human Promoting CSR throughout the supply chain Rights / Impact on Society Higher Enhancing communication with shareholders Effect on Business and investors Group Leveraging and developing diverse human resources Group Training and Education Fostering a culture committed to “Health-First” Group Occupational Health and Safety Promoting occupational health and safety Group Occupational Health and Safety Implementing social contribution activities Group Local Communities around the world Green products Customers Materials Group Energy Green factories Suppliers Emissions to Air Products and Services Group Transport Green marketing Customers * G4: The 4th edition of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 10 Konica Minolta’s CSR Targets and Results Stakeholders Material Theme Fiscal 2014 Targets Customers Assuring product safety 1. Number of serious product-related accidents*1: 0 and preventing 2. Improve the quality of products, sales and service throughout the product lifecycle*2 P31 quality-related problems Increasing customer satisfaction Promoting CSR • Audit Konica Minolta group production sites and suppliers Business Partners • Support suppliers in achieving independent initiatives P35 throughout the supply • Clarify incentives for suppliers chain • Establish and promote a conflict minerals compliance policy • Expand scope of initiatives • Actively disseminate information and encourage understanding of TRANSFORM 2016, the new medium-term Shareholders Enhancing communication management plan (both institutional and individual investors) and Investors with shareholders and Web investors • Expand effective contents and practice PR to encourage individual investors to purchase Konica Minolta stock • Feed individual investors’ opinions back and disseminate information that helps make Konica Minolta a more attractive investment choice • Promote globally shared HR policies based on a platform for human resources development and deployment Employees Leveraging and developing • Instill the KM philosophy and promote the development of a system for carrying out worldwide human resources P39 diverse human resources development and deployment Fostering a culture 1. Establish Health KM2016 medium-term health plan and start rolling it out • Establish goals for level of health and work toward them following a three-year plan committed to “Health-First” • Minimize the number of employees with health risks • Increase health awareness through visualization of employees’ levels of health Promoting occupational 1. Number of serious accidents*4: 0 2. Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work: 0.1 or less health and safety • Enhance cultivation of a culture of safety: involvement of senior management in safety, safety management in the workplace, and raising the safety awareness of individuals • Improve global health and safety management • Enhance intrinsic safety of equipment (risk reduction) Local and Global Implementing social Communities contribution activities P.44 Typical examples of social contribution activities in fiscal 2014 P43 around the world Global Green products Environment P21 Green factories P.23 Green marketing *1 Serious product-related accidents: Accidents in which products put the lives of product users at risk or cause serious bodily injury and those in which property other than the products is damaged seriously *2 Product lifecycle: All processes from product planning through procurement and production to sales and service 11 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 Fiscal 2014 Results Fiscal 2015 Targets 1. Number of accidents: 0 1. Number of serious product-related accidents*1: 0 2. Improve the quality of products, sales and service throughout the product lifecycle*2 2. Improve quality throughout the product lifecycle*2 • Conducted risk assessment training with the aim of ensuring product safety • In the Business Technologies Business, measured the global NPS Score*3 and implemented measures with development, production, and sales working together based on customer feedback • In the Healthcare Business, increased the rate of issues resolved by the Call Center from 60% when it was opened to 80% • Conducted EICC audits on Konica Minolta group production sites • Request suppliers to practice CSR • Considered support programs for suppliers • Conduct CSR assessments and audits • Considered incentive programs for suppliers • Clarify support programs for suppliers • Clarify incentive programs for suppliers • Established and published a Konica Minolta Conflict Minerals Policy Statement • Proper information disclosure • Expanded scope of conflict minerals voluntary survey in the Business Technologies Business and • Further improve the response rate and response accuracy for conflict improved the response rate and response accuracy minerals surveys • Held a Management Policy Briefing in April and a Medium Term Business Plan Briefing in May for • Continue disseminating information to encourage understanding of the analysts and institutional investors with top management directly explaining basic policies and growth Medium Term Business Plan strategies • Held company information sessions for individual investors in Tokyo in December and in Osaka in February 2015 with top management directly explaining the Group’s business and growth strategies to a total of about 700 individual investors • Held two company information sessions for analysts and institutional investors (in September and October) to explain the growth strategy for the Business Technologies Business • Updated the IR website • Maintain high external evaluations of the IR website and improve its • Won gold prize for the second year in a row in the Gomez IR website ranking usability for visitors • Won highest award (first place overall) for Internet excellence from Daiwa IR • Continue to hold briefings and events for individual investors • Selected as best site for the second year in a row in the Nikko IR Evaluation • Participated in an event for individual investors in Osaka in February 2015, directly explaining the Group’s business and growth strategies through a company information session and booth presentation • Held a company information session at a securities company’s branch office in March 2015 • Held a small meeting with analysts in December, and held meetings with institutional investors in and outside Japan at opportune times to maintain two-way communication with top management • Conducted questionnaires at each information session and shared the results internally, including with top management, as a reference for future IR activities • Created common evaluation standards for global senior personnel • Conduct a global employee attitude survey • Revised the evaluation system for managers at Konica Minolta, Inc. and adopted our 6 Values as part of • Run programs for systematically developing senior personnel in Asia the evaluation axis • Continue implementing the town hall-style meetings between • Held town hall-style meetings between employees and the president at different sites employees and the president 1. Established the Health KM2016 medium-term health plan and started rolling it out 1. Continue implementing the Health KM2016 medium-term health plan • Expanded efforts at Group-affiliated companies in Japan to encourage employees with potential health • Enhance and strengthen support for Group-affiliated companies in problems to consult a doctor Japan • Implemented workplace improvement measures based on results of an organizational analysis of stress • Reduce the number of high-stress workplaces by strengthening checks workplace improvement measures • Started operating KENPOS, a health encouragement website to support better health among employees • Increase the continuous usage rate of KENPOS • Held walking events and exercise workshops aimed at establishment of exercise and walking habits among employees 2. Selected as a Health and Productivity Management Brand in March 2015 1. Number of serious accidents*4: 0 1. Number of serious accidents*4: 0 2. Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work: In Japan: 0.28, Outside Japan: 0.19 2. Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work: 0.1 or less • Enhanced cultivation of a culture of safety: Conducted safety training for managers, training to increase • Enhance cultivation of a culture of safety: involvement of senior sensitivity to dangers, and training to increase the level of personnel with qualifications for dangerous management in safety, safety management in the workplace, and work raising the safety awareness of individuals • Global health and safety management: Held meeting of personnel responsible for health and safety in • Improve global health and safety management China, and training to experience simulated dangers • Enhance intrinsic safety of equipment and conduct comprehensive risk • Intrinsic safety of equipment: Conducted comprehensive risk assessments of new processes assessments in different safety fields *3 NPS (Net Promoter Score): An indicator that measures the percentage of customers who recommend the company and its products and services to others *4 Serious accidents: 1. Death, diseases that require or may require long-term care, injuries that cause or may cause disabilities, and specific communicable diseases 2. Accidents that cause three or more employees at one time to suffer on-the-job death, injuries or diseases (including accidents that do not cause absence from work) KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 12 Special Feature 1 Sharing Environmental Management Technology and Know-how with Customers, Suppliers, and Society Environmental challenges such as global warming and depleting natural resources can’t be resolved by the efforts of one single company. Konica Minolta is working towards a sustainable future by sharing the diverse environmental technology and know-how it has cultivated over many years with customers and suppliers, and working with them to reduce environmental impact. Sharing GreenInnovation 13 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 Going beyond the bounds of a single company, we will work hand-in-hand with customers and Key suppliers to solve environmental challenges approach Takenori Takahashi Senior Manager, Environmental Management Department, Corporate Social Responsibility Division Konica Minolta’s management philosophy is “The Creation and working together with all stakeholders in the entire of New Value,” and its vision is to establish itself as a supply chain, from parts suppliers to customers to whom global company that is vital to society, innovative, robust we provide products, can achieve a bigger environmental and constantly evolving. Based on this approach, we contribution. That is why Konica Minolta has started an redirected the goals of our Medium-Term Environmental initiative to share with its customers and suppliers the Plan 2016. We originally aimed to just reduce environmental technology and know-how it has cultivated environmental impact but we improved upon these goals and promote suppliers’ environmental management to create value for both society and the company. In other efforts. This is an initiative that encompasses an even words, we focused on the question, “What kind of broader scope of CO2 emissions reduction than Scope 3, environmental activities will make the greatest contribution which looks at CO2 emissions throughout the supply to society through our growth as a company?” We chain. We believe that the contribution to the global considered in concrete terms what it means to increase environment will increase through activities that go beyond business and environmental value and established the boundaries of a single company. measurable actions in order to gain the maximum effect I believe that one reason Konica Minolta received for business and society out of our proprietary technology high evaluations on the Corporate Environmental and know-how. Then we formulated the environmental Management Survey conducted by Nikkei Inc. and the plan in tandem with our business plan so that the survey of the global not-for-profit organization, CDP, is provision of products and services that contribute to the that Konica Minolta’s commitment to spreading the resolution of environmental challenges, as well as the company’s environmental technology and know-how processes toward that end, will translate into throughout society won widespread recognition. From corporate growth. here on, we will continue working with stakeholders to There is a limit to how much we can do within the create a sustainable society on a global basis. company to reduce environmental impact. Sharing value Initiatives Conducted with Customers and Suppliers to Reduce Environmental Impact Suppliers Konica Minolta Customers Green Products Environmental Environmental impact Provision of environmental Provision of environmental impact reduction technology and know-how technology and know-how reduction Environmental impact reduction Green Green Factories Marketing Three Green Activities KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 14 Special Feature 1 Sharing Green Innovation Action Starting the Green Suppliers Initiative 1 to Help Suppliers Reduce Environmental Impact Background and Aim of the Initiative Cooperation with raw materials and parts suppliers, and responsible procurement initiatives within the company, are essential to increase the value of the company’s products and services. Based on this philosophy, Konica Minolta has traditionally conducted collaborative procurement activities to share and support the resolution of environmental challenges through dialogue with suppliers and visits to their sites. In fiscal 2014, we started the Green Suppliers Initiative to provide suppliers with the environmental technology and know-how the company has cultivated to help them reduce their environmental impact. Initiatives in Fiscal 2014 with suppliers to help them develop environmental plans In fiscal 2014, the first year of the Green Suppliers from a mediumto long-term viewpoint. Initiative, we started to work with suppliers who agree with The aim of these activities is not to compel energy the aim of the program. saving and resource conservation initiatives on suppliers, One example involves Toyo Communication but rather to encourage them to voluntarily take such Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. in Shenzhen, China. initiatives by visualizing the reduction effects they will Experts with a great deal of experience from Konica bring. Going forward, we will share the significance and Minolta’s environmental management operations visited principles of engaging in environmental management, in the company’s production site, performed an energy addition to offering technology and know-how, thereby conservation assessment and held consultations. They creating environmental value through the collaboration of conducted a detailed investigation, including the Konica Minolta and its suppliers. assessment of electricity usage at the site. Based on the results of the analysis, they suggested staged improvements ranging from immediately effective Voice Supplier Feedback measures such as turning off unnecessary fans to measures requiring investment, such as improving It was an opportunity to improve our approach to environmental management, equipment insulation and installing inverters on cooling not just technology and know-how. water pumps for air conditioning. Predicted reduction effects are presented at the same time, making it easy to I think the biggest feature of the Green Supplier Initiative is the way in which Konica Minolta is committed to coming consider the order of priority for initiatives and helping to into suppliers’ sites and working with them to make increase the supplier’s motivation. Furthermore, we work improvements. Indeed, the people who visited our factory did not just bring the methods cultivated in Japan as-is; rather, they thought together with us about what kinds of measures we need. This method improved the motivation of our employees, and an attitude of thinking on one’s own and devising improvements started to spread throughout the company. Going forward, we are determined to keep cooperating with Lou Yiliang Konica Minolta to form and implement Chairman and Managing Director environmental plans and measures, Toyo Communication and foster a system and culture that Technology Helping suppliers implement environmental measures in the factory values environmental management. (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 15 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 Action Introducing Environmental Management Approaches and Case Studies to Help Customers Solve 2 Their Environmental Challenges Background and Aim of the Initiative Konica Minolta has aimed to share challenges through close communication in order to provide optimal solutions to each customer. By extending this initiative to the environment and introducing Konica Minolta’s approach to environmental management and effective case studies, we are supporting customers’ environmental management efforts. Through this initiative, we deepen our relationships with customers while making the environmental technology and know-how Konica Minolta has cultivated useful for reducing environmental impact throughout society. We provide this service regardless of whether a customer has installed Konica Minolta products or not. Initiatives in Fiscal 2014 Through our consultation booth and seminars, we were In fiscal 2014, the first year of this initiative, we conducted able to introduce our environmental management program efforts to promote the initiative. For instance, we had an to individuals from nearly 300 companies. This led to environmental management consultation booth at the individual consultations with many of these companies, Eco-Products Fair, the largest environmental exhibition in aimed at sharing and resolving challenges. In particular, Japan, and the bizhub Fair 2014 run by our Business we held discussions that included the introduction of case Technologies Business, to explain Konica Minolta’s approach studies with topics such as the approach to environmental to environmental management and specific measures. management, the identification of important environmental In addition, we held Executive Seminars in different issues, energy conservation know-how, and the locations for company managers. At the seminars, we management of chemical substances. explained Konica Minolta’s environmental management In the future, we will continue to enhance our own and implemented examples. We also distributed environmental management while deepening questionnaires about customers’ challenges and needs in communication with customers. an effort to ascertain topics of high concern to them. Promoting Konica Minolta’s environmental management Giving a lecture at an environmental management seminar organized at an environmental exhibition by Osaka ATC Green EcoPlaza KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 16 Special Feature 2 Facing Customer Problems to Create Satisfaction and Happiness “Customer-centric” is one of the six core values that express Konica Minolta’s strengths and heritage. It refers to the customer-oriented attitude that each and every employee aims to practice each day. Committed to this attitude, Konica Minolta is determined to establish honest, long-term relationships and to Customer-centric keep evolving with our customers. Innovation Establish solid relationships with customers to encourage mutual growth Key through co-creation approach Masafumi Uchida General Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility Division The customer relationship doesn’t end after Konica started conducting NPS surveys (see page 34) on a global Minolta sells products such as office equipment and basis. The results and details of NPS surveys, best medical devices—regular after-sales service is essential. practices, and other information are discussed at a Global Utilizing this business feature and its global direct sales CR Conference (see page 34) attended by customer system, Konica Minolta has established solid relationships relationship managers from sales companies in Japan, the of trust by seeking ongoing, long-term communication U.S., Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region, and then they with customers. are shared with executives and the Group at large. The Today, as customers’ needs become more diverse development, production, and marketing departments and sophisticated, and as competition becomes fiercer on then work in an integrated manner to resolve the issues a global scale, it is important to foster strong relationships identified, translating the results into support for the with customers and become an entity that is optimization of customers’ workflow and continual indispensable. That is why at Konica Minolta we look not improvement of customer relationship management. only to our immediate customers, but also to our The Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers customers’ customers, and we work with them to recognized these customer-centric initiatives, presenting co-create new value in pursuit of business success and Konica Minolta with the top position in its fiscal 2014 the creation of customer satisfaction and happiness. Quality Management Level Research. Going forward, we For example, in order to improve customer will continue pursuing the creation of stronger relationship (CR) management, the Business Technologies relationships with customers by carrying out initiatives Business has set up a Customer Relations Department aimed at improving customer relationship management on within the Marketing Headquarters. The department plans a global basis through cooperation among development, measures designed to improve customer relationship production, and marketing. management, and it adopted the Net Promoter Score * Net Promoter Score (NPS): An indicator that measures the likelihood of recommending a company, (NPS*) as a metric for that purpose. In fiscal 2013, it product, or service to others. Concept of Konica Minolta’s Solutions Creating New Value with a View to Customers’ Customers Provision of solutions Konica Minolta that look beyond the Customers Customers’ Customers immediate customer Production Creation of Development of Success of customer satisfaction products and services Co-creation of customers’ businesses and happiness through development-production new value -marketing cooperation Marketing Development Feedback KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 18 Special Feature 2 Customer-centric Innovation Case Creating a More Open Environment 1 for Community Physicians and Patients —Supporting the Coordination of Community Healthcare in Konica Minolta’s Healthcare Business As the shortage of community physicians in Japan grows, saving lives. For example, when the system is used to the establishment of a community-wide system of send patients’ diagnostic imaging data from clinics to a accessible primary care and general hospitals with general hospital, it provides instructions for the transfer to specialists and advanced equipment has become an the hospital under the diagnosis of a specialist. Moreover, important issue for the community. the system’s resilience to disasters was validated when it The Ryoban community of Iwate Prefecture was was quickly restored during the Great East Japan considering the establishment of a healthcare information Earthquake in March 2011. As positive reviews of the network that can share diagnostic data such as clinical system spread, participation in the network increased to records and X-ray images, with the aim of creating a new more than 20 institutions as of the end of fiscal 2014. kind of community healthcare. To aid in achieving this goal, they decided to adopt Konica Minolta’s Informity Collaboration Box Service. The deciding factors were this service’s ease of use and security, where any kind of terminal device can connect to the service over the Internet and data can be shared securely without fear of information leaks. Users rate the service highly, praising the fact that even small clinics can adopt it, since it is inexpensive compared to a dedicated line. In 2010, a community healthcare network took shape with the participation of approximately 10 medical institutions. The network is contributing to the Dr. Shin Nakamura, Deputy Director of the Iwate Prefectural Iwai Hospital, improvement of community healthcare and is literally who promoted the establishment of the healthcare information network Case Supporting Next-generation Marketing Activities 2 —Marketing Print Management Services in the Business Technologies Business In recent years, corporations have been adopting Print Management (MPM) service. Designed to optimize cross-media strategies in their marketing activities, quality, delivery times, and costs, this service centrally incorporating websites, social networking services, and manages design and production of the vast amounts of other new techniques in addition to their printed materials. printed advertising materials produced by corporations. In Against this backdrop, a major European automobile providing this service, Charterhouse PM Limited, a Konica manufacturer expressed a desire to limit expenses Minolta subsidiary in the United Kingdom, sent a team of associated with printed materials to invest in new media over ten people to the client’s office to handle all of the strategies and adopt multiple kinds of media in pursuit of a work involved in designing and producing printed materials consistent brand image. such as product catalogs in order to promote sales. In response to these needs for next-generation Before this, the client had designed and produced advertising, Konica Minolta proposed using their Marketing large volumes of printed promotional materials separately according to the needs of each company division or product. By managing all of these materials together, Charterhouse PM cut costs and improved productivity, allowing it to enhance the quality of printed materials and ensure a consistent brand image. In recognition of its positive contributions to the client’s marketing activities, Charterhouse PM has adapted its service offering to provide both online marketing solutions and offline marketing materials, furthering its business partnership Personnel from Charterhouse PM handle the production of advertising with the client. materials at the client’s office 19 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 External Evaluations of Environmental and Quality Management Konica Minolta Ranked First Place on the Nikkei Environmental Management Survey Konica Minolta was ranked first place in the overall Konica Minolta believes that its use of manufacturing sector on the 18th Environmental proprietary materials technology to recycle used PET Management Survey announced in January 2015. bottles and gallon bottles and its industry-leading On this survey, Konica Minolta received high points technology for adopting the recycled plastic in the in all five areas of assessment, especially systems outer cases of MFPs led to the high evaluation. promoting environmental management and Konica Minolta’s Score Chart product measures. The company believes that its policy and actions regarding environmental management that 1. Systems for promoting environmental management 99 pts 2. Pollution control measures and biodiversity preservation measures unify environmental impact reduction and corporate value enhancement, as well as its efforts to 97pts 98pts 5. Global warming contribute to the reduction of environmental impact countermeasures throughout society by providing its own 4. Product measures 3. Resource recycling environmental technology and know-how to customers and suppliers, caught the attention 98pts 97pts of the judges. What is the Environmental Management Survey? This survey, conducted by Nikkei Inc., analyzes and assesses companies’ environmental management in five areas: systems for promoting environmental management, pollution control measures and biodiversity preservation measures, resource recycling, environmental measures for products, and global warming countermeasures. This time, the survey questionnaire was sent to 1,729 manufacturers. Konica Minolta was ranked first place overall out of the 419 companies that responded. Konica Minolta Ranked First Place on the JUSE Quality Management Level Research Konica Minolta was ranked first place overall on the 8th Quality Management Level Research announced in October 2014. It earned the top position in two out of six assessment areas: customer orientation and system utilization and deployment capability. It also received top-three assessments in the training of human resources who carry out quality management and in the management of reliability, safety, and trust. The company believes that the results reflect recognition of the way Konica Minolta has globally developed a system for quality improvement Award ceremony through development-production-marketing cooperation and pursued customer value with a customer-oriented focus. What is the JUSE Quality Management Level Research? This survey, started jointly by the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers (JUSE) and Nikkei Inc. in 2004, assesses the systems and practice of quality management in six areas: top management commitment; training of human resources who carry out quality management; management of reliability, safety, and trust; establishment and adherence to processes; customer orientation; and system utilization and deployment capability. This time, the 8th survey was conducted on 602 prominent manufacturers, construction companies, and software companies in Japan. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 20 Exercising Responsibility for the Global Environment In order to grow sustainably into the future, a company must not only create economic value— it must also address environmental challenges, an important social issue. Under the management philosophy, “The Creation of New Value,” Konica Minolta aims to reduce environmental impact in all business processes, from product development to procurement, production, distribution, sales and service, collection, and recycling. Environmental management is the foundation of Konica Minolta’s growth strategy because through it, the company creates new value from social and economic standpoints, achieving both reduction of environmental impact and growth as a company. Our determination to achieve these goals is expressed in Eco Vision 2050, our set of long-term goals that look forward to the year 2050. Concept of the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016 Eco Vision 2050 1. Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the Twin Objectives: Resolving Environmental Challenges product lifecycle by 80% by 2050, and Corporate Growth compared to fiscal 2005 levels Companies exist because they provide value to society and 2. Promote recycling and effective use of Earth’s limited resources obtain profit as compensation for that value. Their growth 3. Work to promote restoration and can be sustained by fulfilling social responsibility to the broad preservation of biodiversity range of stakeholders concerned with their business. This is also true regarding environmental sustainability. Konica Vision for Reducing CO2 Emissions Minolta coupled its environmental plan with its business plan (%) 100 in order to provide products and services that help solve environmental challenges and achieve corporate growth in 80 Products the process. Procurement Increase environmental value CO2 emissions 60 Vision Preventing global warming A company that creates value for both Manufacturing Supporting a recycling-oriented society society and itself by integrating efforts to Reducing chemical substance risks resolve societal challenges and improve 40 Collection, distribution, Restoring and preserving biodiversity corporate competitiveness and profits sales and services Reduction by 40% 80% Reduction of 20 Reduction by Fiscal 2016 from fiscal 2005 levels by 2016 from fiscal 2005 levels Goals set for both reduction of by 2050 environmental impact and corporate growth environmental impact 0 2005 2016 2050 FY2013 Increase corporate value Net sales Cost reductions Corporate growth Risk avoidance Branding About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environmental Management at Konica Minolta 21 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 For the Global Environment Creating Value and Growing Together with Stakeholders There is a limit to how much Konica Minolta can do by itself products—it is possible to make a bigger contribution to to solve environmental challenges on a global scale. environmental sustainability. In line with this idea, Konica However, by sharing a commitment to the global Minolta’s environmental plan suggests that the Group and environment and collaborating with all stakeholders across stakeholders work side-by-side to create value and the supply chain—from the suppliers from whom the Group grow together. procures parts to the customers to whom it provides Co-creation of Value with Stakeholders Earning the Confidence of Customers Providing environmental value Disclosing non-financial through products and services that information appropriately and Shareholders make use of Konica Minolta’s Customers facilitating understanding of the environmental technology and and investors corporate value gained through know-how advanced environmental initiatives Leveraging Konica Minolta’s Engaging with the international environmental technology and community to fulfill corporate social International Business know-how in pursuit of the mutual Konica Minolta reduction of environmental impact and responsibility community partners increased corporate competitiveness through cooperation with suppliers Cooperating with Business Partners Promoting further implementation and evolution Leveraging Konica Minolta’s of environmental activities by ensuring environmental technology and Local employees worldwide feel that they are creating communities Employees know-how to help solve local social value in addition to business value challenges through their work and approach their work as worthwhile Establishing Material Environmental Issues and Goals Closely Linked with Business The Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016 addresses both validity of material issues and plans as well as the the opportunities and risks related to Konica Minolta’s effectiveness of progress monitoring. Growing Together with Our Employees impact on the environment. The Plan identifies material In this way, the entire organization from executive issues by considering both environmental and management down makes a commitment, and highly business priorities. effective environmental management is achieved by bringing In the process of establishing material issues, Konica business enhancement goals such as improvement of Minolta gathers data and conducts an annual review using product appeal, earnings from sales and services, and cost an objective assessment method. This method ensures the reduction in line with environmental goals. Materiality (Opportunities) Materiality (Risk) Tightening of chemical Meeting customers’ Practicing substance regulations environmental requests environmentally (products, production) friendly business Energy/climate Resolution of environmental issues by suppliers Depletion of resources change problems (water resources) Depletion of resources Addressing energy/climate change problems (petroleum-based Ecosystem destruction resources) Materiality for stakeholders Materiality for stakeholders Contributing to Society Environment-focused branding Addressing resource depletion (forests) (petroleum resources) Environmental requests from Resolution of environmental issues in communities Air pollution Product recycling customers (products) Product recycling Water pollution Restoring and Resolution of environmental Environment protection Soil pollution preserving biodiversity issues by employees around plants Depletion of resources (rare metals) Lagging behind in Management of environmentally friendly waste laws compliance business practices Non-financial information disclosure Lagging behind in government and other procurement standards Materiality for business Materiality for business KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 22 Exercising Responsibility for the Global Environment Considering the Entire Supply Chain and Lifecycle CO2 Emissions Reduction Goal Product Lifecycle (thousand tons) 2,027 Eco Vision 2050 commits Konica Minolta to reducing its Procurement environmental impact in all business processes, from stage 352 40% reduction 80% product development to procurement, production, Production 387 reduction distribution, sales and service, collection, and recycling. Distribution 58 1,388 172 thousand tons To that end, the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016 Sales and 1,216 reduction lays out Three Green Activities—Green Products (planning service 93 and development), Green Factories (procurement and production), and Green Marketing (distribution, sales and Product use 1,137 service, and collection and recycling)—as globally material 405 themes at each stage of business. Therefore, this environmental plan takes the entire supply chain and product Estimated emissions lifecycle into account. Actual when measures are not implemented Goal Vision 2005 2016 2050 Note: Lifecycle CO2 emissions reduction goal covers CO2 emissions from the procurement stage as of fiscal 2014. Goals of the Medium-Term Environment Plan 2016 and Fiscal 2014 Targets and Results Goals of the Medium-Term Environment Plan 2016 Material issues Business value Environmental value (1) Creating and providing the Sales Preventing global warming green products demanded by Sales of Green Products: CO2 reduction during product use: 59 thousand tons customers and society 640 billion yen CO2 reduction at procurement stage: 105 thousand tons (Share of sales: 58%) Supporting a recycling-oriented society Material Cost reductions Resources used effectively: 33 thousand tons 1 Theme Reduce cost of product Reducing chemical substance risks materials Control emissions (2) Conforming with government Sales Environment overall procurement standards and Eliminate lost sales Reduce environmental impact by conforming with standards and label requirements environmental label requirements opportunities Green Products (planning and development) (3) Dependably complying with Risk avoidance Reducing chemical substance risks product-related laws and Eliminate effect on sales Reduce hazardous chemical substance risk by conforming to laws and regulations regulations (1) Green Factory operations Cost reductions Preventing global warming that translate into cost Reduce costs of energy and CO2 reduction during production: 9.2 thousand tons competitiveness materials (reduce loss) Supporting a recycling-oriented society Resources used effectively: 4 hundred tons Restoring and preserving biodiversity Sustainable use of water resources Material 2 Theme (2) Upgraded recycling that Cost reductions Preventing global warming resolves community Reduce cost of materials CO2 reduction at procurement stage (target established in 2015 Q1) environmental challenges Supporting a recycling-oriented society Resources used effectively (target established in 2015 Q1) Green Factories (3) Cooperation with suppliers that translates into cost Cost reductions Reduce costs of energy and Preventing global warming CO2 reduction at suppliers (established in agreement with each target supplier) (procurement and production) competitiveness materials (reduce loss) Supporting a recycling-oriented society Effective use of resources (established in agreement with each target supplier) (4) Dependably complying with Risk avoidance Environment overall production-related laws and Eliminate effect on production Reduce environmental impact by conforming with laws and regulations regulations (1) Resolving customers’ Net sales Environment overall environmental challenges Acquire sales opportunities Reduce environmental impact on customer side Material 3 Theme (2) Supply chain optimization Cost reductions Preventing global warming and linked environmental Reduce cost of distribution CO2 reduction during distribution: (target established in 2015 Q2) initiatives and packaging Supporting a recycling-oriented society Resources used effectively: (target established in 2015 Q2) Green Marketing (3) 3R initiatives for products Risk avoidance Supporting a recycling-oriented society (distribution, sales and service, Reinforce 3R initiatives Use resources effectively through product 3R initiatives and collection and recycling) Note: The targets for fiscal 2016 have been changed partially based on the forecast of a 40% reduction in lifecycle CO2, which is a binding target. 23 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environmental Management at Konica Minolta For the Global Environment Priority Goals for Fiscal 2016 1. Preventing global warming Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the product life cycle by 40% compared to fiscal 2005 levels: Environmental Value 2,027 thousand tons (2005) --> 1,216 thousand tons (2016) CO2 reduction: 172 thousand tons Milestones to achieve 2. Supporting a recycling-oriented society Resources used effectively: 33 thousand tons Eco Vision 2050 3. Reducing chemical substance risks Complying with product-related environmental regulations and controlling emissions 4. Preserving biodiversity Consideration of water resources Creating new value both for society and for corporate growth 1. Sales contribution Sales of Green Products: 640 billion yen (58% of total sales) Earning the Confidence of Customers Eliminating lost sales opportunities in environmental requests from customers Creation of sales opportunities based on environmental approaches Business Value 2. Cost reductions Cost reductions from environment-related activities (products, procurement, production, distribution) 3. Risk avoidance Eliminating adverse effects on sales and production due to inadequate compliance with productand production-related environmental regulations 4. Branding Continual inclusion in leading SRI indexes Fiscal 2014 targets Fiscal 2014 results Business value Environmental value Business value Environmental value Sales Preventing global warming Sales Preventing global warming Sales of Green Products: CO2 reduction during product use: 50 thousand tons Sales of Green Products: 547.1 billion yen CO2 reduction during product use: 43 thousand tons 540 billion yen CO2 reduction at procurement stage: 70 thousand tons (Share of sales: 54%) CO2 reduction at procurement stage: 76 thousand tons (Share of sales: 54%) Supporting a recycling-oriented society Cost reductions Supporting a recycling-oriented society Cooperating with Business Partners Cost reductions Resources used effectively: 24 thousand tons Reduce cost of product materials Resources used effectively: 24 thousand tons Reduce cost of product Reducing chemical substance risks Reducing chemical substance risks materials Control emissions Control emissions Sales Environment overall Sales Environment overall Eliminate lost sales opportunities Reduce environmental impact by conforming with Eliminate lost sales opportunities Reduce environmental impact by conforming with standards and label requirements standards and label requirements Risk avoidance Reducing chemical substance risks Risk avoidance Reducing chemical substance risks Eliminate effect on sales Reduce hazardous chemical substance risk by Eliminate effect on sales Reduce hazardous chemical substance risk by conforming with laws and regulations conforming with laws and regulations Cost reductions Preventing global warming Cost reductions Preventing global warming Reduce costs of energy and CO2 reduction during production: 1.7 thousand tons Reduce costs of energy and materials CO2 reduction during production: 1.9 thousand tons materials (reduce loss) Supporting a recycling-oriented society (reduce loss) Supporting a recycling-oriented society Growing Together with Our Employees Resources used effectively: 1.8 hundred tons Resources used effectively: 2.3 hundred tons Restoring and preserving biodiversity Restoring and preserving biodiversity Sustainable use of water resources Sustainable use of water resources (New material issue from fiscal 2015) Cost reductions Preventing global warming Cost reductions Preventing global warming Reduce costs of energy and CO2 reductions at suppliers: 1 thousand tons Reduce costs of energy and materials CO2 reductions at suppliers: 1 thousand tons materials (reduce loss) Supporting a recycling-oriented society (reduce loss) Supporting a recycling-oriented society Resources used effectively: 3 hundred tons Resources used effectively: 3 hundred tons Risk avoidance Environment overall Risk avoidance Environment overall Eliminate effect on production Reduce environmental impact by conforming with Eliminate effect on production Reduce environmental impact by conforming with laws and regulations laws and regulations Contributing to Society Net sales Environment overall Net sales Environment overall Acquire sales opportunities Reduce environmental impact at customer side Acquire sales opportunities Reduce environmental impact at customer side Cost reductions Preventing global warming Cost reductions Preventing global warming Reduce cost of distribution CO2 reduction during distribution: 4 hundred tons Reduce cost of distribution and packaging CO2 reduction during distribution: 7 hundred tons and packaging Supporting a recycling-oriented society Supporting a recycling-oriented society Resources used effectively: 3 hundred tons Resources used effectively: 2.5 hundred tons Risk avoidance Supporting a recycling-oriented society Risk avoidance Supporting a recycling-oriented society Reinforce 3R initiatives Use resources effectively through product 3R Reinforce 3R initiatives Use resources effectively through product 3R initiatives initiatives Note: The expressions have been changed for some material issues and issues added, based on the results of a materiality analysis. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 24 Exercising Responsibility for the Global Environment Material Theme 1 Green Products Background and Issues Key Measures As environmental and social issues like climate change Operate a Green Products Certification intensify, our society is changing. The world is moving System for evaluating and certifying from an age when the primary demand was for material products with superior environmental affluence to an age that finds value in products and performance services that help to improve the quality of society. Set numerical targets for increasing the share of Konica Minolta is seizing the opportunity provided total sales accounted for by Green Products by this change in social values. We fully recognize the Promote the systematic creation of Green importance of innovative, competitive products and Products services that benefit customers and society. We are Create environmental value suited to different working to develop solutions to social issues while businesses and product characteristics, thus reducing environmental impact and contributing to the fulfilling the aim of helping customers and Group’s earnings. broader society reduce environmental impact Product Initiatives Green Products Certification System certification standards tailored to environmental issues. The In operation since fiscal 2011, Konica Minolta’s Green Products goals that must be met are set at the product planning stage, Certification System is an original process for evaluating and and the product is certified at one of three levels based on its certifying products with superior environmental performance. degree of achievement. The system aims to create environmental value suited to The Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016 sets different businesses and product characteristics in order to specific targets for increasing certified Green Products’ share help customers and society at large reduce environmental of total sales. Working to achieve these targets, Konica impact. While conforming to the standards of environmental Minolta is developing highly competitive products that help labels used in different countries, Konica Minolta introduced customers and society reduce environmental impact while its own system, in order to provide products that reduce also improving earnings. Simultaneously, the Group is environmental impact even further. disclosing the environmental performance of certified To be certified as a Konica Minolta Green Product, a products in various media, including product catalogues and product must meet criteria established for different websites, to educate the public about these efforts. businesses and product characteristics with respect to Green Products Certification System Certification criteria (excerpts) Preventing global warming Reducing the risks from Products that contribute Sustainable Products •Reduce CO 2 emissions from product usage chemical substances to realizing a sustainable (SP)* •Reduce CO 2 emissions throughout product •Restrict the use of hazardous society life cycle chemical substances Supporting a recycling-oriented Restoring and preserving society biodiversity Products that achieve the industry’s top Green Products Plus •Reduce petroleum-based resource usage •Use biological resources in a environmental (GPplus) •Make products smaller and lighter sustainable manner performance •Increase the operating life of products Manufacturing process •Promote the use of re-used and recycled innovation Products that achieve Green Products materials top-level environmental (GP) •Promote the use of plant-based materials performance in the •Reduce rare metals usage industry Environmentally responsible products based on product assessment * Sustainable Products (SP) certification standards require that the product Certification requirements not only embody superior environmental performance not typically achieved by earlier products, but also incorporate original technology. Compliance with Acquisition of global Accordance with Production at a certified environment-related Konica Minolta’s CSR While seeking to reduce the environmental impact of all of its products, by environmental labels Green Factory setting a very challenging certification level, Konica Minolta aims to regulations procurement guidelines promote innovation and contribute more proactively to sustainability. 25 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environmental Initiatives > Green Products (product initiatives) For the Global Environment Expansion of Certified Green Products In fiscal 2014, Konica Minolta placed 33 new models of certified Green Products on the market, bringing the total to Earning the Confidence of Customers 147. Sales of Green Products in fiscal 2014 came to 547.1 billion yen, or 54% of the Group’s total sales. This large Sales of Green Products increase over the 41% (389.6 billion yen) figure in fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2016 helped customers and society to reduce environmental Target Results Target impact and contributed to earnings growth for Konica Minolta. Sales 540.0 billion yen 547.1 billion yen 640.0 billion yen Also, in fiscal 2014, Green Products had a CO2 reduction effect during product use of 43 thousand tons and Share of total sales 54% 54% 58% represented 24 thousand tons in effectively used resources. Examples of Environmental Technologies That Enable Green Products Cooperating with Business Partners Upgraded Recycling Organic Light Emitting Diode (OLED) Lighting Recyclable PC/PET OLEDs, which use an organic material that emits light when Konica Minolta has been striving to develop innovative stimulated by an electric current, have great promise as a technology to recycle PET plastic beverage bottles into plastic next-generation lighting source with low environmental material with sufficient strength, flame resistance and usability impact. Leveraging its for the outer casing of MFPs. Making use of polymer alloy proprietary technology, Konica technology to obtain better performance by blending different Minolta has been an early resins, the company developed recycled PC/PET plastic, pursuer of R&D into the which is a composite material made with recycled practical applications of OLEDs. polycarbonate (PC). This material was the first in the industry In June 2014, it achieved the to be used in the outer casing of color MFPs, in Konica world’s highest luminous Minolta’s bizhub series. efficiency* for an OLED of 139 lm/W, which exceeds that of Growing Together with Our Employees general LED lighting. Shining OLED tulips, the world’s * As of June 2014. first OLED flower illumination bizhub PRESS 2250P made with recycled PC/PET Textile Printer The inkjet textile printer does not require the plate making and Milk Bottle Recycling colored size mixing that is needed with conventional Konica Minolta recycles milk bottles made out of screen-printing. It also contributes to the reduction of energy polyethylene, which are widely distributed in Europe and the usage, resources usage, and waste, since it enables U.S., and turns them into toner bottles for MFPs. It developed on-demand production that uses only the amount of ink and washing technology that removes the smell of milk and material needed. Compared to conventional screen-printing, it minute cells that would lead to quality degradation and reduces environmental impact significantly, with a 97% established a mass reduction in sizing usage, a 62% reduction in water resources production system in usage, and a 57% reduction in electricity usage. Mexico and Malaysia. Contributing to Society The company intends to increase the proportion of recycled material in the raw material used for toner containers from the current 25% to 100% Toner bottles made from recycled material in the future. Nassenger PRO1000 inkjet textile printer KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 26 Exercising Responsibility for the Global Environment Material Theme 2 Green Factories Background and Issues Key Measures Environmental issues are becoming ever more serious, Operate a Green Factory Certification and soaring energy prices are having an increasing System that facilitates comprehensive impact on corporate management. evaluation of environmental activities Konica Minolta recognizes the importance of at production sites pursuing greater efficiency in production processes. We Foster activities in line with the production are working hard to minimize the use of energy and strategy of each business and manufacturing site resources by reducing waste in manufacturing Create value for both society and the company processes, and focusing on developing production by simultaneously reducing environmental impact technologies that curb emissions of CO2, waste, and and bringing costs down chemical substances. We also see the need to increase contributions to Promote Green Supplier Activities that the global environment by helping our suppliers reduce facilitate environmental impact reduction their environmental impact. together with suppliers Reduce environmental impact by providing Konica Minolta’s environmental technology and know-how to suppliers Production Initiatives Green Factory Certification System substances, and restoring and preserving biodiversity, but Konica Minolta has operated its original Green Factory also the degree of attainment for some 250 specifications Certification System for comprehensive evaluation of the related to the implementation process. The system crystallizes environmental activities at its production sites since 2010. The Konica Minolta’s know-how and helps improve the quality of system aims to reduce both costs and environmental impact environmental activities. by providing a framework for activities that make the most of As of fiscal 2015, all business units around the world are the production strategy of each business. The system’s making efforts toward achieving Level 2. certification requirements include not only the attainment of targets related to preventing global warming, supporting a Note: A single business unit is an organization engaged in the same production activities even across different locations. A single location may include several business units. recycling-oriented society, reducing the risk of chemical Green Factory Certification Standards Objectives Management Indicators Level 1 Level 2 Preventing global warming CO2 emissions (per unit of production*1) 12% reduction*2 20% reduction*2 Zero waste Waste discharged externally (per unit of sales) 30% reduction*2 50% reduction*2 Supporting a activities recycling-oriented society Final disposal rate of total waste 0.5% or less 0.5% or less Petroleum-based resource waste (per unit of sales) 30% reduction*2 50% reduction*2 Achievement of fiscal 2011 targets for Achievement of fiscal 2015 targets for Reducing the risks of Atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) each site in accordance with Mediumeach site in accordance with Mediumchemical substances Term Environmental Plan 2015 Term Environmental Plan 2015 Guidelines for managing soil contamination risk Consistent with guidelines Restoring and preserving Guidelines for biodiversity preservation (consideration of water resources and wastewater, and proper management of greenery at Consistent with guidelines biodiversity factories) Guideline-based activities Achievement rate of implemented items 70% or more 90% or more *1 Per unit of production: Environmental impact in terms of production output or production volume. *2 The base year is fiscal 2005. Based on this (base year) figure, standards tailored to factory characteristics are established. 27 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environmental Initiatives > Green Factories (procurement and production initiatives) For the Global Environment Expansion of Sites with Level 2 Green Factory Units that Achieved Level 2 in Fiscal 2014 Certification Unit Country/region In fiscal 2014, six more units (five in Japan and one in China) Konica Minolta Business Technologies (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. China achieved Level 2, bringing the total up to 14 units (10 in Earning the Confidence of Customers Japan and four in China). The remaining four units are making Konica Minolta Electronics Co., Ltd. Japan efforts toward achievement within fiscal 2015. Konica Minolta Supplies Manufacturing Kansai Co., Ltd. Japan Toyohashi Precision Products Co., Ltd. Japan Konica Minolta Chemical Co., Ltd. Japan Main Energy-saving Measures Konica Minolta, Inc., Inkjet Business Unit Japan Industrial engineering (IE) work analysis, yield rate Improve productivity improvement, installation of automatic machines, takt time reduction, production space optimization Optimize equipment operation Shutdown during downtime, reduction of standby power time consumption Examples of Efforts Made by a Unit that Reconsider air conditioning Temperature setting optimization, operating time operation optimization Achieved Level 2 Save energy in lighting Thinning out lighting, conversion to high-efficiency lighting Pursuing Energy Savings on the Production Floor, Infrared heating, installation of servo motors, cylinder Save energy in molding machines insulation Including with Molding Machines and Refrigerators (Konica Minolta Business Technologies (Dongguan) Co., Ltd.) Installation of inverters, air pressure optimization Cooperating with Business Partners Save energy in compressed air Refrigerator integration, reconsideration of exit Konica Minolta Business Reconsider refrigerator operation temperature setting Technologies (Dongguan) Use waste heat Reduction of steam production by using waste heat from produces MFPs in the city of dehumidifiers Steam piping insulation, piping integration, reduction of Dongguan, Guangdong Reduce heat radiation loss valve leaks Province, China. It achieved significant energy savings by Main Resource Conservation and Recycling Measures improving the heating Reduce material loss Improvement in materials, parts, and product yield rates method for molding Konica Minolta Business Switching to simple packaging, increasing package machines and changing the Technologies (Dongguan) Reduce packaging materials quantities temperature settings for refrigerators. Switching to reusable shipping containers within the Reuse packaging materials company, between production sites, and with parts The conversion from electrical heating to infrared heating suppliers for molding machines increased heating efficiency, enabling Reduce mold scrap Adoption of dies with no molding scrap, minimization and heating in a shorter time than before. Also, the addition of Growing Together with Our Employees internal recycling of molding scrap insulation to the surface of the heaters reduced heat radiation Reduce press scrap Minimization of feed pitch loss and helped reduce air conditioning burden by preventing Reduce support materials Reuse of cleaning solvents, reuse of molding machine oil Switching to reusable pallets with parts suppliers, the indoor temperature from rising. Reuse pallets changing the size of pallets for parts and using them to The temperature settings for refrigerators were changed ship products according to application in light of the results of an energy-saving assessment conducted by a Konica Minolta expert. Raising the temperature setting of refrigerators for general air conditioning led to energy savings by increasing efficiency. Procurement Initiatives Green Supplier Activities management from Konica Minolta visited the suppliers’ Konica Minolta conducts Green Supplier Activities aiming to factories and proposed reduction measures based on current Contributing to Society reduce environmental impact together with suppliers. conditions. They worked with the suppliers’ staff to formulate In fiscal 2014, the company initiated these activities in and implement improvement plans. collaboration with two suppliers. Experts in energy and waste KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 28 Exercising Responsibility for the Global Environment Material Theme 3 Green Marketing Background and Issues Key Measures The environmental concerns of customers around the Carry out Green Marketing activities world are growing as the global community continues to as a way of practicing environmentally witness the negative effects of climate change. Given friendly sales and services: this situation, Konica Minolta regards the provision of Help society at large to reduce environmental value that helps customers to reduce environmental impact by providing products and services that impact as a vital part of its social responsibility and a meet customers’ environmental needs driver of its own growth. Leverage Konica Minolta’s environmental This is why Konica Minolta actively proposes and technology and know-how to help customers strives to popularize products and services that help solve environmental challenges reduce environmental impact. Moreover, the Group also Work on challenges set for each region, such as recognizes that it is imperative to pursue greater efficiency improvement measures in distribution, efficiency in the transport, sales and service activities that packaging, sales, and service and the establishdeliver those products to customers, as that translates ment of a system to recover and recycle used into lower costs and less environmental impact. products Sales and Service Initiatives Helping Reduce Environmental Impact Creating Shared Value with Customers through Optimized Print Services for Customers Environmental challenges such as global warming and The Optimized Print Services (OPS) offered by Konica Minolta resource depletion are not problems that can be solved by are a solution that delivers optimized equipment arrangement the initiatives of a single company. In addition to efforts to and improved capacity utilization through an all-in-one reduce environmental impact associated with its own contract for the operation of printing devices such as printers business operations, Konica Minolta is promoting an initiative and MFPs. Konica Minolta is making its OPS available that supports the environmental management of its globally. The companies that have entered into global customers in order to make a bigger contribution to contracts are located around the world and cover a broad protection of the global environment. range of industries, including insurance and financial services, The aim of this initiative is to work together with international transportation services, and industrial machinery customers as a partner to resolve their environmental and home appliance manufacturers. challenges while making use of the technology and know-how Optimization of the printing infrastructure through OPS cultivated over many years conducting environmental not only improves work efficiency and cuts costs in activities. Konica Minolta and customers focus on the Three customers’ offices; it also helps them reduce environmental Green Activities of Green Products, Green Factories, and impact. For example, consolidating several printing devices Green Marketing. into an MFP and updating to the latest models provide Through this initiative, Konica Minolta will deepen energy-saving effects that can reduce power consumption cooperation with its customers and expects to accumulate significantly. Continuous monitoring of device usage leads to more environmental technology and know-how by responding a reduction of wasteful printouts while digitalization of to the wide-ranging environmental needs of customers in documents translates into reduced storage space and less diverse fields. In this way, Konica Minolta aims to create consumption of paper resources. shared value with customers and to pursue sustainable growth together with them. 29 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environmental Initiatives > Green Marketing (distribution, sales, service, recovery, and recycling initiatives) For the Global Environment Distribution Initiatives Reducing CO2 Associated with Distribution Earning the Confidence of Customers emissions by reducing the frequency of air transportation In order to reduce CO2 emissions associated with distribution, through improved demand forecast accuracy as well as the it is essential to increase transportation efficiency and to utilize adoption of milk-run deliveries that collect cargo from several methods that have the smallest environmental impact. Konica manufacturers at a time. Minolta is reducing CO2 emissions from distribution Reducing Packaging Materials operations by shortening transportation distances. Through the optimization of distribution sites and routes worldwide, the In fiscal 2014, Konica Minolta worked at reducing packaging company is reducing the number of containers with improved materials for replacement parts that have a high distribution loading efficiency, and reducing the frequency of air transport. volume. It surveyed the transportation situation in each In fiscal 2014, Konica Minolta improved the loading country and reduced the size of packages by optimizing efficiency of containers delivering business technology impact resistance during transportation. products to European countries from the German distribution Reducing the size and center by adopting a loading simulation program in Europe. It weight of products has also opened a distribution center in Eastern Europe, thereby minimized the use of Cooperating with Business Partners improving the efficiency of transporting business technology packaging materials and products. Whereas it used to transport products from a contributed to reduction of manufacturing site in China to Eastern Europe through a CO2 emissions during distribution center in Germany, shipping directly to the distribution by increasing Eastern European distribution center has shortened the transportation efficiency. transportation distance. In Japan, Konica Minolta has also achieved higher Small packages for replacement transporting efficiency by integrating storage sites for parts (previous version on the right, healthcare products previously dispersed around the country smaller version on the left) into the Kanto region. In addition, Konica Minolta is working at decreasing CO2 Growing Together with Our Employees Product Recycling Initiatives Recycling Information Technology Products plastics, and other categories and sent to different processing Konica Minolta is developing systems for recycling used companies for recycling as reusable materials or fuel. information technology products in different locations Konica Minolta has also established its Clean Planet worldwide and striving to increase the recycling rate. Program, a system for free-of-charge recovery and recycling In Japan, the company collects used MFPs through of used toner cartridges for laser printers in Japan, 18 sales companies nationwide, dismantling and separating the European countries and the United States. In the U.S., the components at seven sites of associated companies around program has been expanded to include used toner bottles the country. The components are separated into metals, for MFPs. Machines Collected in Japan in Fiscal 2014 Contributing to Society Estimated collection rate Recycling rate (by weight) 70% 98% KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 30 Earning the Confidence of Customers Konica Minolta works to maximize customer satisfaction and trust by providing products and services of superior value. The Group has articulated its basic approach to accomplishing this in the Konica Minolta Quality Policy, which governs Group companies worldwide. An issue of particular importance is ensuring safe, reliable products and services. Accordingly, Konica Minolta has established a unified quality assurance system across the Group and addresses quality assurance in terms of the entire product lifecycle. Konica Minolta is determined to help create a better world by solving customer and societal challenges, and with this aim it seeks to build deeper relationships with customers so that it can identify and satisfy both latent needs and specific requests. –FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2010: Started full-fledged product safety education for the Group’s engineers Material FY2014: Theme Developed safety training FY2010: Expanded operation of a Risk Map for safety assessment and focused on risk assessment 1 increased the assessment levels FY2011: Organized a Double Quality Assurance System Assuring Product Safety and Preventing FY2013–14: Quality-related Problems Used Quality Management Self-Assessments to review quality issues FY2011: Started efforts to improve customer relationship management FY2012: Established indicators for customer relationship Material management Theme 2 FY2013–14: Cross-deployed good practices through global CR conferences Increasing FY2014: Undertook initiatives to Customer Satisfaction improve customer relationship management through development-productionmarketing cooperation About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Customers 31 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 For the Global Environment Material Theme Assuring Product Safety and Preventing 1 Quality-related Problems Background and Issues Key Measures In recent years, customers and society at large have Prevent serious product accidents Earning the Confidence of Customers been demanding higher quality products and services. Conduct risk assessment practice during Konica Minolta practices risk management throughout product safety education the Group, with an emphasis on preventing quality problems caused by performance defects and accidents Prevent quality problems due to product safety problems. Product safety training based on practice is implemented throughout the Group Facilitate visualization of quality risks throughout in order to raise the safety awareness of every employee. the product lifecycle Furthermore, Konica Minolta has established even more Share information on quality problems and rigorous product safety standards in an effort to prevent cross-deploy countermeasures accidents. When quality problems occur, the company shares information and strives to respond in an accurate and timely manner. Cooperating with Business Partners Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2014 The Addition of a Risk Assessment Improvement Sharing Information about Quality Problems and Program Cross-deploying Countermeasures within the Group Since fiscal 2010, Konica Minolta has conducted Group-wide Konica Minolta is accelerating its Group-wide effort to product safety education for engineers involved in design and disclose information regarding quality problems and Growing Together with Our Employees development, manufacturing technology, procurement, and cross-deploy countermeasures as “One Konica Minolta,” a quality assurance. The courses are designed to increase policy launched in fiscal 2013. The goal is to increase engineers’ knowledge of product safety issues and raise their sensitivity to quality issues, thereby resolving problems early awareness of potential problems. on and ensuring better response. In fiscal 2014, the Group launched a Risk Assessment In fiscal 2014, the Group conducted Production Improvement Program based primarily on identifying risks and Capability Assessments at 19 production sites, including sites assessment practice using actual machinery so that outside Japan. Members of each site serve as assessors in knowledge and skills cultivated in previous training could be this effort to perform mutual cross-assessments of deployed in practical work. Questionnaires were completed businesses. Assessments are designed to visualize issues at by participants after the program and their feedback was each site by quantifying different aspects, such as the 5S’s used to evaluate effectiveness and improve training content. (Sort, Straighten, Shine, Standardize, and Sustain), Going forward, Konica Minolta will continue to educate visualization, elimination of inefficiencies, and factory employees about product safety and awareness through management. The 5S’s and visualization are intended to ongoing training programs. encourage proactive improvements on the production floor by presenting ideals as guidelines. Additionally, good practices are cross-deployed by sharing assessment results and Contributing to Society examples of initiatives from each site on the company intranet. Risk Assessment Improvement Program using Production Capability Assessment actual machinery KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 32 Earning the Confidence of Customers Material Theme 2 Increasing Customer Satisfaction Background and Issues Key Measures In its office equipment, medical devices and measuring Improve customer relationship instruments businesses, Konica Minolta is determined to management increase the confidence and trust of its customers by Formulate measures for developmentdeveloping and maintaining long-term relationships. It production-marketing cooperation in each hopes to establish a reputation that will lead to business based on customer feedback customers recommending Konica Minolta to other Establish measurement indicators for potential customers. That is why the company actively customer relationship management in each gathers feedback from its customers, has established a business, and implement measures globally system for using the feedback to improve products and services, and is attempting to enhance relationships with customers to help them realize their goals. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2014 Promoting the Adoption of Remote Maintenance customers’ locations through the Internet. Since this system in the Healthcare Business enables problems to be solved without sending out Products provided by the Healthcare Business are used in engineers, it reduces product downtime, thereby shortening life-threatening medical settings, so there is a need for diagnostic interruption in healthcare settings. especially rapid responses to product failures and problems. In fiscal 2014, around 50% of the calls received by the That is why Konica Minolta is focusing on improving response call center were from customers using remote maintenance. time by its call center in order to minimize diagnostic As a result, downtime has been shortened by about 45,000 downtime. The company established key performance hours per year,* a 65% improvement over the past five years. indicators (KPI) on the themes of reducing customer waiting Thanks to the adoption of remote maintenance, the decrease time on the phone, improving the call center’s ability to in the number of times technicians were dispatched resulted resolve problems on its own, and improving customer in a cost reduction of approximately 70 million yen. satisfaction, and it worked to make improvements in all of Additionally, the KPI of “improving the call center’s ability these areas. to resolve problems on its own” has been improved from As part of that effort, the call center in Japan is approximately 60% at the time the call center was opened to promoting the adoption of remote maintenance for the quick approximately 80% today. resolution of problems by remotely operating products at * Calculated based on Konica Minolta’s indicators Remote Maintenance System Reduction in Downtime (Hours) Customers Konica Minolta 50,000 (hospitals, clinics) Call Center 40,000 Telephone support 30,000 Secure network 20,000 10,000 Remote support Remote servers 0 Konica Minolta products 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 33 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 For the Global Environment Global Deployment of NPS Surveys to PDCA cycle to verify the next global NPS survey, the Group Measure Customer Relationship Management will achieve continuous improvement. in the Business Technologies Business In the fiscal 2014 survey, the CR Division continually In April 2012, the Business Technologies Business created a monitored how improvements to existing products and the Earning the Confidence of Customers Customer Relations (CR) Division and adopted NPS* as a development of new products changed customer satisfaction target indicator. It developed a scientific approach, adding regarding issues identified in the previous fiscal year. By NPS to the conventional customer satisfaction survey and feeding the analysis results back to the R&D headquarters deployed it globally. With the aim of improving customer and steadily making efforts to improve issues, a culture of satisfaction, measures were implemented to analyze Konica innovative product development that creates a deep Minolta customer feedback. The survey helped the company impression on customers has been created. gauge customer views and see if the company would provide * NPS (Net Promoter Score): an indicator that measures the percentage of customers who recommend the excitement that exceeds the expectations of customers and if company and its products and services to others. customers would thus recommend the company to other potential customers. The survey also evaluated how the System of Issue Resolution Beginning with an NPS Survey company's products would contribute to customers’ businesses. Shared at the Quality Council and As of fiscal 2013, the CR Division has conducted a Products R&D Headquarters global NPS survey with the same standards in Japanese, U.S. and German markets. The results of the analysis identified Cooperating with Business Partners Sales Quality Assurance common worldwide issues that could not be recognized Operations Management layer simply from a product’s specifications. In response to these NPS survey Installation implemented in working group activities Manufacturing issues, the development, production, and marketing Headquarters departments worked together to discuss crosscutting Contact center Marketing countermeasures, created a response team comprised of Headquarters members from the R&D headquarters and quality assurance, Maintenance and made progress through improvements to existing /Support products and to the design and assessment of new products. Corporate Sales companies in Then, by incorporating these improvement results in the image respective countries Highlight Global Customer Relations Conference Held to Share Global Issues and Initiatives Growing Together with Our Employees Since fiscal 2013, Konica Minolta has held an annual Global and the adoption of a program for training customer Customer Relations Conference in collaboration with sales relationship managers and leaders. This was followed by companies in and outside Japan in order to deploy initiatives decisions on future actions. On the second day, all to improve customer relationship management on a participants experienced a Customer Value Creation worldwide basis. The sharing of various issues and initiatives Workshop, which was implemented in Japan ahead of other in the improvement of customer relationships around the countries, and participants learned methods of thinking about world and the knowledge gained from those efforts lead to value from the customer point of view. the pursuit of best practices Group-wide. * Customer Journey Map: An analysis method for visualizing a variety of contact points between a In fiscal 2014, the second conference was held in company/product/service and users January 2015. Customer relationship managers from sales companies in Japan, the U.S., Europe, and the Asia Pacific region as well as members of the development, production, and marketing departments attended the conference and engaged in two days of valuable discussion. The first day saw the sharing of knowledge on the establishment and utilization Contributing to Society of global KPI, the adoption of a “transaction survey” to measure customer satisfaction in response to each company’s actions, the introduction of the Customer Journey Map* method being used by a sales company in the U.S., Global Customer Relations Conference KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 34 Cooperating with Business Partners Konica Minolta regards the suppliers from which it procures raw materials and parts and contractors that conduct production as indispensable partners in its business operations. Konica Minolta also recognizes that it is essential to promote CSR not just within its own operations but also across its entire supply chain. This is why Konica Minolta promotes CSR procurement on a Group-wide basis and requires its business partners to consider matters related to human rights, ethics, health, and safety in their business operations. Additionally, the Group is taking steps to comply with conflict minerals*1 regulations that seek to prevent violations of human rights in conflict areas*2 from which mineral resources used in products are sourced. *1 Conflict minerals: Columbite-tantalite (coltan), cassiterite, gold, wolframite, or their derivatives *2 Conflict areas: Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries FY2008 FY2009–2014 FY2015– FY2009: Request for suppliers to practice CSR using Supplier Code of Conduct FY2009: CSR assessment using self-assessment questionnaires Implementing FY2014: Audit of group production sites FY2009: Visit and check suppliers’ sites and suppliers CSR Procurement FY2015: Provision of assistance to suppliers in achieving Preparatory work independent initiatives for establishing a procurement policy and taking initiatives FY2015: Clarification of incentives for suppliers FY2011: Establishment of basic FY2014: Establishment and promotion approach to issue of conflict of Conflict Minerals Policy Addressing minerals Statement the Issue of Conflict FY2012: Start with the Business Technologies Business FY2014: Expansion of the scope of Minerals for implementation of initiatives measures About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Business Partners 35 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 For the Global Environment Material Theme Promoting CSR Throughout the Supply Chain Background and Issues Key Measures In line with the belief that it is essential to work towards a Implement CSR procurement Earning the Confidence of Customers sustainable society in which human rights are respected, Request that suppliers practice CSR using Konica Minolta works with its suppliers on CSR Supplier Code of Conduct procurement and compliance with conflict minerals regulations. CSR procurement aims to make CSR assessments and audits improvements in the supply chain related to human rights, Support suppliers in achieving independent ethics, health and safety while improving product quality initiatives and cutting costs. Konica Minolta strives to make Clarify suppliers’ incentives improvements to their supply chain through assessments and audits based on the Supplier Code of Conduct. In Address the issue of conflict minerals terms of compliance with conflict minerals regulations, Establish Conflict Minerals Policy Statement which attempt to prevent infringements of human rights and implement measures associated with conflicts at the most upstream part of the supply chain, the Group is conducting surveys of Ensure proper disclosure of information on suppliers with the aim of procuring conflict-free minerals initiatives Cooperating with Business Partners based on a Conflict Minerals Policy Statement. Implement conflict minerals survey Approach to CSR Activities in the Supply Chain Konica Minolta’s vision for CSR activities in the supply chain products with peace of mind. is to establish a sustainable society in which human rights With respect to CSR procurement, Konica Minolta are respected. It believes that it is important to increase the plans to support suppliers, including the training of internal corporate value of not only the Group but also its suppliers assessors, in conjunction with the identification and Growing Together with Our Employees by working together to address respect for human rights and improvement of issues through CSR assessments and resolving this social issue within the procurement and audits using a self-assessment questionnaire to help production operations, enabling customers to purchase suppliers achieve their independent initiatives. Konica Minolta’s CSR Activities in the Supply Chain Customers Improvement of customer satisfaction Purchasing of products made with a commitment to CSR Konica Minolta Suppliers Improvement of Improvement of Contributing to Society corporate value corporate value Creation of Expansion of sales opportunities Expansion of sales opportunities Enhancement of brand power shared value Improvement of employee Improvement of employee satisfaction satisfaction Securing of top talent Sustainable society KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 36 Cooperating with Business Partners Important Theme Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2014 (1): Implementing CSR Procurement Implementing CSR Procurement Using the EICC CSR Audits by EICC-certified Organizations Framework In fiscal 2014, Konica Minolta began conducting CSR In October 2013, Konica Minolta joined the EICC,* in order audits, in addition to CSR assessments, to verify the to strengthen its CSR activities in the supply chain. status of initiatives on human rights, ethics, health, safety, The EICC, which is made up of more than 100 and other matters via visits to Group production sites and companies, including the world’s leading electronics suppliers. manufacturers and their major suppliers, works to improve In fiscal 2014, an audit was conducted on Konica human rights, ethics, health, and safety in the supply chain. Minolta Business Technologies (WUXI) Co., Ltd., a Group In fiscal 2014, with its new EICC membership, Konica production site in China, through the EICC VAP (Validated Minolta restructured the CSR assessment method it uses Audit Program) in an effort to improve issues and to conduct procurement, and it also started CSR audits by enhance efforts even further. The Group also verified the EICC-certified organizations. audit results for suppliers that had already undergone an * Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition: An organization promoting CSR in the electronic industry’s EICC VAP audit. supply chain EICC VAP Audits are performed by third-party organizations certified by the EICC. They are conducted based on the EICC protocol to audit conformity to the five elements of the EICC Code of Conduct: labor, ethics, environment, health & safety, and management system. EICC VAP Audits are one of the most trusted CSR audits in the world. Restructuring CSR Assessments From fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2013, Konica Minolta conducted CSR assessments using a self-assessment questionnaire based on the EICC tools and systems. Assessments of suppliers covered a total of 658 companies as of the end of fiscal 2013. The assessments confirmed that along with the Group’s production sites, its suppliers have met the targets set by Konica Minolta. As Konica Minolta joined the EICC, in fiscal 2014 it restructured its CSR assessment system using the EICC framework, in keeping with the basic approach to CSR assessment using a traditional self-assessment questionnaire. This has made it possible to share assessment results among EICC member companies. EICC VAP Audit 37 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 For the Global Environment Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2014 (2): Addressing the issue of Conflict Minerals Earning the Confidence of Customers Establishment of a Policy for Compliance with As a result, the company received responses from Conflict Minerals Regulations more than 90% of its suppliers, a substantial improvement in It has been pointed out that the mining of the mineral the response rate of around 80% in the previous fiscal year. resources for columbite-tantalite (coltan), cassiterite, gold, Additionally, the accuracy of replies increased, with the wolframite, or their derivatives in the Democratic Republic of the number of responses indicating unknown country of origin Congo or adjoining countries can end up fueling conflict. decreasing from the previous year. The number of reports of In order to prevent human rights infringements such as certified conflict-free smelters, which is a basis for child and forced labor associated with conflict, the determining that parts and materials are conflict-free, Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development increased significantly from 61 companies in the previous (OECD) established the Due Diligence Guidance for fiscal year to 199 companies, allowing verification that some Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from parts and materials are conflict-free. No evidence pointing to Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, and requests that conflict involvement was confirmed regarding other parts companies take responsible actions within their supply and materials. chains. Additionally, Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Cooperating with Business Partners Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which was Strengthening Cooperation with Relevant passed in 2010 in the United States, requires companies External Organizations listed on the U.S. stock exchanges to disclose information Konica Minolta participates in CFSI,*1 which carries out about the conflict minerals extracted in the conflict areas. international initiatives such as the creation of questionnaires Konica Minolta understands that it must fulfill its social pertaining to conflict minerals regulations and a program that responsibility as a global company with regard to this audits and certifies conflict-free smelters. It also participates problem. In June 2014, the company established and in the Responsible Minerals Trade Working Group hosted by published the Konica Minolta Conflict Minerals Policy JEITA,*2 an organization that collaborates with CFSI on Statement, in order to strengthen its initiatives regarding conflict minerals issues, and contributes to its activities. conflict minerals regulations. It has renewed its request to In fiscal 2014, the Working Group continued to suppliers to cooperate with the surveys it has been encourage understanding of conflict minerals regulations by conducting since fiscal 2013, based on this policy. It ascertaining and responding to trends in conflict minerals established a conflict minerals survey system in each regulations and by holding briefings on the conflict Growing Together with Our Employees business division and carried out assessments. minerals survey. In addition, Konica Minolta is participating in the Conducting Conflict Minerals Surveys in All Conflict-Free Sourcing Working Group established by JEITA Business Divisions together with companies in the automotive industry, in an In fiscal 2014, all business divisions at Konica Minolta effort to address conflict minerals regulations through received more inquiries from customers about conflict cross-industry cooperation. minerals than in the previous fiscal year. Replies were given *1 CFSI (Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative): An international organization to these inquiries based on surveys of suppliers. through which companies cooperate to encourage responsible procurement, including that of conflict-free minerals, established by The Business Technologies Business, which is Konica EICC and GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative, an organization that Minolta’s core business and receives inquiries frequently, promotes CSR in the telecommunications industry) *2 JEITA: Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association conducts a voluntary conflict minerals survey. In fiscal 2014, it conducted the survey with the aim of increasing the response rate and accuracy of replies in light of the survey results from the previous fiscal year. Contributing to Society KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 38 Growing Together with Our Employees Konica Minolta is comprised of people of many different nationalities, languages, and backgrounds. The source of the Group’s competitiveness lies in how this diverse team shares values and cooperates closely. This is why Konica Minolta respects each individual and forbids any kind of discrimination related to race, religion, national origin, or gender. It seeks to train personnel to make the most of their skills from a global perspective, always aiming to create new value for society. Konica Minolta also focuses on fostering a culture committed to “Health-First” and improving workplace health and safety Group-wide. The company seeks to create a working environment in which each and every employee can succeed while enjoying physical and mental wellbeing. –FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Material FY2008: Implementation of employee exchange program between Group companies in and outside Japan Theme 1 FY2009: Establishment of a global HR Web system FY2010: Establishment of Global Executive Program for management executives Leveraging and Developing Diverse FY2010: Provision of career development programs for female employees Human Resources (e.g. leadership training, mentor system) Material Theme FY2014: 2 FY2010: Implementation of Medium Term Health Management Plan Implementation of medium-term health plan Health KM2016 Fostering a Culture Committed to FY2011: Establishment of a system based on the Konica Minolta Statement on Health “Health-First” Material FY2009: Implementation of measures focused on important sites Theme 3 FY2010: Initiative on fundamental facility improvements for safety FY2013: Implementation of measures to foster Promoting Occupational a culture of safety Health and Safety About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Employees 39 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 For the Global Environment Material Theme Leveraging and Developing Diverse 1 Human Resources Background and Issues Key Measures In order to grow sustainably, a company must respond to Enhance human resources development Earning the Confidence of Customers the intensification of global competition as well as market and utilization on a global scale changes such as the increasing sophistication and Develop business leaders, choose the right diversification of customer needs. Talented employees who people for the right posts, and visualize the go above and beyond from a global standpoint and from the workforce customer’s perspective are the key to success in this endeavor. To develop this kind of talent, it is important to attract Reform corporate culture and continue to foster personnel with diverse values. It is Instill the management philosophy system, also vital to build an environment in which their respective promote diversity, improve productivity, and talents can be exerted and used to the fullest. This is why create an environment with high employee Konica Minolta puts so much energy into human resources satisfaction management for its global workforce of over 40,000 employees. Cooperating with Business Partners Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2014 Making Use of a Global Platform for Regional Implementation of Business Leader Human Resources Development and Deployment Development Program Konica Minolta has created a platform (system, tools, and Since fiscal 2010, the Group has run a Global Executive philosophy) for training personnel and making the most of Program (GEP) for executives at affiliated companies around their skills in an effort to boost the collective strength of its the world, with the aim of developing business leaders. As of employees. While further defining roles at the global, regional, the end of fiscal 2014, the program had been held nine times and individual company levels, the Group is pursuing global with 148 people from 60 companies participating. Growing Together with Our Employees personnel training and deployment as “One Konica Minolta.” The goals of the GEP are to raise participants’ In fiscal 2014, the Group established an HR awareness as business leaders within the Konica Minolta management system in each region, namely North America, Group and to enable participants to forge a global network of Europe, China, and Asia. It conducts evaluations of the personal contacts among themselves. During the program, Group’s senior personnel under uniform global evaluation which lasts about one week, participants embrace a global standards to identify strengths and challenges. Based on mindset and develop their leadership skills via face-to-face these results, the company then chooses the right people for discussions with top managers and through debates on key the right posts while also fostering successors. issues among themselves. Since fiscal 2013, the Group has held a Regional GEP, Expansion of a Strategy Council Consisting of bringing together manager-level personnel with the aim of Members of Top Management developing potential future executives in each region. The first Konica Minolta established the Global Strategy Council in Regional GEP was held in China and the second was held in fiscal 2013 to make use of the knowledge and viewpoints of Singapore in May 2015. executives from sites outside Japan to facilitate its Group management. In the first year, two top managers from Konica Minolta Inc. and two top managers from sales bases Contributing to Society in Europe and the United States met as members of the council for four sessions. The results were reflected in the ensuing medium-term business plan. Since fiscal 2014, sessions continue to be held with an executive from a base in Asia to consider management planning from a global perspective. Global Executive Program session KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 40 Growing Together with Our Employees Material Theme 2 Fostering a Culture Committed to “Health-First” Background and Issues Key Measures In recent years, the risk of lifestyle-related disease among Minimize the number of people employees has been mounting in the business world with an with health risks aging population and the entrenchment of irregular living habits. Enhance individual guidance for physical In addition, with an increase in the number of workers taking time and mental health off due to mental health problems, declining labor productivity is attracting attention as an issue that has to be addressed. Increase awareness through Recognizing that the health of its employees is the foundation of visualization of employees’ level successful business operations, Konica Minolta is enthusiastically of health implementing measures for improving employee health in Establish indicators that show employees’ collaboration with its health insurance association. These actions level of health are based on the Konica Minolta Statement on Health, which Clarify and share Konica Minolta’s status advocates for promoting health management by fostering a on each indicator culture committed to putting health first. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2014 Establishing Medium-term Health Plan “Health KM2016” deployed to assist with individual consultation for this initiative. In fiscal 2014, Konica Minolta established a three-year With these expanded efforts, the company aims to reduce the medium-term health plan, Health KM2016. The plan aims to number of people with health risks throughout the Group. realize the ideas advocated in the Konica Minolta Statement In an effort to maintain and improve mental health on Health announced in May 2011. The Group is working with among employees, stress tests were provided to all the the priority policies of minimizing the number of people with employees in Japan. Employees were able to see their results health risks and increasing health awareness through the and use them to make adjustments for a healthier lifestyle. visualization of employees’ level of health. Test results for each workplace were given to managers and improvements were made in high-stress workplaces. Minimizing the Number of People with Health Risks Konica Minolta has implemented a range of measures aimed Promoting Health Initiatives at decreasing the number of employees eligible for restrictions Konica Minolta has established eight indicators (smoking, on work, taking time off due to mental health problems, or exercise, walking, diet, alcohol, dental care, sleep, and experiencing high levels of stress. workplace communication) that show the level of employees’ In fiscal 2014, Konica Minolta expanded to affiliated health. The company has broadly implemented a range of companies in Japan its efforts to reduce potential health risks health improvement measures with the aim of ranking in the among employees, an activity which had previously been top 10% of leading Japanese companies for each indicator. made only at Konica Minolta, Inc. Industrial health staff were Highlight Konica Minolta Becomes 2014 Health and Productivity Stock Selection In March 2015, Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry companies that value and implement employee health programs and the Tokyo Stock Exchange selected Konica Minolta as a from a business perspective and by introducing them to company that represents enhanced corporate value through investors as attractive investment destinations. The first selection health and productivity management. Due to the company’s was announced in fiscal 2014, and 22 companies were ideas, system, and efforts aimed at health management, Konica recognized, with one chosen Minolta was chosen as a 2014 Health and Productivity Stock from each industry. Konica Selection. As part of an effort by the government to extend the Minolta was selected in the nation’s lifespan through healthy lifestyles, this selection electrical equipment industry. encourages health management initiatives by recognizing listed 41 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 For the Global Environment Material Theme 3 Promoting Occupational Health and Safety Background and Issues Key Measures Konica Minolta has maintained a low level of occupational Prevent occupational accidents Earning the Confidence of Customers accidents at its production sites both in and outside Japan Prevent accidents that could become more severe through many years of occupational health and safety Prevent similar accidents initiatives. Based on a commitment to “safety first for employees,” the Group has focused on fostering a culture of Promote health and safety management by safety by involving senior management, reinforcing safety senior management management in the workplace, taking steps to enhance the Increase safety awareness of every employee safety awareness of every individual, and implementing Implement fundamental facility improvements for fundamental facility improvements for safety. safety Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2014 Cooperating with Business Partners Strengthening Risk Reduction Efforts to Prevent These DVDs were distributed to all Konica Minolta sites in Occupational Accidents Japan and China in an effort to increase the safety awareness Konica Minolta has implemented various measures globally to of every employee. Additionally, the company provided prevent accidents during working hours with the goals of continued education about safe work practices to employees attaining zero serious accidents and a frequency rate of 0.1 for with specialist qualifications who perform tasks that could lead accidents causing absence from work.*1 to serious accidents. It also implemented fundamental facility In fiscal 2014, the Group provided education on safety improvement initiatives to reduce risk through risk assessments management in the workplace to all managers. It also with the aim of making facilities safe and preventing serious produced an educational DVD to raise sensitivity to danger accidents and the repetitive occurrence of minor accidents. using examples of past accidents caused by human error. As a result of these efforts, the company reported zero serious accidents in fiscal 2014. The frequency rate of Growing Together with Our Employees Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Sites in Japan accidents causing absence from work was 0.28 in Japan and (Cases) Accidents causing absence from work Accident frequency rate (Frequency rate) 0.19 outside Japan. The severity rate of accidents causing 20 0.5 absence from work*2 was 0.01 in and outside Japan. 0.39 *1 Accident frequency rate: The number of persons absent from work per one million total actual working hours for current employees 0.32 *2 Accident severity rate: The total number of days absent from work per 1,000 total actual working 11 0.28 hours for current employees 10 0.25 0.21 8 7 6 0.11 Strengthening Health and Safety Initiatives at Sites Outside Japan 3 0 0 In fiscal 2014, the Group implemented measures to strengthen 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) safety management at sites outside Japan, which account for Note: Boundary: Regular and temporary employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. and Group companies in Japan the majority of production operations. In China, for instance, in addition to each site’s usual Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Overseas Production Sites health and safety initiatives, the Group launched the China (Cases) Accidents causing absence from work Accident frequency rate (Frequency rate) Health and Safety Managers’ Committee for all sites, including Contributing to Society 15 0.19 0.2 production and sales sites. The Committee promotes the 0.18 0.16 strengthening of health and safety, including employee health management. Additionally, Konica Minolta established a Safety 10 Dojo, a dedicated facility where employees can experience 0.1 0.1 7 mock dangers first hand, with an aim of preventing accidents 6 6 5 5 0.06 that involve being pinched by or dragged into machinery, missing one’s footing on stairs, and falls. The Safety Dojo was 2 established at two production sites and training was 0 0 implemented. In Malaysia, a plant established in May 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Note: Boundary: Regular and temporary employees at major production companies in China and Malaysia acquired OHSAS 18001 certification, quickly beginning operation of a health and safety system. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 42 Hand-in-Hand with Society As a global company, Konica Minolta aims to earn the confidence and trust of society and to be a good corporate citizen in the local communities where it operates across the world. Konica Minolta strives to cooperate with diverse stakeholders to contribute to the development of local communities while respecting each region’s culture, history, and customs based on the company’s Basic Policy on Social Contribution Activities. Focusing on issues faced by local communities, the Group actively helps resolve issues where it can make a unique and highly effective contribution through its business and technologies. To give these initiatives momentum, the Group is committed to developing human resources who can work harmoniously in diverse cultures while maintaining a global outlook. The company also supports and encourages employees’ self-motivated social participation. Konica Minolta Basic Policy on Social Contribution Activities As a responsible, global corporate citizen, Konica Minolta makes Group-wide efforts to address social issues that it can contribute to through its businesses in order to be an entity that is essential to society. It is also committed to contributing to the creation of a sustainable society by continually engaging in activities that meet local challenges in the various countries where it operates. Main Social Contribution Activities Held learning events about the starry sky through planetariums and tours of the Yaeyama Islands (Japan) Contributed to the community through the Spring of Relief disaster preparedness water resource (Japan) P44 Supported the transfer of information for people with visual impairments through Braille reproduced by a 3D copying system (Japan) Supported disadvantaged children Operated La Fondation d’entreprise Konica Minolta, Participated in the Wish (USA) P44 a foundation that supports people with disabilities Project, a campaign Supported the efforts of a breast (France) supporting the education of cancer foundation through employee Provided ongoing support to the Green Marathon, children (China) donations (USA) which contributes to reforestation in Ethiopia Held a painting contest to (France) P44 support children with Supported the activities of The Prince’s Trust, which disabilities (China) P44 provides education, training, and employment Supported local NPOs support to disadvantaged young people (UK) (Australia) P44 Collected recycled paper and donated 10,000 euros worth of food for each ton of paper to a food bank (Portugal) About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Contributing to Society 43 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 For the Global Environment Material Implementing Social Contribution Activities Theme around the World Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2014 Green Marathon to Protect Green Landscapes Provision of “Spring of Relief” Water Resources as Earning the Confidence of Customers in Ethiopia (France) Disaster Preparedness Konica Minolta Business Solutions France has supported the In fiscal 2014, Konica Minolta, Inc. signed a Disaster Green Marathon. Established in 2011, this initiative helps Cooperation Agreement with the city of Hino in Tokyo and reforestation efforts in the Hino Municipal Hospital. Under the agreement, the Ethiopia. In fiscal 2014, company installed a private electric generator at the well it around 200 employees owns at Tokyo Site Hino so that the well can be operated participated in the even during a power outage. The well can supply the large marathon and also amounts of water needed during a disaster for dialysis and called on sales agents treatment at medical facilities as well as drinking and and customers to join everyday water for community residents. Thus, the well was in. Their efforts enabled improved as the “Spring of Relief” disaster preparedness the planting of over water resource. 85,000 trees in Ethiopia Going forward, the in 2015. company will Cooperating with Business Partners © Willy Berré Photographe Green Marathon continue contributing to the safety and security of the Supporting Disadvantaged Children (USA) community through Konica Minolta Business Solutions U.S.A. engages in a wide cooperation with range of social contributions in fields such as education, medical institutions, healthcare, the environment, and disaster relief. In fiscal 2014, waterworks the company continued to participate in activities such as the departments, and fire Back to School program that provides school supplies to departments. Ceremony marking the Disaster disadvantaged children, the Food for Thought program that Cooperation Agreement supplies groceries to families in need, and the Books2BETTER program that provides books to young Supporting Children with Disabilities (China) children from low-income families. Growing Together with Our Employees Konica Minolta Business Solutions (China) has been supporting six schools in Shanghai and Beijing for children Broad Support for NPO Activities (Australia) with special needs since fiscal 2007. The company has Konica Minolta Business Solutions Australia supports the presented the schools with color textbooks printed on activities of a variety of local NPOs such as The Smith Family, Konica Minolta high-speed MFPs and stationery, and which supports education, training, and lifelong learning for employees volunteer at the schools. In fiscal 2014, the disadvantaged young people, the Breast Cancer Network of company supported a total of eight schools in Shanghai, Australia, which supports breast cancer patients, Project Beijing, Guangzhou, and Wuxi. Futures, which works against global human trafficking, and Konica Minolta has also conducted a painting contest Landcare Australia, a natural environment conservation at the schools with the theme of “Dream in Green and Draw organization. The the Future in Color” since fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2014, the company provides fourth year of the contest, there were 63 submissions, and support in various the 20 award-winning children were given scholarships. ways, including donations, event sponsorship, the Contributing to Society provision of workspace and printers, and the volunteerism of its Participating in a Landcare Australia event employees. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 44 Management System Konica Minolta views strengthening corporate governance as an important management issue. Accordingly, it has adopted a “company with committees” system consisting of the Nominating, Audit and Compensation Committees. The company has established a governance system that eliminated dependency on personal characteristics with the aim of enhancing corporate value. Company with Committees Corporate Governance Konica Minolta has adopted a “company with committees” system, enabling the management supervisory function of the Konica Minolta believes that improving corporate governance directors to be separated from the business execution is a vital part of fulfilling its responsibilities to stakeholders. The function of the executive officers. company is continuing to reform its management and The executive officers perform decision-making and governance structure to ensure more timely and appropriate business execution, as entrusted by the Board of Directors. decision-making on matters such as restructuring. The content of this business execution is subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and to audits by the Audit Committee, which enhances the effectiveness, validity, legality Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Reporting & proposals Candidate appointment & dismissal Candidate appointment & dismissal Board of Directors (management supervisory function) Nominating Committee Board of Directors Reporting Compensation Committee Audit Committee Reporting & proposals Candidate Audit Empowerment Supervise appointment & dismissal Audit Committee Office Audit mechanism Executive Officers (business execution function) Construct and execute internal control systems (reporting/directives mechanism) Coordination President & CEO (Management Council Meetings) Directives Management Executive Meeting Various Committees* Corporate Audit Division Regulations and Provisions Audit Reporting Executive Officers Note: Committees related to internal controls Risk Management Committee, Compliance Committee, Corporate Information Disclosure Committee, Investment Assessment Committee, Business Assessment Committee. Board of Directors and Three Committees (as of June 19, 2015) Chairman Board of Directors (11 people) Nominating Committee Audit Committee Compensation Committee Directors (Chairman of the Board) Outside Director Outside Director Non-Executive Officers Outside Director (7 people) Outside Director Director Director Director, President and CEO Representative Executive Officer Directors and Executive Officers Director, Senior Executive Officer Directors who are also executive officers do not serve as members of the three committees. (4 people) Director, Senior Executive Officer Director, Senior Executive Officer 45 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Compliance About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Corporate Governance About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Risk Management and soundness of the management. composed of officers responsible for various corporate The Board of Directors includes four outside directors, functions, serves as an advisory body for the Chief who are highly independent and have no significant business Compliance Officer. relations with the company. A majority of directors do not To promote compliance in each department at Konica serve as executive officers. Minolta, Inc., the General Manager of each department serves There are three committees within the Board of as the official responsible for compliance. At subsidiaries Directors: the Nominating, the Audit, and the Compensation inside and outside Japan, the president of each subsidiary committees—all of which are chaired by outside directors. serves as the official responsible for promoting compliance at Although the law in Japan only requires that no executive each company. The Chief Compliance Officer also reports to officers serve on the Audit Committee, Konica Minolta has the Audit Committee periodically on the Group-wide implemented a system in which its executive officers do not compliance situation. serve on any of these committees, in order to ensure better transparency. Global Group Support System The Legal Division at Konica Minolta, Inc. drafts important matters and measures for promoting Group compliance to Compliance assist the Chief Compliance Officer. The Legal Division also assists with the compliance activities of each department and At Konica Minolta, the Chief Compliance Officer appointed by subsidiary directly and indirectly. the Board of Directors determines matters important for The Chief Compliance Officer also appoints Regional promoting Group compliance and is responsible for Compliance Coordinators in Europe, North America, and promoting and overseeing compliance under the President China to implement activities to promote compliance in and CEO of Konica Minolta, Inc., who has ultimate accordance with the circumstances of each region overseas. responsibility for Group compliance. To fulfill that responsibility, the Group Compliance Committee, which is Group Compliance Promotion System Konica Minolta Group Konica Minolta, Inc. Board of Directors Nominating Committee Audit Committee Compensation Committee President & CEO Ultimate responsibility on Group compliance Appointment Opinions Council and reports Chief Compliance Officer Group Compliance Committee Overall management of Group compliance Officers Appointment Report Assistant Report Department supporting compliance promotion (Legal Division) Support Appointment Official responsible for departmental compliance = General Manager of each department Compliance promotion of each department and compliance management of subsidiaries under its control Report Official responsible for compliance at subsidiaries (President of each company) Compliance promotion of each company and compliance management of subsidiaries under its control Report Report Support Regional Compliance Coordinator KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 46 Management System Anti-corruption Initiatives Compliance with Antitrust Laws The basic policy on preventing corruption is set forth in Konica Minolta works at establishing policies and the Konica Minolta Group Guidance for the Charter of providing education related to antitrust laws according to Corporate Behavior, which provides common compliance the laws and business environment of each region. guidance for the Konica Minolta Group. It includes a Accordingly, antitrust law measures have been prohibition on extorting gifts and entertainment, on positioned as a common, worldwide theme in the Group’s accepting bribes, and a ban on any contact with annual compliance policy. Compliance promotion support organized criminal elements. Konica Minolta ascertains departments and Regional Compliance Coordinators in and responds to country risk related to corruption with Europe, North America, and China have taken the lead in reference to sources such as Transparency formulating policies aligned with the laws and business International’s*1 Corruption Perception Index.*2 Preventing environments in each region and providing ongoing corruption is designated as a common, worldwide priority education. in the Group’s annual compliance policy. The Group’s The principal initiatives in fiscal 2014 included raising compliance promotion support departments take the lead awareness about antitrust laws through educational in formulating measures aligned with the laws and programs about compliance for employees at each level, practices in each country and provide ongoing education education for company presidents and sales department in cooperation with Regional Compliance Coordinators. general managers in Europe, and education about the The principal initiatives in fiscal 2014 included the Subcontract Act, a complementary law of the creation of an Anti-Corruption, Anti-Bribery policy Antimonopoly Act, for production departments in Japan. document at the North American office equipment and In fiscal 2014, there were no problems related to business solutions sales company, education on antitrust laws. commercial bribery in China at 13 Chinese subsidiaries, seminars in Japan on responding to transparency guidelines in the healthcare industry, and anti-corruption Risk Management legal training in Japan for staff responsible for transactions in China and the U.S. Executive officers are responsible for various risks In China, specific guidelines regarding gift giving and including managing strategic risks, financial risks, risks entertainment were created as a guide for anti-corruption pertinent to environmental regulations and hazard risks. measures in the Compliance Manual for China. They identify and evaluate these risks and develop and Additionally, Konica Minolta shared best practices from monitor countermeasures in their respective spheres of initiatives at each company and promoted practical management. Additionally, the Risk Management anti-corruption measures in line with the relevant laws in Committee, chaired by an executive officer appointed by each country, exemplified by America’s Foreign Corrupt the Board of Directors, is convened periodically and as Practices Act, the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act, and necessary. The Committee examines the risks identified China’s Law Against Unfair Competition. by each executive officer, as well as the countermeasures There were no incidents regarding bribery or in place. The Committee then checks to ensure that the corruption in fiscal 2014. risk management system is functioning effectively, making revisions where necessary. The Group responds as a *1 Transparency International: an international NPO that acts to prevent corruption, especially bribery. whole to risks judged as particularly important, led by an *2 Corruption Perception Index: an index produced by Transparency International (TI) executive officer appointed by the chairperson. The which surveys and numerically ranks the level of corruption in relations between the public and private sectors by country. activities of the Risk Management Committee are periodically reported to the Audit Committee. 47 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 Data Human Resources Data Summary Employee Composition by Employment Status (As of March 31, 2015) Regular employees Non-regular employees* Total Konica Minolta, Inc. 6,348 2,039 8,387 Group companies in Japan 12,154 3,726 15,880 Group companies outside Japan 29,444 3,248 32,692 Konica Minolta Group (worldwide) 41,598 6,974 48,572 Note: Non-regular employees: Contract or temporary employees Employee Gender Ratio (As of May 2015) (Women:Men) Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Konica Minolta, Inc.*1 16:84 16:84 16:84 Konica Minolta Group (worldwide)* 2 31:69 *1 Includes employees seconded to Group companies but not employees seconded from Group companies *2 Covers over 85% of the consolidated Group on a number of personnel basis Percentage of Women in Management Positions (As of May 2015) Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Konica Minolta, Inc.*1 1.8% 2.1% 2.7% Konica Minolta Group (worldwide)* 2 15.1% *1 Includes employees seconded to Group companies but not employees seconded from Group companies *2 Covers over 85% of the consolidated Group on a number of personnel basis Percentage of Employees with Disabilities (As of June of each fiscal year) Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Employment rate 1.93% 1.94% 2.02% Note: For Konica Minolta, Inc., up through fiscal 2013. From fiscal 2014, total for Konica Minolta, Inc., Konica Minolta With You, Inc., and Konica Minolta Electronics Co., Ltd. because of the establishment of the special subsidiary Konica Minolta With You. The period for ascertaining the figures was changed to June of each fiscal year. Work-life Balance Support Program Use Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Women Men Women Men Women Men Maternal health management leave 3 1 2 Maternity leave 37 30 19 Spousal maternity leave 137 129 115 Parental leave 51 9 61 2 61 5 Shorter working hours for childcare 166 3 156 3 159 3 Work-at-home during child-rearing 13 5 16 2 18 2 Nursing care leave 3 2 1 0 0 3 Shorter working hours for nursing care 2 0 0 0 0 0 Note: Boundary: Regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 48 Data Environmental Data Summary Overall View of Environmental Impacts Resulting from Business Activities INPUT Konica Minolta OUTPUT Resources Petroleum-based resources (47.8 kt) (Usage in products) Non-petroleum-based resources (64.3 kt) Procurement Atmosphere CO2 emissions (375.6 kt-CO2) Atmosphere CO2 emissions (312.4 kt-CO2) Energy Electricity (383 million kWh) SOx (0 t), NOx (56.4 t), Soot and dust (0.6 t) Fossil fuels (2,480 TJ) Production/ Wastewater Wastewater (3,138 thousand m3) COD (0.1 t), Phosphorous (0.03 t), Nitrogen (1.0 t) Water Water consumption (3,569 thousand m3) Research and Water recycled/reused (32.8 thousand m3) development Waste Total waste (20.8 kt), Waste discharged externally (14.7 kt), Amount recycled (14.3 kt), Final disposal (21.0 t) Resources Amount recycled internally (6.0 kt) Chemical Substances Atmospheric emissions of VOCs (252 t) Energy Fossil fuels (467.2 TJ) Resources Packaging materials usage (29.6 kt) Distribution Atmosphere CO2 emissions (33.6 kt-CO2) Energy Electricity (76.8 million kWh) Atmosphere CO2 emissions (offices) (41.2 kt-CO2) Fossil fuels (offices) (68.0 TJ) Sales and CO2 emissions (vehicles) (45.4 kt-CO2) Fossil fuels (vehicles) (670.9 TJ) service* Waste Waste discharged externally (3.0 kt) Energy Electricity (589.5 million kWh) Usage Atmosphere CO2 emissions (295.9 kt-CO2) Resources Resources Product recovery (16.8 kt) Recovery (product recovery) Product recovered and recycled (16.6 kt) * Boundary: All consolidated sales companies worldwide Main Environmental Performance Data Product Lifecycle CO2 Emissions Energy Input (Production / R&D) Product use Sales and service Distribution Production Procurement stage (TJ) (kt-CO2) 8,000 1,600 7,194 7,371 7,375 6,493 6,231 1,331 1,295 6,000 1,200 1,226 1,108 1,063 4,000 800 400 2,000 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Total Waste (Production / R&D) Water Usage (Tons) (Thousand m3) 36,000 6,000 5,823 5,962 5,839 31,626 32,315 30,679 27,000 4,500 4,383 21,527 20,763 3,569 18,000 3,000 9,000 1,500 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) 49 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environmental Management at Konica Minolta > Environmental Data Calculating CO2 Emissions Across the Entire Supply Chain Konica Minolta has calculated the CO2 emissions associated that encourage customers to save energy, in addition to with the Group’s activities across its entire supply chain, from reducing the power consumption of the products themselves. the upstream to the downstream aspects of its operations, Konica Minolta will share information with relevant based generally on the standards of the GHG Protocol,* the stakeholders in the future based on the results of these international standard. The calculation showed that CO2 calculations and move forward with CO2 emissions management emissions throughout the supply chain were approximately and reduction activities throughout the supply chain. 1.37 million tons, which represents a decrease of about 2.7% * GHG Protocol: Guidelines for calculating and reporting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from fiscal 2013. Emissions from the Group’s activities—including direct emissions from fuel use (Scope 1) plus indirect emissions Overall View of CO2 Emissions Across the Entire Supply Chain of Konica Minolta from the consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam Scope 3 (968 thousand tons) Scope 1 (171 thousand tons) (Scope 2)—total approximately 0.4 million tons, or about 29% Other categories (3,5,6,7,8,14,15) *1 Production/R&D of all emissions. Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) 69 thousand tons 123 thousand tons associated with the Group’s activities totaled approximately Sales and service Category 4 (Upstream Transportation 0.97 million tons, accounting for about 71%. The CO2 and Distribution) 48 thousand tons emissions for “purchased goods and services,” account for 51 thousand tons*2 Scope 2 27.5% of emissions across the entire supply chain. The Total (227 thousand tons) Category 12 (End-of-Life Group is continuing its efforts to reduce emissions by setting Treatment of Sold Products) 1,367 Production/R&D targets in cooperation with suppliers. It is providing technical 64 thousand tons thousand 189 thousand tons tons assistance and making suggestions for the improvement of Category 2 (Capital Goods) Sales and service 112 thousand tons 38 thousand tons suppliers’ production processes in an effort to reduce material and energy use. In product development, the company is Category 11 (Use of Sold Products) Category 1 (Purchased Goods and Services) 296 thousand tons 376 thousand tons working to develop recycled plastics and design smaller and lighter products, which reduces the input of resources. In *1 Categories 3 (Fueland energy-related activities), 5 (Waste generated in operations), 6 (Business travel), terms of the “use of sold products,” which accounts for 7 (Employee commuting), 8 (Upstream leased assets),14 (Franchises), and 15 (Investments) *2 CO2 emissions attributed to product distribution: 34 thousand tons 21.7% of emissions, the Group is working to develop features Note: Figures do not necessarily match total because of rounding. Environmental Accounting Konica Minolta has implemented global-scale, consolidated to an increase in costs for the development of environmentally environmental accounting in order to quantitatively assess the friendly products in the areas of business technologies and costs of environmental preservation in business operations functional products. Investment was about 1.2 billion yen and and the benefits obtained from those activities. was mainly related to next-generation products in the area of In fiscal 2014, costs increased 13% year on year to functional materials. around 14.2 billion yen. The increase was mainly attributable Other 1% Environmental remediation Pollution prevention Pollution prevention Upstream/downstream Preventing global warming 2% 17% 10% 14% 13% Social activity 1% Preventing global warming 5% Investment Expenditures Resource Economic Preventing circulation Benefits global warming R&D 9% Resource R&D 45% 1,202 30% 48% 14,243 22,391 circulation 73% million yen million yen Upstream/ million yen downstream 15% Resource circulation Administration 9% 11% Note: Percentages do not necessarily total to 100 because of rounding. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 50 Expert Opinion of Konica Minolta’s CSR Report We asked Yoshinao Kozuma, Professor of Economics at Sophia University, to give us some feedback on this report. His comments are presented below. We will use this feedback to improve our future CSR activities and our 2016 CSR Report. 1. Starting Declaration toward Sustainable Society In recent years, Konica Minolta has been rapidly strengthening the creation of shared value as the direction for its CSR management. In this year’s Message from the President, Mr. Yamana referred to the connection between the Group’s long-term growth strategy and the creation of shared value with society, making that direction even clearer. This takes the management philosophy that Konica Minolta has aspired to since its founding, “The Creation of New Value,” beyond merely creating products and services that fulfill customer needs and shows that it includes a corporate commitment to pursue harmonious co-existence with society and the environment. I think that it is also Konica Minolta’s new starting declaration toward sustainable society. This fiscal year, Konica Minolta also earned a variety of highly competitive external evaluations, including first place in the overall manufacturing sector on the Environmental Management Survey, first place in the overall ranking on the Quality Management Level Research, and selection as a Health and Productivity Management Brand by Japan’s Yoshinao Kozuma Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. These Professor, Faculty of Economics, achievements are the product of steady efforts and a progressive corporate mission, and Sophia University they add a brilliant splash of color to the starting declaration. 2. Supporting Environmental Activities throughout the Value Chain The fiscal 2014 initiative I would most like to highlight is Konica Minolta’s support for environmental activities throughout the value chain. Through this initiative, the Group shares the environmental management technology and know-how it has cultivated with suppliers and customers. The initiative consists of Green Supplier Activities for suppliers that agree with the intent of the activities and environmental management support for customers, even those with which it does not do business. The former strengthens relationships with suppliers while establishing a solid supply chain with excellent cost efficiency. The latter encourages the identification of business opportunities by increasing customers’ degree of trust in environmental management. These initiatives will contribute to the reduction of environmental impact throughout society and can be expected to have a large effect on Konica Minolta’s creation of shared value in the future. 3. Handling Quantitative Data The change to G4 as the reporting guideline has brought about an improvement in information disclosure. I think that this will help with the development of the reporting structure. However, there are still a few issues in the handling of quantitative data. Indication of the number of employees by gender is standard in G4, and so the company needs to switch from the current proportional representation to a real number representation. Also, this fiscal year, the graphs of environmental data were moved to the end of the report, but you must review which graphs need to be included, since the current graphs do not necessarily illustrate the important issues laid out in the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016. Further, the fact that the next year’s goals were not included alongside the goals and performance of environmental activities shows that there is room for improvement, as the Report should disclose the actual status of PDCA management. I hope that the company will consider making improvements regarding these issues in next year’s report. 51 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 External Assurance Konica Minolta engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to provide assurance on whether its CO2 emissions from procurement, production/research and development, product distribution, sales and service, and product usage; energy use; waste discharged externally from manufacturing; atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs); and water consumption have been measured, gathered and disclosed in accordance with the criteria set by the Group. Period: March to June 2015 On-site audit of the Tatsuno Factory of Konica Minolta Supplies Manufacturing Comments from the Assurance Provider Naomi Sugo, KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. This CSR report is composed of material CSR themes outliers. I think this has made a stronger system for gathering identified based on a materiality analysis. I think that it has more precise data. As the types of products produced and become more focused on issues that are important for Konica business sites change, one challenge is how to reflect those Minolta. The report should include an explanation of the kinds changes in a timely manner in the scope of data collection. of policies, goals, and targets that have been established for The scope of energy usage data was expanded this each material theme as well as the degree of achievement at year to include energy usage at sales and service sites present. Some parts of the goals and targets are not very outside Japan, and the gender percentages for employees clear for several of the material themes, and I hope that this and the percentage of female managers are now reported on will be addressed from the next CSR report onward. a global basis. I think that this gives a clearer picture of the In fiscal 2014, the system for gathering environmental data Konica Minolta Group overall. was updated, including the adoption of a function to detect KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2015 52 KONICA MINOLTA, INC. 2-7-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-7015, Japan For inquiries CSR, Corporate Communications & Branding Division Phone: +81-3-6250-2120 FAX: +81-3-3218-1368 E-mail: csr-support@konicaminolta.jp www.konicaminolta.com 1508BCD
