Contents 2/ About the Report 72/ Community / Society 4/ Care, Share & Grow 84/ Customers 6/ Message from Leadership 90/ Suppliers 8/ Mainstreaming 94/ Performance Snapshot Sustainability at GAIL 103/ Independent Assurance 14/ About GAIL Statement 20/ Accolades and Recognition 105/ GRI Application Level 22/ Corporate Governance 107/ Glossary 28/ Sustainability Strategy 109/ GRI Content Index 34/ Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 123/ Linkage with API/IPIECA 50/ Shareholders / Investors Guidelines & UNGC Principles 62/ Employees 124/ Linkage with NVG-SEE Care, Share & Grow 2 Sustainability Report 2013-14 About The Report Since its inception, GAIL has been guided by the objective to be a good corporate citizen. This philosophy to operate responsibly is derived from GAIL’s vision which has sustainable development as one of its key elements. While accelerating and optimizing the use of natural gas and its fractions to benefit Indian economy, GAIL remains committed to a culture of care, share and grow by creating value for all stakeholders while taking along its stakeholders in the growth journey. With this background, GAIL decided external factors, information on exercise. The details on the material to reflect upon its sustainability all relevant indicators of GRI G3.1 + issues that emerged from this performance in a transparent OGSS (2011) have been disclosed. exercise have been addressed in the manner through sustainability relevant sections of the report. In addition to GRI G3.1 & OGSS report. First such report for GAIL guidelines, the report is also aligned Since GAIL has been reporting its was prepared for Financial Year to meet the requirements of: performance on Sustainability (FY) 2010-11. Since then we have parameters for the past few years, continued the practice of publishing  Nine principles of National systems are already in place to the sustainability report on an Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) compile, monitor, and report on annual basis and circulating it on Social, Environmental and indicators related to sustainability amongst the relevant stakeholders. Economic responsibilities of performance as presented in the GAIL’s sustainability reports are business, published by the report. Relevant information and structured with the focus on each Ministry of Corporate Affairs, data, for this report, has been of its stakeholders which play an Government of India collected periodically from the important role in its operations  Oil and Gas industry guidance concerned departments of facilities and functions. The report covers on voluntary sustainability located across India and reported the Company’s sustainability reporting (2010) developed to the Corporate Sustainability performance for the FY 2013-14. All by IPIECA, the global oil and Team. In order to automate Corporate Sustainability Reports gas industry association for sustainability data management are publicly available on GAIL’s environmental and social exercise, e-Sustainability module website (www.gailonline.com). issues and the American was prepared in-house for the This report is aligned to the GRI Petroleum Institute (API) purpose of collecting and managing G3.1 Guidelines on Sustainability sustainability related data from Reporting and the Oil & Gas  Principles and disclosure different units. The data presented Sector Supplement (OGSS). requirements under United in the report is verified by the unit The disclosures presented in Nations Global Compact heads. this section are in line with the (UNGC) While the Report captures the requirements of the application In order to identify key data for the FY 2013-14; to give level ‘A+’. Based on the materiality sustainability issues for our a balanced perspective of our matrix (from the materiality company, we conducted materiality performance, the report also exercise) and other internal and Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 3  LPG pumping / receiving stations at Abu Road, Cherlappali, G Konduru, Jamnagar, Kandla, Loni, Mansarampura, Nasirabad, Samakhiali and Vizag;  Regional pipeline offices at Agartala, Baroda, Mumbai, Puducherry and Rajahmundry;  GAIL Training Institute (GTI) at Jaipur and Noida;  Corporate Office at New Delhi; and  Info Hub at Noida. The E&P, joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities are out of scope & Boundary elaborates some of GAIL’s critical projections involve a certain degree achievements, developments of uncertainty as the end result As per this reporting boundary, and on-going initiatives in the is dependent on future market all aspects are reported for sustainability domain beyond the conditions and geo-political India region (unless otherwise reporting period. developments, most of which are mentioned). beyond GAIL’s control or cannot be There has been no change in the Assumptions, standard equations predicted with certainty. While we and calculation methodologies for scope; boundary and certain strive to achieve progress on these modification in the measurement estimation and quantification of issues, exact outcome cannot be data, have been used as and when methods for this year’s report have ensured in all cases. been made. Further, there has not required. These assumptions / disclosures have been mentioned For all monetary values presented been any significant change which wherever the assumptions across this report, an exchange rate would affect the comparability of have been made. Although the of 1USD = INR 58.94 has been used. the report. e-Sustainability module provides a robust framework for data management, we continue to Report Scope Assurance improve our data management systems and as a result, we have and Boundary All sustainability reports of GAIL have been assured by external third made certain amendments to The report includes the following party. Continuing with the practice, its approach followed last year, operations:this year’s Sustainability Report resulting in variation of some data has been assured by M/s DNV GL, indicators; the same has been  Gas Processing Units (GPUs) at This is a Type 2 Moderate level explained wherever relevant. Gandhar, Pata, Usar, Vaghodia assured report based on AA1000 and Vijaipur; (2008) Standard. Assurance At certain instances, projections process includes data verification have been made which relate  Petrochemical unit at Pata; at different sites of GAIL that will to GAIL’s strategy, operations, continue to help GAIL improve its  Natural Gas compressor performance goals and targets, processes and data management stations at Dibiyapur, Hazira, business plans, research & mechanisms. Jhabua, Khera, Vaghodia and development and investments Vijaipur; in the countries, sectors or markets where it operates. Such Care, Share & Grow 4 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Care, Share & Grow Energising Tomorrow Responsibly, GAIL cares for all its stakeholders,  Grow: GAIL abides by the our third Sustainability report, shares the value generated through principle of “inclusive growth”, focused on our commitment and its business, and takes along the making stakeholders as our orientation towards Action. With stakeholders as we continue to partners as we grow. GAIL this intent, as we move ahead in broaden our horizons. shall continue to explore new our efforts to achieve the goals avenues of business growth  Care: GAIL has always been we set for ourselves, our fourth that enables cleaner energy and will continue to care for Sustainability ReportCare, security for the nation. We the environment and the Share & Grow highlights the path contributed INR 1900 Crores society in which it functions. we aim to traverse together with towards under recoveries It has also taken up various our stakeholders. claimed by Oil Marketing initiatives during the course Companies as communicated With GAIL completing its three of the year to protect and by MoPNG. GAIL strives decades of growth trajectory, we restore the environment. to provide value to their aim to emerge as a global Gas This year we allocated 2% of customers to achieve greater major with roots in India. GAIL is the our PAT towards various CSR customer delight thereby youngest PSE to be bestowed with initiatives. We consciously enabling greater returns for the coveted status of Maharatna work towards improving the the investors. for Indian Public Sector enterprise. societal condition of the areas As rightly said, “With great power we operate in, as a socially and With the challenges that lie ahead in comes great responsibility”, we environmentally responsible the dynamic business environment, believe that the onus lies on us corporate citizen. our focus remains on responsible to reciprocate by aiming for a growth. We will continue to  Share: GAIL believes in remain committed to our business leadership role and moving beyond co-creating value for all philosophy to grow in a sustainable the traditional realms of business. stakeholders. We engage manner which is an integral part of with all our stakeholders to ethos of how we operate. understand and address their needs and concerns to build We truly believe in caring for the lasting relationship. Our focus stakeholders; sharing the value remains on providing long term with them and growing together solutions to our stakeholders towards a sustainable future. This for mutual benefit. We truly way forward in our sustainability believe in sharing the fruits of journey through ‘Care, Share & success with our stakeholders, Grow’, forms the theme for this promoting well-being and year’s sustainability report. equitable development of society. This year we contributed INR 6993 Crores to the ex-chequer. Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 5 Care, Share & Grow 6 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Message from Leadership CMD Message GAIL’s Sustainability Report standards under sustainability underlying philosophy of these 2014, is the fourth edition in a row practices, on the operations front aspirations is now embedded in presenting the company’s progress too, the Administrative office block our organizational character. The under ‘Sustainability Aspirations at Chainsa, NCR recently bagged company has also made rapid 2020’ and other correlated the Green Building Award certified strides towards creating a portfolio programmes. The report has been by GRIHA, a first for any building of renewable businesses (solar, independently verified and the of a PSU. Further, the landmark 22 wind etc.) in order to increase the disclosures are in accordance with storied office building of GAIL at share of clean energy in the overall the G3.1 guidelines of the Global Noida has been constructed as per energy mix. Reporting Initiative (GRI). the LEED Green building norms. A significant achievement for us The initiatives of GAIL across It gives me great pleasure in sharing this year has been the successful various programmes under the that GAIL has made significant validation and registration with Corporate Social responsibility progress in achieving self-driven UNFCCC for availing carbon credits have brought about positive targets under Sustainability from our Landfill Gas recovery transformation in over five million Aspirations 2020 over the base project. lives entrenched in disadvantaged year 2010-11. GAIL has been promoting societies during the last three sustainability agenda across years, largely in areas around various platforms and such the company’s operations. In our journey of achieving higher The GHG emissions involvement has gained traction post the company becoming a intensity has reduced member of GRI Focal Point India’s by 42% and so has the Sustainability and Transparency intensity of fresh water Consortium. In our pursuit of creating value around the Triple consumption declined Bottom Line, during the last fiscal by 47%. year, Company’s performance showed an impressive growth of over 20% and returning handsome value to its shareholders. It is quite heartening I convey with profound grief that that these voluntary there has been a pipeline blow-out targets have along GAIL’s Tatipaka-Kondapalli been received pipeline on 27th June 2014 causing enthusiastically by fatalities. As an abiding corporate our employees citizen, GAIL undertook immediate and that the measure of rescue, relief and rehabilitation operations to render service to the affected people of Nagaram Village. As a precautionary measure, a series of measures have been initiated Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 7 to reassess health and integrity of index of the country in the years Our philosophy of creating value pipelines and other hydrocarbon to come. For fulfilling these beyond business and keeping assets of the Company. In order aspirations, India will need to strive sustainable development at the to compare and recalibrate for securing uninterrupted flow of heart of business is embodied in our operational benchmarks clean and affordable energy supply. this report aptly titled “Care, Share vis-à-vis that of global majors, & Grow” and reasserts our resolve progress is underway to engage an to create a sustainable future for International consultant of repute our stakeholders. for the task. The HSE department GAIL took the I hope this report serves to be an has launched an internal drive pioneering step to interesting read and also providing to reinforce the ethos of ZERO promote and accelerate a glimpse of GAIL’s efforts towards tolerance to deviations to Standard operating procedures (SOP) and the growth of natural shaping a sustainable future. also sensitizing on safety related gas in the Country and issues. has tied up affordable As the company remains committed LNG/Natural gas to delivering enduring value to all its stakeholders, the organisation through various B C Tripathi shall stand focused in maintaining International sources Chairman & Managing Director world class standards for ensuring operational safety and efficiency during the recent past of the hydrocarbon assets. Our on long-term basis young workforce remains our aggregating to about greatest strength and lends the organization energy, dynamism 70 mmscmd in addition and professionalism. An inclusive to serving the country’s approach to our recruitment process has resulted in a very gas requirement heterogeneous work force. We hope through short-term to nurture this diversity to stand deals. apart as a model employer amongst the public sectors. Today, the country is in the cusp of Amidst the spurt in demand for yet another spell of an accelerated the primary energy, GAIL also growth of GDP after having clocked recognizes the urgent need sub 5% growth levels in the last for adopting and promoting two consecutive years. Energy is technologies along the gas value poised to play a key role in driving chain to significantly cut back on India’s economic growth but also carbon footprint for ensuring a in shaping social progress and healthier environment improving the Human Development Care, Share & Grow 8 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Mainstreaming Sustainability at GAIL GAIL acknowledges the fact that GAIL has formed the Sustainable to further strengthen the it cannot pursue sustainable Development Committee at the integration of sustainability in our growth without performing well Board level which has received business. GAIL is also continuously on the economic, environmental active participation from different working towards increasing and social parameters. At GAIL, functions including projects, awareness about sustainability we believe that by integrating marketing, business development, amongst employees and has a these parameters into our overall finance and human resource. target to achieve 100% awareness performance, we would be able to Additionally, operations, finance about sustainability and related respond to the rising expectations and accounts, human resource, law, issues by 2020. These initiatives of the society, customers, training, corporate communication, have enabled us to create a better employees, investors and other corporate social responsibility, understanding and sensitization of stakeholders. With this view, our Company Secretariat marketing, employees enabling us to achieve leadership guides us in integrating and corporate planning, HSE teams greater sustainability across our and mainstreaming sustainability in participate in the Sustainable operations. our business activities. Development Steering Committee Executive Seminar by TERI BCSD team at GAIL Office Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 9 Prabhat Singh Director Marketing As India’s leading Natural Gas Major, and update the product / market concluded the 8th chapter of its it has been instrumental in the developments in Retail Business, Biennial mega event Asia Gas development of the Natural Gas for mutual benefit. This augurs well Partnership Summit. Suppliers, market in the country. GAIL holds with our Company’s commitment Customers and Service providers in around 67% market share in India’s gas to serve our customers in the best the energy sector have gathered to marketing. way possible. This year our customer discuss extending support to each satisfaction index stood at 92.03%. other for a rewarding and sustainable We at GAIL believe that India’s growing relationship. population and sustained economic GAIL’s responsibility is to ensure growth will continue to drive the supply of energy in a safe and In its bid to diversify its energy demand for energy. Gas transmission environmental friendly manner. portfolio efficiently, GAIL has signed infrastructure plays crucial role in The report of the Working Group on a long term Gas supply & Tolling the gas industry for efficient delivery Petroleum and Natural Gas sector agreement with renowned firms of gas to end consumers. GAIL has for the 12th Five-Year Plan (2012-17) in North America for a total of 5.8 adopted a Gas Management System envisages import of 264 MMSCMD MMTPA of LNG. Biggest benefit of to handle multiple sources of supply of Natural gas in 2016-17 to meet imports from USA is booming shale and delivery of gas in a co-mingled the overall demand of Natural gas gas production and indexing with form and provide a seamless in India. Our focus thus remains on Henry Hub prices, which GAIL believes interface. Along with this, we also ensuring energy security for the would benefit customers in India. have focused approach towards Nation. We have contracted gas As a young and effervescent executing spurlines connectivity to supplies of around 86 MMSCMD corporate, technology has been a the last mile consumer. This year we from Qatar, Australia, USA, Russia unique forte of GAIL. We at GAIL extended last mile connectivity to and Turkmenistan through multiple realized that it is important to 66 members of consumers supplying LNG and transnational pipeline deals. create a platform where one way around 5.55 MMSCMD of Natural Further, GAIL has commissioned communication with stakeholders can gas. It is noteworthy that these Dabhol LNG terminal on the western give way to a two-way dialogue and consumers are in medium and small coast of the country and signed a 25 this communication to happen on a manufacturing enterprise category, year tolling agreement to provide real time basis. Taking cognizance of who were earlier dependent on a firm commercial footing for its this, we launched the official blog site costlier and more polluting liquid fuels. imports of long term volumes. Cleaner GAILVoice.com that will be the first These enterprises are also major job LNG from Dabhol terminal shall be among any energy company in India. creators for the economy. Switching serving customers in Western and GAILVoice.com along with our other over to natural gas shall increase their Southern India through GAIL pipelines. social media pages is aimed to create competitiveness. Its GAIL’s endeavour to augment that platform where our customers, India’s supply options. In addition, we The major focus of our Company is to our beneficiaries, employees, people are also focusing on making upstream maintain its dominant position in the at large can come share their views, investments in gas assets, liquefaction gas business. We believe that this can share our content and make an all-out facilities and LNG shipping to have be achieved by maintaining the cordial attempt to help us create a better presence in entire LNG value chain. relationship with existing as well as tomorrow together. by adding new customers. At GAIL To showcase India’s prominence Partnering with our stakeholders, we we conduct ‘Customer Interactive and desire for global partnerships care, share and grow together. Meets’ at regular intervals to exchange in energy sector, GAIL had recently Care, Share & Grow 10 Sustainability Report 2013-14 S. Venkatraman Director Business Development Moving ahead in our Sustainability journey, technological capabilities through our precautions, during the year, some our fourth edition of the sustainability R&D projects. Our pilot project for Landfill unfortunate fatal accidents occurred at report “Care, Share and Grow’ FY-13-14 Gas recovery has been completed and GAIL Project Construction Sites involving focuses our effort and commitments successfully validated and registered workmen of contractors engaged by GAIL. to our stakeholders. Sustainability with UNFCCC for availing carbon credits. The matter has been reviewed in details reporting has been a tool to step ahead As part of the activities of Sectoral by the HSE Committee of Board and from measuring to managing through Innovation Council by MoPNG, GAIL has appropriate actions have been taken to actions. Our fourth sustainability report been nominated as the coordinator for enhance overall safety management and analyses our actions and take a step in this mid-stream sector of Oil & Gas industries strictly comply to safety norms. direction, to tread the path of sustainable and aims to promote industry-wide growth along with our stakeholders. Innovation in the sector. I would like to inform our esteemed stakeholders that there was a fire and With India’s real economic growth As we broad based our Sustainable burst in one of GAIL’s pipelines in Andhra averaging around 8 per cent in the past Development Committee to include all Pradesh, Southern India on early morning decade, energy demand is expected to Functional directors, our efforts have of 27.6.14 (which is beyond the reporting continue to rise. To meet the growing been focused towards mainstreaming period). GAIL’s Crisis Management System energy demand over the next few years, sustainability and taking initiatives across was invoked immediately with isolation India will have to enhance its energy various dimensions of GAIL. This year of the affected pipeline section. Fire was security, guaranteeing three factors – we engaged with various organisations brought under control within 1 ½ hours availability, accessibility and affordability in the sustainability domain. We became with the help of fire tenders from GAIL of energy resources. While the country the founding member of the GRI Focal Point and other agencies. The matter is being has surplus refining capacity and is an India’s Sustainability and Transparency investigated by a high level committee. exporter of petroleum products, major Consortium which gave us an opportunity to Subsequent to this incident, GAIL has investments will have to be made in represent GAIL at various forums, nationally taken various actions like bench marking the domestic upstream industry and to and internationally. We also engaged with TERI, standard operating process with respect acquire hydrocarbon reserves abroad. FICCI, India GHG Program and other forums to global pipeline operators, preventing Becoming a Maharatna has given GAIL to take forward the sustainability agenda. ingress of off-spec constituents in greater flexibility to pursue M&A Further, to strengthen our sustainability data pipelines, improving pipeline’s cleaning opportunities. Making progress in sourcing management, the e-sustainability module was and monitoring. GAIL Board has recently of LNG and pursuing LNG trading business, developed that enabled accountability and approved replacement of all old pipelines we are focusing on constantly expanding transparency in data management. We also in a phased manner. our global footprint across the natural gas plan on revising our Sustainability Aspirations value chain. This year the gas produced 2020 targets in the coming year. At GAIL alongside our endeavours in from two offshore blocks in Myanmar ensuring sound value creation through our was supplied to China enabling us to Ensuring health and safety of workforce business we will focus our efforts to look achieve a major milestone of becoming a and the communities near our operations beyond our business through interventions gas producer as well as a supplier outside is treated at priority. Taking a systematic in various aspects on environment and India. Expanding our petrochemical approach to promoting behaviour supportive social impacts on the community will business, we entered into elastomer of injury prevention, we initiated Behaviour make sensible decisions that will deliver business for setting Poly Butadiene Based Safety (BBS) across GAIL. In addition, outcomes that are beneficial for everyone. Rubber (PBR) Plant with participation to promote awareness and transparency to the stakeholders, a Corporate Film on “HSE Partnering with our stakeholders, we of ONGC and GAIL playing lead role in care, share and grow together. execution of the project, helping reduce Management System” was released. This India’s dependency on PBR imports. year, our company has achieved HSE Index of 99.64 %. Being an energy company we have taken strategic steps to improve our In spite of GAIL complying to all regulations and taking reasonable safety Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 11 P. K. Jain Director Finance Energy plays an important role in we have been able to get loans achieved. As we progress further overall development of nation. The at the most competitive rates it becomes essential for GAIL uncertainties in the energy supply amongst our peers. While growing to develop strategies that work can hamper the overall functioning in a profitable manner, we have towards a sustainable economy of the economy especially in the embarked upon an uphill journey to without compromising on the developing countries. Achieving improve process and operational environment and society. adequate availability of energy is of efficiencies to improve Revenue Partnering with our stakeholders, fundamental importance not only to and Margins and reduce cost. we care, share and grow together. India’s economic growth but also for Natural gas is expected to the human development objectives. contribute significantly to our In spite of pressing economic energy growth. Natural gas sourcing condition globally, we have through increased domestic witnessed a steady growth with our production and imports; adequate turnover increasing by 21% to INR and timely gas infrastructure, 57,245 crores and PAT increasing development and progressive by 9% to INR 4,375 crores. For FY policy reforms across the value 13-14, we committed over INR 90 chain are underway for ensuring crores for variety of CSR projects accelerated development of and initiatives in and around gas market in the country. We major work centres. This year we are developing supporting contributed over INR 6,993 crores infrastructure to accelerate to the ex-chequer. While we aim for LNG market development in a sustainable growth, we have been India. Continued investment and conscious to share the fruits of enhanced collaboration in the success with our stakeholders. entire value chain among various participants is required to address We believe in developing long-term India’s energy security needs in a relationship with our investors more sustainable and environment and analysts through fair and friendly manner. transparent disclosure and various investor relations activities GAIL has been contributing towards such Investor Conferences, the under recoveries since 2003-04 Analyst meets etc. GAIL has been on petroleum products in order to reaffirmed credit rating of AAA make sensitive petroleum products from ICRA, CARE and CRISIL affordable to domestic consumers. indicating highest credit quality During this year, we contributed and lowest credit risk. Major INR 1900 Crores on account of positives identified by ICRA include sharing under-recovery of Oil regulated and stable return of Marketing Companies. Growing transmission segment, profitability in a transparent manner, we this of Petrochemical segment among year targeted a 4% reduction in others. For our expansion activities, tax cases that we successfully Care, Share & Grow 12 Sustainability Report 2013-14 M. Ravindran Director Human Resources At GAIL we firmly believe that has evolved and implemented Integrated Watershed Development our greatest asset is our human various HR Policies which are and Management ProjectJaldhar, resource and we are committed meant for employee’s welfare endeavouring to address the towards ensuring that its potential and thereby improving aspects social and environmental needs to is harnessed to the fullest towards like safety, Quality of Life and address water requirements of 40 the growth of the organization. Work-Life Balance. This year villages of the drought prone region Employee’s Welfare is one of the new policies such as Prevention, of Jhabua over next 5 years. key foundation stone of GAIL’s Prohibition and Redressal of human resource philosophy. Sexual Harassment of Women at GAIL is committed to invest on There is a deep rooted concept Workplace and Complaint Handling employee oriented initiatives and present in the company’s value Policy were introduced with a view society with a view to tap potential system that corporate growth is a to create more safe and secure of employees while synergizing dimension of employee’s growth workplace women and ensure individual development and and development. In other words, an better Corporate Governance in organizational growth this will be organization’s growth, prosperity the company. This year we initiated the bedrock for the sustenance and and intellectual competence is the process of implementation growth of our Company’s business. reflection of the value it has added of SA8000 standard in phasedDuring the unfortunate accident to its employees. manner for decent work to adopted in a GAIL’s pipeline in June 2014, policies and procedures that 22 persons lost their lives in For our continual efforts to improve protect the basic human rights of the Human resource management Nagaram village. We immediately workers. rushed to the site and mobilized all we have been awarded the ‘Global HR Excellence award for Talent As a corporate citizen we carry resources for rendering relief and Management 2014’ and ‘Best greater responsibilities and have rehabilitation to affected persons Employer 2013-14 for Best HR even greater opportunities to in consultation with State and strategy in line with the business’ by make a real difference. We believe Central Govt. authorities. Approx. World HRD Congress. caring, sharing and responding to INR 8 Cr. has been committed / the needs of people, benefitting disbursed towards ex-gratia, relief, Taking cognizance of the changing communities, and protecting the medical treatment of affected need of the industry from merely environment that will ultimately people and rehabilitation measures acquiring the latest state of the determine the sustainability of our & compensation for damages to the art technologies and equipment continued progress. Our flagship affected families. Regular updates to engaging qualified personnel project ‘Anhad Gram’ aimed at were provided on GAIL’s website suitably equipped with knowledge, providing livelihood opportunities to brief stakeholders about the skills, attitude and a practical to thousands of villagers residing actions being taken by GAIL. Going exposure to the highly specialized in tribal villages of Jhabua, Madhya forward, we propose to engage with jobs; GAIL Training Institutes (GTIs) Pradesh received the Greentech the local community to take up the have been organising various Gold Award and Best Rural developmental and welfare centric training programs focusing on Outreach Programme at World measures in the affected village of building operational and managerial CSR Congress. In addition, Project Nagaram. capabilities working towards Padho and Badho received the Best development of Human Capital of Partnering with our stakeholders, Community Action Programme we care, share and grow together. the Organization. at the World CSR Congress. This Premised on our philosophy, GAIL year we also took up long term Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 13 Ashutosh Karnatak Director Projects We have come a long way Hon’ble Prime Minister of India and benefits to MSMEs which are from starting as a Natural Gas awarded Platts Global Award for generally local & small producers transmission company during excellence in Project Management from the surrounding communities the late eighties to an integrated in 2013. Further, GAIL with the aim near the place of work. Natural Gas Company and last to strengthen nation’s clean energy As we tread our path towards year becoming the youngest portfolio, is one of the nominee growth, we look forward to Public Sector Enterprise to be of MoP&NG for implementing continually towards sharing accorded the Maharatna status. renewable energy projects. value with our stakeholders while GAIL is committed to supplying Currently, our total wind capacity adhering to highest standards of clean energy in a safe, secure stands at about 118MW and 5MW environmental, social and economic and environmentally responsible Solar Plant was commissioned last performance. manner while being committed to year. our stakeholders. Partnering with our stakeholders, In the downstream segment, we care, share and grow together. With pipeline network of around GAIL aspires to be amongst 11,000 Km, the operation and the top petrochemical players maintenance forms the backbone in the country by expanding of the company with majority of existing capacities, setting up manpower contributing towards new plants and acquiring equity better utilization of resources. We stakes in upcoming projects. We consistently endeavour to enhance are in process of doubling our energy efficiency through several petrochemical production capacity initiatives taken across different to 900,000 TPA and green field locations of our operation. As petrochemical projects promoted a first step to integrate energy by GAIL through BCPL and OPaL are management into our overall in advanced stage of completion efforts, one of our Gas Processing and commissioning. Unit at Gandhar became the first unit to be certified for ISO 50001 Focusing on managing security Energy Management System, to of information, this year we also improve quality and environmental started activities pertaining to management. implementation of ISO 27001:2013 based ISMS (Information Security This year we have completed GAIL’s Management System) & Crisis iconic new office building GAIL Management Plan (CMP). Jubilee Tower which conforms to LEED Green Building norms. We sincerely thank our suppliers We also received 4 Star GRIHA for the support and determination rating for green building for they have shown, which has ensured Administrative building at Chhainsa in meeting project deadlines while Compressor Station. maintaining high quality standards. GAIL has implemented “Public The Dabhol-Bangalore Pipeline Procurement Policy” for Micro and was dedicated to the Nation by Small Enterprises (MSEs) extending About GAIL GAIL aspires to emerge as integrated Hydrocarbon Major with significant upstream & downstream presence Care, Share & Grow 16 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Visible across the entire Gas Value Chain Natural Gas  Over 11,000 kms of network  Expanding to 15,000 kms  Average Gas transmission during FY 13-14 was 96.22 MMSCMD and gas sold was 79 MMSCMD.  Sophisticated Gas management System  Pursuingfor expansion of markets Exploration & Production  A part of vertical integration  Participation in 20 blocks (Operator – 3 blocks)  Presence in Myanmar & US City Gas Distribution  Serving over 10 lakh vehicles & 10 lakh households through Subsidiary & JointVentures  GAIL Gas Limited, 100% subsidiary, has setup CGD Network in Dewas, Sonepat, Kota, Meerut, Agra, Firozabad,Vadodara & Panvel Petrochemical G-Lex G-Lene  Domestic market share – 20%  Petrochemical Plant in Pata (UP) with capacity of 0.41 MMTPA  Doubling the capacity by FY2014  Participation in BCPL & OPaL Liquid Hydrocarbons PROPANE PENTANE  7 Gas Processing units producing LPG, Propane, Pentane & Naphtha etc.  LPGTransport Capacity 3.8 MMTPA (2038 Kms.)  In 2013-14, the total LHC production was 1307TMT, which included 1030 TMTofLPG,135TMTofPropane,22TMTofPentane&120TMTofNaptha. Power & Renewables  Commissioned 118 MWWind Power Plant & 5 MWSolar Power Plant  Participation in RGPPL (Capacity 1967 MW) Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 17 Group Strength Vision for the Future Subsidiaries GAIL Gas Limited Brahmaputra Cracker and Polymer Limited Upstream  Thrust on global sourcing & acquisitions  LNG from traditional sources & equity GGSPL G G U I linked LNG GAIL Global (Singapore) GAIL Global (USA) Inc. Pte. Limited  Sourcing through transnational pipelines  Domestic tie-ups with operators of NELPblocks GGULL GAIL Global (USA) LNG LLC (subsidiary of GAIL Global (USA) Inc.) Joint Ventures Midstream  Aavantika Gas Limited  Bhagyanagar Gas Limited  Maintain leadership position in  Central U.P. Gas Limited midstream sector  GAIL China Gas Global Energy Holdings Ltd.  Continue pipeline expansion  Green Gas Limited  Set up LNG regasification terminals &  Indraprastha Gas Limited book regasification capacities  Mahanagar Gas Limited  Unlock demand across customer  Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited segments  ONGC Petro-additions Limited  Petronet LNG Limited  Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Limited  Tripura Natural Gas Corporation Limited 11 Zonal Marketing Offices at Delhi, Kolkata (W.B), Chennai (T.N), Bangalore (Karnataka), Bhopal (M.P), Downstream Chandigarh (Haryana), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Hyderabad (A.P), Lucknow (U.P), Mumbai (Maharashtra), Ahmedabad (Gujarat).  Become diversified hydrocarbonmajor  Continue expansion of petrochemical capacities Associates: Gujarat State Energy Generation Ltd (5.96%), Fayum Gas (19%), China Gas Holdings Ltd  Support JVs / subsidiaries for CGD expansion to 40-60 cities (3%), Natural Gas Company “NATGAS” (15%)  Reduce carbon footprint Create renewable GAIL is a part of a consortium in two offshore E&P portfolio blocks in Myanmar and also holds participating interest in South East Asia Gas Pipeline Company Limited incorporated for transportation of gas to be produced from twoblocks in Myanmar to China. Care, Share & Grow 18 Sustainability Report 2013-14 GAIL’s Pan-India Presence Hazira LNG Terminal Capacity 3.5 MMTPA Andaman and Nicobar Islands Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 19 Care, Share & Grow 20 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Accolades and Recognition GAIL was conferred the Maharatna Status last year. We have been awarded the MoU Excellence Awards along with several other prestigious awards which bear testimony to our excellence in quality, health and safety standards, environment management and operations. Key awards received by us include :  GAIL declared the top  GAIL was conferred with the  GAIL conferred with 4 Star Indian company in the ‘GasSustainability Performance GRIHA rating for green building Processing, Distribution and award by Indian Chamber of for Administrative building at Marketing’ Sector for the Commerce (ICC) Chhainsa Compressor Station. Dun & Bradstreet Corporate  GAIL was awarded Parivartan  World CSR Award for Best Awards 2014 Sustainability Leadership Rural Outreach Programme for  Dabhol-Bengaluru Pipeline Awards 2013 in the category Project Anhad Gram and Best Project awarded as Premier of ‘Sustainability Disclosure community Action Award for Project in large construction Award 2013’ for the most Project Padho Aur Badho. category at Platts Global consistent disclosure by PSUs  International Safety Award Energy Awards 2013 (Public Sector Undertakings) 2014, by British Safety on Sustainability parameters  C&MD GAIL, Shri B C Tripathi, Council, UK, for achieving over the 4 year period between conferred the prestigious ‘Best highest standards in safety 2010 and 2013. LNG Executive Global Award’ management system in the for 2013 at CWC’s 14th World year 2013 LNG Summit being held at Paris Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 21 Care, Share & Grow 22 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Corporate Governance Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 23 GAIL is guided by its vision, mission, and core values which ensure that the Company operates in an accountable, transparent and fair manner, meeting the expectations and aspirations of the stakeholders. GAIL works towards creating and implementing highest governance standards for ethical and responsible conduct of the business to create value for the stakeholders. Care, Share & Grow 24 Sustainability Report 2013-14 In order to bring sound governance these include Audit Committee, forwarded to the Board of Directors into practice, GAIL’s Board and Business Development and through the Audit Committee the Committees are continuously Marketing Committee, Corporate for necessary actions. To further updated to enable effective Social Responsibility Committee, strengthen the mechanism for discharge of fiduciary duties. Being Empowered C&P Committee, assessing social and environmental a Public Sector Enterprise, GAIL Empowered Committee (Natural aspects of sustainability, risks also ensures that all the applicable Gas, LNG and Polymers) for related to new business plans, rules, regulations, laws and import of Natural Gas / LNG/ capital projects, mergers & bye-laws of the land are adhered Polymers, HR Committee, Project acquisitions, are pre-identified and to. Code of Conduct for Board Appraisal Committee, Nomination are approved along with detailed Members and Senior Management and Remuneration Committee, feasibility reports. Personnel has also been framed Stakeholders Relationship for the Board Members and Senior Management Personnel to ensure Committee, Stakeholders’ Grievance Redressal Committee Ethics, ethical business conduct. Over the years, we have also been successful and Sustainable Development Committee. Transparency in developing and implementing and systems and processes for Risk internal controls throughout our Accountability organizational structure. Management at At GAIL, we believe in adhering to Being a Central Public Sector Enterprise, appointment/ GAIL all applicable statues in letter and spirit and endeavour to adopt best nomination of all the Directors is done by the President of India, GAIL acknowledges the fact that practices to go beyond adherence through the Ministry of Petroleum environmental and social issues of statutory frameworks and bring & Natural Gas (MoPNG). As on 31st are no longer mere obligations on transparency, accountability and March 2014, there were 10 Directors business but are now core business equity in all facets of its operations. on the Board comprising of 6 imperatives which pose risks to its GAIL has adopted several initiatives whole time directors including the operations. At GAIL, such risks have in furtherance of goals for ethics, Chairman and Managing Director, been incorporated in the Integrated transparency and accountability 2 part time Directors (Government Risk Management Framework that like e-Business, Bill Watch Nominees) and 2 Independent aims to protect and add value to the System, File Movement System, Directors. organization and the stakeholders Customer Relation Management, while ensuring sustainable business Customer Grievance Redressal GAIL complies with Clause 49 of growth. The Board along with the System, Online Recruitment, the equity listing agreement with Audit Committee oversees the e-Performance Management stock exchanges and the DPE effectiveness and performance System (e-PMS), Online Vigilance guidelines on corporate governance of risk management across our Complaint Registration System that are applicable except number operations. The risks are evaluated, and e-Budgeting System. Our of independent Directors which quantified, prioritized and management information systems are appointed by Govt. of India. mitigation plans that are prepared, are in place for efficient and GAIL has constituted a number reviewed and monitored at various effective decision making including of sub-committees under the stages. generation of exception reports, Board of Directors to oversee which are monitored by the top implementation of the vision, After the identification and management. We have also put strategy and business plans, take assessment of environmental in place various initiatives like corrective measures whenever and social issues relevant and e-Receivables, e-Invoicing and required, protect the interest significant to our operations, the e-Ledger to enable electronic of its stakeholders, to facilitate outcome is then scrutinized by a transaction. Various policies the smooth and efficient flow of site Level committee on site and and manuals like Contracts & decision making process. Some then by a Steering Committee at Procurement Manual, HR Manual, of committees have been merged the corporate office consisting of Internal Audit Manual, Liquid keeping in view of provisions of key officials. The recommendations Hydro Carbon Products Pricing Companies Act 2013. Some of of these committees are then Policy and Polymer Pricing Policy Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 25 enables transparent and uniform  Integrity Pact: GAIL has All the business units are decision making. With the objective singed MOU with Transparency analysed for business related of ensuring proper conduct and International. As a part of risks as per the CVC guidelines by discipline, besides a code for our this MOU, Integrity Pact is conducting investigations against employees, GAIL has framed a Code incorporated in the tender complaints, surprise inspections, of Conduct for Board members with value Rs1 Cr. & above. As periodic inspections, Major and Senior Management. All a matter of transparency and Work’s inspection and CTE-Type the Board Members and Senior to give wider publicity, the Inspections. Management Personnel annually copy of MoU and Integrity Pact affirm compliance with this Code of Conduct. We have also framed Program has been on GAIL’s website which is available in Antithe GAIL Employees’ (Conduct, Discipline and Appeal) Rules, public domain. As a part of Integrity Pact Program, GAIL Competitive 1986 for its employees to ensure conduct and discipline at workplace has appointed Independent External Monitors who are Behaviour and beyond. These include rules responsible to oversee the GAIL is India’s largest natural on Gift, Sexual Harassment and implementation of Integrity gas company and understands Misconduct, amongst others. Pact Program and address the responsibility to function in the grievances of vendors/ a responsible manner. Following Anti-Corruption contractors. which, GAIL aims to work strictly according to the laws  Anti-corruption awareness & Bribery for employees: All Employees and regulations including those involving anti-competitive and at the time of joining are The Code of Conduct, CDA sensitized for policies and ethical behaviour. GAIL works Rules and Whistle Blower Policy mechanisms related to under the purview of Competition are applicable to all concerned Anti-Corruption. Every year Commission of India and with high employees whether they are all major locations observe ethical and moral standards without working in GAIL or in any subsidiary Vigilance Awareness Week in indulging in any form of practices or Joint Venture Company. which employees participates which restrain any competition in Further, ‘Integrity Pact’ and “Fraud in different activities which the market. Prevention Policy” extend to renews GAIL’s commitment to There have been six cases which Suppliers, contractors etc. We Anti-Corruption. To encourage have been filed against GAIL took certain new initiatives in order all employees, additional regarding unfair trade practices, to reduce incidents of corruption mechanism of awards and prize anti-competitive behaviour within the organization. se money is awarded for contract and violations of anti-trust and initiatives are discussed below:employees to participate monopoly legislation. Two cases  Renewal of ISO in various programs during were judged in favour of GAIL and Certification of Corporate Vigilance Awareness week. four cases are pending. There have Vigilance Department: In Training Programs on Antibeen no cases where administrative continuation of improvement Corruption Policies & Procedures or judicial sanctions have been efforts on standards of of the Organization were conducted levied against the organization Vigilance Procedures at GTI Noida. Two of such programs for failure to comply with laws or and documentation, ISO were organized during 2013-14. regulations, including: international 9001:2008, stage-II external Employees were nominated in such declarations / conventions / audit of the Corporate programs organized by external treaties, and national, sub-national, Vigilance setup was conducted agencies within India and abroad. regional, and local regulations on September 12, 2013. Apart from this employees are and cases brought against the Auditor recommended for ISO updated on Anti-Corruption Policies organization through the use of certificates to GAIL Corporate & Procedures of the Organization international dispute mechanisms Vigilance Department. ISO through Lecture Series by eminent or national dispute mechanisms Certificate received from speakers, online quizzes, Essay supervised by government accreditation body on October Competitions etc. every year during authorities. 08, 2013 which is valid up to Vigilance Awareness Week. October 07, 2016. Care, Share & Grow 26 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Sustainability members to the committee. This committee has been instrumental in  Upgradation of e-Sustainability module to Governance driving sustainability across GAIL’s operations. During the reporting improve data capturing and introducing new indicators and In order to give direction, year, the Committee met two times new features implement, and monitor progress and took some key decisions which  Improve stakeholder on sustainability parameters, are presented below:communication on GAIL has developed a robust  Revisit Sustainability sustainability performance sustainability governance Aspirations 2020 and inclusion through a dedicated online framework which operates at of additional targets domain reflecting GAIL’s different levels. At Board level, performance on various Sustainable Development Board  Phased implementation of SA sustainability parameters Committee is chaired by Director 8000 at GAIL from the year (Business Development) and all 2014 other functional directors are Sustainable Development Committee Chairperson (Director BD) Director Director Director Director (Marketing) (Finance) (HR) (Projects) Apart from the Board level committee at sites which are strategy Sustainability Core Team committee, GAIL also has a headed by Officer In-Charges, (which is a part of the Corporate Sustainable Development Steering aspect owners, and site Planning Department) works Committee, which is chaired by the coordinators. These site specific from the Corporate Office. In FY Director (Business Development) coordinators and the aspect 13-14 to further strengthen the and includes all aspect owners at owners receive trainings in their reliability and data authenticity HoD level. respective set of specialized areas. Internal committees were formed With the purpose of integrating at GAIL sites to crosscheck / verify GAIL also has multi-disciplinary Sustainability data captured. sustainability with the corporate Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 27 Sustainable Development Steering Committee Chairperson (Director BD) ED (O&M-CR) ED GM GM GM ED ED GM GM (Corporate GM (Ops), Pata (HR-P&ER (Health, Safety (Marketing Planning) (F&A) (CC&CSR) (Training) (CST) GM (O&M), CO & Law) & Environment) JV & CA) Coordinator Care, Share & Grow 28 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Sustainability Strategy Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 29 Energy plays a vital role in the socio-economic development and healthy functioning of an economy. This makes energy security essential not only to India’s economic growth but also for the human development objectives that aim at alleviation of poverty, unemployment and meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Care, Share & Grow 30 Sustainability Report 2013-14 ‘Sustainable energy is bringing PNG to the doorsteps and continuously improving our of domestic and commercial sustainability performance. the golden thread that consumers. In order to achieve all the strategic connects economic We strive towards reducing our goals efficiently, significant thrust growth, social equity, carbon footprint in a phased has been given to strengthen a stable climate and a manner and contribute towards and develop the human resource low carbon economy. For this, capital. Accordingly, recruitment, healthy environment’ – GAIL has set strategic initiatives training and development policies UN Secretary General, for strengthening its portfolio of are being suitably aligned with renewable businesses. GAIL plans strategic objectives to achieve its Ban Ki-moon to set up 500 MW wind power strategic goals by 2020. GAIL has GAIL is committed to play a capacity in the coming years and been acknowledged as a major key role in building sustainable against this, about 118 MW capacity stakeholder for implementation energy future for the country. has already been set up. Further, a of Sectoral Innovation Council Our core business of natural gas 5 MW solar project has also been recommendation for the midtransmission and trading brings set up in Rajasthan and additional stream sector in the country to in more responsibility than other capacities will be set up in the near drive innovation in this sector. energy companies in terms of future. making cleaner fuel accessible to consumers. While in line with our To promote Development of Risk Renewable Energy we collaborated mission statement we continue to accelerate and optimize effective, with other PSUs. This year management Memorandum of Understanding economic and efficient use of The underlying principle of (MOU) is signed on the 25.02.2014 natural gas to the benefit of nation, enterprise risk management between the Ministry of New & our future plans are built on the encompasses every entity of the Renewable Energy and Ministry of key planks of sustainable business organisation to provide value for Petroleum & Natural Gas, GoI for model, care for environment and its stakeholders. All entities face setting up a Special Purpose Vehicle communities at large. uncertainty and the challenge for for implementing Off-Grid Solar, Wind and other Renewable energy management is to determine how On these lines, we have already power projects. much uncertainty to accept as it identified our aspirations and strives to grow stakeholder value. strategic priorities for taking We became part of Special Purpose GAIL’s Enterprise Risk Management the company to the next level Vehicle with Oil and Natural Gas enables management to effectively of growth. GAIL has developed Corporation Limited, Oil India deal with uncertainty and strategy for the period 2011Limited, Engineers India Limited associated risk and opportunity. 2020 which is currently under Solar Energy Corporation of implementation and the Company During the exercise of formulation, India, Indian Renewable Energy is closely monitoring progress GAIL’s Enterprise Risk Development Agency Limited and on various strategic initiatives Management, all aspects covering other PSUs in the JVC. as well as analyzing the dynamic various risks and their severity and environment to assess its impact. As India’s youngest Maharatna risk mitigations with GAIL were public enterprise, GAIL is mapped across the organisation. Our current strategy puts committed to increase cleaner Social & environmental risk arising major thrust on expansion of energy share in the overall energy at plants /construction sites have infrastructure for making cleaner mix. Our endeavour is also to also been mapped and rated as and affordable energy source, maximize resource value through severe, moderate and low based accessible to our consumers state-of-the-art technologies, on the risk perception envisaged directly and indirectly. Balancing strive for energy efficiency at each by the risk owner along with the economic growth, social level of operation and consistently Risks mitigation measures. Any development and environment deliver best-in-class performance. new risk/updating/deletion of protection, we aspire to expand Our perseverance to safe and risk is an on-going process and our retail presence to large number efficient operations is what guides is deliberated first in site level of cities and towns for replacing our strategic direction and we steering committees and further polluting fuels with CNG and have a long history of controlling taken up in corporate quarterly Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 31 Steering committee meetings if Mitigation measures are ongoing and opportunities lie ahead in found inevitable. process and are being developed / addressing climate change risks. implemented by the asset owners These would include taking actions Unit level risks including Social & / risk owners namely Marketing, to reduce GHG emissions and environmental risks are mapped Business development, Project exploring new and unconventional at respective units and monitored Department & O&M based on risk sources of energy. These efforts quarterly through site level steering perception envisaged by them. would need to be undertaken while committee headed by unit head continuing to serve India’s energy and are rated as high, medium and low. Mitigation measures are also Sustainability demand. suggested by respective units. In an attempt to set greater The critical risks identified for GAIL Aspirations sustainability standards in the industry, GAIL has gone a step are ‘’NG Sourcing Risk, Demand risk, E&P Business risk, Project 2020 ahead by adopting voluntary sustainability targets in the form Execution risks, Overseas Venture Oil and gas sector, being a primary of Sustainability Aspirations 2020. risk, Regulatory Compliance & energy provider, has a significant These key targets include reduction reporting, New Pipeline bidding role in the national and global in GHG emission intensity, reduction risks, Human capital deficit risks, economic development. However in Specific Energy consumption, financial Risks, Change in Govt. at the same time since it primarily reduction in Water Consumption Policy risks. relies on fossil fuels which make intensity, increase in Wastewater it one of the largest emitters of GAIL has a system in place of Recycling, and greater awareness Green House Gases, the sector appraising the risks & Mitigation on sustainability amongst the has a huge responsibility towards measures bi annually to audit employees. environmental sustainability. GAIL committee & annually to board of realizes that major challenges directors. During the FY-2013-14, following risks were identified and deliberated in steering committee and other corporate level meeting in line with the Risk Frame work policy of GAIL  Risk associated with profitability of our business in view of change in Govt. Policy. ility Asp  Risk associated with Marketing b Sustaina of Gas & Petrochemical t io n s Products. ira  Risk associated with development of Downstream Market, pipeline infrastructure Supply Chain mechanism, Regasification facilities in sync with SPA commitments.  Risk associated with delayed critical activities  Risk associated with ageing of pipelines & ensuring Mechanical integrity of 2020 pipelines. Care, Share & Grow 32 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Reduction in GHG emissions intensity 33% reduction in GHG emission intensity (Total GHG emission/ (Scope1 and Scope2) Gross sale) in comparison to the baseline year (FY 2010-11) Target: 50.8 tCO2 e/Cr Action Plan  Promotion of renewable energy source like solar and wind power  Process optimization to reduce emissions through operations and venting  Promotion of R&D for innovative solutions to reduce GHG emissions 120.0 GHG Intensity (tCO2 e/Cr) 100.0 96.7 80.0 75.8 64.2 60.0 55.0 43.8 40.0 20.0 0.0 9-10 0-11 1-12 2-13 3-14 200 201 201 201 201 Energy efficiency 5% reduction in specific energy consumption in comparison to the baseline year (FY 2010-11). Target: 13.5 GJ/ MT Action Plan  Achieve greater energy efficiency  Focussed energy audits at sites and leveraging Integrated Management Systems to achieve optimization Specific Energy Consumption GJ/MT of 15.8 LHC & PC Product 16.0 15.1 14.9 15.0 13.9 13.6 14.0 13.0 12.0 9-10 0-11 1-12 2-13 3-14 200 201 201 201 201 Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 33 Fresh water consumption and Waste Water  45% reduction in water consumption intensity (Total Recycling water consumption/ Gross sales) in comparison to the baseline year (FY 2010-11). Target: 230.9 m3/Cr  5% increase in waste water recycling from current levels of 45% in the baseline year (FY 2010-11). Target: 50.2 % Action Plan  Promotion of rain water harvesting at sites  Utilization of unutilized effluents with the unit premises  Reduce water losses and leakages 3 600.0 Water Consumption intensity (m /Cr) 505.2 500.0 419.7 400.0 344.8 300.0 288.6 222.4 200.0 100.0 0.0 9-10 0-11 1-12 2-13 3-14 200 201 201 201 201 Waste Water Recyled (%of Waste Water generated) 50.0 45.7 45.0 43.3 45.2 40.0 39.3 38.5 35.0 30.0 9-10 0-11 1-12 2-13 3-14 200 201 201 201 201 Awareness on sustainability 100% of our employees will have awareness on sustainability Till FY 13-14 over 37% employees were covered under ambit of Sustainability Awareness target Action Plan  Introduction of sustainability and related concepts during induction training to all new employee  Training on SD is made a part of the annual training calendar for Employees. Awareness quiz during Hindi pakhwara and other such events Care, Share & Grow 34 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 35 With the changing business dynamics, the performance of a company, apart from tradition financials, is also measured through how they manage on the economic, social, environmental and ethical aspects to create a long-term value for its stakeholders. At GAIL, we remain committed to our stakeholders with the aim to grow in a transparent and accountable manner. Engaging with our key stakeholders and materiality process helps us in deciding on issues to focus on in order to mainstream sustainability into our decision making. Care, Share & Grow 36 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Stakeholder Engagement Over the years, GAIL’s stakeholder engagement process has evolved from being merely a responsible Company to, now, having a collaboration based model to co-create value for it’s stakeholders. This has led to development of a robust stakeholder engagement mechanism. Some of these mechanisms (function on periodic, intermittent, and continuous) are stakeholder specific while others remain general in nature. Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Identification in GAIL Identification of Sustainability Aspects relevant to each Stakeholder group Engagement with Stakeholders by concerned departments and Corporate Sustainability Team Initiatives by respective Collation, Validation & Analysis of departments with suggestion from feedback based on Sustainability Corporate Sustainability Team Context by Corporate Sustainability Team for determination of issues Management Review of identified, prioritized issues and Finalisation of Material issues Input to ImprovemShort Term Strategy for ent for future Actions Long Term Stakeholder Actions Engagement Independent External Assurance of Sustainability Report Disclosure in Sustainability Report Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 37 During the reporting period, stakeholder interactions were conducted with employees, suppliers, customers, NonGovernment Organizations (NGOs), communities, investors, media, industry bodies, and government / regulatory agencies. Importance of the We regard our employees as our greatest asset and engage with them stakeholder group continuously for superior results Engagement Teams Human Resource Department, Corporate Operation & Maintenance, Health Safety & Environment Department, Sustainability Team Frequency of Annual, Quarterly, Monthly, Daily Engagement Mode of Engagement Satisfaction surveys, Grievance Redressal, Suggestion schemes, CMD open house, Sustainability Survey, Various committees, Emails, Journals, Meetings with employee associations and unions; Various Events including GAIL Day celebration, Sports Meet, Health Campaign etc. Key initiatives taken  Communication on GAIL’s business goals, values and principles to address concerns,  Action planning on major projects perceptions, advice &  Implementation of best practices suggestions  Facilitating learning and developing  Track key performance indicators and action plans  Understand and address concerns  Idea generation, sharing and learning Importance of the GAIL’s primary business is of gas transmission which makes it very stakeholder group important for the Company to engage with the suppliers on a continual basis. Transparent relationship with supplier helps the Company to reduce risks and discover new opportunities. Also, this helps us to improve our supply chain and planning Engagement Teams Contracts & Procurement Department, Projects Department Frequency of Annual, Quarterly, Monthly, Daily Engagement Mode of Engagement Supplier meet, Emails, meetings Key initiatives taken  Reverse auction to address concerns,  Bill watch system perceptions, advice &  File Movement System suggestions  E-tendering Care, Share & Grow 38 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Importance of the GAIL regards its customers as partners in growth and works with them stakeholder group to improve the quality of services and products. The Company has also developed an online customer suggestion system to effectively address customer concerns Engagement Teams Marketing Department, Total Quality Management Department Frequency of Annual, Quarterly Engagement Mode of Engagement Customer Interactive Meets, Customer feedback Key initiatives taken  Customer Suggestion Box: To understand customer requirements, to address concerns, address operational concerns & to get feedback on new product perceptions, advice & development. suggestions  Customer Satisfaction Index: To understand their satisfaction levels  Customer Ledger: For transparent transactions Importance of the Community is an important stakeholder for us as these communities stakeholder group provide us the social license to operate. We have also developed a CSR policy for effective development of the community Engagement Teams Corporate Social Responsibility Department Frequency of Annual, Quarterly, Monthly, Daily, Need-based Engagement Mode of Engagement Community Meetings, Project Meetings, Annual Reviews Key initiatives taken  Executing social responsibility initiatives /projects. to address concerns,  Understanding and addressing their concerns on critical incidents perceptions, advice & suggestions Importance of the Investors play primary role in a company by funding the operations stakeholder group of the company and thus receiving “part ownership”. By this virtue they become one of the most important stakeholders. GAIL respects the rights of the investors and keeps them informed through various channels. One such channel is the Company website which has an exclusive section dedicated to the investors Engagement Teams For Institutional Investors & Analysts: Finance & Accounts For Retail Investors: Company Secretariat Frequency of Annual/ Quarterly/ as and when necessary Engagement Mode of Engagement Annual General Meeting, Investor Meets, Investor Conferences, Conference Calls, Website hosting of financial information Key initiatives taken  Clearly communicating the company’s values, business plan, to address concerns, strategy, risks, growth prospects, etc. perceptions, advice &  Highlight the company’s performance vis-à-vis previous periods suggestions  Communicate to the investing community, what makes the company unique for the investor to invest their money  Address the concerns of investors with respect to the future challenges Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 39 Importance of the In today’s well connected world, media plays the role of an opinion stakeholder group maker in the society. Apart from this, media also helps businesses in communicating with other stakeholders through various channels Engagement Teams Corporate Communication Department Frequency of Need-based Engagement Mode of Engagement Press Meets, Interviews Key initiatives taken  Relationship building to address concerns,  Appraising on performance highlights and lowlights perceptions, advice &  Point-of-view on major sectoral developments suggestions Importance of the Industry associations provide an opportunity to businesses to stakeholder group voice their concerns, present best practices, share knowledge and collaborate with each other. GAIL has been a member of key industry associations like CII, FICCI, PHD Chamber of Commerce, GRI Focal Point India, TERI-BCSD etc Engagement Teams Various Departments such as Corporate Planning, Marketing, Business Development Frequency of Need-based Engagement Mode of Engagement Seminars, Conferences, Industry Expo, Interviews Key initiatives taken  Share performance data to address concerns,  Inform on keys decisions and projects perceptions, advice &  Participate in conferences and seminars suggestions  Engage in public policy advocacy Importance of the Government and other regulatory agencies play a very important role stakeholder group in influencing how businesses operate throughout the world. This is in form of taxes, regulatory and other policies, creating a level playing field for businesses, providing access to capital and other related functions. GAIL regards compliance to all laws and regulations as a high priority Engagement Teams Regulatory Affairs Department, Law Department, Corporate Planning Department, Liaison & Parliamentary Affairs Department, Company Secretariat Frequency of Annual, Quarterly Engagement Mode of Engagement MOUs, QPR, Open-House sessions, Hearings and other Meetings, written views/comments to PNGRB on various regulatory matters, as required by PNGRB Key initiatives taken  Relationship building to address concerns,  Performance appraisal through MOUs perceptions, advice &  Submission of progress reports suggestions  Discussions on major investment plans Care, Share & Grow 40 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Stakeholder stakeholder group viz Employees, sustainability issues as applicable Communities/NGOs, Customers for GAIL have been collected Engagement and and Suppliers, the key sustainability through above mentioned modes of Results – FY 2013-14 issues were identified based on risk engagement to collate perception & opportunities, peer review, future of the various stakeholder groups. GAIL engages with stakeholders challenges in the sector, laws & The following graphs having the in order to understand their regulation, issues of strategic percentage of stakeholders in each expectations, concerns and their significance to the organisation, group along X axis and identified views on various sustainability operational management etc. The issues along the Y axis to depict the aspects significant to the company. importance of these identified importance of key issues to GAIL. In this regard, for each important Importance of key issues to GAIL Ranked by Employees (n=1485) Employees’ Perception of key issues to GAIL Biodiversity Waste Perception gap Emission Climate Change Focused R&D Corruption Security Supplier availability Water Issues Operational Cost Control Skilled manpower availability Quality of Service Stakeholder Relationship Customer Satisfaction Health & Safety Business Growth Uncertainty in Govt. Policy Regulatory Issues Gas Sourcing 0 20 40 60 80 100 Percentage (%) of Stakeholders Employees Critical Important Insignificant Can’t Assess The top 3 important issues for GAIL as perceived by Employees are Gas Sourcing, Regulatory issues and Uncertainty in Government policy Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 41 Importance of key issues to GAIL-Ranked by Communities/NGOs (n=3) Communities/NGOs’ Perception of key issues to GAIL Corruption Customer Satisfaction Supplier Availability Skilled Manpower Availability Regulatory Issues Water Focused Research & Development Perception Management Quality of Service Operational Cost Control Issues Uncertainty in Government Policy Business Growth Stakeholder Relationship Biodiversity Emission Climate Change Security Gas Sourcing Waste Health & Safety 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Percentage (%) of Stakeholders Communities/NGOs Critical Important Insignificant Can’t Assess The top 3 important issues for GAIL as perceived by Communities/NGOs are Health & Safety, Waste and Gas Sourcing. Importance of key issues to GAIL-Ranked by Customers (n=2) Customers’ Perception of key issues to GAIL Corruption Focused Research & Development Perception Management Operational Cost Control Biodiversity Emission Water Climate Change Customer Satisfaction Supplier Availability Issues Skilled Manpower Availability Quality of Service Gas Sourcing Regulatory Issues Uncertainty in Government Policy Business Growth Stakeholder Relationship Waste Security Health & Safety 0 25 50 75 100 Percentage (%) of Stakeholders Customers Critical Important Insignificant Can’t Assess Care, Share & Grow 42 Sustainability Report 2013-14 The top 4 important issues for GAIL as perceived by Customers are Business Growth, Uncertainty in Government policy, Regulatory issues and Gas sourcing. Importance of key issues to GAIL-Ranked by Suppliers (n=10) Suppliers’ Perception of key issues to GAIL Perception Management Waste Climate Change Corruption Customer Satisfaction Supplier Availability Operational Cost Control Quality of Service Issues Business Growth Biodiversity Emission Focused Research & Development Skilled Manpower Availability Regulatory Issues Uncertainty in Government Policy Stakeholder Relationship Security Gas Sourcing Water Health & Safety 0 20 40 60 80 100 Percentage (%) of Stakeholders Suppliers Critical Important Insignificant Can’t Assess The top 3 important issues for GAIL as perceived by Suppliers are Health & Safety, Water and Gas Sourcing. Materiality For finalising material issues, interaction with GAIL’s senior section) resulted in preparation of GAIL’s materiality matrix. The critical issues identified management was carried out in The matrix has been drawn with through engagement with various order to understand their vision and importance to GAIL along X axis and groups of stakeholders as depicted action plan on taking forward GAIL’s importance to stakeholders along Y above is used for determining the sustainability journey. Mapping of axis so that issues which are most most important issues for GAIL the senior management’s vision to important for both our stakeholders from sustainability view point the stakeholder’s concerns (which and GAIL are identified as material that are ‘material issues’ for GAIL. have been depicted in the previous issues. Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 43 GAIL’s Materiality Matrix: Based on feedback from Employees, Customers, Suppliers, Communities / NGOs and Senior Management Health & Safety Importance to stakeholders Gas Sourcing & Marketing Security Stakeholder Relationship Uncertainty in Government Policy Water Regulatory Issues Business Growth Bio diversity Employee welfare Climate Change Energy Saving Quality of service Research & Development Customer Satisfaction Community Impact Operational Retaining key Talent assessment Efficiency Adequacy and Quality of Training Importance to GAIL Low Importance Medium Importance High Importance We have tried to transparently describe identified material issues and actions being taken/ planned by GAIL on these issues in the following section. Gas Sourcing & extended last mile connectivity to 66 members of consumers Uncertainty in Marketing supplying around 5.55 MMSCMD of Natural gas. It is noteworthy that Government The focus has essentially shifted from sourcing to efficiently and these consumers are in medium and small manufacturing enterprise Policy effectively market the sourced gas category which were earlier Envisaging future policy changes at a desirable level of profitability dependent on costlier and more related to unbundling, carbon tax and ensuring last mile connectivity. polluting liquid fuels, leading into regime in India and other impending Till a year back, only gas sourcing less GHG Emissions after switching regulations make ‘uncertainty in was major issue across GAIL’s to natural gas. These enterprises Government policy’ a material operations. However, based on are also major job creators for issue for GAIL. Being a Public the recent developments viz. the economy and switching over sector undertaking, Government signing of long term contracts with to natural gas shall increase their policies and regulations have an several international operators, it competitiveness. In addition, we impact on business and operations. was realized that Gas sourcing & successfully achieved our MoU Government’s stand with respect marketing becomes a material issue Target to provide Uninterrupted to unbundling of operations and for GAIL. Availability of Natural Gas & LPG implementing GHG emission Pipeline System in order to serve regulation regime has the potential To improve our reach, this year we our customers round the clock. to impact GAIL’s business. Care, Share & Grow 44 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Unbundling involves separation reduction is a material issue for Clearances, Biodiversity etc. of companies delivering natural GAIL. In comparison to developed GAIL also represents in the expert gas from those supplying it to countries, the natural gas market committee on “Auto Fuel Vision the market. This will have serious in India is still in its nascent stage. and Policy – 2025” (AFV&P-2025). ramifications on GAIL’s top-line. Since laying of pipelines is a Director (Marketing), GAIL is Introduction of a regulation on capital intensive business, the convener of working group IVcontrolling GHG emissions from regulation of tariffs has negatively entrusted to suggest a “Suitable operations would entail huge affected GAIL’s business. Though Mix of auto Fuels including Gas, investments in clean technologies such regulators guarantee certain Logistics, Road Transport”. One such and / or alternative sources of percentage of IRR, tariff reduction instance was the “Auto Fuel Vision energy; both having an impact has an impact on the balance and Policy – 2025”. on the company’s financial sheet. As a result, GAIL might have performance. With advent of PAT to ensure alternate sources of scheme and RECs, there is a very high likelihood of such a regulation generating income by optimizing operations in Petrochemical plant Stakeholder being implemented in India in the short term. at Pata, investing in international assets, working with PNGRB and Relationship Ministry and Tax departments Building strong and constructive In order to play an active role relationship with stakeholders to promote gas swaps and grid in policy formation and gaining is essential for a business to connectivity. industry perspective on various efficiently function and excel. In issues, we engage with different GAIL being a Public Sector GAIL, stakeholder relationship is organizations. GAIL is active Enterprise, formal and informal primarily aimed at – member various industry feedback is provided on regular associations such as CII, FICCI, basis to various government  Customers: improving PETROFED, TERI-BCSD, GRI FP bodies like MoP&NG, Planning satisfaction levels, creating India, GCNI etc. CMD, GAIL is the Commission, PPAC etc. GAIL has specific contracts, improvising Governing Council member of the supported Inclusion of Natural contract clauses; Petroleum Federation of India. Gas in the category of ‘Declared  Suppliers: Transparent The Petrofed functions as the Goods’ under CST Act 1956 so that relationship building with facilitator for Oil industry in India. VAT on Natural Gas is restricted to suppliers and regulating It coordinates with governments, 5% which ranges from 5% to 26% contractor behaviour to regulatory agencies and other in different states. In the area of safeguard interests of contract representative bodies in the Shale Gas, GAIL has participated workforce; petroleum industry to work on in the consultative process of issues such as optimization Government of India seeking  Communities: involving them of resources and integration comments on its draft Shale Gas through CSR initiatives / effort, promoting Safety, Policy. projects, compensating land Healthy Environment and Energy owners; and CMD, GAIL is the Co-Chair of conservation among other issues FICCI Hydrocarbon Committee.  Employees: nurturing related to industry. In addition, we The committee focuses on issues leadership, knowledge propagated our views on the new related to energy security of the retention, focusing on learning Companies Act, 2013 to MoPNG country and supplement various and development. regarding amendment under efforts of the Government of Income Tax Act 1961 specifically Every stakeholder has their own India and other bodies engaged allowing deduction of CSR unique expectation and concern. We in this domain. In addition, GAIL expenditure. consistently endeavour to address also represents in the FICCI concerns for mutual benefit of Environment Committee that Regulatory works on a broad spectrum of both the parties. Our GAIL Polymer Technology Centre (GPTC) provides environmental issues like Municipal, Issues Electronic and Hazardous technical solutions and insights to our customers. Communities Waste Management, Corporate Addressing regulatory play an important role in ensuring Sustainability, Clean Technologies, requirements related to tariff a social license to operate. Environment and Forest Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 45 Further, the success of GAIL’s CSR after their well-being increase their security systems along with trained initiatives depends on the role productivity thereby adding to security staff to avoid and handle communities play in such projects. the company’s bottom-line. GAIL any external or internal threat. Our vendors, contractors and has demonstrated a fairly good In today’s connected world, it is other business partners support performance on safety indicators equally important to focus on data our operations by delivering high as reflected in its high Health / information in the electronic quality raw materials and services Safety and Environment Index. format. With multiple high net that are vital for our operations. At GAIL, HSE has got the highest worth transactions, international Our employees help us create a importance, same is reflected in business dealings and R&D competitive advantage, it is through the fact that HSE Sub-committee activities involving intellectual their dedicated and sincere efforts of Board monitors and reviews the property rights, it is important for that we achieve and exceed our health, safety and environmental GAIL to focus on IT security across goals. performance of our operations. its operations. This year GAIL has rolled out We take appropriate actions and implementation of Behaviour Based In FY 13-14 Zero breach of security suitable initiatives to address Safety (BBS) which “focuses on was achieved by GAIL security concerns of different stakeholder what people do, analyses why they team. A monthly e-security groups. We have elaborated on the do it, and then applies a researchmagazine GAIL Rakshak is shared same in the subsequent sections of supported intervention strategy to with all Employees. Majority the report. improve what people do” of the recommendations made by Industrial Security Team of Health and Security Intelligence Bureau have been implemented in GAIL. Additional Safety Most of GAIL’s assets are of Security man-power were deployed national significance and any at various GAIL sites. Security As a responsible corporate GAIL Awareness Week, Review Meeting, incident related to these assets is accords highest importance to Emergency Response Drill for GAIL bound to have social, environmental safety of its employees, assets at all CISF Units, such events was and economic ramifications. and all its stakeholders. A good organized across GAIL Given the current geo-political safety system in the workplace environment it is likely that these has tools to help employees look Focusing on managing security installations and pipelines can out for themselves and their fellow of information, this year we also face threats of protests, sabotage workers. It takes more than just started activities pertaining to and even potential terror attacks. safety personnel to implement implementation of ISO 27001:2013 Therefore it is imperative for GAIL an effective safety program—an based ISMS (Information Security to give security a high priority essential factor in the equation is Management System) & Crisis across all operating locations the company’s safety practices. Management Plan (CMP). and should invest in state-of-art Perhaps the most important elements of an effective safety program are leadership support and visibility. An organization that can look to leadership to actively support safety and engage employees, vendors, subcontractors and clients about the importance of safety in the business is most successful in the safety arena. Ensuring robust health and safety of its employees and contract ZERO BREACH OF SECURITY workforce is of prime importance WAS ACHIEVED BY to GAIL considering the nature of GAIL SECURITY TEAM its operations. Providing personnel with a safe workplace and looking Care, Share & Grow 46 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Water increases and the quality and supply of the resource is threatened, of water, installing Waste Water Treatment Plant to further utilize Water is essential in human the need for effective freshwater water and promoting Rain water development – from the management along the supply chain harvesting system at our locations. freshwater needs of individuals is essential. Some of our key projects are and ecosystems to the demands piped canal ‘Behti Dhara’ project Our commitment for Water gets of agriculture and industry. With at Vijaipur to capture evaporation reflected in our “Sustainability population growth and continuing losses and conserving water. We Aspirations 2020” target for economic development, demand on also executed new waste water ourselves in aspects of reducing limited fresh water supplies is likely treatment plant for Usage of Water Intensity and increasing to intensify. Issues and impacts Treated Sewage wastewater for our waste water recycling. We of water on the Oil and Gas sector Vivekanand Sports Complex at are conscious of reducing our have been gaining prominence in GAIL Pata. water footprint by optimizing use recent times. As demand for water Engagement with other Stakeholders In addition to engaging with the stakeholder groups as mentioned above, GAIL is also member of many trade and chamber / associations. These associations help us engage with various other stakeholders to communicate our views and opinion through the association’s platform. Some of the major ones are as below :Indian International 1. Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) International Gas Union (IGU) 2. Standing Conference of Public Enterprises Institute of Internal Auditors, USA (SCOPE) 3. Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce World Environment Foundation and Industry (FICCI) 4. World Energy Council India National Institute of Corrosion Engineers International, USA (NACE) 5. Petroleum Federation of India (Petrofed) British Safety Council (BSC) 6. Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) International Group of Liquefied Natural Gas Importers (GIIGNL) 7. The India CFO Forum-IMA India Pvt. Ltd United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Gas Centre 8. Global Reporting Initiative India Private Limited 9. Global Compact Network India (UNGC’s India Chapter) 10. India GHG Program 11. Project Management Associates 12. International Market Assessment CEO Forum 13. TERI – BCSD (Business Council for Sustainable Development) 14. PHD Chamber of Commerce & Industry 15. Chemical & Petrochemicals Manufacturer’s Association (CPMA) International Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 47 GAIL works on different platforms prepared its draft report taking into industry issues from vehicle like industry associations, account three principle objectives engineering development, to government consultation forums of improving Environment, filling technologies and alternative and other public platforms. One Economics and achieving Energy fuel supplies. GAIL and its JVs such instance was the “Auto Fuel Security. The draft report has and subsidiaries have registered Vision and Policy – 2025”. An Expert suggested various alternatives, their enthusiastic presence in Committee on “Auto Fuel Vision and namely, Natural gas, auto LPG, the event. GAIL has apprised the Policy – 2025” (AFV&P-2025) was Ethanol blending, Hydrogen Fuel audience and stakeholders about constituted by GoI. Shri Prabhat & Electric mobility to improve our plans to expand natural Gas Singh, Director (Marketing), vehicular emissions in an optimal pipeline networks to create Green GAIL (India) Ltd. is a member of manner. The final report is under Corridors. These green corridors this expert committee. Also, to preparation by Centre for Heavy will provide opportunities to inland complete the task four working Technology (CHT). transportation to operate on groups have been created. Director natural gas vehicles by expanding Also, GAIL had actively participated (Marketing)-GAIL is convener of the reach of CNG beyond cities. This in Asia’s largest event on Natural working group-IV entrusted to corridor is likely to benefit eight Gas Vehicles (NGV), ANGVA-2013, suggest a “Suitable Mix of auto states viz. Karnataka, Maharashtra, held in Nov. 2013. The conference Fuels including Gas, Logistics, Road Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, was well attended by more Transport”. This working group has Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana & Punjab. than 60 speakers covering key GAIL-Voice: The social interaction platform for Stakeholders GAIL considers public at large as one of its stakeholders. In order to open-up further to the public and become more transparent, GAIL launched GAIL-Voice a unique sharing platform to interact with the stakeholders. This independent platform has been created to utilize the dynamism of social media and create a unified touch-point for anyone and everyone who wants to keep them updated, connected, and entertained with energy ecosystem. This gives the stakeholders an independent platform to interact with GAIL as an entity, without any obstacle. This is the first such initiative among any energy company in India to make such an attempt. Presently, GAIL’s online community has touched 70,000 and is expected to grow by 50% in the next year. This initiative helps GAIL to reach out to a cumulative count of approximately nine lac plus audience round the globe every month Care, Share & Grow 48 Sustainability Report 2013-14 GAIL and GRI organizations, driving GRI’s mission. GAIL became the founding member  Mainstreaming Sustainability & ESG Reporting to create a The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) of the GRI India’s Sustainability culture of Transparency is one of the leading organizations and Transparency Consortium. The  Stimulate harmonization with in the field of sustainability Consortium serves as a platform for existing national reporting working with the vision of a key players in the Indian corporate standards and sustainability sustainable global economy responsibility and sustainability initiatives where organizations manage their landscape to demonstrate their economic, environmental, social inspirational presence in the  Create an active and informed and governance performance sustainability field. Through the readership and impacts responsibly, and strong multi-stakeholder network of GRI Focal Point India, Consortium  Create national, regional report transparently through members ensure that Indian insight and local ownership of the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting supports the work of GRI. GRI reporting framework to Framework. enhance its technical features The GRI Focal Point India provides GAIL as the sector representative aims to collaborate with GRI in its  Build knowledge hub on guidance and support to local work towards: sustainability and transparency for India Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 49 During our association with three days in May to discuss the key representatives from each of the GRI India’s Sustainability and challenges and opportunities on the Consortium founding members Transparency Consortium we have path to a more sustainable future. In Companies who have joined been able to build a strong network addition, GAIL hosted the National GRI India’s Sustainability and to promote the greater cause of launch of the GRI G4 Guidelines Transparency Consortium. Our sustainability and have represented and Guidance on Alignment of GRI association with GRI has helped at various national and international NVG BRR in India in New Delhi on us in engaging with our peers, in platforms to share our knowledge 24.07.2013. The main features of the gaining industry perspective and and experience in this arena. G4 Guidelines were introduced to sharing best practices in the field of more than 120 delegates. sustainability and reporting. GAIL represented as speaker in GRI Global Conference on As a member of the Consortium, Sustainability Reporting at we shared our experience and Amsterdam on 22-24th May 2013. knowledge in the various GRI Over 1500 sustainability leaders Focal Point India Advisory Group and practitioners from across the Meetings, webinars and online globe convened in Amsterdam for sessions. The meeting had senior Care, Share & Grow 50 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Shareholders / Investors Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 51 With our growth trajectory giving due importance to the social and environmental considerations, we consistently endeavour to provide enhanced and steady returns to our investors. We remain committed to ensuring greater credibility and value to our shareholders / investors. Care, Share & Grow 52 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Shareholders / Business Growth the overall demand of natural gas in India. GAIL is also focusing on Investors GAIL has been working rigorously to create maximum returns for making upstream investments in gas assets, liquefaction facilities The fundamental purpose of its investors. This is possible only and LNG shipping to have presence investing is to allocate capital to through sustained business growth. in entire LNG value chain to the company to earn an attractive Some of these initiatives are achieve the twin objectives of return. In order to ensure the same, discussed below:enhancing India’s energy security the investors play an important role and providing better value to Sourcing & in monitoring the performance of our customers. As the industry the company. They monitor financial leader in natural gas, GAIL has Trading of Gasas well as non-financial parameters contracted gas supplies to put in of the company. GAIL appreciates place a diversified long-term import these facts and updates its portfolio of approx. 86 MMSCMD investors on all related financial LNG Regasification of gas from Qatar, Australia, USA, and non-financial parameters on a Terminals and Shipping Russia and Turkmenistan through regular basis through a variety of multiple LNG and transnational The report, “Working Group on pipeline deals to meet the ever media which include circulation of Petroleum and Natural Gas Sector increasing demand for natural gas in financial information, AGM, investor for the 12th Five-Year Plan (2012India. These deals were a testimony meets, news releases, press 17)” has envisaged that about 264 to the Company’s commitment meetings of senior management, MMSCMD of natural gas needs towards developing the Indian Gas annual reports and Company’s to be imported in 2016-17 and 363 market and helping India to achieve website. MMSCMD by 2021-22 to meet energy security in the long run. The Gas Sourcing Achievements Russia Gazprom 2.5 MMTPA 2019/20 – 2038/39 Qatar 4.5 of 7.5 MMTPA Until 2027/28 Turkmenistan US HH 38 MMSCMD (10.6 MMTPA) (Cheniere & Dominion) 2019/20 – 2048/49 5.8 MMTPA 2017/18 2036/37 Regas Capacity Nigeria GNF 2.5 MMTPA – Dahej 0.75 MMTPA 5.0 MMTPA Dabhol 2013-2015 Yemen GDF 0.36 MMTPA 2013-2014 Gorgon GNF 0.42 of 1.44 MMTPA 2015 2034 Long-term Import Portfolio Diversified Price Indices (23.8 MMTPA or 85.6 MMSCMD) Henry Hub 24.5% (5.8 MMTPA) Doversofoed Supply Sources Japanese Crude C-31% (7.42 MMTPA) Russia, Middle-East, Australia, USA Oil 44.5% (10.6 MMTPA) Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 53 critical aspect of consideration GAIL has explored possibilities GAIL would be setting up a Poly in these deals is augmenting the of collaboration in joint LNG Butadiene Rubber (PBR) plant of Company’s strategy to secure LNG procurement. As a result, we signed 110,000 tonnes per annum capacity supplies from a much diversified a MoU with Chubu Electric Power at a cost of INR 2,575 crore at supply sources to mitigate Co. Inc. of Japan in March 2014. Such Dahej, Gujarat through a 50:50 Joint geo-political risks; diversified joint procurement agreements are Venture with ONGC. The production indexations to mitigate pricing expected to stabilize and lower the from the plant would be sold in risks; FOB and DES contracts to gas prices in Asia. the domestic market which would provide supply flexibility etc. This reduce India’s dependency on PBR GAIL is also pursuing Turkmenistanaugurs well with our commitment imports. The feedstock, Butadiene Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) to serve our customers in the required for the PBR plant would be natural gas pipeline project for best way possible. GAIL imported supplied by ONGC Petro additions import of gas to India. GAIL has approximately 1.60 MMTPA of Limited (OPaL), promoted by GAIL signed a GSPA with State Concern LNG from various International and ONGC. ‘Turkmengaz’ for import of 38 sources spot cargoes, during this MMSCMD of natural gas from financial year, to encounter the immediate concerns of domestic Turkmenistan for 30 years. Natural gas supply shortage with spot cargoes contributing to approx. 22% of the Petrochemical pipeline total LNG imports. During FY 2013-14 commissioning GAIL aims to be the leader in the of various pipeline networks As a contributor for developing petrochemical segment in the and auxiliary systems have been infrastructure to accelerate LNG country by expanding existing completed, namely, Capacity market development in India, GAIL capacities, setting up new plants, Augmentation of Auraiyahas also entered into an agreement acquiring equity stakes in upcoming Jagdishpur pipeline, Karanapurwith Petronet LNG Limited for 2.5 projects, along with product offMoradabad-Kashipur pipeline MMTPA in Dahej LNG Terminal to take rights for marketing. GAIL has been further extended upto meet the increasing gas demand is currently doubling existing Rudrapur by commissioning of along existing pipeline network. petrochemical capacity at Pata. A Kashipur-Rudrapur pipeline, KochiGAIL would also be the commercial Greenfield petrochemical plant is Koottanad-Bengaluru/ Mangalore operator of Dabhol LNG terminal also being setup in Assam through Phase-I pipeline commissioning, for 25 years which will act as a its subsidiary, Brahmaputra Cracker Last Mile consumer connectivity gateway to meet the gas demand & Polymer Limited (BPCL). Another (approximate: 112 Kms) extended of consumers in the states of petrochemical plant at Dahej is to 66 numbers of consumers for Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka. being set up through a JV, ONGC supplying of Natural Gas around Petro-additions Limited (OPaL). GAIL has entered into a MoU 5.55 MMSCMD. with Paradip Port Trust to set up a Floating, Storage and Regasification Unit (FSRU) in offshore Orissa in the East Coast. GAIL is in the process of finalizing for imports of LNG from Sabine Pass and Dominion Cove Point LNG terminals in the US. GAIL has signed a MoU with Shipping Corporation Natural Gas Pipeline of India (SCI) to cooperate for Approx 112 Kms covering transportation of LNG sourced by 66 consumers connectivity in 2013-14 GAIL from USA. The cooperation would include SCI assisting GAIL in the charter hiring of LNG ships and GAIL assigning step-in rights to SCI in the ownership of LNG Ships. To strengthen the LNG supply, Care, Share & Grow 54 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Renewable Energy as % of Grid Energy 60.00 50.00 48.76 40.00 36.36 30.00 20.00 3.73 10.00 3.05 0.06 0.00 10 11 12 13 14 Y0 9 10 11 12 13 F FY FY FY FY Renewable shareholder value and takes various initiatives ranging from new and Research & Energy innovative projects, operational excellence and promotion of Development GAIL has graduated from a captive to commercial producer with 117.95 research and development. Some other initiatives include those (R&D) MW capacity installed wind energy taken for material and resource GAIL has increased its impetus on projects of in State of Gujarat, Tamil conservation. Research & Development (R&D) Nadu and Karnataka. In the year activities to remain competitive in 2011–12, GAIL entered into solar Declaration on this fast changing business scenario where technology is playing an Compliance increasingly important role. The R&D Department is pursuing over While pursuing business excellence 25 Projects in various thrust Areas ~ 122 MW Installed goals we ensure that all our operations are in compliance to of GAIL’s business WIND & SOLAR POWER Few of the R&D Projects are Projects the national and international regulations applicable to us. also being pursued in the Area of GHG reduction and use of power generation by winning the bid to setup a 5 MW Solar Plant under In Million (INR) Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission located at approximately A. Economic Value Generated 584064 70 Km from Jaisalmer in Rajasthan  Net Sales / Income from Operations 572451 and plans to set up additional capacities in the coming years.  Other Operating Income 2628 The Project was commissioned in  Other Income 8985 February 2013 and is generating 25000 – 28000 kWh per day. B. Economic Value Distributed 568847  Operating cost 517,214 Maximizing  Employee wages and benefits 9,082  Payments to providers of capital 20,368 shareholder  Payments to Governments (*) 21,557 value  CSR initiatives 626 C. Economic Value Retained (A – B) 15217 GAIL is dedicated to maximizing (*) Detailed financials are available in the GAIL’s Annual Report 2013-14 and our website (www.gailonline.com) Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 55 unconventional sources of energy. One of such Project is the LandFill Gas (LFG) Pilot project. The LFG emanates from the Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) dumping yards and is one of the largest sources of fugitive Methane emissions to the atmosphere. GAIL has set-up a Pilot project in an active landfill site to explore the option of extraction and gainful usage of LFG. The Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) allocated 4 Hectares of landfill site out of a total of 27 Hectares at their Ghazipur Landfill site in Delhi for setting-up this Pilot Plant. The LFG Pilot Plant has been commissioned in May’2013 and Land fill Gas project site at Ghazipur, Delhi about 125 m3/hr of LFG with methane content of about 25% is being extracted and flared. This Achieving and sustaining excellence Our pipeline are designed, leads to reduction in GHG emissions in the Operation & Maintenance of constructed and maintained as Methane is 25 times more the assets is the prime objective in line with the requirement of potent in causing Global warming of the GAIL’s philosophy. High international standards like the compared to CO2. The Project has standards of quality, application ASME, API, DIN, ISO and national been successfully validated by the of current technologies and standards like the OISD. The Designated Operational Entity extreme diligence in monitoring pipeline network is designed after (DOE) and registered with UNFCCC and maintenance of the assets a detailed environmental impact for availing carbon credits. The are some of the key elements of a assessment and series of approvals Project has improved the living successful maintenance strategy from Ministry of Environment and conditions of the local populace and Forests. The pipeline alignment demonstrates GAIL’s commitment GAIL’s Maintenance policy & is selected in such a way that to the Society by implementation of Guidelines covers Pipelines / the length is optimized avoiding this first of its kind Project in India. Terminals and other associated ecologically sensitive and protected installations, Compressor stations/ GAIL is also pursuing few Projects areas/ geographically unstable Booster stations, Gas Processing on CO2 Conversion / Utilization. areas/ less number of obstacle Units (GPUs), Petrochemical These include Projects on crossings like NH/SH/Railways, Complex (PC).We targets to ensure Development of catalyst for restricted / reserve forest area/ high levels of availability, reliability production of Syngas by utilizing Coastal Regulation Zones (CRZ). and safety in our operations CO2 for reforming of Methane. Another project is being pursued for CO2 Utilization through Microbial Managing Retrofitting route. This includes isolation, identification and selection high environmental Projects CO2 tolerant species of micro algae GAIL took certain retrofitting for CO2 capture and its conversion impacts during projects which have not only to value added products. resulted monetary benefits but also pipeline network in form of environmental paybacks. Operation & expansion and Maintenance operations Practices (UNFCCC weblink of project https://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/Validation/DB/TI8WDREBIQBQXHYB93EPM211OE6A2Q/view.html) Care, Share & Grow 56 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Burner Management System at GPU Usar: The existing natural draft heater was required to be adjusted manually from Field by adjusting the damper. No precise control over Excess Air for combustion due to manual intervention resulted in excess fuel consumption. No arrangement for Indication was there in case of main/Pilot burner failure.To enhance the Safety of the RG Heater and reduce the fuel gas consumption in RG heater, PLC based Burner Management system introduced at GPU Usar. The existing natural draft heater is retrofitted to Forced draft The tangible benefits of the project through the Fuel Gas Saving was 0.13 MMSCM per annum leading to an annual CO2e savings of 108 metric tonnes CO2e with an expected saving INR 1439856 /per annum. It also includes reduction in manual efforts, enhance safety and increase the Burner Efficiency. Material Though GAIL operates in a sector where scope of use of recycled efficiency wherever possible. Apart from energy conservation through & Energy input materials is very minimal, it attempts to recycle / reuse material design and operation excellence, GAIL has also worked on improving Conservation wherever possible. Further, we design our products and processes the share of renewable energy mix in its total energy consumption. For GAIL, natural gas transmission in a manner so as to reduce GAIL has gone a step beyond other forms the core of its business wastage. This is also reflected in the companies and has set voluntary apart from other business verticals Sustainable Development Policy energy reduction targets for itself. like liquid hydrocarbons, LPG which mentions “optimizing use of GAIL is committed to reduce its transmission, petrochemicals, natural resources through material specific energy consumption by explorations and production etc. substitution, recycling and reuse” as 5% by 2020 (with 2010 being the Given this business portfolio, an aspect of the Environment pillar base year). As a response to this Natural Gas (NG) forms a of the policy. target, an organization-wide plan significant part of the total has been developed with the help of Sustainable Development policy material consumption at GAIL. an integrated energy management of GAIL puts focus on improving Other materials consumed include, system, conducting energy audits, energy efficiency across operations. speciality chemicals and catalysts strengthening its procedures and The Company identifies and lube and grease, mercaptan, other technical interventions. assesses different opportunities chlorine, sulphuric acid, alum, to conserve energy and improve methanol, other chemicals and packaging bags. LHC Recovery (MT/MMSCM) 98.0 96.8 96.0 94.0 93.2 92.0 92.7 90.0 90.3 88.0 87.2 86.0 84.0 82.0 10 11 3 14 091011-1 2 12-1 13FY FY FY FY FY Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 57 Our Energy Consumption (Million GJ) 40.19 50.00 38.42 38.28 39.33 39.01 37.36 38.51 37.07 40.00 37.45 35.86 30.00 20.00 10.00 0.97 1.04 1.17 1.12 1.13 0.00 9-1 0 10 -11 11-1 2 12-1 3 1314 0 FY FY FY FY FY Total direct energy consumption Total indirect energy consumption Total energy Consumption At GAIL, we take a variety of initiatives to reduce our energy consumption and improve the share of renewable energy in its energy consumption mix. These initiatives are in form of quality circle projects which are implemented across locations. In the reporting period, 135 Quality Circle Projects were completed enabling achievement of a saving of INR 4.91 Crores. Some of the significant projects completed during the year are discussed below:Replacement of Natural Gas Based Closed Cycle Vapour Turbo generators ( CCVTs) by Solar Power under O&M Dibiyapur : 6 Numbers of 10kWp each solar powered system has been commissioned at six RR stations under O&M Dibiyapur region. CCVTs are provided at RR stations (often located remotely) for supplying electrical power to installed instrumentation and burn natural gas for its operation. It was decided to install Solar power system to replace CCVTs at RR or IP or SV stations in pipeline under Dibiyapur region in 2013-14. The total expenditure on Project was Rs. 98.30 Lacs. Solar PV plants (6 nos. of 10 kWp each) are expected to generate 86400 unit (kWh)/year of electricity which can save almost 1638 Tons of CO2equivalent /year with replacement of existing power source operated on natural gas fuel. With this renewable energy initiative, approx. 0.265 MMSCM natural gas saving has been estimated for FY 13-14 and is worth Rs 26.5 lacs. Fuel Gas Saving boosted the primary compressors discharge in series operation. (~1500 Tons of CO2 /year) worth INR 73 lacs since July 2013. at Dibiyapur However, with the new modification completed in July 2013, it is now Energy saving Compressor possible to divert the mentioned balance quantity of gas from the project at Hazira Station discharge of primary compressors At Dibiyapur compressor station, itself, resulting in fuel gas saving in booster compressors on account Compressor the balance quantity of lean gas available was diverted in Auraiyaof avoiding recompression of the balance quantity required to Station Aonla pipeline from the discharge be diverted towards Aonla. This After ensuring reliable GRID power of booster compressors which measure has enabled us to save supply from DGVCL through 11 KV approx. 0.73 MMSCM of natural gas Care, Share & Grow 58 Sustainability Report 2013-14 express feeder on full cost sharing basis by GAIL for the laying of Switching to Business express feeder, total electrical Load of the Hazira compressor station LED lamps Information has been shifted to GRID Power from own generation through GTG. At Vaghodia, Replacement of MLL lamps by LED lamps in Unit Area System (BIS) As both the GTGs are designed for total connected electrical load is expected to yield electrical energy saving of approx. 63,875 Initiatives which is almost double of normal Kwh per annum. Similar project at In line with the Govt. of India running load, minimum load had to Gandhar, where GLS lamps were guidelines, GAIL tender website be ensured for smooth operation of replaced with LED lamps resulting was revamped and interfaced any of the GTG’s when GTG’s were in energy saving of 14 watt per lamp, with Central Public Procurement running. translating to saving of 840 W (CPP) Portal. A barcode based However, since the transfer of load every day. system has been implemented for on GRID, it has made possible to physical verification. The web based Another initiative to improve shed some of the electrical load e-recruitment system for receiving energy efficiency was taken at which was previously not possible applications for Executive Trainees Vijaipur by replacing the existing due to unstable operation of posts was developed. Activities inefficient and unserviceable Air the GTG on part load condition. pertaining to implementation of Conditioning system with highly This measure has resulted in ISO 27001:2013 based Information efficient and less maintenance saving of approx. 1920000 KWH/ Security Management System Air conditioning system. This annum (~1500 Tons of CO2 /year) (ISMS) & Crisis Management Plan resulted in energy savings of equivalent to approx. INR 1.5 Crore/ (CMP) has started. approx. 7000KWH and approx. INR annum. 56,000/per month thus leading to energy efficiency & environment improvement. Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 59 e-Sustainability & eBRR Module Web Based Sustainability data management system has been developed to capture organization wide sustainability data. It automated the data management process thereby shortened time cycle for data analysis, minimized error due to reduction manual intervention, improving data traceability & reliability which makes it ready for Sustainability assurance. Every aspect owner can monitor & compare data through online report & approve it. In line with the above, a separate eBusiness Responsibility Reporting (BRR) module has also been developed to capture the Information requirements of SEBI BRR, GRI G3.1 indicators etc. Our MoU GAIL (India) Ltd. being a Central Public Sector Enterprise signs its External Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) document with the Government. MoU clearly specify the objectives of agreement and obligations of both parties. The MoU consists of mutually agreed targets on financial (50%) and nonfinancial parameters (50%). Some of the non-financial performance of MOU in FY 2013-2014 is shown here: Criteria Unit Excellent Target Target Achieved Training of Employees including Senior Manhours 1700 1951.5 Management on CSR & SD Aspects through Seminars/Workshops /trainings in internalizing the CSR and Sustainability agenda within the organisation. Recycling of waste paper generated Kg 2000 2933.5 NG Powered CCVT Replacement by Solar Power No. of RR Stations 5 5 covered Publication of Externally assured Sustainability Date 30.09.2013 25.09.2013 Report as per latest GRI standards Meetings/Consultations held with Key No of Meetings 4 4 Stakeholders Job Linked Vocational Skill training to youth No. of Youth 2000 2630 of underprivileged rural/ semi-rural families trained under Project GAIL IL&FS SKILL SCHOOLS at 3 locations (Continued Flagship Programme) Enrolment for Specialized Coaching for IIT/ No. of Children 100 100 Engineering Entrance Exam for children of enrolled underprivileged section under Project GAIL UTKARSH (Continued Flagship Programme) Project Jaldhara Integrated Watershed No. of Milestones 6 6 Management Project in villages of District achieved Jhabua, MP Expenditure incurred on CSR and Sustainability % 1 1.54 activities as % of previous year PAT Care, Share & Grow 60 Sustainability Report 2013-14 R &D Expenditure as % of previous year PAT % 1.01 1.01 Development of Ionic Catalyst for Syngas Milestones 6 6 Production through Combined Dry Reforming and Partial Oxidation of Methane (Project on CO2) Health Safety and Environment Index % 98.5 99.06 Customer Satisfaction Index % 88 92.03 % actualization of Training Plan for skill % fulfillment 95-100 100 upgradation of employees Number of structured meetings with employees’ No. of Meetings 10 11 unions Attrition as % of total employees % 5 1.03 Training budget as % of employee cost % of employee 1.5-2 4.71 cost Training Days per employee per year Number of Training 2 4.3 Days per employee Training Sessions on Risk Management for Senior Mandays 40 54 Level Executives Awareness on Succession Planning among the Mandays 60 96 Executives Targets of SD including Project Jaldhara Integrated Watershed Management semi-rural families under Project. 85% of target group of senior level aspects in GAIL Project in villages of District Jhabua, MP, we plan Skills Training executives to be covered in career development training in order to MOU FY 2014-15. for employability of women in North East States of India, Job Linked equip them for future leadership roles as well as in Succession This year also we took targets in Vocational Skill training to 2500 Planning. some of our important projects youth of underprivileged rural/ Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 61 GAIL (India) Limited’s iconic new office Green Building at Noida The 22-storey GAIL Jubilee Tower has a height of 118 metres, and it is one of the tallest buildings in the National Capital Region (NCR) as on date. The Jubilee Tower is compliant to LEED Green Building norms and GAIL hopes to get the highest LEED Platinum rating for it. Some of the other key features of the building are:  Captive power generation plant using gas engine generators  Waste heat recovered is used to run the Air Conditioning system.  30 KW solar power plant for area lighting The construction of the building was completed in just four years. About 18,000 cubic metres of concrete and 2,300 metric tonnes of steel were consumed during the construction which required 30 lakh man hours. Fly ash bricks and environment friendly cement, wood and paint materials were also used. The building has a sewage treatment plant and rainwater harvesting system and has zero water discharge to the surroundings. The 22-storey GAIL Jubilee Tower Green Building at Noida Care, Share & Grow 62 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Employees Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 63 Employees lie at the core of our business. It is through their unwavering commitment and determination, we have reached greater heights. Our focus remains in reciprocating by not only providing better opportunities of growth and development but framing better policies and systems that create an enabling environment ensuring enriched and motivated employees. Care, Share & Grow 64 Sustainability Report 2013-14 GAIL gives high importance to effective performance appraisals, have a provision of minimum two human resource and considers it as health and safety initiatives etc. days for each and every employee its biggest asset. Employee welfare to get training in areas of functional is one of the key foundations of GAIL’s HR Philosophy. There is a Training and / management / behavioural domain at GAIL Training Institute (GTI). deep rooted belief in GAIL’s value system that corporate growth is an Education At start of every year Training Need Assessment form is filled extension of employee’s growth and Given the sector we operate in, it by Employee through intranet development. In other words, GAIL’s is essential that our employees based portal. Apart from providing growth, prosperity and intellectual are qualified, trained and equipped functional and behavioural trainings competence is reflection of the with knowledge, skills, and right to all levels of employees, adequate value it has added to its employees. attitude to excel. GAIL, therefore, exposure is given to employees For the 2nd consecutive year, lays strong emphasis on attracting through conferences, seminars, skill GAIL has been considered in The best talent and providing a platform building workshops, etc. Economic Times Survey of Top 100 to launch their careers. GAIL has Strong emphasis is given on India’s Best Companies to work a well-structured and enriching leadership development programs for. Premised on this philosophy, induction programme. As a part for executives at senior levels. In GAIL has evolved and implemented of this orientation programme, order to assess the talent pool at various welfare policies with an the new recruits interact with the senior level, executives are made aim to improve the Quality of Life heads of various business functions to undergo Development Centres. and maintain Work-Life balance. giving them greater insight of our Developmental gaps identified Some of them include maternity businesses and value chain. To through this process are mitigated and paternity leave, provision enable seamless integration of new through executive development for disability leave, provision for recruits into our culture, we have programs, job rotation and higher Company accommodation, house introduced Mentorship program in responsibilities. Training programs rental allowance, death relief the organization for the Executive for skill management and lifelong fund, superannuation benefits, Trainees, wherein they are assigned learning that support the continued healthcare facilities, and financial to a mentor who is a senior employability of employees assistance scheme. executive in order to assist them in are organized at GAIL Training any personal or professional matter. Institutes. Apart from this, crossOver the years, GAIL has developed a unique workplace through its HR At GAIL, we believe that learning functional training programs are strengths:is a never ending process and have also organized as a routine wherein developed suitable policies to help participants from cross-functional  Lean and thin workforce employees grow as a professional areas are enabled with the basic  Young and highly qualified and realize their full potential. We knowledge of other functional manpower areas.  Cross functional expertise  Learning organization  Free and open communication process  Accessible senior leadership Based on these strengths, GAIL takes various initiatives for its employees which revolve around the philosophy of Care Share & Grow. These include maternity and child care leaves, regular training programmes, communicating and engaging with employees through various means, GAIL Voice, Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 65 Apart from these scheduled trainings, employees are also Labour Relation The HR department at GAIL aims to continuously engage with the imparted inputs regarding Safety & Skill up gradation in functional and Practices employees through various ongoing initiatives. GAIL has established an areas and behavioural aspects GAIL recognizes the fact that online grievance redressal system through knowledge sharing healthy labour and employee which is led by the HR team. This programs, online Quizzes and relations are the key to its progress online system has been developed Competitive events covering all and success. These also help us in in-house and has auto-escalation sustainability related aspects improving productivity, reducing features by virtue of which the organized on various occasions. industrial disputes, and maintaining complaint filed by the employee Several capacity building initiatives high morale of the workforce. In is escalated from HR-In-Charge were also taken up for employees in order to attain these objectives to Corporate HR to GM – HR and form of workshops and seminars in GAIL has enacted policies such as finally to Director – HR in case it is various aspects of sustainability. GAIL’s recruitment policy, Financial not resolved at the respective level assistance in case of Death / within the stipulated time period. In addition, Energy Desk is also one of the initiatives as input Total Permanent Disablement Contract workers are covered under for Management and knowledge (TPD) of an employee while in the Employee’s Compensation dissemination to GAIL Employees. service, Superannuation Benefit Act, 1923 and Insurance Policy is The Energy Desk Portal provides Fund Scheme to Defined, GAIL obtained by the Contractor on different features likereal time Employees’ (Conduct Discipline regular basis for grant of Death/ Energy Prices, business & market and Appeal) Rules etc. GAIL’s HR Disablement Benefits. As per ESI developments Snippets, Energy department also works in line with Act 1948, the contract workers Calculator, Energy Infrastructure the other guidance and directives have to become the members maps etc. issues by the Department of Public compulsorily for availing the Enterprises and other Government benefits. agencies. Promoting Sports In an endeavour to give an opportunity to more employees to participate in sports tournaments, GAIL organizes Annual Sports meet on an All-India basis providing an opportunity for the employees of different locations to come closer, resulting in better co-ordination. GAIL has been taking a number of initiatives to promote sports within the organization and at the same time, supporting and promoting sports and players outside the organization as well. Participating in Petroleum Sports Promotion Board (PSPB) tournaments is one such important platform. The 34th PSPB Inter-Unit Golf Championship was hosted by GAIL (India) Limited. This event brought together top amateur golfers from oil sector PSUs. With a view to increase the sporting culture and boost the morale among contract workers special activities are conducted at different GAIL locations. Care, Share & Grow 66 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Occupational  Implementation of Behaviour Based Safety Approach at  To ensure the effectiveness of HSE Management System, Health & Safety GPUs and Petrochemical Plant 25 nos. of Third Party Safety Audits were organized in  To showcase importance As a responsible corporate citizen, year 2013-2014. As a result of of HSE in GAIL to external GAIL accords high importance management review at various stakeholders and prospective to safety of its employees, levels, constant monitoring and business partners, a corporate assets and all its stakeholders. follow-up, external safety audit film was prepared and released At GAIL, comprehensive HSE compliances reached to the during Annual HSE workshop. Policy (duly signed by CMD) is in level of 91.31 % during this year. place. We encourage involvement  Model Film was prepared At all installations, it is ensured of each and every employee in on Standard Operating that all contract workers use the effective implementation of Procedures appropriate Personal Protective HSE Policy and in enhancing HSE Equipment (PPE) through regular  With a view to focus on saving Culture. Implementation of Safety monitoring and. Regular safety precious human lives at GAIL Management System is monitored trainings and talks, briefing on installations, an analysis of by HSE Sub Committee of Board on safety related issues to all contract past incidents was done to regular basis. Senior management workers is carried at all installations arrive at major causes of life constantly monitors and reviews of the Company. Further, in threatening incidents. The the existing safety practices so that periodic Safety Audit conducted major causes identified were proactive actions are taken on an by Corporate HSE Department taken as focused campaign on-going basis. During the reporting health and safety issues of contract topic and were launched under period, following major initiatives workers are also addressed. “Life Saver Scheme” from were undertaken on Occupational January 2014. Health and Safety Management:HSE Performance Trends (HSE Index for last 5 Years) 99.25 99.05 99.06 98.92 98.89 99.5 98.5 99 98.5 98.5 98 97.5 97.5 98 97.5 97 96.5 0 1 9-1 0-1 1-12 2-13 3-1 4 200 201 201 201 201 IMOU Target Achieved Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 67 Some key safety initiatives Behaviour Based Safety GAIL Embarked upon a journey on implementation of Behaviour Based Safety (BBS) across GAIL installations, triggered by the “Safety Leadership Session” of British Safety Council. Behaviour Based Safety was conceived by the Management during deliberations in the last year’s Annual HSE Workshop triggered by isolated incidences specifically related to Implementation of Behavioural patterns. Accordingly, Steering Committee and Task Force BEHAVIOUR BASED were constituted for implementation of Behaviour Based Safety. During SAFETY (BBS) the year 2013-2014, Behaviour Based Safety has been implemented at across GAIL installations major process plants including Usar, Gandhar, Vaghodia, Vijaipur and Pata. Care, Share & Grow 68 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Installation of Open Path Detection System The terminals under RLNG pipeline in DUPL and DPPL have fixed Open path Gas Detection system; however, in some old APM terminals there was no provision for fixed gas detection system. Gas leakage detection was done manually in every shift by operator through portable hand-held gas detectors. The open Path Detectors (OPD) proposed for old APM terminals, is an open path infrared gas detection system that provides continuous monitoring of combustible hydrocarbon gas concentrations over a distance of 5 to 120 meters and rings an alarm at the panel at control room of respective stations and terminals. Implementation of this system has resulted in a safer workplace. Model Film on Standard Operating Procedures To upgrade the skills, knowledge and to provide training to O&M personnel about Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for enhanced safety, a model Animated Film was prepared on Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) of GPU, Vaghodia. Medical Programmes To keep the nick of good health of GAIL employees, their family members and to nearby villagers, company organizes various medical programmes across its facilities. During FY 2013 – 14 several health awareness programmes including health camps on gastrointestinal diseases, osteoporosis & national pulse polio programmes were conducted at GAIL, Pata & Dibiyapur. Diversity of ‘Policy for Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of for Women; SCOPE and Women in Public Sector (WIPS) forums for the and Equal Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace’ was formulated and cause of Women’s development. In line with the philosophy Opportunity widely available to all stakeholders at this Web link: to promote diversity, GAIL Management has instituted three GAIL is an Equal Opportunity http://www.gailonline.com/final_ awards for GAIL women employees employer that promotes and for their commendable services and site/pdf/Sexual_Harassment_ leverages from its workforce contribution to the overall growth Women_Workplace.pdf. diversity. GAIL complies with Equal of the organization. The awards Remuneration Act, 1976 and there GAIL is now in the process of aim at recognizing and encouraging is no discrimination in wages based incorporating relevant amendments the outstanding women employees on gender. Company’s HR policies to the “Conduct, Discipline and of GAIL for their services in the are notified and widely circulated Appeal” (CDA) Rules and Certified fields of Functional Management, for information of all employees Standing Orders to prevent such Corporate Social Initiatives and through media like e-mails, kind of situations at the work Corporate Cultural Initiatives. circulars, HR Handbook, Personnel place. With a view to assign due Manual and Employee Forms. Human Rights importance to representation of female employees, GAIL has GAIL has a well-defined policy for created a Women Cell which is prevention of sexual harassment GAIL has always been a firm responsible for reviewing the at the work place. In FY 2013-14 supporter and propagator of human planned schemes and other a dedicated internal Complaints rights for all. It not only complies programmes. GAIL Women Cell also Committee post notification with the laws of the land (such as liaison with National Commission Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 69 laws relating to labour practices, approach on Child or forced labour of child labour or forced and child labour, forced labour, in any of its operations. compulsory labour, no incident working conditions etc.) but also of engagement of child or forced commits itself to other voluntary agreements under International Child Labor or compulsory labour has been reported in the reporting year. bills and treaties. GAIL is also a Child labour is a challenge that The concerned executive at every signatory to the United Nations hinders the development of any location ensures relevant statutes Global Compact which has specific nation. We work towards ensuring are complied with. focus towards human rights. that no child labour is employed Policies & Procedures concerning at any of our operations. In order to ensure this, every new recruit is Social aspects of human rights carry significant value for GAIL. Elements required to submit a proof of age. Further, the Company is committed Accountability of Human rights are imbibed in the policy framework of the to work in a pro-active manner to eradicate child labour by actively (SA) 8000 organization. Training Programs on Labour Laws and Outsourcing contributing to the improvement of children’s social situation. To Implementation are such programs conducted by GAIL Training Institute which promote this, we encourage our suppliers also to work towards a no at GAIL cover almost majority of aspects child-labour policy. GAIL with the view to strengthen of human rights. Such programs its social framework and are conducted as a part of annual training plan and executives who are concerned with outsourcing are Forced and increase accountability towards stakeholders decided to start imparted training on the subject aspect every year. A two-day Compulsory implementation of the Social Accountability (SA) standard. An training program on the subject topic was conducted during the Labor internal Sub-Committee comprising senior officials was constituted In India, like child labour, forced and for implementation of SA 8000 reporting year and 22 executives compulsory labour is also legally in a phased manner in GAIL. GAIL (352 man-hours) were imparted prohibited. GAIL functions in strict Hazira would be taken up as the training on Labour Laws and compliance with these laws and pilot site towards implementing the Outsourcing with the elements of does not engage in any form of standard. The standard would cover Human Rights. forced and compulsory labour and areas related to child labour, forced All our agreements include a clause has developed and implemented and compulsory labour, health and asking commitment from our systems to ensure the same. safety, freedom of association vendors, suppliers, and contractors and right to collective bargaining, to comply all applicable Indian laws Though there has not been a formal discrimination, disciplinary and regulations including human / specific initiative to identify practices, working hours, and rights. operations which face the threat remuneration. The issue of human rights is central to good corporate citizenship and Phase wise to a healthy bottom line. Businesses implementation of are increasingly focusing on the impact they have on individuals, communities and the environment. It is clear that one of the central measures of a company’s social responsibility is its respect for SO human rights. All employees CI 0 00 when inducted are trained on AL Y8 ACC I T GAIL’s CDA rules to develop their understanding on these aspects. OU NTABIL GAIL follows a non-tolerance Care, Share & Grow 70 Sustainability Report 2013-14 GAIL propagates human rights labour/ forced labour/ involuntary executives posted at various Field amongst its suppliers and requires labour, Sexual harassment, or Offices/ Plants/ Installations across them to comply with specific Discriminatory employment. the Country except Corporate conditions on working age, minimum However, one case pertaining to Office. Non-executives posted at wages, equal wages for gender, industrial accident was referred Corporate Office are represented health and sanitary arrangement to GAIL by National Human Rights by GAIL KaramchariSangh (GKS). for workers etc. Standard clauses Commission. The same does not A Committee consisting of senior on child labour and forced labour fall under the category of grievance level executives nominated from are incorporated in C&P contracts related to human rights, but falls various groups, functions and while engaging with the workers. under the compliance of Factories work centres looks after various All work contracts and agreements Act, 1948. Accordingly, necessary ongoing issues with Association are embedded with these clauses to compliance under Factories Act is at the Corporate Level while uphold human rights. being followed. However, reply to at the Work Centre level, the NHRC has also been provided with Committee consists of an Officer Non relevant facts. In-charge, Heads of HR and other Departments. Presently about 21% Discrimination Freedom of of GAIL’s employees is covered under the collective bargaining GAIL aims to operate in a responsible manner and does not Association agreements. differentiate amongst employees on the basis of caste, creed, religion, & Collective Discussions with employee collectives are held through gender or any such criteria. It provides equal benefits to its male Bargaining Monthly / Bi-Monthly / Quarterly Meetings, both at Work Centre & female employee for same set of GAIL respects the right of and Corporate levels. The record work. The Company also ensures the employees to freedom notes of discussions held at various that no discrimination is practiced of association and collective Work Centres are collated at the during the recruitment / career bargaining. The Company Corporate Office on a monthly basis development / appraisal process recognizes Unions representing for effective monitoring by the processes. the interests of their respective Director (HR). workmen / staff. GAIL During the reporting period, there The commitment of GAIL Employees Association (GEA) were no complaints filed for Child was reflected in its MoU for is a representative body of nonCare, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 71 GAIL Vaghodia OIC receiving winner trophy during Security Awareness Week FY 13-14 with MoPNG which mitigating such risks arising in Servicemen recruited through the had parameter of 10 Number form of protests, attempts to Directorate General Resettlement of structured meetings with sabotage and even potential terror (DGR), Department of Exemployees’ associations. Employee attacks. We have invested heavily to Servicemen (Ministry of Defence), participation in Management address these potential threats to Government of India, ensure the and their effective inclusion in our operations which were Rs 83.78 security of all its installations and the decision making process Crores in FY 13-14 significantly pipelines. has been an integral part of higher than INR 68.43 Crores In order to secure our facilities, we Company’s philosophy. There invested in FY 13-14. ensure that it does not compromise are numerous forums in GAIL for Through systematic security checks on human rights, personal privacy, promoting employee participation by specially trained personnel, human and respectful treatment. in organizational decision making, GAIL continuously monitors For this purpose, we are developing as well as on issues related to and assesses its effectiveness a comprehensive training module employee welfare. towards any malicious action and for our security personnel on implements a variety of preventive aspects of human rights covering Security measures to provide for the safety various applicable national and and security of its personnel and international human rights norms. Practices operations. In FY 13-14 95% of Regular Security Although security risks cannot As an operator of critical undergone training and 90% of be fully eliminated, GAIL believes infrastructure, GAIL works with its Contract Security Guards had that they can always be managed stakeholders (such as government undergone security sensitization. in a more effective manner. agencies, peers, communities etc.) In order to spread human rights Given GAIL’s wide network of gas to identify, detect, deter, prevent literacy and to sensitize security pipeline, process units and other and mitigate potential security executives on the subject, we facilities spread across a large threats to our Company of its organised interactive workshop geography, such risks are of critical personnel and facilities. on Human Rights and Security for importance to GAIL and have also the Security Personnel during the GAIL’s security team along with been identified as being material Security Review Meeting at GTI the Central Industrial Security to the organization. GAIL takes Noida. Force (CISF) personnel and Excomprehensive steps towards Care, Share & Grow 72 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Community / Society Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 73 With passage of time, what civil society expects from business has evolved. It is imperative for businesses to understand the issues and concerns in the community they operate in. The success of the business hinges around the support it enjoys from the society. Taking cognizance of the changing times, we have put stringent systems and procedures in place to take initiatives to address the concern of the community. Care, Share & Grow 74 Sustainability Report 2013-14 The primary objective of our CSR activities is to provide enhanced value to the society in which it operates through various initiatives. Being a Public Sector Undertaking, GAIL operates its CSR activities in line with the guidelines issued by the Department of Public Over Enterprises. According to these  Infrastructure: GAIL’s 5000 guidelines, GAIL has allocated investment in rural women an annual budget of 2% of the infrastructure is driven by the beneficiaries previous year’s Profit after Tax welfare of communities that under various for CSR activities. For FY 2013-14, live close to its work centres. SKILL GAIL allocated over INR 91 Crores These include projects such as, DEVELOPMENT towards CSR activities which also village adoption programmes, programs included unspent and unutilised construction of community amount from previous Financial centres, community toilets, Years. Currently, GAIL has seven check dams, and school established by GAIL in M.P. thrust areas which have been buildings and libraries to (Guna), A.P (Tandur) & Gujarat decided by keeping in mind, GAIL’s benefit the community at large. (Dediapada) under Project business operations and its social Swavalambh have been responsibility to the community imparting skills based training and people. These CSR initiatives in retail, hospitality & facility / projects are analysed on grounds management to rural youth of of sustainability and value they country along with placement provide to the community. In support. The integrated order to effectively address the ‘Backward and Forward’ requirements of the community linkages pertaining to training and implement these initiatives, we and employment provided have developed a CSR policy.  Healthcare / Medical: The through these schools make critical area of healthcare, and it a unique approach towards Seven thrust areas of GAIL’s CSR its relevance in the lives of the creation of sustainable activities:disadvantaged, is addressed livelihoods. In 2013-14, nearly by the GAIL’s Project Arogya, 2700 youth have been provided which caters to the gap in the training in the various sectors. primary health care system In addition, Self-Employment delivery by operating Mobile opportunities have been Medical Units in various made available to over 5000 villages of Auraiya (Uttar women beneficiaries under Pradesh), Guna, Jhabua and various skill development Khera (Ujjain, MP). In the year programs undertaken by GAIL, 2013-14, 6 new vans have  Community Development: in trades like embroidery, been launched to cater to Some key initiatives in the area stitching and tailoring etc. remote population in Kailaras of community development at various locations spread (Morena, MP), Chhainsa involve construction of across Uttar Pradesh, (Faridabad, Haryana), Haridwar concrete cement roads and Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, (Uttarakhand), Ludhiana installation of hand pumps and Delhi. Empowerment of the (Punjab) and Gandhar (Bharuch, tube wells and installation and differently abled and physically Gujarat). This has benefitted promotion of decentralized challenged is another area more than 6 lakh villagers till sources of energy in various where GAIL is proactively date. villages and notified backward involved through the provision villages of Uttar Pradesh and  Skill Development / of essential medical aids, Madhya Pradesh. Empowerment: The Multiequipment and infrastructural skill schools have been support Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 75  Environment Protection: We support initiatives and projects to manage our natural resources more judiciously. Projects related to Rain water SUPPORTED NON-FORMAL harvesting, water recharging and Ground water reuse EDUCATION centers covering over 26,000 systems have been supported by GAIL. In addition, we have out of school slum children also taken up projects of installation of bio-gas plants. In our effort to promote nonconventional sources of energy, we have installed solar lights in villages in Madhya Pradesh  Educational / Literacy Till date nearly 300 beneficiaries and Uttar Pradesh. GAIL has Enhancement: GAIL has of GAIL Utkarsh have made it to undertaken projects to address prestigious Engineering Institutes critical issues such as school of India. dropout rate, literacy rate, In FY 2013-14 a total of 100 students education for out of school were enrolled under GAIL Utkarsh children, equipment and out of which 91 Utkarsh students infrastructure for schools qualified prelim exam of IIT and among others. To facilitate 39 successfully qualified IIT Mains access to quality education exams, remaining GAIL Utkarsh by the less privileged children, Students are awaiting their results the GAIL Charitable and for NITs, UPTU etc. Education Trust was set up in 2009 to awards scholarships GAIL has initiated the Project to meritorious poor students. ‘Padho aur Badho’, since 2009 under also contributed towards In FY 2013-14, GAIL has which 250 non-formal education conservation of animals of undertaken projects of value centres have been functioning in rare species and protection over INR 4.00 Crores under the slums of Delhi/NCR, covering over of forest trails. GAIL has been GCET, including disbursement 26,000 out of school slum children. supporting wildlife through of scholarship to students at In the 2013-14, the programme support to Mobile Veterinary the level of school education focussed on improving access, Services (MVS) units in the and professional studies quality, and retention of students NorthEast. In 2013-14, GAIL on merit cum means basis and covered 10,000 students under has undertaken an Inclusive and also assisted students this initiative. Waste Management Initiative to pursue their Engineering Besides the above-mentioned as a tool for livelihood creation degree by extending financial Flagship projects, various education and environmental protection support. centric initiatives are carried out (recycling of waste paper GAIL Utkarsh is aimed at securing and support has been extended to generated) on a pilot basis the future of brilliant students violence and migration affected in its work centres in Delhi/ whose dreams may have otherwise youth and school children in the NCR. Through this waste perished due to lack of finances. states of J&K and Assam. Also, paper initiative, we intend to This pioneering project provides GAIL has undertaken Project reduce our carbon footprint by all expense paid, specialised Search For Gandhi targeted at recycling the waste generated residential coaching/intensive valuebased education towards and putting it to alternate use. mentoring so that bright students school going children based on GAIL has already recycled over from under privileged can Gandhian values. 2000 Kgs of waste paper. compete for engineering entrance examinations such as IIT/JEE, AIEEE, etc. Care, Share & Grow 76 Sustainability Report 2013-14  Drinking Water / Sanitation: In the area of CSR Programme Thrust Areas wise Sanitation, a number of long spending in FY term initiatives on holistic 2013-14 in INR Lacs village development initiatives Community development in the states of Uttar Pradesh 472.33 and Madhya Pradesh for construction of household Drinking water/ sanitation toilets to improve local hygiene 62.8 and sanitation practices have been taken up. Also, the Education/ Literacy organisation has embarked 651.77 Enhancement upon certain projects for construction of compost pits Environment protection for organic waste disposal, 40.37 pipelines and reconstruction of Healthcare/ medical 699.69 Infrastructure 895.64 Skill Development/ empowerment 862.71 drainage systems. In 2013-14, generously towards relief of GAIL also earmarks 3% of its total GAIL has undertaken a long natural calamities or disasters annual CSR budget towards need term Integrated Watershed and towards GAIL Charitable and identification, impact assessment Management Project Jaldhara Education Trust. GAIL has extended and sponsorship of CSR events/ in the water scarce region support for relief and rehabilitation publications. The Company intends of Jhabua, MP. Under the activities at flood affected district to revise the thrust areas and their project, various activities of Rudraprayag, Uttarakhand by respective allocation in FY 2014-15 for watershed development way of promoting community in alignment with the provisions of including activities such as based approaches to disaster Section 135, Companies Act 2013 construction of check dams mitigation, sensitization on global and associated Rules. and work for the renovation/ warming and disaster, counselling digging and reconstruction services and livelihood promotion. of the earthen tanks/ ponds, In addition, INR 2 Crores have been provision of water for irrigation contributed towards CM Relief and livestock, promotion of Fund, Uttarakhand for addressing double cropping, improvement the disastrous effects of the in ground water level etc. are catastrophe. Further, GAIL has being undertaken. extended support for construction of Pre-fabricated houses in cyclone (The CSR projects are of continuous affected region of Balasore, nature and expenditure incurred Odisha. GAIL has also undertaken spans across various financial Project Sreejana long term holistic years due to which the figure is development project for relief continually updated as and when and rehabilitation in Rudraprayag, the expenditure is incurred). Uttarakhand. Apart from these seven thrust areas, GAIL also contributes Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 77 GAIL’s Progress on Millennium Development Goals To eradicate extreme GAIL conducts various programmes for eradication of poverty and hunger extreme poverty and hunger. Few of such initiatives include providing vocational training to improve employability of the rural youth, special livelihood based CSR programmes for marginalized farmers, programmes for disadvantaged vulnerable and marginalised sections of the community through skill training programmes in areas of Guna (M. P.), Dediapada (Gujarat) and Tandur (Andhra Pradesh). Project Aarogya and Project Jaldhara, meeting other needs of the marginalized sections by providing facilities like education, healthcare, purposeful livelihood opportunities, etc. To achieve universal Education is one of the thrust areas for GAIL’s CSR primary education programmes. Our flagship programme “Padho aur Badho” is also focussed around education. To promote gender GAIL is an equal opportunity employer and promotes equality and women empowerment. GAIL has also implemented a empowering women sexual harassment policy to promote safer workplace for women. Over 5000 women have also benefitted from the selfemployment opportunities under various skill development programs like Project Swavalambh. To reduce child Another critical area of Healthcare, and its relevance in mortality rates the lives of the by Project Arogya which caters to the gap in the primary health care system delivery by operating 16 Mobile Medical Units in various villages of U.P., M.P., Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Gujarat . This project also addresses issues of child mortality and maternal health. Apart from this for GAIL Employees we provide To improve maternal child care leave and maternal and paternal leaves to our health employees to promote maternal and child health. GAIL also supported Family planning camps at Public Health Centre at Dibiyapur. To combat HIV/AIDS, GAIL also provides holistic healthcare and medical malaria, and other services to the community where we operate. GAIL has diseases a policy on HIV / AIDS which aim to prevent protect rights of those infected and prevent transmission of the disease. GAIL conducts AIDS awareness programs and behavioural change communication programmes for truck drivers. During the reporting year, Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) Clinic was also set up at Pata for HIV Care and Prevention through mass awareness. The Company also observed World Aids Day and conducts an awareness session which informed the participants about prevention, early diagnosis, and treatment of HIV / AIDS. GAIL also organizes malaria camps with treatment and free medicines. Care, Share & Grow 78 Sustainability Report 2013-14 To ensure By virtue of our business we promote environmental environmental sustainability by promoting a cleaner fuel. We work on sustainability promoting environmental awareness and reducing our environmental impact by minimising its waste, emission and effluent generation. One such initiative has been the support to rural bio-gas plants as one of our CSR programmes. Collaboration for Development of Renewable Energy The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is signed on the 25.02.2014 between the Ministry of New & Renewable Energy and Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, GoI for setting up a Special Purpose Vehicle for implementing Off-Grid Solar, Wind and other Renewable energy power projects. MoP&NG has initially identified Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited, Oil India Limited, GAIL (India) Limited and Engineers India Limited and the MNRE has identified Solar Energy Corporation of India and Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited, as their PSUs in the JVC. To develop a global GAIL works at various platforms to promote global partnership for partnership for development. Most of these are more development specific to development through natural gas. One such initiative is the Asia Gas Partnership Summit which is attended by 800 participants from 19 countries. GAIL is the founding member of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Focal Point India’s Sustainability & Transparency Consortium. This has helped us in engaging with business leaders, national governments, regulators, sustainability experts, think tank bodies and professional institutes to discuss issues related to sustainability reporting. GAIL is also a member of TERI-BCSD (TERIBusiness Council for Sustainable Development) which is an industry led consortium of sustainability practitioners. Further, GAIL is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) working in the domain of Human Rights, Labor standards, Environment and Anti-Corruption. CSR Approach GAIL also holds community meetings and interaction with activities in detail in our previous sustainability reports. at GAIL implementing partners, and People lie at the centre of our community members. The Stakeholder Meetings also Impact CSR initiatives. Through various mechanisms of interaction and see participation from District Administration, Village Leaders in assessment of awareness building, the aim is to develop a sense of “belongingness” addition to representatives of the community and GAIL CSR team. activities with the community aiming towards We have covered the approach GAIL analyses the potential impact a collaborative effort. and selection process of our CSR of its activities at various stages Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 79 of the project from planning, highlighting the project milestones indigenous communities to live as milestones during implementation achieved and the quantitative and distinct peoples, with their own to the end of the project. In qualitative benefits generated. cultures and relationships to the collaboration with our community, The project is also evaluated land. GAIL seeks to partner with we analyse the potential impacts on milestones achieved by the the neighbouring communities to of our operations before setting Cross Functional CSR Committee reduce the negative aspects (in any up any new project and during any formulated at every GAIL work induced by the operations). During expansion of existing projects, centre. Independent Third Party the reporting period, there have so as to address the concerns of Assessments are also conducted been no incidents of violations the community. To address the for major CSR initiatives of GAIL involving rights of indigenous potential negative impacts, we have at regular intervals. The agencies people. adequate systems and equipment engaged for these studies are GAIL being essentially a pipeline in place that go beyond regulatory primarily academic in nature and company engaged in transportation requirement. The Company also has have ranged from M/s Hardicon and marketing of Natural Gas, off site emergency plan to mitigate Limited, Tata Institute of Social besides other activities. As a part the impact of any unlikely event as Sciences, Department of Social of our activities, we are required to required by the local regulations Work (DSW), University of Delhi to acquire land and it’s Right of Use and displays environmental Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. under the Land Acquisition Act information on boards for public and PMP Act respectively, through information. Indigenous respective state governments. At the end of a project, the GAIL makes every effort to settle implementing partner submits a Rights disputes with the intervention report pertaining to the impact of state governments and also We respect local culture and of the programme, specifically through court within the framework heritage and the choice of of statutes. Working with the marginalized sections of society All CSR initiatives of the company are aimed at the holistic development of the disadvantaged vulnerable and marginalised sections of the community. This is illustrated by CSR projects like GAIL Utkarsh programme, Skill Training programmes to the disadvantaged youth in areas of Guna (M. P.), Dediapada (Gujarat) and Tandur (Andhra Pradesh), Project Aarogya, Project Jaldhar. These programmes address the various needs like education, healthcare, purposeful livelihood opportunities, etc. of the marginalised strata of the society, In FY 2013-14, GAIL has undertaken an integrated long term watershed management project called Project Jaldhar covering 40 villages in the water scarce tribal region of District Jhabua, Madhya Pradesh. This programme addresses the critical issue of water scarcity and its social, economic, health and environmental impact on the lives of the people. In addition, GAIL has extended scholarship to 500 violence affected children in Assam and Jammu and Kashmir. GAIL has also undertaken skill development initiatives for unemployed Safai Karamchari youth in Delhi/ NCR, U.P. and M.P. Environment responsibility programme is based upon continuous improvement. management. Key focus areas highlighted in the Sustainable GAIL is committed to achieve Environmental management is a Development Policy are environmental excellence corporate priority, fully integrated environmental impact of throughout its business activities. into our business. We believe operations, energy efficiency, water We recognize that the pursuit of environmental excellence is a key conservation, waste management, economic growth and a healthy factor demonstrating effective biodiversity conservation, GHG environment must closely be corporate management..For mitigation, green procurement and linked and that environmental GAIL, Sustainable Development responsible usage of materials, and protection and sustainable Policy acts as the umbrella remaining committed to national development are collective for all sustainability related commitments. responsibilities. Our environmental aspects including environment Care, Share & Grow 80 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Emissions, produced. We have well established environment management Pata unit to monitor SOx, NOx, hydrocarbons, CO and noise on effluents, and systems which are dedicated to function beyond compliance levels. continuous basis. All the stations are connected through a fibre waste Technologies and equipment like scrubbers have been installed at optic cable network and the data is continuously monitored. Apart from GAIL is aware about the impact the units to control air pollution and these three permanent monitoring of its operations on environment reduce air emissions. We have also stations, one mobile station is and works towards reducing the installed three continuous ambient used to monitor ambient air at any emissions, effluents, and waste air quality monitoring stations at desired location within or outside the plant premises. Our Emission (MtCO2e) 2.62 2.64 3.00 2.45 2.49 2.36 2.38 2.54 2.26 2.29 2.23 2.00 1.00 0.22 0.23 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.00 10 11 2 3 14 091011-1 12-1 13FY FY FY FY FY Total Scope 1 Emissions Total Scope 2 Emissions Total GHG Emissions at GAIL GAIL is primarily in the business monitor and reduce its own carbon project with UNFCCC for grid of natural gas transmission and footprint, GAIL has set voluntary connected solar PV project for marketing, liquid hydrocarbons, targets for GHG emissions, energy which estimated amount of annual and petrochemicals. By virtue of efficiency and water recycling. emission reductions of 8,783 its characteristics, natural gas Since the past three years, the tCO2e and a total estimated of is a cleaner fuel relative to the progress on these targets is 61,487 tCO2e during the specified other fossil fuels like coal and reviewed and disclosed publicly in crediting period. Another project oil. Presently, the composition of the sustainability reports. We are for landfill closure and gas capture natural gas in the energy mix of currently keeping a close eye on is under validation. Financial value India is lower and GAIL is working the developments in the field of of these CERs is market driven towards increasing the share of climate change and would evaluate and not currently calculated. natural gas in the energy mix of the the financial implications if and Detailed description of projects country. It is also inclined towards when found to be appropriate and and activities taken up during promoting clean production of would take definitive action on the reporting period has been energy through use of renewables the same. Financial implications described from pages 54 to 56. like solar and wind; these clean of climate change are also in form These activities include those sources of energy have received of regulations and international relating to GHG emission reduction significant investment from GAIL treaties like Kyoto Protocol. and energy efficiency. in the past years. In an attempt to Currently, GAIL has one registered Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 81 Managing solid wastes requires travel emissions total 246 Number with biodiversity rich area during intensive use of environmentally of 435 Hours of Video conferencing its operations, GAIL tries to sound technology for our activities sessions were conducted in FY preserve their natural form. For as it is bound to contain hazardous 2013-14. Also, transmission of this purpose, we develop a detailed materials. These hazardous natural gas and LPG through plan, depending on the specific materials can be in form of used oil pipeline helps in reducing truck issues of the area, according to and batteries, ETP sludge, tar and transportation which in turn saves which corrective actions are taken. tar ash, Slop oil, used bag filters, precious fuel, time and money. This exercise ensures that there is a spent alumina, silica gel, cellulose minimal impact on the biodiversity sludge, molecular sieve, ceramic material. Cables, tyres, empty Biodiversity of the area. The Company also worked on drums, etc. Major Non-hazardous Today, businesses operate in landscaping by native plants with waste of the Company consists of a complex environment with the aim of maintain biodiversity metal scrap, plastic scrap, wooden a variety of risks. Millennium and reducing pollution. This project scrap, canteen waste etc. Other Ecosystem Assessment identified was initiated in Western Ghats wastes include e-waste and biosix challenges that are of particular (an area of ecological importance medical waste. This year, there were concern for the businesses, of and facing threat from population no significant spills and no waste which biodiversity loss is one such expansion, deforestation, forest was exported under the terms of concern. Other concerns being fragmentation, mining, dam Basel Convention. water scarcity, climate change, construction, and inefficient land habitat change, overexploitation of GAIL’s Petrochemical unit generates use practices) named “Project oceans and nutrient overloading . tar, Wastewater Treatment Plant Dharohar”. (WWTP) sludge, molecular sieves, GAIL consciously works towards tar ash and slope oil as solid wastes in the hazardous categories. The mitigating the Biodiversity related risks by conducting environmental Water organic sludge from WWTP is impact assessment studies before Water and energy are intrinsically taken for land filling and Green any expansion or initiating new linked. As per UN Water ‘Roughly Development purposes. Molecular projects. In case of any contact 75% of all industrial water sieves and tar ash is landfilled in a secured landfill and slop oil is sold to statutory approved parties for Our Water Consumption FY 13-14 its effective recycle and reuse. Used Batteries are returned to the respective vendors at the time of supply of new batteries for recycling purpose at all installations. Used oil / spent oil / waste oil is being collected in drums and kept at yard and sold to CPCB/ / MOEF / SPCB authorized reprocessors as per guidelines. 2% In India, transportation is the second largest contributor to carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. This has direct impact on the 98% environmental and human health. Surface Water With this view, GAIL has analysed (River, Sea, Lake, Stream) its Scope 3 emissions for business Groundwater travel which was found to be highly insignificant in comparison to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. To further reduce GAIL’s Business Care, Share & Grow 82 Sustainability Report 2013-14 withdrawals are used for energy production’ GAIL being an Energy company, acknowledges the fact that water is one of the most important resources. GAIL’s Sustainable Development Policy also recognizes water conservation as a focus area. In order to effective manage water resources in our areas of operation; GAIL embarks upon a variety of water conservation initiatives varying from water recycling at plant to watershed development with the community. Total Water Consumption (Million m3) 14.50 14.08 14.00 13.81 13.86 13.50 12.90 12.82 12.50 12.00 11.50 11.00 10 11 12 13 14 0 910 11 12 13 FY FY FY FY FY Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 83 Water outlet to horticulture distribution network have been taken. Another and RTMadanpur (NCR), and Behti Dhara: Piped Canal project at Management such initiative was carried out at the Intermediate Pumping Station Vijaipur (Madhya Pradesh). Apart from these initiatives GAIL has also Initiatives (IPS) at Samakhiali which included development of water management embarked upon development of water management system at IPS At Vaghodia, new water recycling system. This project included Mansarampura. The system would initiative was taken up during the measurement, accounting / water include activities of measurement, reporting period. This required balance, identifying opportunities accounting, conserving, harvesting, utilization of blow down water for conservation and action plan, balancing and sharing of water of HRSG for horticulture. After and implementation of the action resources in the nearby areas. The commissioning of HRSG, in total plan. Some other initiatives project extended for a period of 15-20MT per day of blow down undertaken by the organization nine months and is aimed at water water is generated. . For treatment are watershed management neutrality of IPS Mansarampura. of waste water generated from at Vijaipur (Madhya Pradesh), According to internal calculations, boiler blow down water, two ETP capacity enhancement of water the project has a potential to were commissioned recently in harvesting structure reservoir at recharge the groundwater upto 2013. Further to reuse this waste Gandhar (Gujarat), zero rainwater 12,700 KL. In FY 2013-14, 13430m3 water for horticulture, initiatives discharge at Samakhiali (Gujarat), rainwater was harvested. for connection of HRSG ETP Rainwater harvesting at RTLoni Care, Share & Grow 84 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Customers Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 85 The customer is one of the key stakeholders and the foundation of any business’ success. Our focus remains on build strong and lasting relationships while addressing the needs and concerns of our customers, superior quality of service by ensuring uninterrupted supply of natural gas through last mile connectivity. Care, Share & Grow 86 Sustainability Report 2013-14 GAIL holds 67% market share with varied and diverse customer portfolio spreading across markets. GAIL through its subsidiaries and joint venture companies for CGD, petrochemicals, LNG, gas trading, power generation and shale gas is one of the pioneers to introduce city gas projects in India for natural gas supplies to households, 92.03% commercial and transport sectors. Customer Satisfaction GAIL has been instrumental in Index achieved supplying the cleaner fuel across states through its pan-India pipeline network providing connectivity to its customers that ensures supply Gas Supply Paern in FY14 GAIL of cleaner fuel. During 2013-14, gas sales clocked 79.18 MMSCMD. Gas Supply by GAIL during FY14 79 MMSCMD Energy is an essential prerequisite for development. Using natural Power Petrochem + Refineries gas not only aids in economic Fertilizer City Gas / CNG development and employment LPG Steel opportunities for people but also Others has a relatively low impact on the environment. 31% Customer 3% 9% interaction at GAIL GAIL 32% 11% The key to building trusting 3% relationships is through regular 11% communication and feedback. At GAIL, we work towards developing Power and Fertilizer Anchor Markets strong relations with our customers Industrial City Gas Growing Markets and interact with them on various forums. Several customer meets were organized throughout the year. Interactive meet was such as sourcing RLNG from US customers who are interested in organized by GAIL in Mumbai and highlighting the future growth procuring RLNG from GAIL in the towards strengthening Last Mile prospects that the industry holds near future. This year we extended Connectivity (LMC). The event . Another customer meet was last mile connectivity to 66 witnessed participation of GAIL’s organized at Bhopal Zonal Office members of consumers supplying top management including Director (ZO) to apprise existing as well as around 5.55 MMSCMD of Natural (Marketing), ED (Marketing) potential RLNG customers about gas. . Customer Interactive Meets among other senior officials. To the availability of RLNG sourced by exclusively focussed on Liquid fast-track the process of LMC the GAIL from International Markets Hydrocarbon business were also requisite power and authority are with its supplies commencing held to engage with this very vital delegated at the ZOIC level. We w.e.f. 2016 onwards. The meet was and key stakeholder segment for also interacted with our customers attended by all existing customers GAIL. on the new business developments of Malanpur Region and potential Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 87 departments by taking necessary action. The Customer Satisfaction Index is varying from 88% to 93% in GAIL and the composite average CSI for the FY 2013-14 has been 92.03% 67% With varied and GAIL has also developed an online Market Share diverse customer customer suggestion system for its customers to provide feedback on portfolio spreading the products and services provided across markets by GAIL. GAIL has played and continues to play an important role as a Liquid Hydrocarbon products supplier. In order to operate in a fair Gauging the satisfaction of the launch of CSI campaign in SAP, and transparent manner we have customer helps in providing better a link will automatically reach developed a ‘LHC Products Pricing services to the customer. GAIL uses to the customer wherein all the Policy’ to formalize the pricing Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) parameters such as Delivery procedures for LHC products and as a tool to obtain the customer Quality, Usability of Material, improve the governance of pricing prospective on Company’s products Technical Services, Packaging, GAIL mechanisms at GAIL. With respect & services across different Service Quality & GAIL Overall to natural gas, GAIL operates in business segments. GAIL has an across different business segment line with the Government of India on-line SAP based system for and probable concern from the directives. As part of this policy, obtaining Customer Satisfaction. customer point of view shall appear all prices for LHC products are CSI is calculated on line based on and customer is required to rate proposed by the pricing committee. the feedback submitted by the GAIL on each parameter for the Our LHC Products Pricing Policy, customers / ZOs electronically/ products / services being rendered along with our Polymers Pricing manually on different parameters. by GAIL. Customer can also record Policy, helps us in ensuring the right The CSI Campaign to obtain any specific concern / grievance prices for our products that are in Customers Feedback is launched which are desired to be brought to synchronization with the dynamic on quarterly basis and is being the knowledge of the company. The market conditions with a view to considered to be launched on concerns/ grievances thus received provide affordable products to the Half-Yearly basis in future. On are addressed by concerned customers. Shri Prabhat Singh, Director (Marketing) GAIL addressing stakeholders during Petrotech 2014 Care, Share & Grow 88 Sustainability Report 2013-14 and is ensured by the customer / transporter concerned. Being liquid hydrocarbon products in bulk, there are no separate labels for display of product information. In order to sensitise our customers on safety aspects related to propane, GAIL’s Chandigarh ZO with support of HSE, conducted a programme on customer safety awareness and audit in February 2014. Propane related infrastructure from storage to end usage point was conducted for two customers at their plant premises. Customer representatives from CMD GAIL addressing on Transnational Gas Pipelines at PHD Chamber of Commerce Safety, Security, Operation &Utilities departments actively participated in the event. Besides Marketing accredited Advertising agencies only. Specifically with respect to imparting awareness, several valuable inputs and suggestions Communication liquid hydrocarbon business there are no such codes or voluntary based on the safety audit were brought to the notice of both GAIL has framed and implemented standards relating to marketing customers for further deliberation Advertising and Communication communications across the and implementation at their end Policy to effectively communicate organization. Such communications for achieving improvement in with external audiences and to flow on need or “as-required” basis. safety and security of their plant & have a policy framework that not Liquid Hydrocarbon products are personnel. only facilitates fast and effective marketed by GAIL in bulk only and advertising but also aids quick There have been no incidents sold on ex-works basis by loading in of non-compliance with respect response to developments, both Road T/T’s and / or Railway Wagons external as well as internal, in to regulations and voluntary deployed by customers. Technical codes concerning marketing today’s competitive environment. / safety related information The policy covers aspects such as communications, including on the product being carried is advertising, promotion, and Empanelment of professionals/ displayed on the truck tanker / agencies for outsourcing of jobs sponsorship by type of outcomes. rail wagon itself as per local laws (in areas such as advertising, media buying, press / media relations, printing, designing, event management etc.), annual communication plan and budget, expenditure approval, award of work / rate contracts, and jurisdiction. This policy framework has been developed to aid the decision making in the Corporate Communication Department with respect to communication activities such as advertising and publicity etc. GAIL adheres to ISO norms enumerated for Advertising and Communication and works with INS Engaging Business Visitor at the GAIL’s Exhibition during the year Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 89 Asia Gas encouraging beginning with around 300 participants from 10 countries Partnership in the year 2003. In the light of the fact that the global gas markets Summit were integrating, an increasing need was felt for partnership Apart from the memberships among countries which have a in industry associations GAIL common interest in developing a also works towards forming Gas economy. Naturally AGPS, as partnerships with peers, policy th 8 Asia an event, generated a lot of interest makers, consumers and suppliers. Gas Partnership in the industry. AGPS is widely It believes that the growing Asian Summit recognised, over the past editions market provides an opportunity as the flagship Indian Natural Gas for the international gas suppliers event, nationally and internationally. growth in both business volume to develop newer strategies to The event has also evolved as a and infrastructure, did not have a forge innovative partnerships niche forum for exchange of latest matching presence in the regional/ with these gas demand centres. ideas, industry practices and international forums etc. With a Stronger gas supply networks, technologies in the global natural view to identify such opportunities long-term gas sourcing contracts, gas industry. The 8th Asia Gas and challenges and facilitate access to advanced technology Partnership Summit (AGPS) from an interactive platform to raise and investment options will be December 3-4, 2013 was a grand concerns and work out solutions, important to attain a stable and success. The Summit received an GAIL (India) Ltd pioneered the sustainable gas market. The overwhelming response from policy concept of Asia Gas Partnership development of a corresponding makers, national and international Summit (AGPS) in the year 2002. transportation and distribution delegates, industry and exhibitors We have also been working towards infrastructure may also require and witnessed a presence of over establishing and promoting Asia transnational collaborative 800 participants from 19 countries, ING Forum, a sod of Asian LNG efforts. Along with the immense 45 high level speakers and 34 buyers’ club. GAIL is also actively opportunities for business, there event partners. Key outcomes that working towards establishing a are also challenges for such an emerged during the Summit were regional gas trading hub for Asia as emerging market. At the same need for greater integration of the well as an Asian gas index. time, it was also felt in India, that Asian gas market, need to have an the Indian gas industry, in spite of Currently, organised biennially, Asian Price Index and market linked opening up of the sector and the AGPS had an extremely pricing for natural gas. GAIL management meeting during the AGPS 13 with business delegation Care, Share & Grow 90 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Suppliers Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 91 We believe that our suppliers, contractors and vendors are the pillars of support in smooth functioning of our business and operations. The high quality and timeliness at competitive prices of their products and services has enabled us to provide better satisfaction of our customers. Our suppliers form an important part of our growth and we are committed to responsibility to provide them with transparent and accountable systems to ensure timely transactions. Care, Share & Grow 92 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Together, we work with our Works and Services required process to implement Percentage suppliers and take various continuously throughout the year contractsfor jobs of repetitive initiatives to cater to the needs in large quantities and of common nature and allow reliable cost and concerns of the suppliers and and frequent use. It facilitates estimates. Further, we are working vendors. To ensure smoother and GAIL to get the quantity from the towards Vendor empanelment to transparent transactions with contractor as and when required create strong vendor base. suppliers, we have introduced during the contract period and thus GAIL is among the first few various online management tools inventory carrying cost is being Indian corporates to introduce such as Bill Watch System, File reduced. Other critical services (like ‘Integrity Pact’ in procurement Movement System, e-bidding etc. overhauling of engines) are also and contracts. Integrity Pact is These systems have helped us shift carried with long term agreement a tool devised by Transparency towards paperless transactions and with OEMs that helps not only in International worldwide to fight also ensure greater transparency reducing business risks but also corruption in public procurement and accountability. in building trust and long-term and thus to assist in improving the relationship with our suppliers. In consonance with CVC guidelines credibility of public procedures for leveraging technology In a bid to improve operational and administration ensuring including adoption of e-tendering efficiency, we have embarked transparent and corruption free and progressively reducing the upon certain initiatives. One of handling of contracts valuing INR 1 thresholds , e-tendering was these initiatives was monitoring Crore and above. adopted in GAIL in Feb 2007 initially timely release of retention money for tenders valued INR 1 Crore and above, which was subsequently of Contractors. Retention money, particularly Security Deposits Promotion and brought down to INR 50 lacs in Dec 2009. GAIL has now further of vendors were in a few cases not being released within due development of reduced the threshold value for e-tendering through amendment dates. Delay in timely release of retention money leads to bidders small and local to C&P Procedure that ensures covering all tenders valued at quoting higher rates in subsequent tenders. On the basis of suggestion vendors INR 25 lakhs and above. With this from vigilance, IT Department Twenty per cent of the GDP or reduction in the threshold limit the started working on system to INR 12 to 15 lakh crore per annum value wise commitments/tenders generate quarterly automatic is spent on public procurement through e-tendering mode, the alerts enclosing MIS report of in India. GAIL acknowledges majority of our tenders are now outstanding retention money of the importance of promoting ordered under e-tendering and thus vendors to OIC/HOD concerned. locally based suppliers and has enabling greater transparency and Report include names of dealing implemented Public Procurement competitiveness in procurement. officers and number of pendency Policy for Micro and Small days in order to enable Officer Enterprises (MSEs). The policy Supply chain management is In-Charge (OIC) of unit to route targets 20% of procurement of critical importance to GAIL the same to the concerned dealing from MSEs with a sub target of because of the nature of its officer. Alert has been started to 4% from MSEs owned by the business. Regular interaction with OICs of the bigger unit and same Scheduled Caste or the Scheduled the suppliers can help effectively alert shall be started for the smaller Tribe entrepreneurs for the Goods planning for the future. GAIL units from the next quarter. and Services rendered by such implemented SAP, SRM and MRP which are resourceful packages organizations. Further, we host GAIL implemented the reverse and provides complete solution of tenders on its website which is auctioningan online procurement supply chain. The ‘Contracts and available in public domain and tool to obtain competitive Procurement’ Department has been whosoever is interested can prices for tenders above INR 50 given additional responsibility of participate in those tenders. crores. This also gives bidders expediting and inspecting to ensure opportunity to know their price timely supplies. Further, GAIL vis-à-vis the other suppliers, but enters into Annual Rate Contracts without disclosure of their identity (ARC) with the vendors after and equal opportunity to quote competitive bidding for Materials, better rate. We are also under the Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 93 GAIL endeavours to procure material / services following transparent procedure and guidelines & policies of the company and Govt. of India. In order to provide equal opportunities and generate competition, GAIL has taken following steps. In all tenders pre-tender/ pre-bid meeting is conducted to ensure wider participation and to educate vendors on the tendering process. In addition to above, vendor meets, MSEs meets, representing GAIL in Industry Conclave are few other initiatives taken by GAIL to effectively engage with the suppliers. GAIL has also conducted various meets with Micro and Small Enterprises including SC/ST entrepreneurs across India. For instance, one of the meet was conducted in association with MSMEDevelopment Institute – Ahmedabad and Vadodara Chamber of Commerce on 31.12.2013 at Vadodara with a view to increase the procurement percentage from MSE Sectors. In the meet, overwhelming response was received and approximately 150 vendors participated actively. During FY 13-14, we also organised an interactive session for capacity building of laying contractors of small pipelines. Earlier, GAIL had also introduced that cause minimal adverse e-procurement to reduce the paper environmental impacts. The public work and to speed up the tendering procurement spend in India is to process. This also helped the local the tune of twenty per cent of and small vendors to quote in large the GDP or INR 12 to 15 lakh crore numbers with ease and reduced per annum. With the huge amount their tendering cost involved in of public spending, public sector submission of bulky bid documents. 79.60% of the total in India can be a prime driver In all tenders pre-tender/ pre-bid procurement of goods & supplies from domestic suppliers towards sustainable production meeting is conducted to ensure and consumption and can create wider participation and to educate environmental and economic vendors on the tendering process. benefits. Taking cognizance of Adoption of these IT enabled the same, we are in process of systems has helped supply chain identifying and taking steps management become fool-proof, Programme Cum Industrial towards ensuring greater energy automated, and seamlessly Exhibition organized by Ministry efficiency. Some of the initiatives connected. of Micro, Small and Medium being considered are procurement Enterprises at Vijayawada to build of star rating electrical equipments; GAIL also interacts with the small capacity of the MSME sector. reducing specific paper and local vendors at various forums GAIL was represented by its senior consumption; loading criteria for like vendors meet / MSEs meet management who addressed fuel / electricity consumption / Industry Conclave etc. and the the gathering and discussed on for specified period in case of initiatives and make them aware techno-commercial issues with procurement of pump/ motor/ of GAIL’s requirements. GAIL the vendors, visitors and other generators and turbines; phasing also supports the local suppliers participants. GAIL also presented out of old AC / Fire protection by giving them preference for its procurement requirements, system using Halon among others. conducting basic jobs across procedures, and opportunities for operations. In FY 13-14 our MSME sector as vendor. procurement from domestic suppliers was 16550 INR million which is 79.60% of the total Green procurement of goods & supplies which is 20790INR million. Procurement GAIL participated in the two day Green Procurement means National Vendor Development purchasing products and services Care, Share & Grow 94 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Performance Snapshot Environmental Performance Material Consumption FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 NG processed (MMSCM) 14601.13 14849.11 15,119.53 14,373.41 14,529.49 NG used for making 1123.45 1060.21 1136.57 1080.33 1058.11 product (MMSCM) NG sent back to pipeline 13121.74 13342.26 13418.95 12944.06 13203.31 (MMSCM) Other Material (MT) 8869.86 10412.00 9916.43 10630.53 10563.48 Packaging material (MT) 2128.00 2112.00 2249.00 2208.00 2090.00 Energy Consumption FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 Direct Energy5 (GJ) 37,452,841.61 38,281,008.47 39,012,486.03 37,359,155.95 35,859,826.15 Indirect Energy (GJ) 971397.52 1039694.31 1166546.11 1118455.42 1126034.67 Renewable Energy 30.12 9754.57 12155.72 27979.80 88274.33 Consumption (GJ) Energy from NG flaring 393032.80 379338.37 337453.16 367375.07 347921.40 (GJ) Energy from LPG flaring 892.98 987.43 4922.70 2472.37 2889.08 (GJ) Energy from NG venting 97180.46 115026.50 133305.52 444484.41 490192.97 (GJ) Energy from LPG 4283.81 2789.28 3738.54 2618.53 4744.19 venting (GJ) Energy consumption by source Energy from source in FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 GJ: Diesel 18902.05 19294.02 19666.26 20092.78 20329.57 Natural Gas 30524448.40 30790594.72 31033613.37 30056464.16 28988284.74 Residual Fuel 6897139.20 7465046.40 7956761.60 7279523.09 6849248.42 LPG 12351.97 6073.32 2444.80 3075.92 1963.42 Total Direct Energy 5 37452841.62 38281008.46 39012486.03 37359155.95 35859826.15 5 Total Direct Energy consumption includes only non-renewable energy sources (e.g. Diesel, Natural Gas, Residual Fuel, LPG). Direct energy consumption from renewable energy sources is NIL. Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 95 Energy Saving Total energy saved (GJ) 672231.73 1174649.79 152061.35 55966.60 Renewable Energy Generation FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 Wind energy generated 516.23 31714.97 43414.11 545124.15 464397.88 (GJ) Solar energy generated 30.12 34.68 75.24 211.24 208.52 (GJ) Total Renewable Energy 546.36 31749.65 43489.34 545335.40 464606.40 generated (GJ) Emissions FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 Total Scope 1 emissions 2230629.18 2261535.39 2363624.06 2381898.43 2285196.47 (tCO2e) Total Scope 2 emissions 223954.99 233260.90 256277.68 256599.19 258351.26 (tCO2e) Total GHG emissions at 2454584.17 2,494,796.30 2,619,901.74 2,638,497.63 2,543,547.73 GAIL (tCO2e) Water FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 Total water consumption 12,818,938.09 13,811,971.82 14,077,208.93 13,855,143.06 12,899,338.35 (m3) Total Waste water 1298756.40 1,629,270.27 2,255,076.53 2,437,812.64 1,975,760.93 generated (m3) Total Waste water 710547.00 854256.62 1331330.45 1200865.63 1163497.63 discharged (outside plant boundary) (m3) Water recycled/reused 562291.03 736,895.45 868,490.41 1,113,396.22 777,334.39 (m3) Care, Share & Grow 96 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Hazardous Waste Generation Unit FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-1414 Used oil (Litres) 21126.00 42588.08 58150.00 10410.00 23505.00 Used batteries (Nos.) 225.00 610.00 138.00 849.00 2323.00 Basket filter waste (MT) 2.82 3.52 84.48 4.75 3.66 ETP Sludge (MT) 0.00 0.00 6.00 0.00 0.20 Tar (MT) 3.35 19.50 2.45 17.40 17.06 Tar ash (MT) 0.00 15.20 10.02 0.00 0.00 Oily sludge (MT) 300.00 282.00 343.43 341.07 297.12 Used lube oil (Litres) 141487.97 168604.93 94779.57 82411.00 57095.00 Empty drums (Nos.) 213.00 220.00 8694.00 6199.00 5795.00 E-waste (MT) 35.20 45.19 312.25 2.22 8.75 Bio-medical waste (MT) 0.15 0.23 0.21 0.58 0.62 Slop Oil (Ltr) 117226.70 136237.05 446603.00 325027.73 449402.00 Non-Hazardous Waste Generation Unit FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-1414 Used consumables MT 0.48 0.56 0.00 0.06 0.60 Used bag filters Nos. 1090.00 869.00 982.00 2202.00 1733.00 Empty barrels Nos. 419.00 257.00 253.00 0.00 0.00 Metal scrap MT 264.73 385.18 631.74 642.50 322.17 Plastic scrap MT 15.78 17.18 46.80 164.72 41.48 Wooden scrap MT 12.60 0.70 235.74 442.21 216.98 Spent Alumina MT 1168.51 1221.73 1151.70 1196.89 1534.74 Silica Gel MT 24.01 45.51 45.01 45.05 31.02 Cellulose Sludge MT 0.28 0.14 0.16 0.21 0.24 Canteen waste MT 10.60 11.20 12.57 41.52 40.12 Molecular Sieve MT 0.00 100.00 0.43 223.19 210.25 Ceramic Material Nos. 116.00 0.00 0.00 19.15 11.47 Aluminium Scrap MT 1.05 0.36 0.74 0.00 0.00 Misc. Waste MT 0.00 13.81 24.88 9.30 74.25 Cables MT 0.00 2.12 Tyre Nos. 0.00 3.00 Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 97 Air Emissions FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 SPM (tons/annum) 831.43 906.15 1012.48 911.62 815.23 Nox (tons/annum) 815.19 710.46 695.48 848.23 968.48 CO (tons/annum) 0.02 0.04 0.03 0.00 667.64 Sox (tons/annum) 238.69 258.91 192.89 178.06 303.59 VOC (tons/annum) 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.02 2.25 R-134a (kg) 7.00 43.60 169.50 0.00 226.00 ODS Gas Consumption FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-1414 R-22 Kg 2204.50 2393.30 2298.94 2777.66 1951.40 ODP CFC-11 121.25 131.63 126.44 152.77 107.33 equivalent Total Environment Protection Investment and Expenditure Type Unit FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-1414 Show cause notices Nos. 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 0.00 received Environmental Fines INR 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 (lacs) Treatment and disposal INR 36.94 46.62 74.08 79.77 41.41 of waste (lacs) Depreciation and INR 150.27 162.01 161.93 163.83 163.18 maintenance cost of (lacs) equipment’s used in pollution control External services INR 28.86 33.03 39.30 47.28 45.83 for environmental (lacs) management External certification of INR 7.39 5.63 7.30 6.48 5.92 management systems (lacs) Personnel for general INR 125.61 171.66 198.62 180.21 168.98 environmental (lacs) management activities Care, Share & Grow 98 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Unit FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-1414 Extra expenditures INR 0.00 0.00 96.83 9.56 0.69 for installing cleaner (lacs) technologies Other environmental INR 24.32 170.04 56.49 52.87 27.97 costs (lacs) Total environmental INR 373.39 589.01 634.55 539.99 453.98 expenditures (lacs) Social Performance Health and Safety of Employees FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 Near miss cases Male 173 179 156 156 217 (Nos.) Near miss cases 0 0 0 1 2 Female (Nos.) Minor injuries Male 5 2 0 0 0 (Nos.) Minor injuries Female 0 0 0 0 0 (Nos.) Reportable injuries 0 2 0 0 4 Male (Nos.) Reportable injuries 0 0 0 0 0 Female (Nos.) Lost days due to 0 115 0 0 0 reportable injuries (Nos.) Fatalities Male (Nos.) 0 1 0 0 0 Fatalities Female (Nos.) 0 0 0 0 0 First aid cases Male 8 20 17 11 1 (Nos.) First aid cases Female 0 0 0 0 0 (Nos.) Manhours worked – 6280243 6355332 6584731 5603054 7476551 Male Manhours worked – 0 0 0 224940 271612 Female Occupational Diseases0 0 0 0 0 Permanent EmployeeMale ( Nos) Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 99 FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 Occupational Diseases0 0 0 0 0 Permanent EmployeeFemale (Nos) LTIFR Male 0.00 0.31 0.00 0.00 0.54 (Reportable injuries per million manhours worked) LTIFR Female 0.00 (Reportable injuries per million manhours worked) Severity rate – Total 0 18.10 0 0 0 (Lost days per million manhours worked) Fatality rate – Male 0 0.16 0 0 0 (Fatalities per million manhours worked) Fatality rate – Female 0 (Fatalities per million manhours worked) Health and Safety of Contract Labour FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 Near miss cases Male 177 189 208 184 229 (Nos.) Near miss cases 0 0 0 0 0 Female (Nos.) Minor injuries Male 12 28 3 3 4 (Nos.) Minor injuries Female 0 0 0 0 0 (Nos.) Reportable injuries 0 1 0 0 6 Male (Nos.) Reportable injuries 0 0 0 0 0 Female (Nos.) Lost days due to 0 0 0 0 192 reportable injuries (Nos.) Fatalities Male (Nos.) 1 2 0 0 0 Care, Share & Grow 100 Sustainability Report 2013-14 FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 Fatalities Female (Nos.) 0 0 0 0 0 First aid cases Male 120 110 73 57 8 (Nos.) First aid cases Female 0 0 0 0 0 (Nos.) Manhours worked – 16886211 20145368 30669256 16682966 19668681 Male Manhours worked – 0 0 0 367800 1000857 Female Occupational Diseases0 0 0 0 0 Permanent EmployeeMale ( Nos) Occupational Diseases0 0 0 0 0 Permanent EmployeeFemale (Nos) LTIFR Male 0.00 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.31 (Reportable injuries per million manhours worked) LTIFR Female 0.00 (Reportable injuries per million manhours worked) Severity rate – Total 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.3 (Lost days per million manhours worked) Fatality rate – Male 0.06 0.10 0 0 0 (Fatalities per million manhours worked) Fatality rate – Female 0 (Fatalities per million manhours worked) Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 101 Training FY 09-10 FY 10-11 FY 11-12 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 Management employees 92692 99219 107251 129831 120497 (direct) Male (Manhours) Management employees 3960 5974 5445 7211 6856 (direct) Female (Manhours) Workmen (Direct 47102 48596 29071 26493 25009 employees) Male (Manhours) Workmen (Direct 1656 1392 1520 1269 875 employees) Female (Manhours) Contractual labour 30197 28618 38945 41835 53878 (operations) Male (Manhours) Contractual labour 5 0 0 671 983 (operations) Female (Manhours) Employee Turnover (for FY 2013-14) FY 2013-14 Numbers New Employees Hired : Male 121 New Employees Hired : Female 11 New Employees Hired Who Resigned In The Same FY : Male 5 New Employees Hired Who Resigned In The Same FY : Female 0 Employee Turnover Management 62 Employee Turnover Non Management 9 Employee Turnover Age<30 Male 30 Employee Turnover Age<30 Female 0 Employee Turnover Age:30-50 Male 14 Employee Turnover Age:30-50 Female 0 Employee Turnover Age>50 Male 27 Employee Turnover Age>50 Female 0 Number of employees entitled to parental leave : Male 3775 Number of employees entitled to parental leave : Female 243 Number of employees that took parental leave : Male 133 Care, Share & Grow 102 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Number of employees that took parental leave : Female 11 Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended : Male 133 Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended : Female 11 Employees returned to work after parental leave ended who were still employed 12 months 149 after their return Male Employees returned to work after parental leave ended who were still employed 12 months 12 after their return Female Retention rates of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended : Male 100% Retention rates of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended : Female 100% Employee and Contractor Gender wise distribution Category Unit FY 2013-14 MALE FEMALE TOTAL Senior Management (permanent 6 ) Nos 246 5 251 Middle Management (permanent ) 6 Nos 1298 49 1347 Junior Management (permanent 6) Nos 1438 147 1585 NonManagement (permanent 6) Nos 788 43 831 Total Permanent Employees Nos 3770 244 4014 Security Staff (Contract) Nos 2680 5 2685 Regular Worker (Contract) Nos 13459 376 13835 Total Contract Employees Nos 16139 381 16520 Sr. no Description FY 2013-14 Age < 30 30 < Age < 50 Age > 50 Total 1 Senior management 0 71 180 251 2 Middle management 0 1127 220 1347 3 Junior management 549 839 197 1585 4 Non-Management 15 717 99 831 Notes This year we have increased our level of accuracy of data monitoring & reporting. Data has been corrected for Diesel, Fuel gas & Electricity consumption in few sites.  Our scope-2 emission has been updated by considering the contribution of wind power and updating the grid emission factor from Central Electricity Authority, India.  Employee data reported is for India region only (in line with the report boundary) 6 All permanent employees of GAIL are full time employees. Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 103 Independent Assurance Statement Introduction DNV GL represented by DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited (‘DNV GL’) has been commissioned by the management of GAIL (India) Limited (GAIL or ‘the Company’) to carry out an independent assurance engagement on the Company’s Sustainability Report 2013 -14 (‘the Report’) in its printed formats. This assurance engagement has been conducted against the Global Reporting Initiative 2011 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (GRI G3.1) and AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 ((AA1000AS (2008)). The verification was conducted during June-July’ 2014, for the year of activities covered in the Report i.e. 1st April 2013 to 31st March 2014. The intended users of this Assurance Statement are the management of the Company and readers of the Report. The management of the Company is responsible for all information provided in the Report as well as the processes for collecting, analysing and reporting the information presented in the printed reports. Our responsibility regarding this verification is to the Company only and in accordance with the agreed scope of work. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete and true. We expressly disclaim any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based on this assurance statement. Scope, Boundary and Limitations of Assurance The scope of work agreed upon with GAIL includes verification of the following:  The content of the Sustainability Report – 2013-14 i.e. Review of the policies, initiatives, practices and performance described in the Report as well as references made in the Report to the website;  Evaluation of the AccountAbility principles and specified performance information, described below, for a Type 2, moderate level of assurance, in accordance with the requirements of AA1000AS (2008) detailed below:  Information relating to the Company’s sustainability issues, responses, performance data, case studies and underlying systems for the management of such information and data;  Information relating to the Company’s materiality assessment and stakeholder engagement processes;  Confirmation that the Report meets the requirements of GRI G3.1 for an Application Level A+, as declared by the Company. The reporting boundaries are as set out in the Report i.e. the reporting boundary covers the operations of the Company within India. No limitations on the scope of the assurance engagement were encountered during the verification process. The reported data on economic performance is based on audited financial statements by the Company’s statutory auditors. No external stakeholders were interviewed as part of this assurance engagement. Verification Methodology This assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with AA1000AS (2008) and DNV GL Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting (‘VeriSustain’ www.dnv.com/moreondnv/cr/; available on request). The Report has been evaluated against the following criteria:  Adherence to the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness as set out in AA1000AS (2008) and the Reliability of specified sustainability performance information, as required for a Type 2, moderate level assurance engagement,  Adherence to the additional principles of Completeness and Neutrality as set out in VeriSustain, and  The principles and requirements of the GRI G3.1 and the Oil and Gas Sector Supplement (OGSS) for an Application Level A+.  As part of the engagement, we have verified the statements and claims made in the Report. In doing so, we have:  Reviewed the Company’s approach to stakeholder engagement and its materiality determination process;  Verified the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the data management system, data accuracy, information flow and controls;  Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available by the Company;  Visited the GAIL’s Corporate Office at New Delhi, GAIL Training Institute (GTI) & Infohub at Noida and five operational sites in India i.e. Pata, Vijaipur, Gandhar, Vaghodia and Vizag;  Conducted interviews with key representatives including data owners and decision-makers from different divisions and functions of the Company;  Performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing the Company’s sustainability related policies, as described in the Report;  Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative data and qualitative information included in the Report. Conclusions GAIL’s Sustainability Report, 2013-14, provides a fair representation of the Company’s sustainability policies, objectives, management approach and performance during the reporting year. Company has implemented management systems with sustainability as the focus, to manage its key sustainability parameters. We confirm that the Report, along with the referenced information in the website, meets the general content and quality requirements of GRI G3.1 and the OGSS guidelines. We confirm that the Report meets the requirements for GRI Application Level A+ as declared by the Company. We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’ Care, Share & Grow 104 Sustainability Report 2013-14 AA1000AS (2008) Principles Inclusivity: As a part of its stakeholder engagement process, the Company has developed a robust stakeholder engagement mechanism (formal and informal) for assessing the emerging risks at its operational facilities. The engagement outcomes are validated by the Sustainable Development Board Committee. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Materiality: The materiality determination process is based on inputs from key stakeholders including employees, customers, suppliers, NGOs, and senior management of GAIL and the Report focusses its disclosures on seven key material aspects at macro level for the oil and gas sector. The management of the Company is committed to effectively identify, manage and report the material aspects based on a continual evaluation for long term sustainability. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Responsiveness: We consider that the Company has fairly responded to identified key sustainability aspects and challenges in the local sustainability context, including aspects related to the oil and gas sector, within the reporting boundary. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Reliability: The majority of data and information verified at the Corporate Office, GTI & Infohub and five operational sites were found to be accurate. Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors have been communicated for correction. Hence in accordance with AA1000AS (2008) requirements for a Type 2, moderate level assurance engagement, we conclude that the specified sustainability data and information presented in the Report is generally reliable. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Specific evaluation of the information on sustainability performances We consider the methodology and process for gathering information developed by the Company for its sustainability performance reporting to be appropriate and the qualitative and quantitative data included in the Report was found to be identifiable and traceable; the personnel responsible were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data and its reliability. We observed that the Report presents a faithful description of the Company’s sustainability activities. Additional Parameters as per DNV GL’s Protocol Completeness: The Report fairly responds to the disclosure requirements and the scope of the report covers key economic, environment and social aspects and performance disclosures related to GRI G3.1 and the OGSS for Application Level A+; In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Neutrality: This Report presents a balanced account of the Company’s sustainability performance, related issues and key performance indicators, in terms of content and tone. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities for improvement reported to the management of the Company and are not considered for drawing our conclusions on the Report; however they are generally consistent with the management’s objectives:  To further strengthen its sustainability initiatives, inputs from diverse stakeholders could be incorporated into the Company’s strategic planning process; the Report may also bring out the strategic responses to material issues and stakeholder expectations.  The Company may expand the scope and boundary of reporting to include material aspects from related activities within its sphere of control and influence i.e. GAIL Projects, Marketing offices, JV’s and Subsidiaries.  Sustainability performance may be disclosed at regular intervals for stakeholders to make informed decisions and  benchmarked with peers. DNV GL’s Competence and Independence DNV GL is a global provider of sustainability services, with qualified environmental and social assurance specialists working in over 100 countries. DNV GL states its independence and impartiality with regard to this assurance engagement. While we did conduct other third party audits work with GAIL in 2013-14, in our judgement this does not compromise the independence or impartiality of our assurance engagement or associated findings, conclusions and recommendations. We were not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report, with the exception of this Assurance Statement. We maintain complete impartiality toward any people interviewed. For DNV GL, Ramesh Rajamani Vadakepatth Nandkumar Project Manager & Lead Verifier, Assurance Reviewer, Head-Sustainability and Climate Change Services, DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. 11th July’ 2014, New Delhi, India Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 105 GRI Application Level The GAIL Sustainability Report FY 13-14 Care, Share, Grow is GRI G3.1+OGSS is aligned to Application level A+ Externally Assured Report Care, Share & Grow 106 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 107 Glossary API American Petroleum Institute GREP Gas Rehabilitation and Expansion Project ASME American Society of Mechanical GM General Manager Engineers GJ Giga-Joule BPCL Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited GRI Global Reporting Initiative BOG Boiled Off-Gas GHG Green-house Gas BCPL Brahmaputra Cracker & Polymer Limited HVJ Hazira-Vijaipur-Jagdishpur BD Business Development HSE Health, Safety and Environment CPCB Central Pollution Control Board HSEMS Health, safety and environment CPSE Central Public Sector Enterprise management system CVC Central Vigilance Commission HRSG Heat recovery steam Generator CMD Chairman and Managing Director HDPE High Density Poly-Ethylene CFC Chloro-fluoro Carbons HR Human Resources CGD City Gas Distribution HRD Human Resources Development CBM Coal Bed Methane IEM Independent External Monitors CRZ Coastal Regulation Zone IIT-JEE Indian Institute of Technology – Joint Entrance Examination CAGR Compounded Annual Growth Rate INR Indian National Rupee CNG Compressed Natural Gas ISTD Indian Society of Training and CII Confederation of Indian Industry Development CSR Corporate Social Responsibility IGL Indraprastha Gas Limited CSI Customer Satisfaction Index IT Information Technology CTE Chief Technical Examiner ILFS Infrastructure Leasing and Financial DVPL Dahej-Vijaipur Pipe Line Services DGM Deputy-General Manager IMS Integrated Management System DGH Directorate-General of Hydrocarbons ISO International Organization for Standardization EPA Environmental Protection Agency IPIECA International Petroleum Industry ED Executive Director Environmental Conservation Association E&P Exploration and Production JLPL Jamnagar Loni Pipe Line FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of JV Joint Ventures Commerce and Industry Km Kilo-meters FY Financial Year KG Krishna-Godavari GTI GAIL Training Institute LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas GPU Gas Processing Unit Care, Share & Grow 108 Sustainability Report 2013-14 LHC Liquid Hydro Carbon PNGRB Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board LP Low Polymer PPAC Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell MDG Millennium Development Goals PNG Piped Natural Gas MBA Masters of Business Administration PCB Pollution Control Board MLL Mixed Light Lamp PUC Pollution Under Control MoU Memorandum of Understanding PE Poly-Ethylene MT Metric Tons PAT Profit After Tax MMSC Million Metric Standard Cubic Meter per MD Day PPP Public Private Partnership MoEF Ministry of Environment and Forests RGPPL Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Limited MoP& Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas RLNG Re-gasified Liquid Natural Gas NG R&D Research and Development MFO Mixed Fuel Oil RTI Right To Information NCR National Capital Region SC Scheduled Castes NH National Highways ST Scheduled Tribes NIT National Institute of Technology SPM Suspended Particulate Matter NG Natural Gas SD Sustainable Development NGO Non-Government Organizations TERI The Energy and Resources Institute NoC No objection Certificate TMT Thousand Metric Tons OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety tCO2e Tons of Carbon Dioxide equivalent Assessment Series TPA Tons per Annum OIC Officer-in-Charge TDS Total Dissolved Solids ONGC Oil and Natural Gas Corporation TI Transparency International OISD Oil Industry Safety Directorate TAPI TurkmenistanAfghanistanPakistanOMC Oil Marketing Companies India O&M Operation and Maintenance UNGC United Nations Global Compact OFC Optical Fibre Cable UNFC United Nations Framework Convention on OBC Other Backward Classes CC Climate Change NOx Oxides of nitrogen USD United States Dollar SOx Oxides of Sulphur UPTU Uttar Pradesh Technical University ODS Ozone Depleting Substances VSPL Vizag-Secundrabad Pipe Line Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 109 GRI Content Index of GAIL Sustainability Report FY 2013-14 Profile Disclosure Level of Location of disclosure / Reason for omission Disclosure reporting 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Fully  Refer page 6 for CMD’ Message and of the organization. Directors’ Statement from page 9-13 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Fully  Refer page 24-25, 30-31 for Risk Management opportunities.  Refer page 42-46 for Materiality 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully  GAIL (India) Limited 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully  Refer About GAIL from page 16-18 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, Fully  Corporate Governance Section on page 24 including main divisions, operating companies,  Refer About GAIL from page 16-18 subsidiaries, and joint ventures.  Refer page 3 -10, 23-26 of GAIL’s Annual Report FY 2013-14  Corporate Governance section of GAIL’s Annual Report FY 2013-14 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully  New Delhi, India 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Fully  All major operations under GAIL’s full control operates, and names of countries with either (100% ownership) are based in India. For major operations or that are specifically relevant additional information please refer section to the sustainability issues covered in the report. on About GAIL from page 1518 and section on About The Report from page 2-3  For more details refer page 3 -10, 23-26 of GAIL’s Annual Report FY 2013-14 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully  GAIL is a Central Public Sector Enterprise, listed on BSE, NSE and Global depository receipt (GDR) on London Stock Exchange 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Fully  Refer About GAIL from page 15-18 and page sectors served, and types of customers/ 86-89 of customers beneficiaries).  Refer page 3-14, 21-32 of GAIL’s Annual Report FY 2013-14 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully  Refer About GAIL from page 16-18 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully  There were no significant changes. For regarding size, structure, or ownership. changes in the scope of the report  Refer section on About The Report on page 2-3 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully  Refer chapter on Accolades and Recognition on page 20 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Fully  Financial year 2013-14 information provided.  Refer About The Report section page 2-3 Care, Share & Grow 110 Sustainability Report 2013-14 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully  This is GAIL’s fourth Sustainability Report; the third report was released on 25th September 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully  Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Fully  Refer Way Forward on Back Cover Inside or its contents. page 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully  The report content has been defined based on our stakeholder engagement and selection of material issues. We have engaged with all major stakeholder groups of GAIL  Refer sections on Care, Share & Grow on page 4,  Refer page 36-42 for Stakeholder Engagement  Refer page 42-46 for Materiality 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Fully  About the Report Section Page 2-3 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope Fully  About the Report Section Page 2-3 or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Fully  About The Report from page 2-3 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases Fully  About The Report from page 2-3 of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements Fully  On account of improvement in data of information provided in earlier reports, and management systems there have been the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ certain changes in the data presented in the acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature report. The same has been highlighted in the of business, measurement methods). form of footnotes at page 102 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Fully  About The Report from page 2-3 periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Fully  Refer the GRI Content Index on page 109-122 Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Fully  Refer section on About The Report from external assurance for the report. page 2-3 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, Fully  Corporate Governance Section on page including committees under the highest 24-27 governance body responsible for specific tasks,  For more details refer page 44-53 of GAIL’s such as setting strategy or organizational Annual Report FY 2013-14 oversight. Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 111 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Fully  Our Chairman is also an executive officer governance body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board Fully  As on 31st March, 2014, there were 10 (Ten) structure, state the number and gender of Directors on the Board comprising of 6 members of the highest governance body that are (Six) Whole-Time Directors including the independent and/or non-executive members. Chairman & Managing Director, 2 (Two) Part-time Directors and 2 (Two) Independent Directors, ( one Independent Director is female)  For more details refer page 44-53 of GAIL’s Annual Report FY 2013-14 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Fully  Recommendations can be provided to to provide recommendations or direction to the the Shareholder Grievance committee, highest governance body. Stakeholder Grievance committee and HR Committee under the Board of Directors  Refer to section on Stakeholder Engagement from page 36-42 and Shareholders / Investors from page 52-55 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members Fully  The remuneration of whole time directors of the highest governance body, senior is determined by the President of India, managers, and executives (including departure through the Ministry of Petroleum and arrangements), and the organization’s Natural Gas. The compensation includes performance (including social and environmental performance linked incentive that is based performance). on performance parameters defined under the MoU signed with Government of India which also includes social and environmental parameters. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Fully  Refer section on Corporate Governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. from page 24-27  For more details refer page 44-53 of GAIL’s Annual Report FY 2013-14 4.7 Process for determining the composition, Fully  Whole time directors are selected by Public qualifications, and expertise of the members of Enterprises Selection Board (PESB) and the highest governance body and its committees, appointed by Ministry of Petroleum and including any consideration of gender and other Natural Gas (MoPNG). Part-time government indicators of diversity. nominee Directors are appointed by MoPNG. Independent directors representing the interest of stakeholders are selected by Search Committee and appointed by President of India, acting through MoPNG. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission Fully  GAIL’s Mission, Vision and Sustainable or values, codes of conduct, and principles Development Policy are publicly available on relevant to economic, environmental, and its website (www.gailonline.com) social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully  Refer section on Corporate Governance overseeing the organization’s identification and from page 24-27 management of economic, environmental, and  Refer page 79-81 social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance  For more details refer page 44-53 of GAIL’s with internationally agreed standards, codes of Annual Report FY 2013-14 conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Fully  CPSEs performances were reviewed by body’s own performance, particularly with various Government bodies such as DPE, respect to economic, environmental, and social MoPNG, Planning Commission, Finance performance. ministry, OISD, PNGRB etc.  For more details refer page 44-53 of GAIL’s Annual Report FY 2013-14 Care, Share & Grow 112 Sustainability Report 2013-14 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Fully  Use of precautionary approach is implicit in approach or principle is addressed by the our risk management framework. Refer page organization. 24, 30-33 for Risk Management. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, Fully  Refer section on About The Report from and social charters, principles, or other initiatives page 2-3 to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Fully  Please refer page 46 associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Fully  Refer page 36-42 for Stakeholder COMM organization. Engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Fully  Refer page 36-42 for Stakeholder stakeholders with whom to engage. Engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Fully  Refer page 36-42 for Stakeholder including frequency of engagement by type and by Engagement stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Fully  Refer page 36-42 for Stakeholder COMM through stakeholder engagement, and how the Engagement organization has responded to those key topics  Refer page 42-46 for Materiality and concerns, including through its reporting. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Economic performance Fully  Refer Shareholders / Investors from page 52-59  Refer page 34 to 43, Management Discussion and Analysis of the GAIL’s Annual Report FY 2013-14 Market presence, including local content Fully  Refer About GAIL from page 16-18  Refer Shareholders / Investors from page 52-55  Refer page 42-46 for Materiality Indirect economic impacts Fully  Refer Social Contribution from page 52-55, 75-79 Reserves Fully  GAIL’s primary business is transmission of natural gas with a pipeline network of about 11,000 kms. Other business verticals include natural gas marketing, liquid hydrocarbons and petrochemicals. With this context, the reserves in fields where GAIL has participative interest are not a key issue for GAIL. Exploration and Production business of GAIL is not a part of the report boundary. DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Aspects Materials Fully  Please Refer Pages 52-57  Refer Performance Snapshot from page 94-102 Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 113 EnergyCOMM Fully  Please Refer Pages 56-58, 61  Refer page 31-33 for targets under Sustainability Aspirations 2020  Refer Performance Snapshot from page 94-102 Water Fully  Refer Water from page 31-33 and 81-83  Refer Performance Snapshot from page 94-102 Ecosystem services including biodiversity Fully  Refer Biodiversity on page 81 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully  Page 54-58  Refer Emissions Management and Waste Management from page 80-81  Refer Performance Snapshot from page 94-102 Products and services Fully  Page 16-18  Refer page 52-53, 86  Currently, coal and oil suffice a majority of India’s energy demand. However, certain experts consider natural gas as the fuel which would lead the transition to cleaner fuels. GAIL believes that natural gas has a potential to grow immensely and is expected to contribute to 20% of India’s total energy demand by 2025. Compliance Fully  Refer page 54 Transport Fully  Refer pages 78-79  GAIL’s primary business is transmission of natural gas through pipelines. Apart from ensuring continuous supply of gas to customers, this method of gas transmission reduces emissions through transport of gas through tankers. This gas is piped mainly from ports which receive gas from shipping tankers. Overall Fully  Please Refer Pages 53-61  Refer Environment on page 79 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LACOMM Aspects Employment Fully  Refer page 64 Labor/management relations Fully  Refer Page 65 Occupational Health and SafetyCOMM Fully  Refer Health and Safety at GAIL from page 66-68 Training and education Fully  Refer page 64-65 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully  Refer page 68 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully  Refer page 68-70 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully  Refer About GAIL from page 16-18  Refer Shareholders / Investors from page 52-55 Non-discrimination Fully  Refer Human Rights from page 68-71 Care, Share & Grow 114 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully  Refer Human Rights from page 68-71 Child labor Fully  Refer Human Rights from page 68-71 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully  Refer Human Rights from page 68-71 Security PracticesCOMM Fully  Refer Security on page 45, 71 Indigenous rightsCOMM Fully  Refer page 79 Assessment Fully  Refer pages 24-25, 78-79, 81 Remediation Fully  Refer pages 24-25, 65, 92-93 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Local communitiesCOMM Fully  Refer pages 74-76 CorruptionCOMM Fully  Refer pages 24-25, 92 Public policy Fully  GAIL works towards public good by lobbying on policies towards development and betterment of public goods. To achieve this we have associated ourselves with various associations, industry bodies and influential groups.  Page 46-47 Anti-competitive behavior Fully  We abide by all National regulations related to discouraging Anti-Competitive behaviour  Page 25 Compliance Fully  Refer Ethics, Transparency and Accountability from page 24-25  Refer page 54  GAIL works in strict compliance with all applicable laws and regulations directed towards marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, sponsorship etc. Emergency preparedness Fully  Refer Health and Safety at GAIL on page 66  Page 79 Involuntary resettlement Fully  We abide by National Regulations on Resettlement and Rehabilitation; However none of our operations have caused any form of R&R this year Asset integrity and process safety Fully  Refer Health and Safety at GAIL on page 66  GAIL has safety procedures in place to ensure safety of its employees. These also include procedures to prevent any leakages or accidental release of its products. GAIL’s HSE Management System forms a corner stone for Asset Integrity Management System at all sites of GAIL. This HSEMS is carefully, reviewed, monitored and complied on regular basis. Under the umbrella of HSEMS all Internal & External Safety Audits, Surprise safety checks, awareness programmes, formulation of policy and guidelines, regular reviewing by the Board , Environment Management System etc. are carried out. All units of GAIL have a robust fire fighting network and other state of art systems for the Asset Integrity. Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 115 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Aspects Customer health and safety Fully  Refer Customers from page 86-88 Product and service labelling Fully  Page 86-88 Marketing communications Fully  Page 86-88 Customer privacy Fully  Page 54, 86-88 Compliance Fully  Page 6-7, 13, 30 Fossil fuel substitutes Fully  Page 6-7, 13, 30  Refer Renewable Energy on page 54 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Fully  Refer page 54 COMM including revenues, operating costs, employee  GAIL’s sustainability reporting boundary compensation, donations and other community covers its India Operations. investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.  Please refer to DMA EC Reserves EITI is not applicable and there are no restrictions by host governments in terms of detail and level of aggregation.  Refer page 60-62 of the GAIL’s Annual Report FY 2013-14 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Fully  Climate change & environement related COMM opportunities for the organization’s activities due risks have been incorporated in GAIL’s to climate change. ERM framework (Ref page 24-25, 30-31). We have recognised climate change risks driven by changes in regulation, physical climate parameters & other climate-related developments. Every year we estimate cost of management & investments for various enviromental related issues appearing accross our organisation (ref. Environment Protection Investment and Expenditure at page 97-98) . GAIL has set up portfolio of renewable businesses (solar & wind) with an investment over INR 700 crores (Ref. page 24-25, 54). Projects under clean development mechanism has been considered as climate change opportunity in GAIL (ref: page 80).  We are currently keeping a close eye on the developments in the field of climate change and would further evaluate its financial implications if and when found to be significant and would take definitive action on the same in years to come. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit Fully  Refer page 65 plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Fully  Nil government. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Fully  Refer Human Rights on pages 64-65, 68-69 by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Care, Share & Grow 116 Sustainability Report 2013-14 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Fully  We define local as Indian sub-continent. COMM locally-based suppliers at significant locations of Refer page 92-93 for details on spend. operation. Though we do not have a specific policy on fostering / favouring local vendors, wherever possible we give preference to local vendors given all parameters to be equal. Also, most of the contracts / transportation contracts / canteen contracts / township facilities have been outsourced to local vendors. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Fully  Recruitment at the Executive/ Officer cadre COMM of senior management hired from the local is done only at all India bases, and not at local community at significant locations of operation. level EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Fully  Refer page 74-78 COMM investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Fully  Refer Communities from page 74-81 COMM economic impacts, including the extent of  Refer Shareholders / Investors from page impacts. 52-55 OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves Not  Out of Sustainability Report Boundary and production. (Please refer DMA-EC-Reserves and About the report Page 2-3) Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page COMM 94-102 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Fully  No material is recycled because of the COMM input materials. nature of GAIL’s business. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Fully  Direct Energy consumption includes only source. non-renewable energy sources (e.g. Diesel, Natural Gas, Residual Fuel, LPG). Direct energy consumption from renewable energy sources is “zero”.  Refer Performance Snapshot from page 109 For energy intensity of liquid hydrocarbon & petrochemical business refer energy efficiency of Sustainability Aspiration 2020 in page 32 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page 94-102 OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy. Fully  We commenced wind power generation in 2010 through a wind power project setup in Gujarat. Other states where we have invested of utilising wind power include Karnataka and Tamil Nadu with a cumulative investment of in excess of Rs 700 crores till date. In FY 13-14 Rs 63.28 Crore Expenditure was made on Renewables OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page source. 94-102 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page improvements. 94-102  Please Refer Pages 54-58 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page renewable energy based products and services, 94-102 and reductions in energy requirements as a result  Please Refer Pages 54-58 of these initiatives. Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 117 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Fully  We are currently not systematically tracking and reductions achieved. reduction of indirect energy consumption. We have analysed that our scope-3 GHG Emission for business travel which is very miniscule in comparison to Scope-1 & Scope-2 Emissions. Currently we are concentrating on reducing to Scope-1 & Scope-2 Emissions. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page COMM 94-102  Refer Water from page 31-33 and 81-83 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Fully  No source affected significantly by water COMM withdrawal of water. withdrawal also Refer Page 95  Refer Water from page 31-33 and 81-83 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page and reused. 94-102 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Fully  We do not have operations in, adjacent to, or in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of that contain protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. high biodiversity value.  However Biodiversity Initiative can be referred on Page 81 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Not  Refer EN11 disclosure products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not  Refer EN11 disclosure EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Fully  Refer Biodiversity on page 81 COMM managing impacts on biodiversity. OG4 Number and percentage of significant operating Fully  100 % of sites have been assessed for sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed biodiversity risk. and monitored. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Fully  None of our operations are located in areas conservation list species with habitats in areas with habitats of IUCN Red List species or affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. those listed on National Conservation List. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page COMM emissions by weight. 94-102 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Fully  We have analysed that our scope -3 GHG COMM by weight. Emission for business travel is less than 1% in comparison to total GHG Emissions. Currently we are concentrating on reducing to Scope-1 & Scope-2 Emissions. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page COMM and reductions achieved. 94-102 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page weight. 94-102 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page COMM type and weight. 94-102 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page 94-102 Care, Share & Grow 118 Sustainability Report 2013-14 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Partially  Refer Performance Snapshot from page COMM method. 94-102  Waste Generation is reported by type however total amount of Waste by disposal method related data and information were not identified this year. We will start identifying and reporting the same in the coming years.  Also refer Page 80 OG5 Volume of formation or produced water. Not  Refer DMA EC Reserves EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully  No significant spills COMM OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon. Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page 94-102 OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) Not  Refer DMA EC Reserves and strategies for treatment and disposal. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Fully  Across locations we are not involved in any treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms activities related to transporting, importing, of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, exporting or treatment of waste deemed and percentage of transported waste shipped hazardous under Basel Convention. Refer internationally. Page 80. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Fully  There is no significant impact of our value of water bodies and related habitats wastewater discharges and run-offs to significantly affected by the reporting water bodies located in the vicinity of our organization’s discharges of water and runoff. operations. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Fully  Refer from page 54-60, 79-83 COMM of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Not  GAIL’s major business is natural gas materials that are reclaimed by category. transmission & trading which does not involve any packaging material. Same is true for our Liquid hydro carbon business. Our petrochemical business involves packaging for finished petrochemical products but because of the insignificant quantity of the packaging material compared to our total business, its tracking and reclamation is of low importance. OG8 Benzene, Lead and Sulfur content in fuels. Fully  Natural Gas does not contain Benzene and Lead; The content of sulphur is below 4.5 ppm, depending on natural gas quality and source EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page number of non-monetary sanctions for non94-102 compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Partially  Environmental impact of transporting products and other goods and materials used for members has been found to be minimal. the organization’s operations, and transporting We have analysed that the environmental members of the workforce. impact of transportation of the member of the organisation’s workforce is insignificant compared to the direct environmental impact of our operations as our scope-3 GHG Emission for business travel is very miniscule in comparison to Scope-1 & Scope-2 Emissions.  We have internally analysed that our Scope-3 emission for business travel is insignificant compared to our direct emissions from operations. Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 119 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page investments by type. 94-102 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Fully  All permanent employees of GAIL are contract, and region, broken down by gender. full time employees. Refer Performance Snapshot from page 101-102 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page and employee turnover by age group, gender, and 94-102 region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page are not provided to temporary or part-time 94-102 employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental Fully  100% return to work and retention rates leave, by gender. after parental leave for both male and female employees LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Fully  All Non Executives are covered by collective bargaining agreements. bargaining agreement Page 70 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Fully  We adhere to Section 9A of Industrial operational changes, including whether it is Dispute Act 1947 and Schedule 4 for specified in collective agreements. providing notice period regarding significant operational changes LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Fully  GAIL has 100% representation of its formal joint management-worker health and workforce in formal joint managementsafety committees that help monitor and advise worker health and safety committees that on occupational health and safety programs. help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs.  Refer Page 66-67  Refer Performance Snapshot from page 94-102 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page COMM and absenteeism, and number of work-related 94-102 fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Fully  Page 10, 45, 55, 65-66, 74-76 risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Fully  We are currently in the process of collating agreements with trade unions. health and safety topics covered in unions across operations LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee Fully  Refer page 59 by gender, and by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong Fully  Refer Performance Snapshot from page learning that support the continued employability 94-102 of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Fully  100% of regular employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by performance and career development gender. reviews. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Fully  Refer section on Corporate Governance breakdown of employees per employee category from page 24-27 according to gender, age group, minority group  Refer Performance Snapshot section of membership, and other indicators of diversity. page 94-102  Refer page 29 section of GAIL’s Annual Report FY 201314,  For more details refer page 44-53 of GAIL’s Annual Report FY 2013-14 Care, Share & Grow 120 Sustainability Report 2013-14 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Fully  No discrimination based on gender is to men by employee category, by significant practiced for Compensation in any work locations of operation. centres. Social: Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Fully  Refer Ethics, Transparency and investment agreements and contracts that include Accountability on page 24-26 clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or  Refer Human Rights from page 68-71 that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors Fully  Currently we are in the process of and other business partners that have undergone setting up systems to screen Human human rights screening, and actions taken. Rights performance of our suppliers and contractors. However we have initiated SA 8000  Refer human rights from page 68-71 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Fully  All our employees are mandated to go procedures concerning aspects of human rights through the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal that are relevant to operations, including the rules at the time of their induction and percentage of employees trained. comply with it during their tenure.  Refer Human Rights from page 68-71 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Fully  No incidents of discrimination corrective actions taken. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in Fully  Though there has not been a formal/ specific which the right to exercise freedom of association initiative to identify such operations, there and collective bargaining may be violated or at is no operation which runs such a risk to the significant risk, and actions taken to support right to exercise freedom of association and these rights. collective bargaining. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as Fully  There is no incident of engagement of Child having significant risk for incidents of child labor, Labour reported in the reporting period. The and measures taken to contribute to the effective Engineer in Charge (EIC) ensures relevant abolition of child labor. statutes are complied with. Prohibition to engage Child Labour is the standard C&P Clause. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified Fully  Though there has not been a formal/ specific as having significant risk for incidents of forced initiative to identify such operations, or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute no incident of engagement of forced or to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour has been reported in the compulsory labor. assessment year. The Engineer in Charge (EIC) ensures relevant statutes are complied with. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Fully  Refer page 71 COMM organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving Fully  There have been no incidents of violations COMM rights of indigenous people and actions taken. involving rights of indigenous people please see Human Rights page 68-70 HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that Fully  All our core operations are continuously have been subject to human rights reviews and/or monitored and reviewed to eliminate Human impact assessments. Right risks. For more information refer Human Rights from page 68-71 OG9 Operations where indigenous communities are Fully  We have one of our operations at Jhabua present or affected by activities and where where there is presence of indigenous specific engagement strategies are in place. communities near our operations. For Details refer to page 76-77, 79 Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 121 HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights Fully  No such grievances have been filed filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Social: Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Fully  All our operations are governed by our CSR community engagement, impact assessments, and approach. For more information refer page development programs. 65-66 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual Fully  During our engagement with local COMM negative impacts on local communities. communities for impacts, programs and assessments, we have not come across any significant negative impacts on the community due to our presence in the area Page 78-79 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented Fully  Page 78-79 COMM in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. OG10 Number and description of significant disputes Fully  We did not have any incidents of significant with local communities and indigenous peoples. disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples OG11 Number of sites that have been decommissioned Fully  None of our sites have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being last year. decommissioned.  None of our sites were in the process of decommissioning during last year SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Fully  Corruption risks are covered under our analyzed for risks related to corruption. vigilance procedures and risk management framework. Since our vigilance procedures are mandatory under the rules established by Government of India, 100% of our operations are covered under risk analysis including aspects related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s Fully  All our employees are mandated to go anti-corruption policies and procedures. through the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal rules at the time of their induction and comply with it during their tenure.  Refer Page 25 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Fully  It is to inform that during the period a total corruption. number of 182 complaints were received and 131 complaints were closed. Out of which 25 cases were considered for detailed investigation.  However out of 25, only three Vigilance cases depending on the merit of the case, suitable penalty has been recommended against the employees and one contractor and remaining are in progress. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Fully  Refer page 48-50 COMM policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions Fully  GAIL did not make any financial or in -kind to political parties, politicians, and related contributions to political parties, politicians institutions by country. or related institutions by country. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Fully  Page 25 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Care, Share & Grow 122 Sustainability Report 2013-14 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully  There have been no significant fine or COMM number of non-monetary sanctions for nonnon-monetary sanctions were imposed for compliance with laws and regulations. non-compliances with laws and regulations in the year. OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement took Fully  No such operations place, the number of households resettled in each and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. OG13 Number of process safety events, by business Fully  No such events have taken place activity. Social: Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Fully  Refer Customers from page 86-88 impacts of products and services are assessed  Also see page PR Section from page 67-69 of for improvement, and percentage of significant GAIL Sustainability Report FY 11-12 available products and services categories subject to such on GAIL website (www.gailonline.com) procedures.  All the major installations of GAIL are accredited with OHSAS 18001:2007. With OHSAS 18001:2007 certifications all the installations of GAIL are committed towards assessment of health and safety impacts of products for improvement. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully  There were no such incidents of nonregulations and voluntary codes concerning health compliance during the reporting period and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR3 Type of product and service information required Fully  Our petrochemicals product packages bear by procedures, and percentage of significant the location of the manufacturing facility, products and services subject to such information grade name and total weight as per Indian requirements. legislations and industry practice. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Fully  There were no such incidents of nonwith regulations and voluntary codes concerning compliance during the reporting period product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Fully  Refer Customers on page 86 including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Fully  GAIL fully complies by the ASCI norms for and voluntary codes related to marketing advertising and communication and works communications, including advertising, promotion, with ASCI-authorized media agencies only and sponsorship.  Page 87-88 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Fully  There were no such incidents of nonwith regulations and voluntary codes concerning compliance during the reporting period marketing communications, including advertising,  Page 87-88 promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Fully  No major complaints regarding breaches of regarding breaches of customer privacy and customer privacy & losses of customer data losses of customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonFully  There were no such incidents of noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning compliance during the reporting period. the provision and use of products and services. OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased Fully  In 2013-14, Biofuel produced and Biofuel meeting sustainability criteria. purchased is “zero” MT Care, Share & Grow Sustainability Report 2013-14 123 Linkage with API/IPIECA Guidelines & UNGC Principles Sustainability report linkage with oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting issues by API – IPIECA and UNGC Prniciples Section API / IPIECA Guidelines UNGC Principles Corporate Governance SE11, SE12, SE14 Principle 10 Sustainability Strategy E1, E2, E6 Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9 Stakeholder Engagement & E6 Materiality Shareholders / Investors E1, E2, E3, E6, E8, E10 Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9 Employees HS1, HS2, HS3, SE10, SE15, SE16, Principle 1, SE17, SE18 Principle 3, Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6 Community / Society E5, E7, E8, SE1, SE2, SE4 Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9 Customers HS3 Suppliers SE7 Performance Snapshot E1, E2, E3, E4, E6, E7, E8, E10, HS3 Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9 GRI Content Index SE6 Care, Share & Grow 124 Sustainability Report 2013-14 Linkage with NVG-SEE Principles (National Voluntary Guidelines for Social, Economic and Environment (NVG-SEE) Principles was Issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Govt. of India ) Principle NVG-SEE Principles Linkage with Sustainability No. Report FY 13-14 Sections 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Corporate Governance Transparency and Accountability 2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and Sustainability Strategy contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle Customers 3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees Employees 4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive Employees towards all stakeholders, especially those who are Communities disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized. 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights Employees 6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the Communities environment 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory Corporate Governance policy, should do so in a responsible manner Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable Employees development Communities 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their Customers customers and consumers in a responsible manner GAIL’s Business Responsibility Report FY 2013-14 which includes detailed disclosure of NVG Principles can be accessed from GAIL Annual Report FY 2013-14 available at GAIL website (www.gailonline.com)
