Report on activities supporting the UN Global Compact initiative and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) carried out within the framework of the “Approved Partner” Programme in 2014 Introduction The Mission of the Approved Partner Programme is to promote modern management methods and reliability and responsibility in business as significant principles in the creation and functioning of civic society as well as related education, in particular through the dissemination of good examples of reliable operation of companies involved in social environment initiatives and caring for the natural environment (solidnypartner.pl). The main objectives of the Programme also include dissemination of economic, legal and other knowledge about the economic market and modern methods of corporate management, paying special attention to the standards observed and followed in the European Union. The “Approved Partner” Programme is the initiative of the Reliable Business Association and the European Education and Consulting Centre (until end of 2004 – Business Promotion Centre) introduced in 1995 in Wielkopolska. At the time it was the only programme of this type in Poland. It is important to add that The Delegation of the European Commission in Poland and The President of the National Bank of Poland (NBP) extended honorary patronage to the Programme. A multi-step company verification system combined with ongoing monitoring of company reliability are among the main values of the new version of the Programme implemented in 1999, which makes it distinct among other similar initiatives. The verification procedures are systematic based on verification requests submitted by companies and the documents, which are assessed in line with the principles stipulated in the Programme regulations. The assessment checks how reliably a company conducts its business, whether it pays its liabilities on time, whether it is solvent, whether it observes legal and administrative regulations and the principles of fair competition, whether the methods used internally and externally are friendly, what the quality of its goods and services is, how involved it is in the issues of the social environment and how it cares for the natural environment. In the period under discussion systematic marketing activities connected with the Programme were carried out, including ongoing monitoring and verification of the companies participating in the Programme. The documentation defined in the Programme regulations submitted by the company was collated and prepared for analysis by the Licence Bureau of the “Approved Partner” Programme (maintained by the Centre for European Education and Consultancy) and the Verification Committee (composed of representatives of the Association) assessed the companies seeking the award or extension of the right to use the “Approved Partner” logo and honorary title in their marketing activities. Activities supporting the Global Compact initiative and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Systematic support (media coverage, Internet, e-marketing campaigns and dissemination of information at conferences and meetings) was continued in 2014. It aimed to popularize knowledge and help in the implementation of the UN Global Compact initiative and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Representatives of the organizers of the “Approved Partner” Programme took part in the following activities: 30 January 2014 Michał Wieczorek, representing the Reliable Business Association, took part in the forum “Ethic in public and professional life” organized in the World Trade Center in Poznan. It was a meeting of the consular corps representatives, academies, Poznan International Fair, WTC Poznan Club members, companies and institutions. January – December 2014 promotional campaign in cooperation with specialized agencies, including mail shots with information about the “Approved Partner” Programme, Global Compact, CSR and solidnypartner.pl website and sent to Polish companies, accompanied by a telemarketing campaigns. June – September 2014 – “Approved Partner” programme new website was launched (solidnypartner.pl) as well as modernization of solidnypartner.eu business portal. Both pages promote laureates of the „Approved Partner” programme (which was celebrating it’s nineteenth anniversary this year) and other companies offering top quality goods and services. There was also new website established (czytelniabiznesowa.solidnypartner.eu) that connects with abovementioned initiatives. One of the main aims of the programme and described webpages is creation of the “zone of greater safety in business”, which is a value particularly important for prospective customers during the “crisis of confidence”. 15th October 2014 – on the Third Congress of Local Governments organized by Poznan International Fair under the auspices of President of Poland Bronisław Komorowski as part of proceeding 25 Years of Freedom, President of Poznan International Fair as well as representatives of the Reliable Business Association proffered special awards and certificates to the „Approved Partner” programme laureates, which actions were compatible with principles of reliability and corporate social responsibility. Following companies were awarded: Wielkopolska Gildia Rolno-Ogrodnicza; Zakład Usług Informatycznych NOVUM; Andre Abrasive Articles; Xcomp; Korporacja Brokerów Ubezpieczeniowych PROTEKTOR Biuro Zachodnie i AUDIT Kancelaria Doradztwa Podatkowego. First four mentioned firms also received special „Approved Partner” certificates and commendations for managing persons in favour of many years membership in programme and activities for local environment. Rewarded companies are taking part in the Reliable Business Club Approved Partner , informal forum gathering Programme laureates, simplifying contacts and cooperation of companies as well as promoting reliability and responsibility in business (approximately 90% of them are small and medium firms). Activity report in favour of local environment (social and natural) part of the companies present independently, 5 companies (3 medium, 1 small and 1 micro) also refered an information to here presented report: „ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES” Spółka z o.o. Sp.k. – Koło, „WIELKOPOLSKA GILDIA ROLNO-OGRODNICZA”, S.A. Poznań, Zakład Usług Informatycznych „NOVUM” Sp. z o.o. Łomża, Korporacja Brokerów Ubezpieczeniowych „Protektor” Biuro Zachodnie Sp. z o.o. Poznań, AUDIT Kancelaria Doradztwa Podatkowego Alicja Szymańska – Poznań. The percentage of women managers in these companies in the period covered by the report was as follows: medium companies – 11%-65% (no change compared to 2013), small companies – 0%-50% (no change compared to 2013), micro companies – 0%-100% (no change compared to 2013), There is no information on discriminatory practices regarding remuneration of women. Involvement in activities protecting the natural and social environment Natural environment In 2014 the mentioned companies participating in the “Approved Partner” Programme continued or started the following ecological activities: collection of post-production waste, ion exchange treatment of electroplating wastes, hazardous waste reduction, reduction of gas and dust emission programmes prepared by companies (and approved by the county government), use of ecological raw materials in production, Freon recovery, use of low emission fuels, continued activities to reduce detrimental effects of production to the environment: upgrading and reconstruction of production assets, i.e. exchange of insulation on heat networks and assembly of condensation neutralizers in boiler houses, participation in local programmes carried out in schools, aimed to make the children aware why it is important to protect the natural environment collection of used packaging, waste paper, cells, etc. (assistance in organization and transport). The above activities have been carried out for a number of years by: ZUI „NOVUM” Sp. z o.o. – Łomża, ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES”, Koło and others. Modern management methods compatible with international standards (mainly ISO 9001, in some cases ISO 14001 and HACCP) were implemented in over 60% of the companies participating in the Club. About 12% of the companies in this group implemented Integrated Management Systems (Quality, Environment, H&S), among them: „ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES” Spółka z o.o. Sp.k., Koło, operation of the wholesale market in Poznań in line with the ISO 9001 and HACCP management systems (“Wielkopolska Gildia Rolno-Ogrodnicza” S.A., Poznań). Social environment In 2014 the mentioned companies participating in the „Approved Partner” Programme were involved in the following social activities: assistance in repairs of public buildings, support to day care centres, social welfare centres, management of youth sports teams, secondment of company employees to work for the social environment, assistance in the provision of hardware for school computer suites, assistance extended to public libraries in counties and towns and to district community centres (e.g. ZUI „NOVUM” Sp. z o.o. – Łomża, „ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES” – Koło, Korporacja Brokerów Ubezpieczeniowych „Protektor” – Poznań, and others), cooperation with appropriate institutions in the field of training courses and work placements for the unemployed (e.g. permanent cooperation between the Wielkopolska Gildia Rolno-Ogrodnicza S.A. – Poznań and the County Labour Offices, which refer unemployed to basic courses in flower arranging), cooperation with the County Labour Office and Family Support Centre – employment of disabled persons and creation of jobs for them (“ANDRE ABRASIVE ARTICLES” – Koło), tangible donations (products) to schools, kindergartens, social care centres; also financial help extended to natural persons (e.g. to help treat children with chronic medical conditions) and legal persons (foundations, associations, etc.), support of the children's development deriving from the destitute environment ( e.g. financial support for teams that competed at the Odyssey of the Mind Finals in the United States, organised by Poznan Education Association, where in the general classification, secondary school team was placed 6th in the world Korporacja Brokerów Ubezpieczeniowych „Protektor” – Poznań), sponsorship of different events for children, including cultural and sports events, charity and social campaigns (e.g. co-organization of the Novum Jazz Festival and the Young Jazz Performers New Hope for Jazz festival; sponsorship of the Chamber Philharmonic in Łomża and the North Mazovian Museum in Łomża, regular school marathons – ZUI “NOVUM” Sp. z o.o., Łomża). It should be emphasized that accomplishment of the different activities connected with the “Approved Partner” Programme and dissemination of information about the principles of the Global Compact and CSR were financed from very limited funds contributed by the Programme participants.
