OUR RESPONSIBILITY. REPORT 2014 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Content CONTENT Interview with Peter Terium 01 CR Strategy and Management 22 About this Report 80 Report Profile 80 Our Company 03 Compliance and Risk Management 25 Independent Assurance Report 82 Index nach GRI Our Value Chain 04 Stakeholder Dialogue 28 (Global Reporting Initiative) 85 UN Global Compact Developments in our Regions 11 Materiality Analysis 31 Progress Report 2014 88 Our Regions 12 Germany  13 Overview of our Ten Areas for Action Key Figures at a Glance 90 United Kingdom 15 and our CR Objectives 35 Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg 17 Climate Protection 38 Contact and Imprint 93 Central Eastern and South-eastern Europe, Energy Efficiency 43 and Turkey 19 Biodiversity/Environmental Protection 46 Western and Southern Europe 21 Community Engagement 49 Market/Customer53 Employees  59 Supply Chain 63 Occupational Safety/ Healthcare Management 68 Security of Supply 72 Innovation76 GRI General and Specific Standard Disclosures according to GRI G4 Other details are on the Internet Details have been audited externally 01 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Interview with Peter Terium  Content INTERVIEW WITH PETER TERIUM CEO OF RWE AG Mr Terium, four years ago you launched the programme “RWE 2015”. RWE has traditionally been a company defined by technology. Are In 2015, are you now in a position to say: “Job done”? supposedly soft topics like this taken at all seriously by colleagues? No, certainly not. It’s true that we have achieved a lot over the past Fifteen years ago I would have had considerable doubts. However, four years. We have become more efficient in our work processes, today the mood is different. Everyone in the company is aware that reduced our debts and developed new business ideas. Nevertheless, technical excellence is no longer adequate on its own. Not only the changes are going to continue. The transition in the European ‘what’ but also ‘how’ is a key factor in decision-making. We need energy sector, and megatrends like “Sustainable Development” and employees who have creative powers and use their own initiative to “Digitisation” are challenging us anew every day. develop new ideas independently. They then need to go on and develop these ideas in the interests of the customer. Is it possible to position a company sustainably if it is engaged in an ongoing process of transition? Does RWE have the right people on board for this task? This is absolutely essential. We will only have a common benchmark There’s no question about it. And we also have the right mix with for our actions on a day-to-day basis if our mission is clearly defined experts from the power plants, energy trading, distribution grids and over the long term. That benchmark is: We are the credible and the customer centre – each of them has their own special knowledge empowering partner for sustainable restructuring of the European and experience. This is how innovative solutions are generated. energy system. How do you ensure that employees from the different RWE compaHow do you motivate your employees to commit to this mission? nies are able to come together, let alone cooperate together? A transition of this nature cannot be ordered top down – it needs to We have formed our own innovation teams which are bundled in an be lived bottom up by everyone working for RWE. Over the past few “Innovation Hub”. Some colleagues work there full-time and others years, we have introduced the project “We are RWE”, which is have a commitment in addition to their other functions. This creates designed to achieve this objective. Since the project has been in an ideal balance between continuous cooperation and tight integraexistence, we have held discussions in small workshops about the tion within the structure of routine business every day. new strategic direction of the Group and addressed new ways of thinking and working. This has involved around 60,000 employees. GRI G4-1 02 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Interview with Peter Terium  Content Does RWE have the capital available to develop new products and In which areas are you experiencing a higher level of acceptance take them to market? through joint ventures? We no longer have the funds to invest that we had ten years ago. But One example of this kind of success is setting up intelligent networks there again we are not building new, expensive power plants any more. or building local-authority generating plants. The value of joint venNevertheless, there is still money available for healthy growth. However, tures is also evident in completely different areas, such as the purchase although the main fields where we want to focus our growth require a of hard coal from other countries. Our objective here is to ensure lower level of finance, they demand know-how and strategic partners that standards for human rights and the environment are upheld at in order to develop new business models and smart technologies. our producers. Working as an individual company we are unable to get much leverage on this issue. We are only able to exert an impact Who are you working with in concrete terms? together with other companies in the Bettercoal sector initiative. “How is also For example, we are working with the thermostat developer Nest. We have been selling intelligent heating controllers in the United Kingdom Generating electricity from hard coal will undoubtedly also be an a key factor” since April 2014 and since September of last year we have also been issue at this year’s World Climate Summit in Paris. What are your selling these exclusively in the Netherlands. A second example of this hopes from this conference? is our cooperation with Samsung. The SmartCams are now compatiMost importantly, more reliability in relation to how international clible with our Smart Home System for intelligent house control. mate protection will be dealt with in the future. We have been demanding a binding international agreement for some time now. Why is the topic of partnership so important for RWE? This will not only help the climate, it will also power economic develThe global world is too complex and dynamic for us to implement opment in Europe. the energy transition alone. Joined-up action is the key. It provides information, opens up new markets for us and increases the level of What climate targets has RWE defined for itself? acceptance for our role in the new energy world. Finance is also We have set ourselves the goal of reducing our CO2 emissions by important, particularly finance for the expansion of renewable ener20 % compared with 2005. However, as far as we are concerned, gies. Last year, we invested around 750 million euros in renewable sustainability is not just about climate protection. We have also set The interview was conducted by energies. From 2015 until 2017, we are planning capex of one billion ourselves goals in the other CR areas for action. Our commitment to Dr Matthias Kussin and Daniel Schneiders, euros. We need partners to continue developing major new projects the United Nations Global Compact at an overarching level has been RWE Corporate Responsibility with this budget. steadfast since 2004 and we continue to be dedicated to its principles. GRI G4-1 03 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Our Company  Content OUR COMPANY RWE ranks among the biggest electricity and gas utilities in Europe. business. We also occupy leading positions in other markets located in Around 60,000 employees ensure that some 16 million customers are Central Europe. Furthermore, we have electricity and gas distribution supplied with electricity and 7.2 million customers with gas. At the close networks with a total length of around 504,000 km in the countries of of 2014, RWE had power station capacities totalling 49,064 MW. 32 % of Germany, Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland. In the business year 2014, this electricity was generated from gas (2013: 34 %), 23 % from lignite we generated revenue of approximately € 48 billion. (2013: 23 %), 21 % from hard coal (2013: 20 %), 8 % from nuclear energy RWE is operating at all levels of the energy value chain with its expertise (2013: 8 %) and 7.5 % from renewable energies (2013: 7 %). This includes in the production of lignite, the generation of electricity from gas, coal, 4,351 MW of capacity generated by contracted power stations owned by nuclear energy and renewable sources, its energy-trading operations, the other companies and we are able to access their capacities freely through distribution and sale of electricity and gas, and energy-related services. long-term contracts. In Europe, we are ranked by retail business in third As an international group, we have a workforce of full-time employees in place for electricity and fifth place for gas. In Germany, the Netherlands 19 countries. The RWE Group is divided into seven segments. These are and the United Kingdom, we are positioned among the biggest electricity designated as “divisions” and they are clearly differentiated from each and gas utilities. In the Czech Republic, we are number one in the gas other on the basis of national and functional criteria. € 2.4 € 48.5 0.745 7.5 % billion in capital 2.3 billion external 59,784 metric tons (mt) of share of renewable expenditure and LTIF1 occupational Employees CO2 per MWh of energies in power plant expenses for revenues accidents electricity capacity environmental protection 1 Number of accidents leading to the loss of at least one person day per million worked hours (Lost Time Incident Frequency) incl. employees of contractors GRI G4-4; G4-9; EU1; EU3 04 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Our Value Chain  Content OUR VALUE CHAIN RWE is an integrated energy supplier and operates at all stages of the We have allocated our CR areas for action to the stages of the value chain value chain. At the moment, we are adapting our business model to the and highlighted the relevant challenges. These vary according to the difchanges in the sector. This is because the energy industry in Europe is ferent stages of the value chain. Furthermore, the representation includes undergoing fundamental change. We are increasingly focusing on initiaan allocation of the key aspects of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). tives for local energy supply, seeking out partnerships with investors and We also state whether the major opportunities for exerting influence to municipal utilities, and we want to drive the energy transition forward overcome the challenges are inside or outside the RWE Group. together with local residents in the community. We are achieving these goals by offering our customers products and services based on innovative technologies. This is also reflected in the structure of our value chain. GRI G4-18; G4-23 05 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Our Value Chain  Content Our Value Chain Extraction of fossil fuels and Provision and supply of biomass Activities: KPIs1 2014: RWE extracts lignite in its own opencast mines, and produces wood pellets and other biomass fuels 5 opencast lignite mines (9,905 hectares) 22,763 hectares of recultivated land at opencast 106 million mt of lignite products at our opencast mines in the Rhineland lignite mining area mines in the Rhineland lignite mining area and in 631,768 mt of wood pellets manufactured at the WayHungary cross pellet plant (USA) Challenges and key impact opportunity Key aspects in compliance Area for action Challenges at the stage of this value chain with the GRI G4 reporting standard Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Biodiversity/Environmental -Sustainable recultivation of mining areas -Water Protection -Safeguarding the water resources in the region -Biodiversity -Structuring environmental mitigation measures -Effluents and waste -Minimising particulate and noise emissions -Compliance (environment) -Overall (environment) -Environmental grievance mechanisms Supply Chain -Sustainable production of wood pellets and other biomass fuels Procurement practices Community Engagement -Resettlement of residents under social and ethical conditions -Indirect economic impacts -Local communities -Public policy -Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Occupational Safety/ -Guaranteeing the health and work ability of our employees and the employees -Occupational health and safety Healthcare Management of our subcontractors Security of Supply -Quality and appropriate quantities supplied to power plants -Availability and reliability -Maintenance of infrastructure for coal extraction from approved mines -Demand side managemen 1 KPI: Key Performance Indicator GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 06 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Our Value Chain  Content Supply and trading Activities: KPIs 2014: RWE supplies and trades in commodities including coal, natural gas, biomass, electricity 1,501 TWh of electricity 735 million mt of coal 685 million CO2 certificates and CO2 certificates 393 billion m3 of gas 1,598 million barrels of oil Challenges and key impact opportunity Key aspects in compliance Area for action Challenges at the stage of this value chain with the GRI G4 reporting standard Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Supply Chain -Human rights, social standards, and environmental protection in the producing -Procurement practices countries -Supplier environmental assessment -Sustainable cultivation of biomass in the supply countries -Supplier assessment for labour practices -Supplier human rights assessment -Supplier assessment for impacts on society GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 07 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Our Value Chain  Content Power and heat generation Activities: KPIs 2014: RWE constructs and operates fossil-fired power stations, wind farms as well as hydropower plants, and biomass power stations. Other activities of the Group include operation and decommissioning of our 77.2 TWh of lignite 38.3 TWh of gas 10.1 TWh of renewable 2.7 TWh of pumped-water, nuclear power stations. 48.3 TWh of hard coal 31.7 TWh of nuclear energy energies oil, other energy sources Challenges and key impact opportunity Key aspects in compliance Area for action Challenges at the stage of this value chain with the GRI G4 reporting standard Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Climate Protection -Reduction in CO2 emissions -Plant decommissioning -Making the power plant portfolio more flexible in order to adjust to the volatile -Emissions feed-in of renewable energies -Products and services -Connection to offshore wind farms Energy Efficiency -Increase in the efficiency of energy use in the power plants System efficiency of the Energy power station portfolio and distribution Biodiversity/ -Limiting the emissions of pollutants -Preparation and safe implementation of -Water -Environmental grievance Environmental Protection -Treatment and minimisation of the decommissioning concepts -Biodiversity mechanisms (cooling) water used -Sustainable fresh-water management -Effluents and waste -Use of pumped water for heat supply -Noise abatement during the -Compliance (environment) -Reduction of particulate and noise construction of offshore wind farms -Overall (environment) emissions -Compliance with national and -Safe operation of nuclear power international requirements for the stations sustainability -Disposal of radioactive waste of the biomass used Community Engagement -Acceptance for construction measures -Indirect economic impacts -Grievance mechanisms for -Acceptance for plant operation -Local communities impacts on society -Public policy Occupational Safety/ -Safeguarding the health and work ability of our employees and the employees Occupational health and Healthcare Management of our subcontractorsn safety Security of Supply -Guaranteeing security of supply Availability and reliability Demand-side management -Contribution to system stability -Access Innovation Development of climate-friendly and efficient technologies, projects and concepts -Research and development GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; EU2 08 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Our Value Chain  Content Distribution of electricity and gas Activities: KPIs 2014: RWE expands, operates and maintains distribution grids for electricity and gas. 392,000 km of distribution grids for electricity 307,500 of generating plants for renewable energies 112,000 km of distribution grids for gas connected to our grids Challenges and key impact opportunity Key aspects in compliance Area for action Challenges at the stage of this value chain with the GRI G4 reporting standard Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Biodiversity/Environmental Reduction of impacts on local ecosystems -Plant decommissioning Protection -Water -Biodiversity -Effluents and waste -Compliance (environment) -Overall (environment) -Environmental grievance mechanisms Occupational Safety/ Safeguarding the health and work ability of our employees and the employees -Occupational health and safety Healthcare Management of our subcontractors Security of Supply Concepts for flexible load distribution for feed-in of renewable energies -Availability and reliability -Expansion of suitable storage facilities -Demand-side management -Uninterrupted supply with electricity -Access -Acceptance of grid expansion -Uninterrupted supply with gas Innovation -Integration of renewable energies, volatile demand through PV connections, Research and development problems with commercial storage technologies GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; EU4 09 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Our Value Chain  Content Retail business and use of electricity and gas Activities: KPIs 2014: RWE supplies electricity and gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers, as well as to down15,958 thousand electricity customers 258.3 TWh of external retail business for electricity stream suppliers such as municipal utilities. 7,155 thousand gas customers 281.3 TWh of external retail business for gas Challenges and key impact opportunity Key aspects in compliance Area for action Challenges at the stage of this value chain with the GRI G4 reporting standard Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Climate Protection -Measures and packages for climate protection at our customers -Emissions -Products and services Market/Customer -Competitive, individualised and flexible packages -Demand-side management -Support for customers in energy savings -Products and services -Product and service labelling -Customer privacy Innovation -Development of service packages for own consumption and for marketing of -Research and development renewable energies GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; EU3 10 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Our Value Chain  Content Our employees Activities: KPIs 2014: RWE takes responsibility for its employees and offers them support for their personal and career 59,784 employees 26.6 % proportion of 2,297 apprentices severely disabled people in development alongside ethical treatment and fair remuneration. women in the company 6.4 % proportion of Germany Challenges and key impact opportunity Key aspects in compliance Area for action Challenges at the stage of this value chain with the GRI G4 reporting standard Key impact opportunity Inside the RWE Group Outside the RWE Group Employees -Maintaining and promoting the motivation and work ability of our employees -Employment -Restructuring measures at social and ethical conditions -Labour/Management relations -Promotion of diversity and inclusion in the company -Training and education -Diversity and equal opportunity -Equal remuneration for women and men Other key GRI aspects (across value added stages): -Economic performance -Labour practices Grievance mechanisms -Humans rights Grievance mechanisms -Anti-corruption -Anti-competitive behaviour -Compliance (society) -Disaster/Emergency planning and response GRI G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 11 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Developments in our Regions  Content DEVELOPMENTS IN OUR REGIONS Our market environment and the demands of the community are changing with the transition of the energy systems in Europe. We are meeting the diverse challenges faced by the RWE Group at all levels of the value chain and in all the regions where we are operating. Europe’s energy industry in transition Our electricity production has therefore also declined. This trend will The framework conditions for our business are changing fundamencontinue over the coming years because an increasing number of tally as a result of political interventions. The expansion of renewable citizens, companies and energy cooperatives are generating electricenergies is modifying the way energy markets operate – with major ity for themselves in decentralised plants and feeding some of that impacts on our business success. electricity into the public electricity grid. This is also reducing the amount of electricity are able to market to customers in our retail In wholesale markets for electricity generation, regulatory instrubusiness. At the beginning of 2012, we launched the programme ments like the feed-in priority for renewable energies and their remu“RWE 2015” in order to maintain our position in this market environneration through the system of subsidies increase demand and ment. This programme has defined the changes and efficiency thereby reduce electricity prices in this market segment and the assoimprovements within the RWE Group for the future. These include ciated utilisation of our plants. This in turn cuts down the revenues comprehensive measures for reducing costs, increasing profits and derived from our power plants, especially in Continental Europe. a strategic realignment with a stronger focus on innovative products Many plants, in particular gas-fired power plants, are no longer able and services in the energy market. to cover their operating costs. Conversely, their use is popular with a large number of stakeholders because they are regarded as flexible and have lower CO2 emissions by comparison with coal-fired power stations. GRI G4-DMA 12 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Developments in our Regions  Content Our Regions United Kingdom Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg Germany Power station capacities in MW Power station capacities in MW Power station capacities in MW Conventional power plants 9,830 Conventional power plants 6,191 Conventional power plants 24,465 RWE is an international Group which Renewable energies 1,194 Renewable energies 393 Renewable energies 1,304 employs a total of 59,784 permanent Employees 9,608 Employees 2,972 Employees 36,411 employees in 19 countries. Customers 5,556 Customers 4,684 Customers 7,983 Western and Southern Europe Central-eastern/South-eastern Europe/ Turkey Power station capacities in MW Power station capacities in MW Conventional power plants – Conventional power plants 1,718 Renewable energies 586 Renewable energies 200 Employees 100 Employees 10,574 Customers – Customers 4,890 Overall Power station capacities in MW Conventional power plants 45,385 Renewable energies 3,677 Employees 1 59,784 Customers 23,113 1 Incl. 119 employees of RWE Supply & Trading in India, Indonesia, Singapore and the USA. GRI G4-6; G4-8; G4-9; EU1; EU3 13 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Developments in our Regions  Content Germany Germany is our biggest market. This is where we generate 57 % of Grids and retail business our total sales amounting to € 26.2 million (not including levies on RWE is one of the biggest operators of distribution grids in Germany. natural gas/electricity). The historic roots of our company are also in The Group operates electricity distribution grids with a total length Germany. We manage the entire RWE Group from our Head Office of 330,000 km and gas distribution grids with a total length of located in Essen. 48,000 km. At the end of 2014, we were granted around 3,000 electricity grid and 800 gas grid concession agreements in Germany with Extraction and generation a term of at least 15 to 20 years. Alongside the sale of electricity, gas RWE operates three large opencast mines in Germany for the producand heat, we are also active in the areas of energy efficiency and tion of lignite. We have four lignite-fired power stations with a total electromobility, as well as in the development and operation of generating capacity of 10,291 MW. Furthermore, BoA 2&3 optimised smart devices to measure and control energy consumption. Overall, power plant units are currently the most advanced lignite-fired units we supply around 8.0 million customers in Germany with electricity in the world. These generating plants are located very close to our and gas, in addition to other energy services. The regional compalignite mines at Neurath, Niederaußem, Weisweiler and Frimmersnies enviaM, LEW, Süwag and VSE are part of the RWE Group and we dorf. We also have generating capacity in Germany amounting to also have shareholdings in around 80 regional and local-authority 5,318 MW for hard coal and 4,411 MW for gas. At the Hamm site in energy utilities. Westphalia, we are constructing one of the most advanced hard-coal power stations in the world with a total output of 1,528 MW. In Renewable energies August 2014, we brought unit E of the power plant on stream. At the In Germany, we are particularly strong in the area of renewable enerend of 2014, we additionally had generating capacities of nuclear gies. At the end of 2014, RWE in Germany was operating consolienergy in Germany amounting to more than 3,908 MW. Following dated generating capacity of renewable energies amounting to the exit from nuclear energy adopted by the German Parliament 1,263 MW, of which 621 MW is generated by hydropower, 598 MW is (“Bundestag”), our last nuclear power station is scheduled to exit wind energy and 40 MW is biomass. In 2014, RWE joined forces with from the grid in 2022. We are not involved in investment projects for 29 municipal utilities to bring the onshore wind farm “Düshorner nuclear energy. We have a further generating capacity of 4,197 MW Heide” on stream with 26 MW. Furthermore, RWE supports the develin the areas of pumped-storage, oil and other power-plant capacities. opment of future-proof technologies and provides seed capital for innovative companies at the pump-priming stage and finance for them in the growth phase. GRI EU1; EU10; EU4 14 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Developments in our Regions  Content Structuring the energy transition The German government wants to use its national climate protection plan to achieve the ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and hence highlight its pioneering role in climate protection. All sectors need to be integrated in order to achieve the objective of a 40 % reduction for CO2 emissions in Germany by 2020 compared with the established baseline from 1990. The German government has defined a reduction volume of 22 million mt of CO2 each year for the energy industry in addition to the savings previously agreed. We are reducing our CO2 emissions with advanced and highly efficient plants. At the same time, by 2017 we will have reduced our generating capacities in the area of conventional power plants in Germany by up to around 9,000 MW, partly on account of lack of profitability. We are also taking 6,300 MW of our own gas-fired and hard-coal power stations out of service or mothballing them over the long term. A further 2,700 MW of generating capacity relates to contracts for long-term use of hard-coal capacities which we will not be renewing. The improvement in energy efficiency in Germany is a key element of the national climate protection plan. We offer customers intelligent products and services to provide solutions that allow energy In addition, climate protection is also a constituent element of to be used more efficiently, for example by deploying intelligent further regional and local initiatives and we contribute our expercontrol systems or advanced electricity storage (p. 38 and p. 53). tise and concrete proposals to these projects. GRI EU10 15 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Developments in our Regions  Content United Kingdom The United Kingdom is our second most important market. RWE is Retail business one of the six biggest energy suppliers in the country and produces We are one of the leading suppliers of electricity and gas with around 10 % of the electricity consumed there. In 2014, we generaround 5.556 thousand retail and business customers in the United ated sales of € 9,533 million in the UK with a total workforce of ­Kingdom. 9,984 employees. Renewable energies Generation In the United Kingdom, RWE is also focusing on the expansion of RWE operates conventional power plants in the United Kingdom with renewable energies in onshore and offshore wind farms. Overall, we a total capacity of 9,830 MW. Gas-fired power stations make up the operate 1,194 MW of generating capacity from renewable energies. biggest proportion. Pembroke is the largest CCGT power station in During the year under review, the Goole Fields 1 onshore wind farm Europe with a net output of more than 2,000 MW and it also has the came on stream with a capacity of around 33 MW and the Maldie highest level of efficiency at 59 %. pumped-storage plant with a capacity of 4 MW also started up. At the latest from mid-2015, our offshore wind farm Gwynt y Môr is scheduled to be connected to the grid generating 576 MW of electricity commercially at full capacity. GRI EU1 16 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Developments in our Regions  Content meters known as smart meters help consumers to understand Fair prices in focus and control their energy use as never before. They will therefore also be key to delivering other intelligent levels of service in the area of energy efficiency. We are cooperating with the governThe United Kingdom is legally bound by a political decision to ment in order to foster greater public understanding and acceptdeliver a greenhouse-gas emissions reduction of 80 % by 2050. ance for this technology among consumers. Through ECO (Energy As one of the biggest energy suppliers in the country, RWE has Company Obligation) we support the energy efficiency measures the challenge of meeting all the requirements for an affordable of our customers, such as building insulation and new heating and secure energy supply while also protecting the climate. In systems. We are the only energy supplier in the United Kingdom recent years, we have invested heavily in advanced gas-fired to offer our customers the Nest Learning Thermostat. This therpower stations in the United Kingdom. As in Germany, profitable mostat programs itself and can switch off automatically. operation of these power plants is at risk due to the latest developments, comparatively low electricity generating costs in hardcoal power stations and the expansion of renewable energies. The British government therefore introduced a capacity market in order to counteract potential problems with security of supply. The first auction for the initial subsidy period (2018/2019) was held in December 2014. Providing fair and transparent energy prices is particularly important for our customers in the United Kingdom. In recent times, the biggest driver of customer prices has been the regulatory and policy costs that are associated with delivering infrastructure investment and implementing social and environmental programmes. We support consumers in improving their energy efficiency in order to make energy affordable, particularly for the most vulnerable households in society. Intelligent electricity 17 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Developments in our Regions  Content Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg RWE is one of the leading energy utilities in the Netherlands and Belconsumption of electricity and it is connected to the German grid. gium. A focus of our activities in these countries is in the area of We installed an additional turbine to increase its output to 1,300 MW renewable energies, as well as in the retail business for electricity in 2014. and gas. Retail business Generation In the Netherlands and in Belgium, we have 3.7 million electricity In the Netherlands and Belgium, RWE operates hard-coal and gasand gas customers. More than one million customers use our “green fired power stations with a total generating capacity of 6,045 MW. power” product. We also deliver heat and offer innovative energy At our coal-fired power station in Geertruidenberg, we also use large services. In Belgium, we are continuing to expand the energy retail quantities of biomass to replace hard coal. The new hard-coal Eembusiness. shaven power station with a total capacity of 1,554 MW will start commercial operation in 2015. We are planning to use biomass for Renewable energies generation there as well if technical and commercial conditions perRWE is one of the major investors in wind farms in the Netherlands mit. RWE also holds a minority shareholding in the Borssele nuclear and Belgium, and its portfolio includes onshore and offshore facilipower station. ties. At the end of 2014, we were operating wind turbines here with a total capacity of 217 MW. In 2014, we started construction work on In Luxembourg, we operate the Vianden pumped-storage power the Zuidwester (90MW) wind farms. The Thornton Bank offshore plant. This is one of the largest power generating facilities of its type wind farm has a capacity of 325 MW and is one of the biggest faciliin Europe. The plant plays a key role in the stabilisation of Europe’s ties of its kind in the Belgian section of the North Sea. RWE has a electricity grids and in maintaining the balance between feed-in and stake of around 27 % in this offshore wind farm. GRI EU1; EU10 18 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Developments in our Regions  Content In the Netherlands, we are being challenged by increasing comRetail channels in transition petition from new, national energy suppliers and by new retail channels. We have been successful in the face of this competition by improving our customer service, introducing new pricing modAs a result of low wholesale prices, the crisis in the eurozone els for loyal customers and developing new retail channels with and solar-powered generation of electricity in Germany, Dutch retail partners. We offer customers other products in the area of coal-fired power stations and in particular gas-fired power renewable energies and energy efficiency. They can use an online stations are coming under economic pressure. Since 2013, portal to check their energy consumption, obtain advice about we have mothballed two modern and environmentally friendly energy issues and order products to reduce their energy conpower stations “Claus C” and “Moerdijk II”. In 2013, the Dutch sumption. government also introduced a coal tax which brought about a deterioration in the competitive conditions in the Netherlands for coal-fired power stations by comparison with power plants in other countries. Under the National Energy Agreement, it was agreed to reduce the coal tax to zero with effect from 1 January 2016. In return, the power plant operators agreed to take five old coal-fired power stations out of service by the same date. The current national subsidy system for the generation of electricity from biomass comes to an end in 2015. We will continue to expand electricity production with the help of biomass within the framework of the successor programme and this will therefore provide significant support for the Dutch and European targets on expanding renewable energies. 19 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Developments in our Regions  Content Central Eastern and South-eastern Europe, and Turkey RWE is also an active player in Central Eastern and South-eastern We have an electricity distribution grid in Poland with a length of Europe, and Turkey in the areas of conventional generation, retail 15,998 km and we supply around 900,000 customers with electricity. business and grids, as well as operating in renewable energies. We Since 2014, we have also been supplying natural gas in Poland. have businesses in Croatia, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Turkey and Hungary. Overall, we supply around five million cusIn Slovakia, we supply more than 100,000 customers with natural tomers there with energy and services. gas. We also operate an electricity grid more than 20,000 km in length and we are developing decentralised energy solutions in Generation Central and Eastern Slovakia. In Hungary, we operate the Mátra lignite-fired power station with two associated opencast lignite mines. In 2014, we produced a total We are active in energy retail business in Croatia and we supply of 8.8 million mt of lignite. The power plant with a generating output nearly 100,000 customers with electricity. of 780 MW was also fuelled with 373,000 mt of biomass. RWE operates a gas-fired power station in Turkey with an output of 775 MW. Since 2014, we have been operating a nationwide retail organisation We are involved in Croatia as the co-owner of the Plomin hard-coal in Romania and we are now supplying our first customers with elecpower station and in wastewater business. tricity. Our head office is located in Bucharest and we have a number of regional offices. We want to grow our operations there and conGrids and retail centrate on supplying small and mid-size companies, and industrial Retail business, distribution and storage of gas are the focus of our customers. business in the Czech Republic. RWE operates a gas distribution grid there with a length of 63,875 km and supplies 1.4 million customers Renewable energies with natural gas. Since 2010, we have also been selling electricity in In Poland, we are continuing to expand our capacities in the area of the Czech Republic and we supply around 265,000 customers with renewable energies. We have a total of six wind farms there with an power. installed output of 197 MW. In Hungary, we operate an electricity distribution grid with a length of 46,200 km and supply around 2.1 million customers with electricity. GRI EU1; EU4 20 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Developments in our Regions  Content By 2015, decentralised energy generation in small plants has also Study on the Polish energy market increased in importance. The proportion of energy produced by these plants out of all the energy generated in Poland was seen to rise significantly in all the scenarios analysed. Two developRWE contributes its expertise to the debate about energy sysments in particular have contributed to this change in the electems of the future. We carried out an energy market study in tricity market. Small plants which have previously only been used Poland to analyse the developments and technological challenges for generating heat are now being upgraded with the help of there. We have presented potential political, economic and comcogeneration and they are achieving higher levels of efficiency as munity framework conditions for the development of innovative a result. At the same time, energy generation by photovoltaic systechnologies up until 2050 in four hypothetical scenarios. tems will become increasingly popular as investment costs come down significantly over the upcoming five years. Poland’s energy industry is currently defined by energy genera> The Energy Market Study to download tion from coal-fired power stations. Coal as a fuel will continue to play an important role there for the generation of energy, even if the proportion of this form of energy generation declines in favour of other energy sources. These include in particular increasing levels for generation of electricity by gas-fired power stations, and from wind power and photovoltaic plants. As they are expanded, Poland will also be in a position to safeguard security of supply over the long term without significantly increasing its energy imports. At the same time, the study identified opportunities for increasing diversification and modernisation of the energy supply in order to reduce the country’s greenhouse gas emissions and make its contribution to the climate protection targets of the European Union. Important issues include the ongoing dissemination of smart meters, load management and hence associated services for reduction of energy consumption. By 2020, electromobility will play an important role in Poland. GRI G4-DMA 21 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Developments in our Regions  Content Western and Southern Europe Other countries RWE is exclusively active in the area of renewable energies in France, We carry out significant activities outside Europe in the USA and Italy, Portugal and Spain. It operates wind farms and hydropower through our engagement in the Desertec Initiative in North Africa. plants in these countries. Furthermore, RWE has a stake in the ­Andasol solar thermal power plant in Spain. Overall, we have a total Within the framework of the first planned benchmark projects in installed generating output of 513 MW for wind energy and 73 MW the Desertec Initiative, RWE has launched a project for combined for hydropower in France, Italy, Portugal and Spain. electricity generation in Morocco with a capacity in each case of 50 MW for solar energy and 50 MW for wind energy. RWE additionally operates a plant for manufacturing wood pellets in the US state of Georgia. RWE also has trading locations in Mumbai, New York, Singapore and Jakarta. GRI EU1 22 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | CR Strategy and Management  Content CR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT We pursue the objective of integrating sustainability more firmly in the core business of RWE through our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy. Ten areas for action have been defined which encompass the most important challenges confronting RWE and we use them to achieve this goal. The areas for action are the means of continuously managing our activities on the basis of concrete goals and measurable key performance indicators (KPI). Our intention is to make Corporate Responsibility a fixed element in the operational controlling system of our company by 2020. Our roadmap on Corporate Responsibility presents development since 1998 and describes our long-term objective. Continuous further development In the area for action “Energy Efficiency”, we continued to focus on In 2012, we launched a group-wide process for revising Corporate efficient electricity generation at our power plants and energy effiResponsibility in order to strengthen Corporate Responsibility within ciency in other corporate activities. Conversely, we have allocated the Group. In the following year, we adjusted our strategic focuses to our packages for improving energy efficiency with customers to the match current developments by revising the conceptual platform recently renamed area for action “Market/Customer” and we report underlying our areas for action. The results of this process were valihere on our products and services for the energy world of the future. dated by a stakeholder survey. The three dimensions of environment, This complements the content of the original area for action which social engagement and corporate governance in accordance with the was focused on the issues of credibility and performance for our cusESG Model (Environment, Social, Governance) served as a framework tomers under the former designation “Customer Trust”. This realignfor the new alignment. In 2014, we consistently continued along the ment enables us to focus on the Group Strategy. This incorporates a road route of realignment relating to our areas for action and strategreater role to the offering of products and services for the energy gic focuses. transition as a division of the RWE Group. 23 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | CR Strategy and Management  Content CR Management tre and the major operating companies come together at meetings The RWE Group Centre holds overall responsibility for coordinating held by the staff of CR officers several times a year. These meetings the group-wide implementation and realisation of Corporate Responserve as forums for coordinating ideas and discussing joint activities. sibility in all divisions. At the beginning of 2014, the Corporate Responsibility Department was brought together with the areas of Making CR successes quantifiable communication and energy policy to form the Corporate Affairs We consistently pursue the roadmap of making governance and its Department in order to ensure tighter integration of differing stakeeffectiveness quantifiable and controllable. Our ten areas for action holder interests. The head of this department, reports directly to the are underpinned with targets, measures and concrete key perforChief Executive Officer. Since 2014, the RWE “Stakeholder Council” mance indicators. A review of the relevance and timeliness of the (p. 28) has been advising the Executive Board of the Group on susprogramme is carried out every year and always takes account of tainability issues. Furthermore, representatives from the Group Cendevelopments in the areas for action, the strategy of the RWE Group and the expectations of our stakeholders (p. 35). Roadmap of our Corporate Responsibility Launch Structuring Implementation Role of CR driver Best in class (1998-2000) (2001-2005) (2006-2010) (2011-2015) (2016-2020) Strategy Group Directive environmental Group CR guidelines Review of CR areas for action Continuous up-dating of the CR becomes an integral part management CR areas for action of Group strategy CR strategy Embedding of CR in all business areas Coordination and Permanent staff of Introduction of occupational Key performance indicators conCR as an integral part of goal CR as an integral part of management environmental officers safety management system cept for CR agreement for the Executive operations management Board Introduction of Environmental Introduction of group-wide Group-wide CR implementation Regular reporting on KPIs Reporting and Information SysCode of Conduct (Key Performance Indicators) tem Reporting 1st systematic environmental 1st CR Report Institutionalised stakeholder Industry leader in transparency High level of acceptance in and dialogue report dialogue society Inclusion in Dow Jones SustainConvention on the future of Corporate ability Index sustainable development Volunteering GRI G4-34 24 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | CR Strategy and Management  Content We also create long-term incentives for sustainable corporate governAt national level, we have been submitting a Declaration of Compliance by linking part of the variable compensation payable to Memance with the German Sustainability Code since 2011. This declarabers of the Executive Board with the achievement of our CR goals. tion makes our activities transparent to external stakeholders year on The assessment is carried out by the Supervisory Board of the RWE year. Group. Relevant CR aspects are channelled into the individual bal> The Sustainability Code anced scorecards of the operating companies. Transparency through dialogue Orientation to national and international standards Openness, dialogue and participation are central community expecWe base our reporting on globally acknowledged targets such as the tations for large companies. We strive to meet this challenge. In guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the UN Global cooperation with the operating companies, we track all important Compact. This enables us to comply with the growing demands developments on the issue of sustainability and we evaluate them being placed on the quality of our CR Management and our reportfor their relevance to the RWE Group. The dialogue with our stakeing. We have also developed a Data Recording Manual with the aim holders provides some essential indications. Large sections of sociof continuously improving the quality of our CR indicators. This manety continue to be critical of our company when it comes to a numual sets our binding definitions, assessment limits and processes for ber of issues. Our aim is therefore to expand dialogue and achieve a collecting data. high level of acceptance for our actions in the public domain by 2020 (p. 28). This is in harmony with the guiding principle of RWE as the empowering and credible partner for restructuring the European energy system. GRI G4-15; G4-27 25 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Compliance and Risk Management  Content COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Acting in accordance with the law and rules and procedures is an Compliance organisation integral part of our corporate culture at RWE. Any breaches mean The Centre of Expertise Legal & Compliance based at RWE Group that the company can suffer major and serious reputational damage. Business Services GmbH is responsible for directing our Compliance RWE therefore bases all its activities and business decisions on estabManagement. The Group Centre continues to have overall responsilished rules for compliance and does not tolerate any corruption or bility for governance. Compliance Officers in all the operating comother breaches of compliance regulations. Compliance requirements panies are responsible for uniform implementation of group-wide are factored in when taking all decisions on entering into business principles. An independent, external ombudsman is also available to relations with suppliers or subcontractors (p. 63). receive information about any breaches of the Code of Conduct from employees and from external third parties. Reports can be submitted The main focus of our internal compliance management is to raise in the relevant national languages and must remain anonymous if the level of awareness among our employees and our governance requested by the whistleblower. bodies in order to prevent the possibility of any breaches. A groupwide reference standard sets out a guidance framework for all our The Chief Compliance Officer submits regular reports to the Execuemployees. Our Code of Conduct defines binding conditions for comtive Board and the Audit Committee of RWE AG. Internal media pliance with national and international laws and regulations, as well within the Group inform our employees about behaviour that conas rules for fair dealings with market participants and competitors. forms with compliance guidelines and also highlight potential risks if The Code of Conduct provides the platform for reference standards compliance is breached. Members of our workforce are also able to applicable throughout the Group, for example guidelines which protake part in a wide range of training sessions through a web-based vide additional concrete details relating to regulations. The preventraining programme and at presentation events. Participation is tion of corruption is particularly important here. Compliance with the obligatory and calibrated according to the risk of corruption associguidelines is supported by organisational regulations, e.g. the douated with the relevant activity. The Executive Board too is integrated ble-checking principle, separation of functions, authorisation concept in this training concept. In 2014, we delivered training sessions to and rules for approval. some 4,200 employees at presentation events in Germany and around 1,000 employees in the other regions where RWE is operating. GRI G4-DMA; G4-14; G4-56; G4-SO4 26 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Compliance and Risk Management  Content Compliance monitoring CMS was completed in 2012. This process was continued in 2013 We are able to track all compliance-sensitive procedures using our with an audit of effectiveness and it was successfully concluded by group-wide database. The use of this compliance IT tool is mandathe start of 2014. tory. This is how we are able to guarantee maximum transparency within the company. We also offer comprehensive assistance in proCorporate security cessing the defined transaction. As an operator of a critical infrastructure, RWE is aware of its important contribution to providing a secure energy supply. Security We use a two-stage process to identify and assess compliance risks Management is therefore a central management function at RWE. which arise for the RWE Group in the area of corruption. After we The Group Security Department reports directly to the RWE Group had established the risk profiles for the Group companies reporting Executive Board. We use predictive risk management to derive measdirectly to RWE AG in 2012, we moved onto a second stage in 2013 ures which secure a commercially appropriate level of protection – for which focused on developing detailed corruption risk scenarios. In tangible and intangible company assets, as well as for personnel and 2015, we want to include more companies in the detailed analysis. sensitive business processes. This also applies to information security which is a further constituent element of security management. The Group Audit Department regularly carries out preventive compliance audits in the Group companies. This enables us to review the In order to prevent security hazards, RWE is a member of various implementation and effectiveness of our Compliance Management associations of companies and plays an active role in other security across the Group. We always follow up any information relating to associations and initiatives. These commitments include the “Secupotential breaches of compliance and we take any necessary measrity Partnership against Metal Theft” (SIPAM). RWE was one of two ures as required. The reviews carried out by the Group Audit DepartGerman energy companies taking part in the exercise “Cyber Europe ment for the year 2014 revealed no material or systematic breaches 2014” run by the European Union Agency for Network and Informaof our compliance guidelines. Any individual shortcomings in protion Security (ENISA). As a member of the association “Cyber Security cesses or in the documentation were remedied. Council German”, we also support the development of a German Cyber Security Act. We guarantee the security of our employees while The Executive Board of RWE AG commissioned audit firm KPMG to on business trips through our strategic travel management. We carry out the audit of the Compliance Management System (CMS) in prevent criminal actions with corresponding preventive measures. order to combat any corruption and to ensure independent scrutiny When investigating criminal acts, we respond appropriately and work of the compliance system. This was carried out in accordance with together with the responsible security services. If there are any suspithe IDW Audit Standard 980 drawn up by the German Institute of cions of criminal actions, the Compliance and Group Security departAuditors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer). The first stage involving the ments cooperate closely together. audit of the conceptual approach and the appropriateness of the GRI G4-DMA; G4-SO3 27 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Compliance and Risk Management  Content Operational risk management We have made comprehensive organisational preparations to overAt all levels of our value chain we operate technically complex, netcome crises and emergency situations. Crisis teams have therefore worked production plants. Injuries can be sustained and damage can been appointed at different levels and they are continuously accessioccur at our opencast mining equipment, conveyor systems, powerble. Manuals, alarm lists or tools, and the necessary technical equipplant components and grids, sometimes entailing significant risks for ment are available for crisis management. We carry our regular emerpeople and the environment. gency training courses and exercises. Emergency plans are also drawn up at the operational level to take account of different scenarios. Restarting critical business processes after major interruptions is controlled by “Business Continuity Management”. GRI G4-DMA; G4-SO2 28 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Stakeholder Dialogue  Content STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Our stakeholders include all persons and organisations with which Constructive exchange of ideas at different levels we maintain relations and engage in dialogue. We also regard as The communication with our stakeholders gives us valuable ideas stakeholders individuals and entities who seek communication with for the orientation of our corporate activities. There is frequently us or who are interested in our company. The expectations placed on common ground between their aspirations and our objectives. This RWE are often very different from region to region. means that engagement of this nature can result in different forms of cooperation over the long term (p. 30). At the same time, this In order to identify the different aspirations and take account of dialogue provides us with the opportunity to give them better them in our corporate policy, we are in continuous communication ­communication on our company decisions and explain the under­lying with our stakeholders. Our company regularly engages in communimotivation. cation based on differing formats with customers, academics, politicians, representatives of environmental organisations, neighbours of The dialogue takes place in the framework of diverse formats and at our locations and other citizens. We also seek contact with the playdifferent levels. Accordingly, we engage in discussions at local level ers who are involved in issues relating to the energy industry and the with neighbouring residents and citizens’ initiatives, for example entrepreneurial actions of RWE and their effects on the community at about construction measures and approval proceedings. Our local large. residents frequently follow our projects and activities with a great deal of interest, perhaps because they may be looking for positive Stakeholder Council established effects to give upside impact on the local economy. Alternatively, In 2014, we set up the RWE “Stakeholder Council” with the aim of they may be anxious about negative effects on their own lives and establishing an in-depth dialogue. This group-wide body advises the the surrounding environment. We meet these expectations with an Executive Board on sustainability issues and is made up of eight honest exchange of views and generate an atmosphere of lively independent experts representing perspectives from the world of openness for constructive proposals. At national level, we engage in research and civil society. The experts on the panel come from discussions with our stakeholders about wide-ranging issues, such as ­Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Poland, and sustainability in international supply relationships, a responsible this means that they bring different regional perspectives to the approach to customers, the future of the energy market and our discussion table. Following the constituent meeting held at the end contribution to the energy transition and climate protection. of 2014, the Stakeholder Council will meet twice a year in the future and discuss the current challenges for the company. GRI G4-DMA; G4-24; G4-25; G4-26; G4-27; G4-SO1 29 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Stakeholder Dialogue  Content Stakeholder dialogue by regions The Customer Council met twice during the course of 2014. The Our stakeholders and their perspectives are nuanced in tune with the members mainly engaged in debate about future issues, such as diversity of the regions where we have operations. We have a range decentralised energy supply, energy efficiency, as well as the digitiof different dialogue formats to conduct the dialogue and exchange sation of the energy industry. of ideas with the stakeholder groups at our locations. The Neighbourhood Forum (Nachbarschaftsforum) in Niederaußen, Germany which RWE set up in the Rhineland lignite mining area, continued on The targets, consequences and challenges of the energy transition a successful trajectory. This forum offers neighbours, associations continue to be the most important topics within the framework of and other stakeholders the opportunity to engage in discussion with communication with our stakeholders in Germany. A highly relevant RWE about issues related to electricity generation and power staissue is how RWE can make use of new business models and prodtions. During the year under review, the issues under discussion ucts to integrate the burgeoning proportion of renewable energies in focused on approval procedures and involvement of public relations the existing system. We are continually holding events on this subin opencast mines in the Rhineland lignite mining area. In addition, ject and comparable issues, for example the RWE Talk held several conferences and forums for dialogue were also held on specialist toptimes a year in Berlin. Managing directors and members of the Execuics such as the water industry, fine particulates, recultivation and tive Board at RWE also participated in four events in 2014 and impairment from mining activities. swapped information and ideas about the latest high-level discus> Energy Round Table sions with politicians, representatives of other companies, journalists and representatives of unions and various special-interest groups. United Kingdom The most important topics include the break-up of the energy sector In 2014, we also engaged in dialogue with various stakeholders, and the associated changes entailed for companies, the design of including representatives of environmental associations and conthe electricity market in the future, as well as innovations in electricsumer protection organisations. The focus of these discussions ity generation and storage, and products for retail customers. related to issues from the area for action Market/Customer, including the increase in customer satisfaction, combating fuel poverty and The RWE Energy Round Table (Energiestammtisch) is another importhe inclusion of customers in brand management. Other key issues tant format operating at national level. This format gives interested were climate protection, the future role for the use of coal in the citizens the opportunity to find out about the latest topics in the United Kingdom and the development of offshore wind technology. energy industry and integrate their proposals or ideas into specific projects within the framework of the energy transition. In 2014, one Netherlands Energy Round Table took place in Essen. In 2014, the Netherlands saw communication with our stakeholders focusing on issues relating to the supply chain for coal and biomass. There was an exchange of views including representatives from govGRI G4-DMA; G4-26 30 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Stakeholder Dialogue  Content ernment and civil society. The conversations on the coal supply chain In Poland, we are engaging in intensive discussion about the future were primarily about local mining conditions. They led to the volunof the energy supply. This has primarily been carried out in the tary self-commitment by the participating companies to increase framework of the economic forum in Krynica and in the Polish Parliatransparency for the origin of the coal (p. 66). As a result of the ment. RWE was invited there to discuss the RWE Energy Market Study debate on the procurement of biomass, new national sustainability with the Members of Parliament. When intelligent electricity meters criteria were introduced which focused on climate protection as a were being installed, we exchanged views and information with repparticularly important aspect. resentatives of consumer associations. > RWE Energy Market Study Stakeholder dialogues at local level were shaped by questions relating to acceptance of new wind turbines for generating energy and Cooperation as a result of stakeholder dialogue discussions centred on progress with the new RWE hard-coal power We also work closely together with the affected stakeholders in order station in Eemshaven and the associated nature conservation proto develop appropriate standards and assessment criteria, for examjects. ple in the context of the Bettercoal Initiative and the Sustainable ­Biomass Partnership (p. 65 f.). Central and Eastern Europe We exchanged views with a variety of stakeholders in Hungary, At the end of 2013, we entered into a partnership with the Internaincluding customers, union representatives, ministries and other tional Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) aimed at protecting political decision-makers, employees and community representatives. biological diversity. The objective of the cooperation is to join As a result of our cooperation with local universities, we are engaged together and exert our influence more intensively on environmental in a constructive dialogue with students on topics relating to the systems and manage them better. We have joined forces to launch a energy industry and we are highlighting career perspectives for them common project for this in which we plan to investigate the effects in the sector. In 2014, we also continued the event series “Meet the of recultivation carried out at lignite opencast sites in the Rhineland Customer” by holding four events. At these meetings, we discuss lignite mining area. We are also developing a group-wide biodiversity current issues in the energy market with customers. In the Czech guideline which will define our principles and objectives on this issue Republic, the main focus was on the security of gas supply, economic (p. 48). conditions in the energy industry and the challenges of more environmentally friendly mobility. GRI G4-DMA; G4-15; G4-26 31 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Materiality Analysis  Content MATERIALITY ANALYSIS In 2014, we reconciled our Materiality Analysis for the first time with The assessment forms the second pillar for the evaluation of sustainthe requirements defined by the current reporting standard of the ability issues. It is carried out on the basis of a comprehensive survey Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), GRI G4. Dialogue with our stakewithin the RWE Group. The departmental managers and board memholders forms an important foundation for the annual update of our bers from the various Group companies are included in the assessMateriality Analysis. This dialogue allowed us to record the opinions ment alongside experts on a range of issues. We then select the GRI and expectations of the community in relation RWE (p. 28). aspects relevant for RWE and allocate them to our CR areas for action Initially, we use an established process to evaluate the relative impor(p. 4 ff.). tance of the areas for action from the perspective of our stakeholders and reconcile these results with our assessment of the Presentation of the key issues opportunities available to the RWE Group for exerting an influence. When the report changed over to GRI G4, we accordingly also adjusted the representation of our Materiality Analysis. As in earlier We obtained the internal assessments in a group-wide consultation reports, the vertical axis measures the expectations of stakeholders. process in which the board members of the Group companies responFor the first time, the horizontal axis plots the impact of the RWE sible for CR were included for purposes of validation. The findings Group on the community. This mapping of the areas for action indiderived from this dialogue enable us to balance the relevance of suscates that our most relevant areas for action are characterised by the tainability issues and review the alignment of our CR Strategy. We high expectations of our stakeholders in combination with the high evaluate the expectations of stakeholders on the basis of conversalevel of opportunities available to RWE to exert influence. tion records or public statements, as well as in communication with the specialist departments and the RWE companies in different counThe matrix provided below sets out the assessed importance of our tries. The stakeholder perspectives also provide us with impressions areas for action which were each evaluated with the categories gained about the impact of our company’s activities on the commu“moderate”, “high” and “very high” on a relative scale. They reflect nity. At the same time, we also include additional factors such as the Group perspective, although the assessments of the issues may exposure of the company due to the sector, the profile and the stravary in the regions and the individual divisions of the Group. We tegic alignment. attribute above-average importance for the sustainable alignment of GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; G4-25; G4-26 32 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Materiality Analysis  Content the RWE Group to all the issues plotted in the Materiality Matrix. The Developments in the CR areas for action content of this report was defined on the basis of the results of the Our ten CR areas for action are grouped thematically within the three Materiality Analysis. The most important issues are Climate Protecissues of environment, social engagement and corporate governtion, Market/Customer, and Supply Chain. We provide a more extenance. We are therefore focusing on the dimensions of the established sive presentation of these areas for action in this report (p. 38, 53 ESG Model (Environment, Social, Governance). The latest political, and 63). Materiality Analysis 2014 very high CP MC I SC BE high SS Expectations of Stakeholders CE EM EE OH moderate high very high Impact of RWE CP Climate Protection EE Energy Efficiency BE Biodiversity/Environmental Protection CE Community Engagement MC Market/Customer EM Employees SC Supply Chain OH Occupational Safety/Healthcare Management SS Security of Supply I Innovation GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 33 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Materiality Analysis  Content economic and community developments are continuously presenting the same time avoiding negative impacts on ecosystems. Sustainable new challenges and focuses within the individual areas. We analyse solutions in this area provide fundamental conditions for successful these and adapt our areas for action as appropriate. restructuring of the European energy system. That’s why we already attributed major importance to the issue last year even though its Environment dimension relevance had slightly declined as far as our stakeholders were conThe Environment dimension comprises the areas for action Climate cerned. Change, Energy Efficiency and Biodiversity/Environmental Protection. In 2014, restructuring of the energy system was discussed intenSocial dimension sively throughout Europe and particularly in Germany. This also The affordable supply of energy continues to be an important issue exerts an impact on the individual relevance of the associated areas in public debate. This is mainly about the additional burdens brought for action of RWE. Climate Protection continues to remain the most about by public subsidies for renewable energies. From a social perimportant issue and governments throughout Europe are placing this spective, these should be distributed in a maximally fair and equitaat the top of the political agenda. As Europe’s biggest single emitter ble way. It is equally important that we offer packages to our customof CO2, RWE is confronted by major challenges in this area to make ers which are designed to save energy and provide them with advice energy generation more climate friendly (p. 38). The topic of energy about optimum use of their facilities in the areas of renewable enerefficiency impacts on energy-saving packages in our own company gies and storage technologies. Our stakeholders attribute the greatand in the businesses of our customers (p. 43). We have allocated est importance to the area for action Market/Customer – alongside the latter to the area for action Market/Customer, since measures for Climate Protection and Supply Chain – for the sustainable developenergy savings at the end user are closely linked with new business ment of RWE, particularly since they perceive a success factor here models developing in the context of the energy transition. The high that will help the energy transition to succeed. Given that we have level of importance of the new lines of business also flows into the 23 million customers, we believe that we have major opportunities evaluation of the corresponding area for action. for impact in this area. We therefore want to make use of the access to our customers, in order to develop and disseminate smart prodRWE and our stakeholders continue to perceive relevant tasks in the ucts for saving energy and for integration of renewable energies area for action Biodiversity/Environmental Protection. The promotion (p. 53). of biodiversity is of central importance particularly in the management of opencast mining facilities and we are continually making The increasing cost pressure associated with the energy transition efforts to bring about improvements (p. 46). This issue also presents continues to exert an impact on our human resource policy and preus with challenges relating to the expansion of renewable energies, sents us with major challenges in the area for action Employees for example through offshore wind farms. We want to set up and (p. 59). We are compelled to adapt our human resource structure to operate these plants safely and under profitable conditions, while at the difficult framework conditions of the energy industry as it underGRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 34 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Materiality Analysis  Content goes change. This means that our employees and our management In 2014, the area for action Security of Supply continued to be a top are confronted with major challenges. However, the opportunities for priority for our stakeholders in Germany. The public discussion surexerting influence in this area are only available within the company. rounding this issue relates on the one hand to the robustness of electricity grids. The second issue involves adequate availability of Community engagement continues to form the platform for acceptpower plant output to cover the demand at all times. As an energy ance of the company by society as a whole. Nevertheless, the expecsupplier, we also have a great deal of influence on both factors tations of our stakeholders have diminished marginally in relation to (p. 72). this area for action. We regard our own influence and our strategic opportunities as limited in this sphere (p. 49). A sustainable structure for the supply chain continues to be important. Our stakeholders attribute major responsibility to us in this area Governance dimension and particularly in the supply chain for hard coal. We are working The Governance dimension comprises the areas for action Occupaintensively together with other European suppliers within the Bettertional Safety/Healthcare Management, Security of Supply, Supply coal sector initiative in order to achieve an impact in this area (p. 63). Chain and Innovation. We continue to regard innovation as a key element and catalyst in Our stakeholders set the bar very high and we indeed meet their order to provide the energy industry with a future-centric structure, aspirations on an international sector comparison in the area for meet customer wishes and expectations and drive forward the action Occupational Safety/Healthcare Management. Here we have expansion of renewable energy sources (p. 76). The expectations of significant opportunities for exerting influence with our own employour stakeholders in regard to the power of innovation increased ees and suppliers. However the impacts on workplace safety in the slightly by comparison with the previous year. community at large are limited (p. 68). GRI G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21 35 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives  Content OVERVIEW OF OUR TEN AREAS FOR ACTION AND OUR CR OBJECTIVES We have converted our CR Strategy into ten concrete areas for action – in an intensive dialogue with our stakeholders. We have defined concrete, quantifiable targets in each area for action and made them a constituent element in the compensation package for our Executive Board. 36 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives  Content Area for Target KPI Target value Due Measures Status at the end Target action of 2014 attainment Climate We are committed to signifiCO2 emissions in metric 0.62 mt CO2/MWh 2020 Further expansion of renewable 0.745 mt CO2/MWh Protection cantly reducing the CO2 tons (mt) per megawatt energies intensity of our generation hour of electricity generReplacement of old emissionportfolio. ated (mt CO2/MWh) intensive power plants by lowemission and highly efficient power plants Energy We are committed to increasIncrease in energy RWE power 2017 Power plant new-build programme Average efficiency Efficiency ing own energy efficiency. efficiency in % plants1: 40.1 % of energy use 40.4 % Biodiversity/ We are committed to operatCompliance with licens100 % compliance 2015 Monitoring and optimising manNo significant Environment ing our plants safely and in ing requirements in % agement of our plants breaches of environProtection compliance with licensing mental protection regulations at all times. laws and licensing We are committed to 100 % regulations implementation of our environmental management sysGroup-wide environmen100 % coverage 2015 Establishment of environmental 99.5 % environmentem to ensure that our plants tal management covermanagement systems in new comtal management and grids are operated in age in % panies and regular implementacoverage 100 % compliance with legal tion of internal audits requirements at all times. Community We are committed to Reputation Index Best reputation in 2015 Continuation of our established Second place for engagement strengthening our regional our peer group of engagement programmes (RWE reputation assessreputation by making efficient companies Companius, RWE Foundation, ment in our peer use of resources. education initiative – 3malE – group of energy supEducation with Energy) pliers Market/ We are committed to mainCustomer Loyalty Index Customer Loyalty 2017 Maintenance of good service Customer Loyalty Customer taining satisfied and hence Index of min. 75 quality Index of 76 loyal customers over the long Expansion of energy-based term. services GRI G4-DMA 37 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives  Content Area for Target KPI Target value Due Measures Status at the end Target action of 2014 attainment Employees We are committed to ongoing Demography Index Demography 2015/ Programmes for supporting HR Demography Index motivation of our managers Index of min. 84 2017 reorganisation of 82.8 and employees and to achieving a necessary reduction in the number of jobs through a Motivation Index Motivation Index Programmes for supporting culMotivation Index of responsible and ethical of 72.2 tural change 70.7 approach. Supply Chain We are committed to avoiding Procurement processes Minimum 98 % of 2015 Incorporation of CR criteria in purSupplier managereputational risks by making provide coverage in all the purchasing chasing processes ment coverage the requirements of our Code purchase areas in % volume Continuation of stakeholder dia99.6 % of Conduct a constituent elelogue on procurement of coal and ment of our contractual relabiomass tionships. Continuation of involvement in the sector initiatives Bettercoal and Sustainable Biomass Partnership Occupational We are committed to ensuring Number of accidents LTIF of max. 1.85 2017 Ongoing implementation of LTIF (own staff and Safety/ that all our own and our subleading to the loss of at including subcon“Sicher voRWEg” (the Energy to subcontractors): 2.3 Healthcare contractors’ employees return least one person day per tractors Lead Safely) with inclusion of subManagement home just as healthy at the million working hours contractors’ employees in accident end of the day as they were (LTIF2 = X/1,000,000 h) statistics when they arrived for work. Security of We are committed to supplyAverage grid outage SAIDI < 30 min./ 2015 Around € 3.3 billion of capital SAIDI (2013): 15.7 Supply ing our customers with the durations in min. per customer (only expenditure planned for repair and min./customer (only electricity they need at all year and customer (SysGermany) expansion of our electricity and for Germany) times. tem Average Interrupgas grids in the period 2015 to tion Duration Index, 2017 SAIDI) Innovation We are committed to ensuring Degree of coverage and Minimum of 98 % 2015 Sample projects: Digitisation of Processing and comthe availability of the best communication of strathe energy industry, intelligent munication of stratesolutions for our purposes in tegically relevant R&D networks, smart meters, Smartgically relevant R&D our core processes through issues in % Home, more flexible power plants issues; degree of innovations. coverage 96.0 % 1 Average efficiency of energy use 2 Lost Time Incident Frequency (number of accidents with at least one day of absence for every million hours worked) GRI G4-DMA 38 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Climate Protection  Content CLIMATE PROTECTION An important target of European energy policy and the individual national energy policies is to reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions. Our aim is to tackle this issue by further expanding renewable energies and to contribute to replacing older power plants generating high levels of emissions with new and highly efficient plants. The deployment of conventional power plants in this scenario at the community level will continue to be absolutely essential in order to guarantee the security of supply and to keep energy costs affordable for consumers. 20 % Reduction in the More Mehrthan als € At the Nordsee Ost wind farm, the foundation 6.3 CO22reduction CO by Reduzierung Around Rund 0.745 0,76 specific CO2 emissions Reduzierung to der 8.7 um 300 119 5,6 Anda dolendaecab idunt asperchitati consequi of the transformer station is connected to the quam consequ undaesed quiducit latem volo mt CO 2 / MWh t/MWh CO2emissions -Emissionen 0.62 spezifischen CO2-Emissionen 16 million mt MW an MW of Windkraft wind powerin billion of capital Mrd. € Investitionen in expenditure sechs Jahrenon in platform for the substation. It links the wind offic tetus sam fugit, ullite ped eniat enihiti orefarm with the mainland along a high-voltage seque dolore si be inMio. 2014t came into Betrieb operation genommen underwater cable. mt CO2/bisMWh 2020by 2020 erneuerbareenergies renewable Energien in 2014 over seven years GRI G4-DMA; G4-EN27 39 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Climate Protection  Content Governments and society as a whole expect major energy utilities least 27 % and the energy efficiency ought to go up by 27 %. As a like RWE to make their contribution to climate protection and restrucmajor energy utility and Europe’s biggest single emitter of CO2, RWE turing the European energy economy. We have therefore modernised is in a position to make a significant contribution and support these large parts of our power plant portfolio. This new-build programme targets. for power plants is now close to completion. At the same time, we are also continuing to expand renewable energies. Climate protection also plays an important role in the debate going on in the public domain. Our stakeholders, including environmental Challenge organisations, customers and government politicians, expect us to According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), develop ambitious targets and a consistent approach directed the advancing progress of climate change will exert a tangible towards reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, impact on people and the environment. It will also entail high macrowe are expected to guarantee security of supply. economic costs throughout the world. The European Union therefore intends to significantly reduce its emission of greenhouse gases. In Motivation and targets order to achieve climate targets for 2030, the EU wants to reduce the Climate protection is a top priority for us. We have therefore defined emission of CO2 by 40 % compared with the baseline year of 1990, ambitious targets to inform our action. By 2020, we want to reduce the proportion of renewable energies needs to be increased to at our specific CO2 emissions from the current level of 0.745 metric tons (mt) for each megawatt hour (MWh) generated to 0.62 mt/MWh. By reducing the CO2 intensity of our power plant portfolio, we can also Specific and absolute CO2 emissions bring down the financial risks arising from high CO2 prices. During the year under review, we succeeded in reducing our specific CO2 Unit 2010 2011 2012 20131 2014 emissions by around 1 % to 0.745 mt/MWh. In absolute terms, we Specific CO2 emissions 2 mt/MWh 0.732 0.787 0.792 0.751 0.745 reduced our CO2 emissions by around 5 % from 163.9 to 155.2 milScope 1 emissions3 million mt 167.1 163.8 181.7 165.8 156.6 lion mt. Scope 2 emissions 4 million mt 3.1 2.4 1.9 1.5 1.4 Scope 3 emissions5 million mt 135.7 121.0 105.2 105.0 90.8 Monitoring and performance measurement 1 Adjustments of values for 2013 on account of first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report 2014, p. 41) We use the CO2 emissions for each megawatt hour of electricity gen2 Calculated on the basis of electricity generated, without emissions from biogenic fuels erated as the KPI and indicator for measuring our target attainment. 3 Scope 1 emissions: direct CO2 emissions from in-house sources (gas transport, electricity generation) 4 Scope 2 emissions: indirect CO2 emissions from transmission and dis-tribution of electricity procured from third parties Advances and successes in target attainment form some of the indioutside the Group cators used to assess the long-term variable compensation for the 5 Scope 3 emissions: indirect CO2 emissions which do not come under Scope 1 and Scope 2. They arise from the generation of electricity procured from third parties outside the Group, the transmission and distribution in electricity grids of third parties, Executive Board of RWE AG. the production and transmission of used fuels, and the consumption of gas that we have sold to customers GRI G4-DMA; G4-EC2; G4-EN15; G4-EN16; G4-EN17; G4-EN18; G4-EN19; G4-EN27 40 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Climate Protection  Content The financial risks arising within the framework of emission trading We are also constructing a hard-coal power station with a comparaposed by our CO2 emissions are reflected in our risk management. ble level of efficiency at the Eemshaven site in the Netherlands. The We reduce these risks by concluding appropriate hedging transacplant will have a capacity of 1,554 MW and will also be partly fuelled tions. To this end, at the same time as we sell a specific amount of with biomass, if the technical and economic conditions permit this. electricity in the futures market we procure the necessary fuel and The beginning of commercial operation is planned for May 2015. buy the emission certificates required. Capital expenditure on renewable energies Renewal of our power plants The expansion of electricity generation from renewable energies will We will soon complete our projects currently under construction for continue to remain a cornerstone of our strategy in future. However, modernising our power plant portfolio. This will mean that since limited financial resources mean that we have scaled back the pace 2006 we have replaced around 25 % of our capacities with advanced, of growth. Currently we have capacities amounting to 3,677 MW in highly efficient plants. We have spent a total of more than € 12 biloperation and another 4,100 MW of renewable energies are under lion in the biggest programme of capital expenditure throughout the construction or at the planning stage. Between 2015 and 2017, RWE history of RWE. Apart from building new power stations, we have will invest around € 1 billion in the expansion of renewable energies. also modernised existing power plants. This has enabled us to In future, we will have to implement the major projects increasingly improve efficiency in electricity generation, reduce the consumption with partners and shift our focus to the development, operation and of resources for each unit of energy generated and therefore also marketing of onshore and offshore wind farms. We are disposing of bring down the emission of greenhouse gases. shares in wind-power projects (e.g. Nordsee One, Nordsee 2 and 3) and wind farms (e.g. Gwynt y Môr). This will enable us to invest in When we brought the lignite twin-unit optimised power units BoA major projects as well during times of scarce resources. 2&3 at the Neurath site on stream, we shut down 16 older and less efficient units with an output of 150 megawatts (MW) each by the In Germany, RWE started up a number of wind farms including the end of 2012. By comparison with comparable old power plants, the “Düshorn Heath” wind farm in Walsrode, Lower Saxony during 2014. BoA 2&3 units allow us to cut down CO2 emissions by 6 million mt This wind farm has an installed output of 26 MW and can supply each year. One of the most advanced hard-coal power stations in the around 16,000 households with electricity and thereby avoid the world with a total power output of 1,528 MW will also make a contriemission of some 40,000 mt of CO2 each year. The wind farm is part bution to reducing CO2 emissions. We are cooperating with localof the Green GECCO Initiative which involves RWE working together authority partners to construct this plant at the Hamm site. In August with 29 municipal utilities to drive forward the expansion of renewa2014, we brought unit E of the power plant on stream. ble energies. Our offshore wind farm “Nordsee Ost” is under construction. It is scheduled to come on stream at the latest from midGRI G4-EC2; EU10 41 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Climate Protection  Content 2015 and with an output of 295 MW should supply 300,000 houseWe are also expanding our capacities for renewable energies in the holds with electricity and consequently avoid the emission of Netherlands. In 2014, a start was made on construction of the “Zuid750,000 mt of CO2 each year. wester” wind farm with a planned total output of 90 MW. The startup of the onshore wind farm is planned for 2017. As early as July In September 2014, RWE started up operation of the “Goole Fields 2013, the expansion of “Thornton Bank” from an initial 30 MW was 1” onshore wind farm in the United Kingdom. This wind farm has completed. An output of 325 MW makes this the biggest offshore 16 turbines, a total generating capacity of 32.8 MW and covers the wind farm in the Belgian section of the North Sea. RWE is the biggest electricity requirement of around 18,200 households. We are the bigprivate investor in the wind farm with a shareholding of 26.7 %. gest private investor involved in construction of the Gwynt y Môr wind farm located off the Welsh coast. This facility will become the The biomass-fired heating station located in Markinch, Scotland, is second biggest offshore wind farm in the world with a capacity of also a new addition to our generating portfolio. It has a rated output 576 MW and is scheduled to come fully on stream at the latest by of 46 MW of electricity and started up production in March 2014. mid-2015. Important new conventional power plants since 2012 Installed capacKey capital Proportion of Efficiency in % Start of commercial ity in MW expenditure in € billion RWE in % operation D Neurath Lignite 2,100 2.6 100 >43 2012 D Hamm Hard coal 1,528 2.4 77 46 Unit E (764 MW) 2014 GB Pembroke Gas 2,181 1.2 100 >58 2012 NL Eemshaven Hard coal 1,554 >2 100 46 2015 and biomass NL Moerdijk 2 Gas 426 0.4 100 >58 2012 NL Claus C Gas 1,304 1.1 100 >58 2012 TR Denizli Gas 787 0.5 70 57 2013 GRI EU10 42 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Climate Protection  Content Hydropower is also an important component of the portfolio at RWE. been in existence for more than 100 years. Another run-of-river In 2014, we brought on stream the “Maldie” pumped-storage power power plant with an output of 3 MW on the Abhainn Chia-aig River in plant in Scotland. It has an output of 4 MW and supplies around the Scottish highlands is currently under construction. 3,000 households with green electricity. The plant was partly constructed underground so that it blends in naturally with the environIn Hungary, we have constructed a photovoltaic plant with an output ment. In 2014, we successfully completed a partial modernisation of of 15 MW above the slag deposit at the Mátra power station. This our pumped-storage power plant at Dogarrog in Wales, which has plant is the first major demonstration plant for photovoltaic technology to be built in Hungary. It therefore represents a milestone for the expansion of renewable energies in this country. Conflict of objectives in climate protection In the course of our Power Plant New-build Programme, we have invested in advanced and efficient coal-fired power stations as well as making a major capex commitment to gasfired power stations – we are now confronted with a dilemma. Due to the low price of electricity, it is currently virtually impossible to operate gas-fired power stations with any commercial viability. Some plants have already been shut down after very few operating hours and others are under threat of closure. On the other hand, our stakeholders support the availability of gas-fired power stations because they are regarded as flexible and they are able to mitigate the fluctuating supply of electricity from renewable energies. Gas-fired power stations also have low specific CO2 emissions and they are therefore classified as an important technology for empowering the energy transition. 43 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Energy Efficiency  Content ENERGY EFFICIENCY A higher level of energy efficiency is essential for achieving the European climate protection targets. Our measures are enabling us to reduce the CO2 emissions of our plants and improve the energy footprint of our facilities. In order to achieve this goal, we are also expanding our energy management system and offering our customers solutions for efficient energy use. 40.4 % 30 % 29 % efficiency of energy saving with the new ISO 50001 certification for British improvement in energy 14 % quam consequ undaesed quiducit RWE employees Anda dolendaecab idunt asperchitati consequi use electric volo latemvehicles can for lignite-fired power and German power fuel saving with new business offic tetus sam fugit, ullite ped eniat enihiti trips inorethe use at our power efficiency with station compared with plants vehicles seque dolore si be Ruhr region. plants in 2014 upgraded buildings old plants GRI G4-DMA; G4-EN27 44 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Energy Efficiency  Content Challenge reduce fuel costs and cut our CO2 emissions for each unit of energy The European climate-protection targets can only be achieved with a generated, enabling us to bring down expenditure on CO2 certifihigher level of energy efficiency. Electricity and heat producers are cates. We have defined our goal as increasing the average energy able to make particular contributions to this endeavour. We are use of our power plant portfolio to at least 40.1 % by 2017. reducing our CO2 emissions per unit of electricity or heat generated by using more efficient power plants while at the same time bringing At the same time, we are making efforts to reduce the amount of down our consumption of resources. energy expended on our vehicle fleet, in our real estate portfolio and for other areas of the company, such as opencast lignite mines and Motivation and targets other production plants. The potential opportunities for savings We want to increase energy efficiency for our own power plants and available to our customers are also an important issue for us. So that our company activities. We take account of business and environthey can make the most of these options, we are offering consumers mental interests when we make efficiency improvements at our comprehensive energy service packages and consultation for power plants. High levels of efficiency for energy use enable us to improvement of their energy efficiency (p. 53). Monitoring and performance measurement Efficiency of energy use for our power plants by country and energy source The average energy use of our power plants is the key performance in % indicator for calculating our energy efficiency. It shows how much primary energy we use per kilowatt hour (kWh) of electricity or amount 100 of heat. 80 Advances in energy efficiency 73 We have mainly achieved a higher level of efficiency in our power 60 62 56 55 plant portfolio by replacing old power plants with new ones which 50 44 are in compliance with the most advanced technology available. This 40 37 38 37 means, for example, that the efficiency of new lignite-fired power stations is 30 % more than the older power plants. By the end of 20 2012, we had taken out of the grid 16 lignite-fired power-plant units 9 with an output of 150 MW with lower efficiency. Over recent years, 0 we have also modernised our six 600 MW units. Lignite Hard cole Gas Gas Oil cogeneration Germany United Kingdom Netherlands GRI G4-DMA; EU11; G4-EN27 45 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Energy Efficiency  Content In 2014, the first unit of a new hard-coal twin unit (total output: uted to this. During the year under review, we also replaced 607 1,528 MW) came on stream at the Westphalia power station with a older vehicles in our fleet with 546 new vehicles. On average, the generating output of 764 MW. At the same site, we also shut down new vehicles will generate 14 % fewer CO2 emissions per kilometre. less efficient power plants. In 2014, we succeeded in achieving an Furthermore, we have included electric cars in our fleet and these efficiency of energy use of 40.4 % (2013: 40.5 %) vehicles are available to all employees in Essen, for example to make the journey to Dortmund. If the savings made in our real estate portfolio and vehicle fleet are set against the total footprint of our Group, they only make up a Certified energy management system small proportion. Nevertheless, these efforts highlight the credibility RWE has established an Energy Management System in conformity of our action and also contribute to raising the awareness of our with the ISO 50001 standard. This is intended to further enhance the employees for environmental issues. efficiency of our German production plants. The system was initially set up in 2013 and certified in the sectors lignite-fired power staA continuous process of modernisation enabled us to increase tions, opencast mines and hard coal/gas. In 2014, we also expanded energy efficiency in our real estate portfolio during the course of the external certification process for the sectors nuclear energy, 2014 – by a total of 29 % for the refurbished buildings. Measures hydropower and refinement. This means that our large German and such as upgrading of roofs and modernising heating systems contribBritish power plants are certified in conformity with ISO 50001. GRI G4-EN27; EU11 46 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Biodiversity/Environmental Protection  Content BIODIVERSITY/ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Parts of our value chain are associated with significant impacts on the environment. RWE tries to avoid or reduce this effect as much as possible and has effective environmental management systems in place, reduces non-­ recyclable waste and is committed to the protection and reinstatement of ecosystems in order to reduce these impacts. Expenditure on environmental 81 % 99.5 % RWE is committed to protecting fish in 0 protection amounting to € of all run-of-river coverage by an Cooperation with environmental the environment around its run-of-river power plants. Eels are particularly at risk major environmental power stations protection organisation 2.4 environmental in Europe and preserving eel stocks is a incidents equipped with fish IUCN management system top priority here. ladders billion GRI G4-DMA; G4-14; G4-EN12; G4-SO2 47 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Biodiversity/Environmental Protection  Content Challenge licensing regulations for the installation and operation of our plants We mainly use natural resources as fuels for the generation of elecand facilities. We regularly check compliance of such systems. The tricity and heat. The operation of opencast mines, power plants and percentage coverage by our environmental management system is a distribution grids partly results in inevitable impacts on natural ecofurther key performance indicator. systems. Furthermore, pollutants are also released by electricity and heat production at our power plants which can lead to negative Group-wide environmental management system impacts on humans and the natural environment. All RWE companies have an obligation under our Group guidelines to set up a dedicated environmental management system in conformity Motivation and targets with the ISO 14001 international standard. Compliance with this We aim to avoid or at least minimise our impacts on ecosystems. standard is ensured by annual audits. In 2014, the focuses of investiWhere this is not possible we deploy appropriate nature conservation gation were on checks to establish the operational organisation of measures to mitigate any unavoidable or irreversible negative conseresponsibilities relating to environmental protection in accordance quences. This means that we create ecosystems with at least the with statutory regulations. During the course of 2014, group-wide same functional capability as before the intervention. expenditure on environmental protection amounted to € 2.4 billion. We have to ensure that we retain our operating licences if we are to During the year under review, there were no major incidents at the secure the future of our business. We have defined our aspiration as plants of the RWE Group that resulted in significant impacts relevant a commitment to absolute compliance with all licensing regulations to the environment. Compliance with all licensing regulations was in the construction and operation of our plants and facilities, and consistently ensured. In 2014, 14 notifiable events at notification group-wide coverage of RWE’s activities by our environmental manlevel 0 were registered for our nuclear power stations. There were agement system. Furthermore, we are also committed to playing a 16 notifiable events in 2013. Our fossil-fired power stations were proactive role in eliminating or reducing environmental impacts. At operated in 2014 without any major disturbances. the same time, we are continuously in dialogue with our stakeholders, in order to obtain acceptance for our actions (p. 28). Pollutant emissions and waste The modernisation of our power plant portfolio and technical separaMonitoring and performance measurement tion processes help us to reduce the emission of pollutants released We analyse and evaluate environmental issues continuously in order during the production of electricity and heat at our power plants. to assess their relevance for the RWE Group and we engage with the This approach has enabled us to reduce the specific emissions of the implementation of measures for achieving this objective that extend airborne pollutants NOX and SO2 by more than 10 % to 0.60 g/kWh beyond the statutory requirements for the protection and reinstateand 0.33 g/kWh respectively. ment of healthy, fully functional ecosystems. A key performance indicator in the area of environmental protection is compliance with the GRI G4-DMA; G4-EN12; G4-EN27 48 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Biodiversity/Environmental Protection  Content Our waste management is based on the principle of “avoid, recovery, If natural habitats are destroyed by our activities, we protect the disposal”. We are therefore continually reducing the amount of waste diversity of species by strategic measures and support the reinstatewhich cannot be recycled for further downstream application. All ment of substitute habitats or the repopulation of existing habitats. residual waste is disposed of in compliance with statutory regulaExamples of these measures include fish ladders at run-of-river power tions. We dispose of radioactive waste under the supervision of the stations, the use of technical measures to protect marine species at responsible government authorities. offshore wind farms and measures to protect birds at overhead transmission lines. In 2014, RWE for example, worked together with state Protecting ecosystems and maintaining biodiversity of North Rhine-Westphalia to establish a pilot facility for fish conserWhen we supply our thermal power plants with cooling water, we vation at the Unkelmühle hydropower plant. The project allows ensure that our use of water exerts minimum impact on natural migrating fish to get round the turbines of the power plant when resources. This includes the protection of aquatic habitats and other migrating upstream and returning downstream without being ecosystems against adverse effects. We prevent environmental injured. Ecological and technical monitoring was carried out over a impacts by recycling water, more intensive use of pumped water period of five years and it investigated the effectiveness of the measfrom opencast mines and using collected rainwater, as well as recovures and their compatibility with economic generation of renewable ering and re-using process water from operations. Internal wastewaenergy. ter treatment and continuous monitoring of the process ensures that potential contamination is eliminated. We avoid negative impacts on In 2013, we launched a joint venture with the International Union for human health and on nature by providing verifiable compliance with Conservation of Nature (IUCN). In 2014 independent experts carried the statutory threshold values. out a pilot project to investigate the impact of our measures for restoration of opencast mining areas on biodiversity in the Rhineland lignite area and to identify potential improvements. In 2015, we are Development of specific pollutant emissions also developing a Biodiversity Guideline for the Group. This guideline establishes how RWE intends to protect and promote biodiversity Unit 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 stewardship as the company carries out its business activities. Specific NOX emissions g/kWh 0.58 0.60 0.69 0.68 0.60 Specific SO2 emissions g/kWh 0.29 0.31 0.40 0.37 0.33 Specific particulate emissions g/kWh 0.019 0.021 0.025 0.022 0.020 GRI G4-DMA; G4-EN12; G4-EN21; EU13; G4-EN27 49 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Community Engagement  Content COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Our role is to be the credible partner at our locations and within society. We are therefore committed to taking action in many different ways for the benefit of the community. This ranges from providing support for vulnerable households in fuel poverty, through our in-house education initiatives on the topics of energy and technology, to promotion of volunteering engagement by our employees. The RWE Foundation The artists’ collective “Inges Idee” built an Teaching about energy for Energy and the Donations amounting Second highest reputation among peer Community promotes in 183 schools and 410 classes with 24 % to € electricity pylon for the EMSCHER ART 2013 exhibition with support from the companies in the sector in 2014 projects with funds of around € 9,000 of employees volunteer with RWE Companius 5.4 RWE Foundation. This beacon entitled “Sorcerer’s Apprentice” is 35 metres high million handed over 1mio. school children and appears to be dancing. GRI G4-DMA; G4-EC7; G4-EC8; G4-SO1 50 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Community Engagement  Content Challenge Motivation and targets We carry out key functions for energy supply and the employment The challenges of the energy transition can only be solved at the market with our products and services, our investments and also as level of society as a whole. We want to be a credible partner and an employer. Our mission is to ensure a secure supply of electricity enhance trust in our company within our regional and local environand gas at all times. Part of that mission is also to provide jobs. The ment, as well as within society overall. That’s why we promote social activities we pursue are dependent on trust and acceptance at interdevelopments through initiatives in social, environmental and culnational, national, regional and local level, particularly in the districts tural spheres, with volunteering engagement by RWE employees and surrounding our sites. RWE aims to create trust and seeks dialogue through financial support. We want to continue improving our appeal with groups which are impacted by the activities of our company or and create a profile that is distinct from our competitors. groups whose activities influence the business activities of the company. We want to know about their positions and respond to their Monitoring and performance measurement concerns in an appropriate way. We want to use the resources available effectively and in conformity with our compliance objectives. Our group-wide valid guideline entitled “Donations and Sponsorship” defines the rules for resource allocation. Our “compliance IT tool” is used to record all donations and Donations and sponsorship sponsorship measures in compliance with this guideline and to track in € million all processes. 15 A standardised annual survey is used to measure the results of our 13.3 engagement in order to determine the Reputation Index. We apply 12 the results to check the effectiveness of our measures and to assess our performance by comparison with our competitors. In 2014, we 9 were ranked in second place among our peer companies. Our objec8.0 tive is to be in pole position. 6 5.9 5.4 4.5 4.0 Combatting fuel poverty 3 We help to ameliorate fuel poverty in the countries where we are operating – particularly where the government and civil society do 0 not provide enough support. Fuel poverty is defined as households Donations Sponsorship which have to spend more than 10 % of their net income on energy needs. There are various differences here between needs and offer2012 2013 2014 ings in the individual countries. In the United Kingdom, we support GRI G4-DMA; G4-EC1; G4-EC7; G4-EC8; G4-SO1 51 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Community Engagement  Content vulnerable people in the “Health Through Warmth” programme. We Corporate volunteering step in and provide assistance if they are suffering from bronchial illWe promote volunteering commitment by our employees under the nesses of a chronic nature and need help with financing and installaumbrella of the group-wide Corporate Volunteering Programme tion of heating and insulation in their homes, which they would not known as RWE Companius. New formats continually expand the otherwise be able to afford. We offer them financial support in proopportunities available to get involved in community work. The RWE viding heat insulation for their homes and advice on energy effiCompanius Expertise Exchange is used to give access to members of ciency. In Hungary, we supply coal briquettes at reduced prices and our workforce with many years of career and life experience. They provide vulnerable customers with pre-paid electricity meters so that then act in various capacities such as taking on a role as coaches. In they have the capability to control their own costs. In the Czech cooperation with the Caritas Association for the Diocese of Essen, we Republic and Germany, we give customers help in paying their qualify, train and make arrangements for employees to act as supenergy bills. This is achieved by offering instalment payments and port mentors for older people and individuals. We offer our employadvice on energy. ees the opportunity of developing their skills through the packages offered by RWE Companius. A good opportunity for this was afforded by an Engagement Trip in 2014 where RWE employees spent two weeks working on social projects in Brazil. Distribution of projects for RWE Companius according to thematic topic in 2014 > Engagement trip to Brazil in % In 2014, a total of more than 2,100 employees dedicated their time 4 Energy and other to providing assistance on 1,265 projects. The amount contributed 6 Nature conservation/ Landscape preservation to these projects totalled € 1.9 million during the period under review. 3 Knowledge and skills transfer RWE Training initiative 3malE – Education with Energy 13 Culture 19 Care and support “Education with Energy” is the slogan we are using to generate enthusiasm among young people for energy and technological 20 Sport issues. We discuss the energy supply of the future with them under 35 Craft activities this focus. “3MalE – Education with Energy” bundles the education packages of all RWE companies in Germany. This initiative is intended to help young people research, discover and experience energy. During the year under review, we significantly expanded these packages for children, teenagers, students and teachers. School competitions, trips, preparation of teaching materials and packages in social media GRI G4-EC7; G4-EC8 52 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Community Engagement  Content are some of the activities making a contribution to communicating ward the transformation process of energy systems in Germany and knowledge about topics related to energy in an informative Europe. The RWE Foundation has significantly expanded its financial approach. In 2014, 315 experiment kits were loaned to 70 schools scope because it will be operating as a non-perpetual trust in future. and 82 RWE employees were sent as energy ambassadors to schools. In addition to income, the foundation assets of € 60 million will now also be used to fund projects. For example, in 2014 the RWE FoundaRWE Foundation for Energy and Society tion worked together with the Schwarzkopf Foundation “Young Since July 2014, the RWE Foundation has been developing new Europe” to establish the project “Power Shifts – Reflecting Europe’s approaches. As the “RWE Foundation for Energy and Community” it Energy”. Over the next three years, 300 students from across Europe has defined its profile even more clearly to place a holistic underwill be working to develop new energy policy initiatives and they will standing of energy more than ever at the focal point of its activities. be submitting the results to the European Commissioner for Energy The foundation will promote projects in the newly defined areas for and Climate Protection. In 2014, the RWE Foundation for Energy and action of Education, Innovation and Acceptance. It will also drive forCommunity sponsored projects with around € 1 million. Distribution of value added in 2014 in % 13.2 Net income (36.1 This includes: Dividend payment to RWE shareholders1) 37.5 To employees (wages, salaries, social security contributions) 2.6 To minority interests Value added 2014: 12,942 € million 21.4 To lenders 25.3 To the government (taxes and deductions) 1 Dividend proposal for the business year 2014 of RWE AG, subject to a resolution being passed by the Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2015 GRI G4-EC1; G4-EC7 53 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Market/Customer  Content MARKET/CUSTOMER European energy markets are undergoing change – and the market environment of major energy utilities like RWE is changing as well. New providers on the market are increasing competition for customers. At the same time, local supply concepts and renewable energies are continuing to gain ground. An increasing number of energy purchasers are themselves becoming producers of electricity. The market for electric cars powered by green electricity is growing. Customer Loyalty Index More than We are expanding our area of activity 9,800 More than Customer Satisfaction Market leadership for and strengthening our sales position in Germany up by 3 points to 23 in the Netherlands at electromobility in with innovative products and services 76 million customers 83 % energy consultation sessions mediated in Hungary such as intelligent home control RWE SmartHome. Germany in 2014 GRI G4-DMA 54 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Market/Customer  Content As an integrated systems provider, we want to support our base of loyal, to be interested in new products and to recommend our commore than 23 million customers with future-proof products and serpany to other people. By 2017, we want to maintain a score of at vices. We are developing new business lines to achieve this objective, least 75 index points for customer loyalty. such as intelligent storage technologies, and solutions for saving energy or for the management of photovoltaic systems and wind turMonitoring and performance measurement bines operated by our customers. At the same time, we are also The Customer Loyalty Index provides our method of measuring sucexpanding the array of advice we offer. cess in issues relating to customer satisfaction and trust. Since 2009, we have been determining this rating uniformly for all retail busiChallenge nesses in Germany and we have also been using the rating in a simiApart from energy utilities, an increasing number of citizens, midlar form for other countries. This indicator is based on surveys consized companies and cooperative ventures, and ordinary citizens are ducted among our residential and commercial customers. Loyalty is also generating electricity and feeding it into the public grid. Our rated low for scores of 70 or less, moderate for scores of 70 to 79 aim is to retain existing customers and acquire new ones in this and high for scores above 80. During the year under review, we dynamic and competitive environment. In addition to fair prices for achieved a Customer Loyalty Index of 76 in Germany and in the previelectricity, gas and heat, this also demands intelligent solutions for ous year the value was 73. We want to retain at least a score of 75 in efficient and sustainable energy management. If we are to offer new the coming years up until 2017. products and services which will benefit the energy world of tomorrow, we need to be able to understand the modified requirements International customer loyalty and satisfaction and needs of our customers even better. The loyalty of our customers has undergone the biggest increase in the Czech Republic and Belgium. The reduction in energy prices was Motivation and targets the key factor for this increase in loyalty. We also succeeded in postOur objective is to be a credible and empowering partner for our cusing a positive development for the Index in Hungary. At 76 %, tomers in the transition taking place in the European energy system. customer loyalty remained relatively high in the Netherlands even Our commitment to be a credible partner means that we will supply though we experienced a slight reduction compared with 2013. Our retail customers, industry, commercial customers and local authoricustomer switching rates in Poland increased slightly due to stronger ties with electricity, gas and heat, as well as offering products, competition. The score for our Customer Loyalty Index has also energy advice and energy services which will create benefits for improved slightly in the United Kingdom. them and at the same time drive forward the energy transition. Being an empowering partner means that we will consistently align our Apart from customer loyalty, we also determine customer satisfacefforts on the changed needs of our customers and position ourtion at our regional companies and in other RWE markets. We use telselves as a provider of solutions. We want our customers to remain ephone interviews to carry out surveys with them and we review all relevant contacts with our customers. In 2014, the Customer SatisGRI G4-DMA; G4-PR5 55 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Market/Customer  Content Customer Loyalty Index1 Comprehensive energy advice An important objective of the energy transition is to strengthen cli80 mate protection but this can only be achieved by making more efficient use of energy. This applies to the production of electricity and heat (p. 43) and equally to behaviour in relation to the use of energy. 76 76 75 Our engineers and our retail experts are working together to develop 73 73 solutions along these lines. They help our customers to identify 72 potential savings and make the most of them. Initiatives include 71 70 energy concepts, provision of advice on reducing electricity use and building analyses. 65 Customer-centric information provided on our Internet pages complements our offerings on energy advice. Anybody interested can 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 find out about issues such as building insulation, promotion measures for energy-based refurbishment and particularly efficient house1 Based on residential electricity customers in Germany hold appliances. In 2014, we received 650,000 visitors to the RWE faction Index of the RWE Deutschland Group was 77 on a scale of energy advice portal > www.energiewelt.de. We have used our net1 to 100. In the Czech Republic and Hungary, the satisfaction of cuswork of professional energy advisers to provide 9,800 energy advice tomers increased essentially owing to the lower energy prices prevailsessions for residential customers in Germany. Our advisers have also ing and improvements in customer service made during the period been dealing with hundreds of thousands of questions at local level under review. This also resulted in a decline in the number of comin more than 150 energy shops and service outlets across Germany. plaints in the Czech Republic. Surveys in the Netherlands show that In 2014, we logged more than 800,000 customer enquiries. customer satisfaction there has remained high and unchanged at 83 % compared with the previous year, while the satisfaction rating In 2014, we continued the cooperation with our local-authority partfell back slightly in the United Kingdom. Less than half of our cusners in, Arnsberg, Dorsten, Ense, Essen, Rheinbach and Wesel (Gertomers in the UK are now satisfied with RWE. We believe that this many). Over the past two years, more than 85,000 thermal images reduction is mainly due to the price increases in autumn. The surveys were collected by aircraft in these regions. They show the insulation carried out in Poland also reveal a deterioration in satisfaction values properties of building roofs and are made available to any residential compared with the previous year. Nevertheless, we achieved a score homeowners with an interest in energy issues. On the basis of this of 73.5 there and this indicates that we have achieved a satisfactory information and the initial advice offered by RWE they can take a result, similar to the outcome in Belgium. decision on whether energy refurbishment makes sense for them and decide what form it should take. 56 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Market/Customer  Content Transparent energy costs Intelligent energy products We offer our commercial customers energy controlling. This allows The opportunities and the demands of our customers when dealing them to strategically increase their energy efficiency. The process with energy in their own household are changing with the energy involves recording the relevant data relating to the consumption of transition. RWE SmartHome offers them our solution for automated electricity, heat energy and water and subsequent evaluation of the management of heating, lighting and other electrical appliances. findings. Monthly reports enable us to show the potential savings Users can use their mobile phone to switch heating and household and give concrete recommendations for action. One example of appliances on and off. Individual household appliances can be autoenergy controlling is the SmartCompany concept which allows us to matically activated as soon as surplus energy from the customer’s support small and mid-sized companies in adopting an energy-saving own photovoltaic system is available. The wireless-based home conapproach to handling energy. This method generates savings of up trol is protected against unauthorised access by consistent encrypto 20 %. Retail consumers can use intelligent electricity meters tion and a high level of data protection. The Association of Electrical known as smart meters to continuously check their energy consumpEngineering (VDE) saluted the strict precautions in place for RWE tion and reduce the amount of energy they use. home control by awarding the Quality Seal for Information Security in 2014. RWE SmartHome also permits decentralised energy applications to be controlled, for example the electricity storage facilities A market survey implemented by consulting firm imug Beratungsgesellschaft Outstanding service mbH demonstrated that RWE-Vertrieb AG was ranked in first place for service quality in 2014. A total of 21 companies were assessed in the energy sector. RWE-Vertrieb AG achieved a score of 82 points and was the only company to The concerns and feedback of our customers are a top priority for us. An array gain a higher rating than 80 points. of surveys and awards demonstrates that we are on the right track here. The EVU Web Study 2014 ranked RWE-Vertrieb with first place in the electricity Apart from the customer satisfaction analysis for retail customers, we carried category and second place in gas. 130 criteria were used as the basis for evaluout a major customer needs analysis for business and commercial customers in ating the online portals, upstream business processes and customer manage2014. The knowledge gained has been used in the interests of customers to furment of 70 electricity and 37 gas suppliers. Improvements made by retail busither develop the product and service portfolio, customer aspirations and marness RWE-Vertrieb to Customer Self Service were given a particularly positive keting activities. reception. In the Netherlands, the RWE Essent brand was ranked best energy company in the WUA! Top 100 Web Sites for the fifth time in succession. GRI G4-DMA; G4-PR5 57 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Market/Customer  Content supplied by RWE or photovoltaic systems. This enables our customexample, we construct a modern, highly efficient cogeneration ers to store solar energy and cover up to 70 % of their own needs. power plant at the customer’s site which operates with a particularly The RWE easyOptimize energy control system offers our retail and high efficiency of fuel use from 80 % to 90 % and saves up to 40 % of commercial customers the opportunity to align the energy generathe primary energy by comparison with old plants. We also offer two tion in the combined heat and power plants (CHP plants) they operbusiness models to accommodate this scenario. The leasing model ate themselves with consumption and by this means cut costs and involves us in planning, financing and constructing the cogeneration save energy. We also join up with partners to offer products like plant and then leasing the plant to the customer. Under the classic building insulation, other insulating materials and highly efficient contracting model, we build the plant, carry out maintenance, repair boilers, and we also take care of installation. and operation of the plant and also supply electricity and heat. Individual energy services We support operators of plants for electricity generation using RWE offers planning, finance, construction and operation of renewable energies with the cost-optimised feed-in of the electricity advanced CHP plants to energy consumers with high requirements they generate to the public grid. Networking many local plants within for heat and electricity planning in order to facilitate an effective a virtual power station enables RWE to ensure optimum marketing increase in energy efficiency and a reduction in energy costs. For for the electricity. Our virtual power station also facilitates optimum marketing for the electricity. It covers a broad spectrum ranging from small photovoltaic and CHP micro plants to larger plant portfolios. energy, and up to 20 % from hydropower. Offerings for electromobility Green tariffs We offer our customers in Poland the tariff Our intelligent charging systems enable companies generating elec“ECO Prestige”. This gives them the opportricity themselves to optimise charging of electric vehicles in their tunity to decide for themselves and purchase company fleets. At the same time, we continue to support the estabOur subsidiary company eprimo supplies a proportion of their electricity from renewalishment of the charging infrastructure in Europe. RWE has joined electricity generated entirely from hydroble sources. During the year under review, forces with partners from the energy industry such as municipalitypower. During the year under review, we this approach enabled us to sell 400 GWh of owned utilities to operate more than 2,350 charging points in Gersold 3,762 GWh of “Groene Stroom” in the electricity generated from different types of many and more than 3,800 stations in Europe. “RWE Power” is a tarNetherlands. The number of customers purrenewable energy. ELMŰ is a retail business iff we offer throughout Germany for electricity to charge electric chasing this product increased by 12,5 %. operated by RWE East and it has been offervehicles generated entirely from renewable sources. In Hungary, we “Groene Stroom” is electricity generated ing residential and commercial customers in are the market leader for electromobility. We cooperate with 43 partfrom renewable energies which are made up Hungary electricity generated from renewaners, including industrial companies, players in the energy industry of 40 % from biomass, up to 40 % from wind ble energies for a number of years now. and research institutes to promote the project e-mobility Green eMotion. Our main target is also to create the enablers for a cross-border charging infrastructure in Hungary. 58 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Market/Customer  Content INTERVIEW Supporting customers in the transition of energy systems As European energy systems change, the needs and requirements The concept of “smart” is often applied to new products and serof customers are also in transition. How is RWE positioning itself in vices. What can RWE offer here in its product range? this transformed market environment? Our Editorial Team asked Dr Arndt Neuhaus: Once again, there is a technical aspect and a sales Arndt Neuhaus, Chief Executive Officer of RWE Deutschland AG, side here. When it comes to grids, we are upgrading our distribution about these issues and other questions. grids to create modern, intelligent grids, so-called “Smart Grids”, and we are providing an increasing number of local authorities with powAn increasing number of customers are themselves becoming energy erful broadband grids. We offer residential and corporate customers generators. What are the implications for you? a simple, safe and cost-effective facility automation system with RWE Arndt Neuhaus: Local energy generation and the rising number of SmartHome. For example, this system allows users to control heating generating consumers (prosumers) are key developments in the or light sources with their smart phone while they are on the move. energy transition. This situation is yielding both technical challenges and retail challenges. Firstly, the large number of photovoltaic and Dr Neuhaus, you regularly assess the loyalty and the satisfaction of wind power plants have to be integrated technically in the distribucustomers. What is the position on this issue at the moment? tion grid. This needs to be carried out in such a way that grid stability Arndt Neuhaus: We are delighted that our customers acknowledge is safeguarded at all times in spite of the fluctuating and bidirecour very good service quality and appreciate our reliability and tional feed-in through renewable plants. Secondly, we have to align strong performance. We offer our customers individually tailored supour lines of business on new markets and retail channels. The trend plementary offerings with professional consultation packages and towards digitisation throughout the energy industry creates new cuslong-term products (for example a 3-year fixed price). tomer requirements. The upcoming generation thinks in terms of the categories renewable, efficient and electric. We are meeting these Do you have any green tariffs in your portfolio? new customer aspirations with innovative products and services, for Arndt Neuhaus: RWE offers all customer groups – from retail to busiexample energy management packages with decentralised energy ness customers – green electricity products. This enables us to meet generators. the needs of our customers in the development of new products. We have concluded an eco-friendly green electricity contract with up to The interview was conducted by Klaus-Peter Kreß, 30 % of all customers through our energy discounter “eprimo”. RWE Corporate Responsibility Almost every other new customer selects a green electricity contract. 59 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Employees  Content EMPLOYEES Our approach to human resources involves creating a responsible roadmap for structuring the organisational realignment of the company required to meet the challenges of changing market conditions. We are working in close communication with our employees on developing a common understanding to match the cultural change that has been introduced. Flexibility and diversity are key elements for creating an employment environment which will enable us to remain an attractive employer. Motivation Index at Demography Index at More than 14.3 % Since 2007, RWE has been participating 70.7 82.8 2,300 “New Way of Working” rolled out across the proportion of women in the company initiative “Charter of Diversity” for acknowledging, prioritising apprenticeship places Group in management and providing diversity in our corporate points points at 50 sites positions1 culture. 1 Comprises the top four management levels GRI G4-DMA 60 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Employees  Content Challenge more balanced. During the year under review 2014, the Motivation The RWE Group is confronted by the biggest challenges in the hisIndex had a value of 70.7 points. We therefore did not reach our tartory of the company. This is also exerting an impact on our human get score of 71.6 points. resource policy. Restructuring operations and organizational realignments are unavoidable in the context of this environment. Last year, Strategic realignment of human resources the number of employees in our workforce came down from 64,896 RWE developed a new management model as part of a strategic reato 59,784 (expressed in full-time jobs or full-time equivalents, FTE). lignment of human resources in 2013. This model incorporates Such a turnaround entails a redistribution of functions within the strong overarching management by the Group and lays down clearly company and also means that some jobs inevitably have to go. defined management guidelines. Internal human resource processes were bundled and centralised transnationally within the RWE Group. Motivation and targets The future personnel organisation in the RWE companies will be We are organising necessary restructuring measures, reallocation of reduced. This will enable us to focus better on our core competenhuman resources and a reduction in the overall number of jobs in cies. We have also developed a new Group HR strategy alongside conjunction with a social compensation scheme, while taking this. It supports the future vision of the RWE Group and takes account of our ethical responsibilities. The process involves ongoing account of its specific requirements in close integration with the core conversations with employee representatives in the Group and with business. union representatives. In order to remain competitive and attractive, we want to modify our work culture while maintaining the engageGroup-wide job market ment and motivation of our employees even though the framework The newly created group-wide SWITCH Job Platform has enabled us conditions have become tougher. to further harmonise the existing personnel tools and complement them with additional services. The platform is an initial step in helpMonitoring and performance measurement ing us to improve transparency over all the deployment options We have defined the Motivation Index as a benchmark to measure within the Group. This not only includes short-term and long-term the engagement and motivation of our employees. This is recorded posts but also relates to short-term project assignments. Our employin a staff survey carried out across the entire Group. The index is inteees can use the available information to submit even more targeted grated as a performance indicator in the calculation of the variable applications on their own initiative. Furthermore, they are able to compensation paid to the Executive Board of RWE AG. The Demogratake advantage of personal advice and support for their career phy Index serves as a second indicator in the area for action Employchange. An internal temporary employment pool serves to cover ees. This indicator provides a method of assessing the age structure short-term requirements in the specialist departments. This enables of the employees in the company during times of demographic employees to gain further skills and experience for new posts and change. The Demography Index was 82.8 points in 2014. As the reduces external costs. By making use of the Job Platform, RWE is folvalue approaches 100, the age structure within the Group becomes lowing the goal of optimally using different experiences and experGRI G4-DMA; G4-LA4; G4-LA10 61 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Employees  Content tise within the Group. This approach is intended to enable SWITCH to managers. This will enable us to reach all employees and encourage help specifically in providing the best support for long-term restructhem to play a role in structuring the changes that are necessary turing of personnel within the Group. within the company. Cultural change in the company Our programme entitled “New Way of Working” (NWOW) has been Our objective is to counteract the growing business pressure being designed to establish new mindsets and new ways of working within exerted on the RWE Group and the changes occurring in the energy the Group. We are defining new standards for our working practices, market by bringing about a change in culture at our company. An promoting the skills of our employees and developing a common array of different programmes has been launched in order to make working culture in the three areas of leadership and alignment, unithis a reality. versal process management, and operational excellence. We are also analysing functions, processes and methods of working in different “We are RWE” communicates a common understanding to all our areas of the Group and initiating any changes required, for example employees about the structural changes taking place in the RWE by improving internal cooperation, implementing a more robust feedGroup. Starting at the level of the Executive Board of RWE AG, the back culture and raising management awareness through cultural planned changes will be communicated to our employees by RWE’s sensitisation. We are aiming to use these measures and additional action to increase the Organisational Health Index (OHI), employee satisfaction, customer satisfaction and the financial result. The OHI is Development of the Motivation index1 used to assess the effectiveness of our management team. 75 Attractive as an employer We will only be able to continue mastering the future challenges presented in the energy business by having professional and dedicated 71,3 71,1 employees and managers. This is why the issues of promoting and 70,3 70,7 70 70 recruiting the next generation of staff and emerging leaders continue to be a top priority at RWE. Our objective is to attract and 68 recruit talented young people to work at RWE. A number of tools are 67 deployed to make contact with them including our Online Career Portal and our Applicant Academy where we advise graduates, school 65 students and people with career experience, and help them make a 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 start on the career ladder in the world of work or change jobs. Training opportunities are extremely important in this context. We pro1 Changing rhythm: Companies have been determining the Motivation Index since 2011 every three years. Group values as moving averages. vide around 2,300 young people with a high-quality apprenticeship GRI G4-DMA; G4-LA10 62 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Employees  Content training in 30 different training vocations in industrial, technical and the Group was 14.3 % (2013: 13.9 %). On account of the new statucommercial fields. We also offer twin-track degree courses which can tory framework of regulations from the first half of 2015, all our be undertaken by incorporating practical and training modules affected German subsidiary companies will also have defined binding within the course structure. We continue to carry out training beyond targets for the percentage of women in supervisory boards and manour own specific needs and thereby give a large number of young agement bodies by mid-2015. We have been preparing RWE for this people an opportunity in the job market. scenario over a considerable period of time. RWE has a large number of subsidiary companies and investments. Here we have more than The initiative “I can do this” (“Ich pack’ das”) supports teenagers and 700 mandates on supervisory boards. During the course of the past young adults who have not yet been able to gain an apprenticeship year, we increased by more than 25 % the presence of women place although they have successfully completed education at responsible for these positions held by RWE. school. Since the programme was launched, nearly 1,000 participants have benefited from the one-year entry-level foundation qualiThree women are currently members of the 20-strong Supervisory fication. More than 80 % have gone on to obtain an apprenticeship Board of RWE, of which two are employee representatives. No place. woman was represented on the Executive Board of RWE during the year under review. Diversity and opportunity We regard diversity as an enrichment – it supports the cultural The initiative “Inclusive Culture Focus Group” was established to prochange in the RWE Group and improves our routine work every day. mote diversity among the people in our Group, including those workWe therefore promote the careers of women, the integration of peoing in the subsidiary companies. Men and women in the Group from ple with disabilities, intercultural exchange within the Group and getdifferent origins, religion and sexual orientation, people with and ting the work-life balance right between career and family. without disabilities discussed which measures can be used to further reinforce the group-wide integrative corporate culture. In 2011, we also defined the goal of increasing the percentage of women in senior management positions to 22 % by 2018. At the end of 2014, the proportion of women in management positions across GRI G4-DMA; G4-LA12 63 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Supply Chain  Content SUPPLY CHAIN As globalisation of markets continues apace, national borders also lose their relevance for trade in energy sources. However, internationally binding standards for environmental protection, human rights and occupational safety have hardly been established. Companies like RWE are therefore being challenged by their stakeholders to exert influence on their suppliers through their procurement policy. € 7.3 99.6 % Combustion fuels RWE sources more than half of its hard billion for standard of the purchasing 99.4 % procured for First Bettercoal audit coal requirement from supply countries goods, services and power-station volume is subject to sustainability of the imported wood pellets are certified € 9.9 carried out in Colombia located outside the European Union. The coal is loaded onto bulk carriers billion for the journey by sea. components requirements GRI G4-DMA 64 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Supply Chain  Content Challenge We have defined our target as ensuring that our suppliers underRWE purchases a large proportion of its fuels in global wholesale stand and take account of the relevant international environmental markets. This also applies to many goods and services. Our stakeand social standards, and other detailed requirements as necessary. holders expect us to purchase these products from companies which observe compliance with human rights, offer workers reasonable Monitoring and performance measurement working conditions and operate effective environmental protection. We use the proportion of the purchase volume subject to the requirements of our Code of Conduct as a constituent element of the conMotivation and targets tractual relationship in the form of the KPI and indicator for target We want to go beyond the statutory requirements and work together attainment in the area for action of Supply Chain. This should apply with our suppliers to comply with and promote international environto at least 98 % of our purchasing volume. The degree of coverage mental and social standards for procurement. We therefore take was 99.6 % in the year under review. account of information about how our suppliers ensure compliance with sustainability requirements in our purchasing decision. These Sourcing energy commodities and trading requirements are defined on the basis of the ten principles of the UN The procurement of hard coal, biomass and natural gas, as well as Global Compact, our Code of Conduct and other detailed guidelines. trading in fuels are key elements of our value added (p. 4). Trading is mainly carried out through international, virtual wholesale markets. Raw materials are traded there as standardised products with Hard coal by supply countries 2014 defined quality attributes. Trading is carried out along a standardised in % process with the involvement of a large number of market players. The raw materials may change ownership several times in the virtual 10.6 USA market after they have first been offered for sale by the producers and before we take physical ownership. Generally, it is only possible 17.2 Germany for us to identify the immediate upstream owner, but the precise 14.0 United Kingdom geographical origin of the raw material is not known. When combus22.1 South Africa tion fuels are procured on a wholesale market, RWE is therefore not in a direct supplier relationship with the producer. This means it is 21.1 Colombia virtually impossible to exert any influence on the production condi13.0 Russia tions. 2.0 Other GRI G4-DMA; G4-12; G4-15, G4-56 65 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Supply Chain  Content Review of trading partners to ensure sourcing of hard coal in the necessary amounts and to the We review all potential trading partners for energy commodities required quality while at the same time monitoring environmental before we enter into any business relationships. Alongside financial and social standards in our supply chain. aspects, we also take account of the aspects enshrined in our Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Our Acting alone as a single company, RWE can only exert a limited influCounterparty Risk Assessment (CPRA) provides helpful assistance in ence on the overall situation. In 2012, the Group purchased 13.7 milcarrying out this review. We undertake a standardised, multistage lion mt of hard coal and this only amounted to 6.5 % of the total process to check international databases and information systems to amount of the coal imported into the EU. Cooperating with other see whether any misconduct is known. Since 2014, we have been energy companies is absolutely essential in order to be in a position taking account of the information garnered in the Bettercoal initiato exert more pressure and achieve sustainable production conditive. The review of business partners is repeated at least once a year. tions. If the results indicate potential risks, the analysis is expanded to encompass a maximum of four checks a year. We discuss any Initiative for a sustainable supply chain breaches of our Code of Conduct with the business partner involved In 2012, we joined forces with other large purchasers of hard coal to and aim to develop a solution, but we also reserve the right to launch the Bettercoal initiative. By the end of 2014, eleven of the exclude such a business partner from concluding any contracts in the biggest European energy companies were already members of Betfuture. The number of our accredited trading partners fluctuates and tercoal. is generally between 1,000 and 2,000. The purchasing volume procured through wholesale markets amounted to around € 10 billion in A Code of Practice for coal mining was developed within the forum of 2014. an international consultation process which took place with involvement of the most important hard-coal supplier countries of Colombia, Requirements for procurement of hard coal Russia, Indonesia and South Africa. The code formulates concrete When Germany ceases to produce any hard coal, the country will be requirements for social and environmental conduct by the mine opercompletely dependent on the import of this fuel after 2018. In 2014, ators and forms the platform for audits at the international producwe imported around 57 % of our hard coal from countries which are tion sites. After the first trial runs had been carried out for the genernot members of the OECD. We expect the production conditions ated audit protocols and the self-assessment questionnaires, in 2014 there also to comply with international environmental and social Bettercoal started to invite producers of hard coal from across the standards. We are extremely assiduous in tracking reports about world to participate in the assessments. resettlements, interventions in the natural environment, working conditions and standards relating to occupational safety. Our goal is GRI G4-DMA; G4-15; G4-16; G4-EN32; G4-EN33; G4-LA14; G4-LA15; G4-HR10; G4-HR11; G4-SO9; G4-SO10 66 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Supply Chain  Content The first inspection of a coal mine by independent auditors was carIn the context of our membership of the Sustainable Biomass Partried out in Colombia in 2014. The results revealed no significant nership initiative, we are developing standards and processes for breaches of the requirements defined in the Bettercoal Code but indiinternational wholesale trading in wood biomass. Following an officated some weaknesses. An improvement process with clear targets cial comment and test phase, the first version of the standard will be and deadlines was agreed with the audited producer. Bettercoal will published in 2015. track progress and review this as necessary by implementing a fur> Sustainable Biomass Partnership ther independent audit. Bettercoal uses a central database to provide its member companies with the results of the audits and the Sourcing goods, services and plants self-assessments of the mines. This information is used by RWE in its The purchase of goods, services and plant components for the operaCounterparty Risk Assessment. tion, maintenance and new-build of our plants is subject to a uniform Group reference standard. By contrast with fuel procurement, there At the end of 2014, the Dutch energy utilities, including our subsidiare direct business relations with suppliers and service providers. Our ary company Essent, and the Dutch government signed a self-comCode of Conduct is included as an addendum to each contract we mitment declaration for more transparency in the procurement of sign and it forms a constituent element of the contract. This enables hard coal. They regard the Bettercoal initiative as a good way of us to communicate a clearly defined specification of our expectations bringing about improvements in the production of hard coal across for suppliers and service providers. the world. > Bettercoal We use a self-assessment to survey potential suppliers in an initial appraisal seeking information on the issues of environmental protecRequirements for the procurement of biomass tion and occupational safety, and compliance. During the year under Since we use biomass for electricity and heat generation, this enareview, 26 suppliers were reviewed on the issue of environmental bles us to reduce our CO2 emissions. However, we have to ensure protection and 2,049 on occupational safety. Every month, all supplithat production is carried out in conformity with environmental and ers are reviewed for conformity with potential compliance risks. This socially ethical conditions. Biomass is mainly purchased for Dutch review involves reconciliations with the black list maintained by the power plants and we use the Green Gold Label (GGL) for purposes of World Bank and with sanctions lists drawn up by the EU. If problems certification. The label guarantees compliance with sustainability occur during the course of a business relationship, we address the aspects along the entire supply chain. In 2014, we procured around matter with our suppliers and work together with them to achieve 1.2 million mt of biomass for our own use and for use by third parties improvements jointly. Around 12,500 suppliers are registered in our with most of it coming in the form of wood pellets. 99.4 % of the fuel supplier portfolio, 350 of them are of particular strategic importance. supplied was certified in conformity with the GGL or another equivaWe are in regular, close contact with these specific suppliers. The lent label. purchase volume for goods, services and for plant components was € 7.3 billion in 2014. GRI G4-DMA; G4-12; G4-15; G4-16; G4-EN32; G4-EN33; G4-LA14; G4-LA15; G4-HR10; G4-HR11; G4-SO9; G4-SO10 67 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Supply Chain  Content INTERVIEW Advocating more transparency and sustainability in the supply chain Hard-coal mining throughout the world shows room for improveYour members use about 40 % of the volume of hard coal consumed ment concerning people and the environment. Why do buyers of in Europe. Is Bettercoal already in a position to make an impact? coal make a commitment to this objective? Our Editorial Team put Martin Christie: Yes, we have a robust ‘Code of Practice’ and assesssome questions to Marga Edens, responsible at RWE AG for internament toolkit and are engaging coal suppliers in the assessment protional corporate responsibility and Chair of the Board of Directors gram. Our first site assessment completed in Colombia is already at Bettercoal, and to Dr Martin Christie, Managing Director of bringing change on the ground. And as more and more buyers are Bettercoal. joining forces, we will be able to use that leverage to move things forward. Bettercoal is open for all industries using hard coal – for In media reports energy utilities are held responsible for infringeexample cement producers and steel manufacturers. ments of human rights and environmental pollution. What is your view? Marga Edens: All this is documented in the Bettercoal database to Martin Christie: Bettercoal brings coal buyers and suppliers together; create more transparency for members and inform their buying decithe risks that buyers see in their supply chain are the same risks that sions. The willingness of mine operators to accept audits and dissuppliers have to manage at their operational sites. By working in a close information in self-assessments is therefore a key factor for the collaborative approach through Bettercoal, members are able to success of the initiative. engage the supply side in a more constructive and efficient way than working individually. The picture is complicated by the fact that it's a What is the next step at Bettercoal? commodity market; so the origin of the coal is not always known. We Martin Christie: More assessments. Through this process we not only are working to address this with the coal trading community to see provide members with data to inform their purchasing decisions but how Bettercoal can extend its impact. also challenge suppliers to make improvements. We also need to raise our profile and become part of the public debate. We still have Marga Edens: Of course, we recognise that ethical, social and envia lot to do. ronmental performance at some mines should improve. Members are aware of this and so need to have the objective data that Bettercoal Marga Edens: And in general, the producing countries themselves The interview was conducted by Dr Marita Hilgenstock, provides to make informed coal purchasing decisions. need to provide support in order to strengthen the impact. This RWE Corporate Responsibility means commitment from government and society at large. 68 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Occupational Safety/Healthcare Management  Content OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY/ HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT The health, work ability and safety of our employees and the employees of partner companies have top priority at RWE. This objective involves us in continuously improving our occupational safety management in cooperation with our partner companies, as well as carrying out measures for healthcare promotion. Reduction of the Occupational safety is extremely accident rate by an Around important at the RWE Group. When Our target is Group-wide health 0 Current LTIF is average of 19,000 ratio at we are maintaining distribution grids, accidents 2.3 15 % responses to the 95.4 % the safety of our employees and the people working for our subcontraceach year during the Work Ability Index (WAI) in Germany tors is a top priority for us. past nine years GRI G4-DMA 69 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Occupational Safety/Healthcare Management  Content Challenge Motivation and targets Our employees and the employees of our partner companies (subWe want our workforce and the employees of our partners to return contractors) often work at workplaces with special requirements for home every day as healthy as when they came to work first thing in occupational health and safety. This applies in particular to activities the morning. We are continuing to expand our occupational safety in the area of opencast mining, power-plant construction sites, transmanagement and establish an appropriate health and safety culture mission lines or wind turbines. As an employer, we take our responsiwithin the company. Our objective is to promote the health of our bility very seriously and minimise the risks of accidents and health workforce, as well as avoiding all accidents and work-related health hazards. hazards. Monitoring and performance management Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF)1 The key performance indicator we use for occupational safety is the number of accidents with the loss of at least one day of work for 5 5 every one million hours worked (lost time incident frequency, LTIF). In the reporting year 2014, we succeeded in maintaining the number of 4 4 occupational accidents at a uniform good level and achieved an LTIF 3.5 of 2.3. 3 2.8 2.8 3 2.3 2.3 We very much regret to have to report that five fatal accidents 2 occurred in 2014, with four of these accidents involving employees of contractors. The causes of these accidents are being investigated 1 1 1 by international accident analysis teams. On the basis of the results of these analyses obtained by our specialist experts, we are taking 0 action together with our subcontractors to adopt suitable measures 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 to prevent accidents of this nature in the future. We measure the proFatal occupational accidents2 Occupational and commuting gress in healthcare management on the basis of annual indicators accidents1 such as the health ratio or the Work Ability Index (WAI). In 2014, the health ratio in the RWE Group amounted to 95.4 %. 1 incl. employees of subcontractors 2 L ost Time Incident Frequency (number of accidents with at least one day of absence from work for each million hours worked); occupational accidents from 2012 GRI G4-DMA; G4-14; G4-LA7; G4-LA6 70 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Occupational Safety/Healthcare Management  Content Anchoring at management level managers have an update on potential hazards involved in the work. Our managers bear responsibility for implementation of our standThis enables us to strengthen the awareness of hazards in routine ards. We therefore discussed health protection and occupational operations every day. safety with the 300 most senior managers of the Group at the Executive Meeting in 2014 and identified opportunities for improvement. Occupational safety with partner companies Occupational Safety Partner Management (OSPM) is directed towards The newly launched project “Health and Safety Culture Developlong-term improvement of occupational safety at subcontractors. ment” is a prime example for closer networking of health and occuDuring the year under review, we expanded safety management by pational safety. Managers and employees join together in implethe concept of “Safety Teams”. This envisages representatives of menting preventive measures within this framework. The project RWE and the implementing partner company (subcontractor) comfocuses on three aspects: trustworthy and respectful behaviour by municating about concrete occupational safety measures before the managers as an enabler for target-led communication, raising the planned measures commence. After pilot projects have been successawareness of our employees to promote a self-critical analysis of fully completed at our subsidiary company Süwag, Safety Teams are their health and safety conduct, and adoption of internal and exterthen deployed throughout the Group. Action guidelines provide mannal ideas for improvement of health and occupational safety. agers and employees with instructions for training and implementation of Safety Teams. Excellent occupational safety Work on offshore wind farms takes place a considerable distance RWE also offers managers of subcontractors the opportunity to take from the mainland and this places special demands on occupational part in workshops, for example on the issue of “behaviour-oriented safety and the management of emergencies. In 2014, RWE was inspections”. These workshops give them insights into how they can awarded the Renewable Energy Health and Safety Award for its sensitise employees to the issues of risk assessment and risk reducemergency plan at the offshore wind farm Gwynt y Môr. This award is tion when they are at work. Measures for enhanced occupational made annually by RenewableUK and The Crown Estate. The objective safety are communicated in the workshops and the importance of of the emergency plan is to achieve the same emergency provision at successful management and personal commitment are highlighted. sea as on the mainland by using emergency teams. The emergency teams are responsible for an area of 80 km2. 9,000 workers have Expansion of Operational Healthcare Management (OHM) been working on the wind farm with more than 500,000 offshore In 2014, we complemented our OHM Principles Programme “Sustaintransfers without any significant incidents to date. ably Positive Influence of the Health Ratios” and adopted the health ratio as a uniform KPI in the goal agreement for managers at RWE Another example of successful measures in the area of occupational Generation SE. We succeeded in maintaining the health ratio for safety is the “Safe Shift Start” implemented with RWE East at the 2014 at a constant level compared with the previous year and we Mátra power station. Before the start of each shift, employees and therefore achieved our objective for the year under review. GRI EU18 71 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Occupational Safety/Healthcare Management  Content We carried out a prevention campaign within the framework of OHM Stress management in focus during 2014 for early detection of diabetes. This campaign was A key element of healthcare management is the communication of implemented at 21 sites of RWE Deutschland AG and RWE Vertrieb a reasonable approach to stress. Apart from stresses in the world of AG. Information events held by the RWE health scheme (BKK RWE) on work, private situations can also result in additional psychological screening and early detection of testicular cancer also took place stresses. The “Social Services” department has been specifically under the motto “You can do it – man!” (“Pack's an, Mann!”) at five established for this purpose and it supports employees on matters RWE sites. More than 200 employees took part in the campaign. such as caring for relatives or childcare issues. This is our way of ensuring that situations putting excessive stress on employees are All the managers working in the RWE companies in Germany have avoided before they even come into being. had access to the interactive guidelines “Managing with Healthcare” (“Gesundheitsgerecht führen”) since 2014. This platform has proWe use a number of measures to record employees’ performance and vided a sound basis for discussing health issues with employees and ability to carry out their work including the Work Ability Index (WAI). for highlighting healthcare packages and measures on promoting This is based on subjective assessments by the employees in our good health. workforce and records the extent to which they are in a position to carry out their work satisfactorily at the present time and in the Our employees in Hungary have access to a range of different healthfuture. By the end of 2014, 70 % of the employees in our German care packages. We are using workshops and training sessions on companies had access to the WAI (2013: 70 %). At the end of 2014, stress and risk management, programmes for a healthy lifestyle and a total of around 19,000 questionnaires had been completed. health days to promote behaviour based on health awareness. The inclusion of managers, training of health promoters and the introduction of a points scoring system are contributing to the success of the programme. 72 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Security of Supply  Content SECURITY OF SUPPLY The uninterrupted and affordable supply of electricity and gas to our customers is the key mission of RWE. We therefore procure the necessary raw materials for producing energy, construct and operate power plants and deploy innovative solutions for the modernisation and maintenance of our distribution grids so that we are in a position to fulfil our commitments. 15.7 One of the biggest Gas distribution grid of 570 Non-availability of the minutes/customer operators of distribution 48,000 gas grid at less than AmpaCity is a pioneering project for the energy transition and it has also 1 grids in Germany with test households in the annual non-availability km in Germany and engendered considerable interest of the distribution grid in 2013 330,000 64,000 km in the Czech Republic “Smart Operator” project minute in 2013 among international energy experts. km (electricity and gas) GRI G4-DMA 73 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Security of Supply  Content Comparison of grid outages in minutes per year and customer Challenge The changes in Europe’s energy economy entail significant of engineering challenges – for reliable generation and for safe transmission 500 and distribution of electricity and gas. The expansion and integration 476,1 of renewable energies and local generating units present challenging 465,5 450 demands for the performance of distribution grids and conventional 427,7 power plants without which a stable supply cannot be guaranteed. 400 376,1 Motivation and targets 358,0 As an energy utility, our objective is to guarantee safe and affordable 350 supply of electricity and gas for our customers continuously and at 300 all times. We have therefore defined a target of restricting power outages in Germany to a maximum of 30 minutes per customer each year. Dependable availability of our power plants and secure supply Ausfallzeit Min/Jahr 120 with fuels for combustion are equally important factors. We want to guarantee a secure supply for generation and distribution of electric105.0 102.4 100 ity and gas in a changing energy environment which encompasses 93.6 factors like the ongoing expansion of renewable energies. 99.3 89 80 91 76.3 77.5 75.7 Monitoring and performance assessment 78.0 66.0 65.4 74.6 As the key performance indicator in the area of security of supply, we 60 69.0 62.1 use the number of minutes of power outages that occur per cus60.1 58.9 40 52.1 tomer and year (System Average Interruption Duration Index, SAIDI). 50.2 In 2013*, we succeeded in continuing to provide a largely uninter20 21.9 rupted supply of electricity and gas for our customers. Non-availabil18.1 18.1 17.1 15.7 ity for the electricity distribution grid in Germany amounted to an 14.6 14.9 15.3 15.9 15,3 average of 15.7 minutes for each customer (2012: 17.1 minutes) in 0 2013. The average non-availability for the gas supply resulting from 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 faults in Germany was less than 0.46 minutes per customer and year in 2013 (2012: 0.8 minutes). The energy sources necessary for secure  WE distribution grid R RWE distribution grid Hungary (Elmű) RWE distribution grid in Germany RWE distribution grid Hungary (Émász) Poland operation of our power plants were available throughout 2014. Average for Germany1 Average for Hungary2 Average for Poland 1 Source: German Federal Network Agency (2013) 2 Source: Council of European Energy Regulators (2014) * The data for the year 2014 were not available when this report went to press. GRI G4-DMA; EU29 74 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Security of Supply  Content Loss-free electricity transmission in conurbations ers in the region to match the demand. The objective is to adapt the The “AmpaCity” project is subsidised with funding of € 5.9 million by distribution grid so that it can respond autonomously to any changes the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy. It involved us and provide fully automated regulation for the flow of electricity. in laying a high-temperature superconductor cable (HTS) around one kilometre long in our distribution grid located in Essen. This HST Broadband provision for rural regions cable allows five times more electricity to be transmitted at temperaAlongside the expansion and operation of intelligent electricity distures of around -200°C and at the same voltage as conventional tribution grids, since 2009 RWE has been supporting local authorities underground cables. The technology is therefore particularly approin Germany with assistance in planning and setting up advanced data priate for space-saving and efficient distribution of electricity in networks. Comprehensive local analyses on the ground have encourdensely populated urban cityscapes. Since the beginning of 2014, aged us to cooperate with partner companies in developing and setwe have been testing the application of the technology in daily operting up a modern glass-fibre infrastructure. Citizens and businesses ation. Up to now, we have used the system to transmit electrical in the region gain access to fast Internet with transmission speeds of energy sufficient to meet the requirements for around 10,000 houseup to 50 megabit per second. holds with virtually no losses and without any significant technical problems. Carbon-neutral operation of gas grids We are expanding our expertise in safe, reliable and efficient transResearch cooperation for intelligent distribution grids mission and distribution of natural gas with strategic research proIn association with European operators of distribution grids, we jects. In 2014, the Smart Regulation Station project provided eviestablished the “Grid4EU” research project. The cooperation is dence in the Czech Republic that renewable energies can be used for intended to facilitate knowledge exchange on experiences with intelcarbon-neutral operation of gas regulation stations independently of ligent grid technology. RWE is currently carrying out a review within the central electricity supply. The combined deployment of solar this framework to establish how electricity distribution grids can be modules, wind turbines and battery storage systems which are adapted to the fluctuating feed-in from locally-based renewable installed directly at the gas regulation stations supply the energy energy sources without incurring the need for cost-intensive expanrequired for regulating the pressure in the pipelines. After the sucsion or modification. The project entails fitting existing distribution cessful test phase, Smart Regulation Stations are also scheduled for substations and switchgear cabinets with intelligent and interlinked installation in other grids. modules in the municipality of Reken, Münsterland. These units monitor the voltage in the grid and transmit the energy input to consumGRI G4-DMA; EU29 75 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Security of Supply  Content Aerial inspection sources of fault and to plan corrective maintenance measures in Continuous checks are used to monitor reliable operation of our advance. The deployment of a Hexacopter reduces the risks to our plants, cabling and transmission lines. We use a Hexacopter for employees and provides a cost-effective, low-noise and low-emission this work – this is a small, unmanned drone equipped with camera alternative to conventional checks. In 2014, deployment of the airsystems which is controlled from the ground. This system is used to borne drones was awarded the “German Prize for Ideas” (“Deutscher inspect electricity pylons, transmission lines, wind turbines and phoIdeen Preis”) by the German Business Management Institute. We use tovoltaic systems without the need for high-cost, close-up inspecthe technology for maintenance work on our own installations and tions. This technology helps us to improve the identification of offer this service to other companies. 76 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Innovation  Content INNOVATION We contribute to climate-friendly, efficient and intelligent energy supply with innovative technologies, products and services. We develop and optimise our solutions for the energy system of the future in around 200 projects along the entire value chain and in cooperation with partners. 200 10 96 % Reduction of the energy supplied in the Carbon-neutral power RWE has joined forces with project partners to test VIBRO, an innovative procedure to anchor coverage of Future House by supply by 2050 R&D projects along the test households in the offshore foundations for wind turbines near strategically relevant entire value chain “Smart E” project R&D issues 99 % is our goal Cuxhaven. GRI G4-DMA 77 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Innovation  Content Challenge Affordable and environmentally compatible installation The energy supply of the future must become more climate-friendly, of wind turbines more efficient and more intelligent. Innovative technologies, prodAs a member of the initiative “Offshore Wind Accelerator”, RWE has ucts and systems at all stages of the energy value chain are essential joined forces with other European energy utilities to test a new for achieving this objective. The stages range from extraction of raw installation procedure for anchoring offshore wind turbines. This materials, through electricity generation, trading, distribution and involves using vibrations to fix the foundations in the ground. A pilot storage of energy, to the use of energy. The development and appliproject is involved in carrying out onshore testing to establish cation of innovative technologies here are empowering for achievewhether towers installed using this method are equally well anchored ment of this target and for the future success of the RWE Group. as pile-driven towers. This installation method can be used to significantly reduce the costs of building an offshore wind farm. It also Motivation and objectives brings down a large proportion of the underwater noise which can Our objective is to play a role in structuring the energy transition so exert a negative impact on dolphins and whales. as to create a carbon-neutral electricity supply, while at the same > Research and development projects time being in a position to make provision for future energy needs with a high quality of supply over the long term. Continuous develElectromobility tested in practical application opment of innovations will enable us to ensure that we always have Alongside the establishment of a charging infrastructure, we are also the best possible solutions to meet the challenges and objectives in committed to networking current everyday technologies in the area our core processes and core business lines. This will also empower us of electromobility. Our aim is to use the “Smart E” project to proto offer our customers the products and services they request. If we mote electromobility as an integral element for the energy structure are to achieve this mission, we need to optimise existing technoloof the future and develop and test appropriate business models and gies, processes and products, and develop new ones. processes. Since 2014, we have progressed this objective by providing ten test households located in Mülheim an der Ruhr with electric Monitoring and performance measurement cars and an efficiency package as part of a field test. This overall Our central department of research and development (R&D) enables approach allows users to generate, store and themselves use their us to control all the research and development activities in the own electricity. One of the examples of how householders can use Group. All relevant RWE companies therefore operate with uniform their own electricity is to charge up their own electric vehicle. The processes, for example in R&D planning and reporting. We use the field test is scheduled to run for around 18 months and during this extent of coverage in relation to strategically relevant R&D issues in period we will be testing and working out new tariff models and conpercent as the KPI and indicator for target attainment. It was 96 % cepts to establish how decentralised generating systems, electricity during the year under review. storage facilities and house automation can be optimally harmonised GRI G4-DMA 78 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Innovation  Content with each other. “SmartE” is being promoted by the Federal Ministry ever, today innovative technologies can assist in enabling the volume for Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety. of electricity produced to be more favourably adjusted to meet the “ie3 – Institute for Energy Systems, Energy Efficiency and Energy requirement. Industry” at Dortmund Technical University is supporting the academic dimension of the project. Partners from the world of business The use of new materials and advanced control technology in our include the companies Energiebau Solarsystem GmbH und Hoppecke condensation power plants can increase the speed at which they are Batterien GmbH & Co. able to adjust their output. This has led us to develop a number > RWE eMobility measures including the testing of innovative materials within the scope of the “COMTES+” initiative at Mannheim’s large-scale power The RWE Future House station under conditions of dynamic stress. We have modified a single-family home in Bottrop constructed in the 1960s to create a Plus Energy House as part of the “InnovationCity Another initiative relates to intermediate storage of energy. RWE Ruhr” project. Energy efficiency refurbishment and the use of smart supports research and development into this technology through the technology for generating electricity, as well as for managing heatproject “TcET” (Thermochemical Energy storage for Thermal power ing and energy supply such as ‘RWE SmartHome‘” energy controls plants). We have joined forces with a number of joint-venture partused for household appliances could reduce the energy used by ners in a consortium led by Munich Technical University (TU 99 %. The Future House provides impressive testimony to the specific München) to investigate whether the minimum output of a power building measures and technical equipment that could lead to even plant can be reduced as a temporary measure by using an energy older buildings in the property stock generating more energy than storage facility. Lower outputs enable power plants to remain on the they actually consume. We are also testing the practical feasibility of grid for longer and they have to be shut down and started up less these technical solutions in the Future House over a longer timefrequently. This then avoids the costly, time-intensive and materialframe. degrading process. A system of this type allows conventional power > RWE Zukunftshaus plants to continue guaranteeing safe and economic energy supply at any time as baseload power plants. Flexible power plants Our conventional power plants are also being confronted by new Efficient technology for lignite-fired power stations challenges. They need to be in a position to compensate flexibly for Innovative plant technology is enabling us to increase the efficiency fluctuations in feed-in from renewable energies. These plants have to of our lignite-fired power stations and reduce the impacts on the be in a position to adjust their output quickly and sometimes in large environment. At the Coal Innovation Centre located at our Niederincrements. The problem is that most fossil-fired power stations origiaußem site, we set up a prototype plant for pre-drying lignite (WTA) nally tended to be designed for constant energy production. Howin 2009. This process uses fluidised-bed drying technology with internal waste-heat utilisation for processing the lignite. Making use of 79 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Overview of our Ten Areas for Action and our CR Objectives | Innovation  Content pre-dried lignite allows us to increase the efficiency of lignite-fired taking place in the energy sector, we want to gain a better underpower stations and reduce their emissions. The innovative flue-gas standing for transforming the needs of our customers and develop desulphurisation plant (FGD plant) also scrubs the emissions generinnovative solutions. An Innovation Team known as the “Innovation ated by our lignite-fired power stations and removes air pollutants Hub” has been created to achieve this objective. The team currently from the flue gases. REAplus is a powerful technology we have been has eleven employees and external experts. The participants work in developing with plant engineering group ANDRITZ Energy & Environmultidisciplinary international teams to develop and test new busiment in a joint venture running since 2008. It brings about signifiness ideas in the areas of energy efficiency and renewable energies. cant reductions in the energy required for carrying out flue-gas desWe have identified some promising approaches suitable for commerulphurisation. We have now deployed “REAplus” under commercial cial use in a number of areas including digitisation, new forms of conditions at our Niederaußem site for the first time. energy management and the use of data within the company. When > RWE Coal Innovation Centre implementing new ideas, we give the team of the “Innovation Hub” maximally generous scope for entrepreneurial initiative. Future ideas in the “Innovation Hub” Alongside the technological focus of innovation activities in the area of R&D, we want to work more intensively on innovative business models for the future. In view of the rapid and fundamental changes 80 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | About this Report | Report Profile · Assurance Report · Index According to GRI · Global Compact Progress Report 2014  Content ABOUT THIS REPORT Report Profile This report entitled “Our Responsibility. Report 2014” is aimed at Approach analysts and investors, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), our We developed our CR Strategy on the basis of the challenges posed workforce, customers and suppliers, policymakers, government agenby our business and taking account of the general conditions and cies and the people living in the regions where we do business. It challenges prevailing in individual regions. The report is introduced describes the most important social, environmental and economic with a portrait of the RWE Group and a detailed description of the challenges facing our core business, the conflicting aims that can greatest challenges along our value chain and the challenges in the arise, and the Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy we have develregions where we are operating. The structure of the report is based oped in response. on the Ten Areas for Action of the CR Strategy. We use a Materiality Analysis to assess the relevance of individual Areas for Action in The report is published in pdf format. This report was audited order to evaluate the opportunities of the RWE Group for exerting throughout by the accountancy firm Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC) influence and gauge the expectations of stakeholders for our comin conformity with ISAE 3000 (p. 82). The subject of the report essenpany. The report also serves as our progress report for the Global tially focused on the criteria “Inclusion of stakeholders”, “SustainaCompact of the United Nations (p. 88). bility context”, “Materiality” and “Completeness” of the GRI G4. The CR Report includes an overview of all the important indicators Basic principles (p. 90). We provide detailed indicators for the years 2006 to 2014 The report is based on our CR Strategy and was developed out of interactively with the indicator tool as an Excel download. findings from our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. The relevant data are presented in line with the latest guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to allow our readers to compare our perforGRI G4-33; G4-18 81 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | About this Report | Report Profile · Assurance Report · Index According to GRI · Global Compact Progress Report 2014  Content mance with that of other companies. We explain how we have impleFor reference mented these guidelines and the requirements of G4 Sector DiscloThe report is published in German and English. The Executive Board sures Electric Utilities in the GRI Index (p. 85). The report was drawn of RWE AG has approved the report for publication. The editorial up in compliance with the GRI Guideline G4 in the “Core Option”. deadline was on 9 March 2015. This report continues our policy of annual reporting. The next report will be published in the spring of Data 2016. The term “employee” refers to male and female employees. The period under review is fiscal 2014, which began on 1 January > Archive CR Reports and ended on 31 December. The data provided in this report relate to all affiliated companies of the RWE Group which are included in Forward-looking statements the consolidated financial statements. Any deviations from this are This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the future clearly stated. The financial data were taken from the RWE Annual development of the RWE Group and its companies as well as ecoReport 2014. We present financial data denominated in the relevant nomic and political developments. These statements are assessments national currency and have converted these based on the average that we have made based on information available at the time this annual values for 2014 (1 US dollar = € 0.76, 1 UK pound sterling = report was drawn up. In the event that the underlying assumptions € 1.25, 100 Czech crowns = € 3.63, 100 Hungarian forints = € 0.32, do not materialise or additional risks arise, actual performance may 1 Polish zloty = € 0.24). deviate from the performance expected at present. We are therefore unable to assume any responsibility whatsoever for the accuracy of these statements. GRI G4-32; G4-17; G4-28 82 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | About this Report | Report Profile · Assurance Report · Index According to GRI · Global Compact Progress Report 2014  Content Independent Assurance Report To RWE AG, Essen The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly mainWe have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the descriptains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and tion of the necessary materiality analysis for a sustainability report, selected issues procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2014, as well as additional information in and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. the “Key Data Tool” of RWE AG, Essen, (hereinafter: the Company), for the business year from 1 January to 31 December 2014.* The sustainability information, which Practitioner’s Responsibility were selected by the Company and reviewed by us, are marked with a check mark Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed as to ( ) in the CR-Report and with a button (“Reviewed”) in the Key Data Tool. whether anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: QQ the description of the materiality analysis marked with the check mark ( ) that Management’s Responsibility is necessary for a sustainability report to determine its content and the boundaCompany’s Board of Managing Directors is responsible for the proper preparation ries of its aspects is not in accordance with the criteria „Stakeholder Inclusiveof the report in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting ness“, „Sustainability Context“, „Materiality” and „Completeness“ of the GRI’s Guidelines Vol. 4 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4 and that they were not used during the report’s preparation, This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to QQ the management approaches marked with the check mark ( ) in the CR-Report prepare the report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainare not in accordance with the requirements of the standard disclosures G4-DMA ability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4 and responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and proQQ the quantitative information marked with the check mark ( ) in the Company’s cesses relevant for the preparation of the report. CR-Report for the business year 2014 and in the additional Key Data Tool marked with the button „Reviewed“, are in material aspects not in accordance Our Independence and Quality Control with the criteria „Completeness“, „Comparability“, „Accuracy”, “Clarity”, We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the “Timeliness” and “Reliability” of the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Vol. 4. Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA-Codex), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. * Our engagement applies to the German CR Reports as a PDF-document on the internet and the Key-Data-Tool, which describe the sustainability performance of the Company. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German language – the German text is authoritative. The CR-Report 2014 is published GRI G4-33 on www.rwe.com. 83 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | About this Report | Report Profile · Assurance Report · Index According to GRI · Global Compact Progress Report 2014  Content It was not part of our engagement to review any links to external sources of docuQQ Understanding the Company regarding to its sustainability organizational mentation as well as prospective statements and statements from external experts structure, stakeholder dialogue and development process of the sustainability for the statements above. program; QQ Recording of the systems and processes for collection, analysis, validation and We also have been engaged to make recommendations for the further development aggregation of sustainability data and their documentation on a sample basis; of sustainability management and sustainability reporting based on the results of QQ Performance of site visits as part of the inspection of processes for collecting, our assurance engagement. analyzing and aggregating selected data at: Didcot B Power Station, npower, Oxford (United Kingdom), We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Power plant Neurath, RWE Power, Grevenbroich (Germany), Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical Power plant Frimmersdorf, RWE Power, Grevenbroich (Germany); requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement, under consideraQQ Analytical procedures on relevant data; tion of materiality, in order to provide our conclusion with limited assurance. QQ Comparison of corresponding data in the Company‘s Annual Report 2014; QQ Gaining further evidence for selected data of the report through inspection of In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more internal documents, contracts and invoices/reports from external service limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is providers. obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. Conclusion The procedures selected depend on the practitioner‘s judgment. Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following proceQQ the description of the materiality analysis marked with the check mark ( ), that dures concerning the materiality analysis, management approaches and key data – is necessary for a sustainability report to determine its content and the boundamarked with a check mark ( ) in the CR-Report and with a “Reviewed”-button in ries of its aspects, is not in accordance with the criteria „Stakeholder Inclusivethe Key Data Tool: ness“, „Sustainability Context“, „Materiality” and „Completeness“ of the GRI’s QQ Inquiries of personnel responsible for the preparation of the report regarding Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4 and that they were not used during the process to prepare the reporting of sustainability information and the the report’s preparation, underlying internal control system; GRI G4-33 84 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | About this Report | Report Profile · Assurance Report · Index According to GRI · Global Compact Progress Report 2014  Content QQ the management approaches marked with the check mark ( ) in the CR-Report Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations are not in accordance with the requirements of the standard disclosures G4-DMA Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 4 and for the further development of the Company’s sustainability management and susQQ the quantitative information marked with the check mark ( ) in the Company’s tainability reporting: CR-Report for the business year 2014 and in the additional Key Data Tool QQ Enhancement of the representation of economical, ecological and social impacts marked with the Button „Reviewed“, are in material aspects not in accordance of the Company as well as its influence on stakeholder decisions within the with the criteria „Completeness“, „Comparability“, „Accuracy”, “Clarity”, framework of the materiality analysis according to the GRI G4 requirements; “Timeliness” and “Reliability” of the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines QQ Inclusion of the GRI sector-specific guidance in the representation of the Vol. 4. management approaches; QQ Establishment of a process to update continuously all handbooks and process descriptions, that are relevant for any CR-data. Berlin, March 25th, 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Michael Werner ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch GRI G4-33 85 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | About this Report | Report Profile · Assurance Report · Index According to GRI · Global Compact Progress Report 2014  Content Index According to (Global Reporting Initiative) – Summary “Our responsibility. Report 2014” was prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) taking account of the option “In accordance” core. The G4 Guidelines valid since May 2013 have been applied. The “G4 Sector Disclosure” for Electric Utilities was also applied. Page External Page External verification verification General Standard Disclosures Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Strategy and Analysis G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 81; AR 184-210 G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 1f. G4-18 Process for defining the report content 4, 31-34, 80 Organisational Profile G4-19 Material Aspects identified 5-10, 31-34 1 G4-3 Name of the organisation RWE Group G4-20 Aspect Boundaries within the organisation 5-10, 31-34 1 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 3 G4-21 Aspect Boundaries outside the organization 5-10, 31-34 1 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Essen, Germany G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports 91f. G4-6 Countries with significant operations 12 G4-23 Significant changes in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 4, 91f. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form RWE AG; AR 12f. Stakeholder Engagement G4-8 Markets served 12; Key Data Tool G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged 28 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 3, 12; Key Data Tool; AR 48f., 120 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 28, 31; Online Index G4-10 Employees by employment type, gender and region Key Data Tool; Online Index; G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement and frequency 28-31 AR 59, 114 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and response 24, 28 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 99,8 %; Online Index Report Profile G4-12 Description of the supply chain 64, 66 G4-28 Reporting period 81 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 8f., 35-39 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report April 2014 G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary principle 25, 46, 69; AR 75-78 G4-30 Reporting cycle annually G4-15 External initiatives that the organisation endorses 24, 30, 64-66 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report 93 G4-16 Significant memberships in industry and business associations 65f.; Online Index G4-32 GRI Content Index chosen for the “In accordance” option 81, 85-91 EU1 Installed capacity 3, 12f., 15, 17, 19, 21; Key Data Tool; Online Index G4-33 External verification of the report 80, 82-84 EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source 7; Key Data Tool; AR 42f. Governance EU3 Residential, industrial and commercial customer accounts 3, 9, 12; Key Data Tool; AR 46-48 G4-34 Governance structure, incl. committees of the highest governance body 23; AR 92-94 EU4 Length of transmission and distribution lines 8, 13, 19; Online Index Ethics and Integrity EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances Key Data Tool; AR 44f. G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 25, 64 1 Pages 5-10 excluded GRI G4-32 86 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | About this Report | Report Profile · Assurance Report · Index According to GRI · Global Compact Progress Report 2014  Content Page External Page External verification verification Specific Standard Disclosures Aspect: Emissions – Management Approach 36, 38f., 46f. Economic G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 39; Key Data Tool; Online Index Aspect: Economic Performance – Management Approach 11 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 39; Key Data Tool G4-EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed 50, 52; Key Data Tool G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 39; Key Data Tool G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 39f.; Key Data Tool; Online Index; G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 39; Key Data Tool climate change AR 16, 18, 20, 22, 26, 30-33, 83 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 39 G4-EC3 Coverage of benefit plan obligations Key Data Tool; AR 156-161 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Online Index G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from governments Online Index; AR 12f. G4-EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions 48; Key Data Tool; Online Index Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts – Management Approach 36, 49f.; Online Index Aspect: Effluents and Waste – Management Approach 36, 46-48 G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services provided 49-52 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Key Data Tool; Online Index G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts 49-51 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Key Data Tool; Online Index Aspect: Procurement Practices – Management Approach 37, 63f. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills None; Online Index G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers* Online Index Aspect: Products and Services – Management Approach 36, 38f. Aspect: Availability and Reliability – Management Approach 72-74 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 38f., 43-45, 47f. EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand* 13f., 17f., 40f. Aspect: Compliance – Management Approach 36, 46f. Aspect: Demand-Side Management – Management Approach 53f. G4-EN29 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations None; Online Index Aspect: Research and Development – Management Approach 76f.; AR 71-74 Aspect: Overall – Management Approach 36, 46f. Aspect: Plant Decommissioning – Management Approach AR 156, 162 G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and investments Key Data Tool Aspect: System Efficiency of the power plant portfolio and distribution – 36, 43f., 74 Management Approach Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment – Management Approach 37, 63-66 EU11 Average generation efficiency 44f. G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 65f. EU12 Transmission and distribution losses Online Index G4-EN33 Significant environmental impacts in the supply chain* 65f. Environmental Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms – Management Approach 25 Aspect: Energy – Management Approach 36, 43f. G4-EN34 Formal grievances about environmental impacts** G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 393.4 TWh = 1,416.3 PJ; Labour Practices and Decent Work Key Data Tool Aspect: Employment – Management Approach 37, 59f. Aspect: Water – Management Approach 36, 46-48 G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover* Key Data Tool; AR 114 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Key Data Tool; Online Index EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years Key Data Tool Aspect: Biodiversity – Management Approach 36, 46-48 EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees Online Index G4-EN11 Operational sites in protected areas Online Index EU18 Health and safety training of contractor and subcontractor employees 70; Online Index G4-EN12 Impacts on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value 46-48 Aspect: Labour/Management Relations – Management Approach 37, 59f. EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats 48; Online Index G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 60; Online Index GRI G4-32 87 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | About this Report | Report Profile · Assurance Report · Index According to GRI · Global Compact Progress Report 2014  Content Page External Page External verification verification Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety – Management Approach 37, 68f. EU22 Number of people displaced and compensation approx. 375; Online Index G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and work-related fatalities* 69; Key Data Tool Aspect: Disaster/Emergency Planning and Response – Management Approach 27 G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or risk of diseases 69 Aspect: Anti-corruption – Management Approach 25f. Aspect: Training and Education – Management Approach 60f.; Online Index G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and 26; Online Index G4-LA10 Programmes that support the continued employability of employees 60f.; Online Index risks identified* G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption* 25 Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity – Management Approach 59f. 62 Aspect: Public Policy – Management Approach 20, 26-30 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 62; Key Data Tool; by indicators of diversity* AR 6f., 212-215 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions Online Index Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men – Management Approach Online Index Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour – Management Approach 25 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Online Index G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly AR 83, 175 Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices – Management Approach 37, 63-66 practices Aspect: Compliance – Management Approach 25f. G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices 65f. criteria G4-SO8 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations None; Online Index G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labour practices in the supply chain* 65f. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society – Management Approach 37, 63-66 Aspect: Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms – Management Approach 25 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts 65f. G4-LA16 Formal grievances about labour practices** on society Human Rights G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken* 65f. Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment – Management Approach 37, 63-66 Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society – Management Approach 25 G4-SO11 Number of formal grievances about impacts on society** G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights 65f. criteria Product Responsibility G4-HR11 Significant human rights impacts in the supply chain* 65f. Aspect: Product and Service Labelling – Management Approach 36, 53f., 56 Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms – Management Approach 25 G4-PR3 Principles/procedures for product and service information and labelling Online Index G4-HR12 Formal grievances about human rights impacts** G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 54, 56 Society Aspect: Customer Privacy – Management Approach 26, 56 Aspect: Local Communities – Management Approach 29f., 37, 49f. G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy** G4-SO1 P ercentage of operations with implemented local community 28, 49f.; Online Index Aspect: Access – Management Approach 72-74 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs EU28 Power outage frequency Online Index G4-SO2 O perations with actual and potential negative impacts on local 27, 46; Online Index communities EU29 Average power outage duration 73f. AR = Annual Report 2014 External review carried out (p. 82-84; AR p. 216f.): A > detailed GRI Index including additional information and explanations in case of Online Index = detailed GRI Index Yes Non only partial reporting or no reporting is available on the Internet. The accuracy and * = Status: partially reported ** = not reported alignment of this detailed index has been verified by the GRI Content Index Service. GRI G4-32 88 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | About this Report | Report Profile · Assurance Report · Index According to GRI · Global Compact Progress Report 2014  Content UN Global Compact Progress Report 2014 RWE supports the United Nations Global Compact and wants to make a contribution lines, programmes and management systems which we have also introduced with our with the worldwide implementation of its ten principles. These have been adopted sphere of influence. The table also highlights the measures that have been taken durword for word in the RWE Code of Conduct. The following chart identifies the guideing the period under review and the specific results obtained. Principle Systems Measures Results Principle 1: Support of human rights Social Charter and minimum standards for restructuring operRestructuring with social compensation by working together Compliance with principles 1 – 5 assured through national legations carried out for the European companies in the RWE with employee representatives and unions (p. 60 f.) islation in Europe, cooperation with the unions, and RWE’s Group, covering 99.8 % of the workforce Assessment and audit of suppliers (p. 65 f.) own principles which apply to all employees of the company Principle 2: Elimination of human rights violations ILO core standards are defined for the Social Charter Co-founder of Bettercoal, auditing of coal mines, application Suppliermanagement (p. 63 ff.) of information for “Counterparty Risk Assessment” (p. 65 f.) Principle 3: Ensuring freedom of association Pay and social benefits above the national average Principle 4: Abolition of all forms of forced labour Principle 5: Abolition of child labour Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination Diversity management (p. 62) Promotion programme in cooperation with the “Association Percentage of women in management positions increased to Group-wide women’s network for Women on Supervisory Boards” (FiDAR – Frauen in die 14.3 % (p. 62) Aufsichtsräte”) Establishment of the “Inclusive Culture Focus Group” (p. 62) Percentage of people with severe disabilities increased to 6.4 % in Germany Principle 7: Precautionary environmental protection Environmental management (p. 46 ff.) Climate protection, energy efficiency and biodiversity/enviReduction in water consumption by 10 % Strategy for reducing the CO2 emission factor (p. 38 ff.) ronmental protection as part of the CR Programme (p. 35 ff.) Reduction in specific emissions of the air pollutants NOX and Financial risks of CO2 emissions are presented in risk manageCooperation with IUCN (p. 48) SO2 by more than 10 % (p. 47 f.) ment Development of a group-wide Biodiversity Guideline (p. 48) Revision of legally sound, operational organisation for environmental protection responsibilities (p. 47) 89 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | About this Report | Report Profile · Assurance Report · Index According to GRI · Global Compact Progress Report 2014  Content Principle Systems Measures Results Principle 8: Initiatives to promote greater environmental Consultancy and services for intelligent use of energy with Comprehensive energy consultation for more than 800,000 responsibility residential and business customers (p. 55 ff.) customers (p. 55) Initiative for energy education “3malE – Bildung mit Energie” Offerings for controlling energy (p. 56) or “3malE – Education with Energy” (p. 51 f.) Energy education packages for children and teenagers (p. 51 f.) Principle 9: Development and diffusion of environmental Strategy to reduce the CO2 emission factor (p. 38 ff.), finanResearch in intelligent energy management (p. 77 f.) Modernisation of the power plant portfolio (p. 40) friendly technologies cial risks of CO2 emissions are presented in risk management Expansion of renewables-based energies (p. 40 ff.) Start-up of plants in the area of renewable energies, around Innovation management (p. 53 ff., 76 ff.) Pilot project on networking existing technologies for electro300 MW of wind power (p. 40 ff.) mobility (p. 77 f.) Range of intelligent energy products, such as RWE SmartHome or RWE easyOptimize (p. 56 .) Provision of charging infrastructure for electromobility with more than 3,800 charging stations in Europe (p. 57) Principle 10: Anti-corruption measures RWE Code of Conduct and Group guidelines for prevention of Drawing up detailed corruption risk scenarios (p. 25 ff.) Compliance training sessions for around 4,200 employees in corruption and organisational regulations (p. 25 ff.) Training of the workforce with an Intranet-based training proGermany and around 1,000 employees in other regions gramme and on-site training (p. 25) where RWE operates, in on-site events (p. 25) Review of the Compliance Management System (CMS) for anti-corruption commissioned in accordance with the German Institute of Auditors (IDW) Audit Standard 980 successfully completed (p. 26) 90 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Key Figures at a Glance  Content KEY FIGURES Field Economy Performance indicator External electricity sales volume billion kWh 2014 258.3 20131 270.9 2012 277.8 2011 294.6 2010 311.2 AT A GLANCE External gas sales volume Electricity customers billion kWh million 281.3 16.0 320.7 16.1 306.8 16.4 322.2 16.6 395.4 16.2 Gas customers million 7.2 7.4 7.7 7.8 7.9 External revenue € million 48,468 52,425 53,227 51,686 53,320 Share of the revenue of the RWE Group earned in countries % 10.0 13.0 13.7 12.4 12.0 with a high or very high risk of corruption2 1 Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and Net income € million 1,704 -2,757 1,306 1,806 3,308 due to first-time application of IFRS 11 Value added € million -277 811 1,589 1,286 2,876 (see Annual Report, p. 41) Capital expenditure € million 3,440 3,978 5,544 7,072 6,643 2 Countries rated lower than 60 on a scale of 0 to 100 in the Corruption PercepEnvironment Power plant capacity MW 49,064 49,310 51,977 49,238 52,214 tions Index 2014 by the anti-corruption RWE power plant portfolio organisation Transparency International, with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk NOX emissions g/kWh 0.60 0.68 0.69 0.60 0.58 of corruption SO2 emissions g/kWh 0.33 0.37 0.4 0.31 0.29 3 Difference between water withdrawals Particulate emissions g/kWh 0.020 0.022 0.025 0.021 0.019 for power plants and returns to rivers and other surface waters; excluding power Primary energy consumption billion kWh 393.4 409.6 435.7 390.6 403.0 plants with seawater cooling Water consumption3 m3/ MWh 1.46 1.45 1.56 1.62 1.41 4 Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions from inhouse sources (gas transmission, electricity Total power plant portfolio generation) Specific CO2 emissions mt/ MWh 0.745 0.751 0.792 0.787 0.732 5 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity Scope 1 CO2 emissions 4 million mt 156.6 165.8 181.7 163.8 167.1 purchased from third parties Scope 2 CO2 emissions5 million mt 1.4 1.5 1.9 2.4 3.1 6 Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that Scope 3 CO2 emissions 6 million mt 90.8 105.0 105.2 121.0 135.7 do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2, produced through the generation of Share of the Group’s electricity generation accounted for % 4.8 6.4 5.5 4.3 4.0 electricity procured from third parties, the by renewables transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party grids, the production and Society Employees7 59,784 64,896 70,208 72,068 70,856 transmission of used fuel, as well as the Share of women in the company % 26.6 27.7 27.5 27.1 26.2 consumption of gas sold to customers 7 Converted to full-time employees Share of women in executive positions % 14.3 13.9 12.3 11.3 10.8 8 Lost Time Incident Frequency (number of accidents leading to the loss of at least Fluctuation rate % 14.2 11.5 10.8 10.1 8.3 one person day per million working hours); occupational accidents from 2012 onwards Health ratio % 95.4 95.4 95.5 95.8 95.6 including employees of contractors Lost-time incident frequency LTIF7 2.3 2.3 2.8 2.8 3.5 9 Including employees of third-party companies Fatal work-related accidents 9 5 1 4 3 1 91 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Key Figures at a Glance  Content Explanations of the Indicators The following table provides explanations of our indicators. These are sorted according to the sequence in the indicator tool. Indicator category Explanations Electricity generation Including electricity procured from power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In the business year 2014, this amounted to 15.9 billion kWh in the Conventional Electricity Generation Division, of which 12.9 billion kWh was generated by hard-coal power plants and 0.7 billion kWh in the Renewable Energies Division. Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report, p. 41) Power plant capacity Including capacities of power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. On 31 December 2014, this electricity generating capacity amounted to 4,351 MW, of which 2,151 MW were based on hard coal. Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report, p. 41) CO2 emissions Including power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In the year under review, these plants produced 14.8 million mt of CO2. Calculated on the basis of electricity production, not including emissions from biogenic fuels. Scope 1: direct CO2 emissions from in-house sources (gas transmission, electricity generation) Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party grids, the production and transmission of used fuel, as well as the consumption of gas sold to customers Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report, p. 41) Pollutant emissions Not including gas-fired plants for blast furnaces (Related to the area of electricity generation from natural gas) Fuels Fiscal 2007, adjusted since “Our Responsibility. Report 2007” Fossil fuels used, without biomass (Related to primary energy consumption) Waste Owing to a change in the rules, the use of ash to refill disused opencast mines has no longer counted as recycling since 2010. Water Difference between water withdrawals for power plants and returns to rivers and other surface waters; excluding power plants with seawater cooling Reportable nuclear incidents at INES: International Nuclear Event Sca our nuclear power stations (INES) Workforce FTE = Full-Time Equivalent: converted to full-time positions 2009 excluding Essent Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report, p. 41) GRI G4-22; G4-23 92 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Key Figures at a Glance  Content Indicator category Explanations Occupational Health and Safety Lost Time Incident Frequency (number of accidents leading to the loss of at least one person day per million working hours); occupational accidents from 2012 onwards including employees of contractors Staff costs Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report, p. 41) Customers Not including minority stakes External electricity and 2011 including gas trading gas sales volume Including small volumes subsumed under “Other, consolidation” Including small volumes in the Conventional Power Generation Division Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report, p. 41) Financial indicators RWE Innogy was established in February 2008 Countries rated with a score of at least 60 points on a scale of 0 to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index 2014 by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International, with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption. Since 2008, EBITDA has also included operating income from investments. Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report, p. 41) Value Management Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report, p. 41) Chash flow/capital expenditure/ Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report, p. 41) depreciation and amortisation Asset/capital structure Partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11 (see Annual Report, p. 41) Dividend/Dividend payment Dividend proposal for the fiscal year 2014 of RWE AG, subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2015 Value added 2007 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2008, 2006 excluding discontinued operations (American Water); partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11, see Annual Report, p. 41 (Related to total value added, to the employees, to creditors, to minority interests, net income) Only the taxes actually paid are included, not tax expenditure, 2007 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2008, 2006 excluding discontinued operations (American Water); partly adjusted values for 2013 on account of discontinued operations (RWE DEA) and due to first-time application of IFRS 11, see Annual Report, p. 41 (Related to value added to the government) 2008 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2009, 2007 adjusted in accordance with the Annual Report 2008, 2006 excluding discontinued operations (American Water), 2014 proposed dividend (Related to the percentage of net income to shareholders) GRI G4-22; G4-23 93 Our Responsibility. Report 2014 | Contact and Imprint  Content CONTACT AND IMPRINT Published by Dr Marita Hilgenstock RWE Aktiengesellschaft Phone +49 201 12-15251 Opernplatz 1 Email marita.hilgenstock@rwe.com 45128 Essen Germany Dr Erik Riedel Phone +49 201 12-00 Phone +49 201 12-17417 Fax +49 201 12-17423 Email erik.riedel@rwe.com Email responsibility@rwe.com Responsible Editorial office Professor Dr. Henning Rentz RWE Aktiengesellschaft Phone +49 201 12-15813 Corporate Responsibility Email henning.rentz@rwe.com Dr Matthias Kussin Concept, texts, layout in cooperation with Phone +49 201 12-15586 akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh Email matthias.kussin@rwe.com Munich www.akzente.de Daniel Schneiders Phone +49 201 12-16566 Translation by Email daniel.schneiders@rwe.com Tristam Carrington-Windo Stefanie Dudley Creation of the data tool in cooperation with Phone +49 201 12-15594 NEW.EGO GmbH Email stefanie.dudley@rwe.com Munich www.newego.de Dr Thomas Gremme Phone +49 201 12-15634 Editorial Deadline Email thomas.gremme@rwe.com 9 March 2015 GRI G4-31 RWE Aktiengesellschaft Opernplatz 1 45128 Essen Germany T +49 201 12-00 F +49 201 12-17423 I www.rwe.com
