Communication On Progress Serac Group 2015 General Introduction & CEO’s Statement Serac’s continued support towards the Global Compact initiative It’s with great excitement that I want to address our very first Communication On Progress to the United Nations; the present document reaffirms our support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As we are also committed to share any relevant CSR information with our stakeholders, I can only encourage you to refer to our Annual CSR Report, which will be available for the first time in 2015. We will give deeper reporting details, as well as auditing results, local initiatives of our subsidiaries, etc. As you will see, this COP will give the reader a general overlook of our actions during the past two years on how we integrated the Ten Principles into our business strategy, our corporate culture and our daily operations. We are very proud of both our teams and our machines: it’s no secret that in order to achieve significant economical growth during more than Guy Dumargue 40 years, both excellence of machines and efficiency of teams are critical success factors. It is with great pride that I can Chairman of the Board confidently assess that’s something we daily achieve here at Serac. Serac With my best regards, Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 2: internationally proclaimed human rights; Make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals. Human Rights Extract from our Ethical Code regarding Human Description Rights: With our international deployment (our factories are located in France, Malaysia, Brazil and the USA), Serac is directly “By adhering to the United concerned about the definition of Human Rights, since it covers several legal frames. Our main objective is to influence all of Nations Global Compact, Serac is our stakeholders to respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and environmental protection. Our Ethical Code committed to respect and complies with the principles in The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948; the Principles from the International Labour promote fundamental rights from Organization; the Guiding Principles of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) intended to the Universal Declaration of international companies; the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and any legislative frame specific to countries in Human Rights, the dignity and which the group operates. value of a human being. Implementation Serac is also committed to respect legislations which come from local Based on our commitment towards Human Rights, we have set up an Ethical Code, which has been handed out to all Labour Codes where the group employees, to make our position clear for all our stakeholders. We have published and actively informed all our suppliers, operates, as well as those from partners and employees of our commitment and encouraged them to commit as well. An internal system is in place where the the International Labour employees are trained in regards to our commitment. Organization (freedom of association and the effective Measurement recognition of the right to collective bargaining, effective We launched a whistleblower system in order to allow all of our employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect abolition of child labour, any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines and Ethical Code. No reports have been filed since the system has been elimination of all forms of forced implemented. or compulsory labour).” Principle 3: Principle 4: Principle 6: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Businesses should labour; The elimination of uphold the freedom of discrimination in respect of association and the employment and occupation effective recognition of Principle 5: Assessment, Policy and the right to collective The effective abolition of child labour; Goals. bargaining; Labour Practices Extract from our Ethical Code regarding Labour Description Practises: Serac complies to legislations and regulations related to child labour and other forced or compulsory labour. In compliance “Serac ensures its associates’ with international standards, Serac commits to systematically compensate or remunerate its associates through the rights. By adhering to the United following means (non-exhaustive list): salaries, paid leave and overtime. Serac is also committed that these compensations Nations Global Compact, Serac be at least equal if not above the minimum required by the law in the country in which Serac is established. commits to create an initiative to promote diversity, in conformance Implementation with the Millennium Development Goals. Same implementation than for Human Rights (please refer to our Ethical Code). Serac prohibits all illicit conduct constituted of sexual or moral harassment, including in the absence of hierarchy or subordination. Serac commits to guarantee its Serac also commits to fight employees an adapted working environment in adequacy with its health and security awareness policy. Moreover, Serac against all forms of discrimination, thoroughly makes sure that each associate is in legal age to work as well as legal in the scope of their work and projects regardless its nature, whether (visas, work permits, etc.). linked to sex, ethnic origin, nationality, religion, health, Measurement handicap, marital status, sexual orientation, political opinion or We launched a whistleblower system in order to allow all of our employees, clients and partners to report back if they philosophical opinion of its suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines and Ethical Code. No reports have been filed since the system associates, whether during the has been implemented. hiring process or in working relationships.” Principle 7: Principle 9: Businesses should support a precaution any approach to Encourage the development and Principle 8: environmental challenges diffusion of environmentally friendly Undertake initiatives to technologies Assessment, Policy and promote greater Goals. environmental responsibility; Environmental Principles Extract from our Ethical Description Code regarding Serac is aware of environmental impacts linked to its activities and therefore encourages all its stakeholders to prefer Environmental Principles: policies which respect the environment. In this context, Serac commits to respect the Principles established by the Rio “Serac commits to decrease Convention nuisances linked to the manufacturing (exhaustion of Implementation non-renewable resources), use (energy consumption) and end of Serac’s environmental objectives are numerous: local and international legislation conformity, continuous improvement of life (pollution) of its IT equipment. existing systems, communication on progress to organisations such as the United Nations, setting-up extra-financial indicators, environmental issues awareness towards associates, analysis of CO2 rejection and energy consumption… To materialise these objectives, Serac commits to multiplying these initiatives: waste repurposing, energy saving programs, responsible resource management, less travelling… Serac also commits to take the initiative to analyse the energy Measurement efficiency of its machines: electrical consumption, water During the first year of our adherence to the Global Compact initiative, we launched multiple reporting tools inspired from consumption, polluting the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). During second year, we analysed our first figures and the results are here: we’ve been products…” improving our Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) score, as well as our score in EcoVadis’ evaluation. These two independent and recognized auditing companies reward our efforts so far. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. s Extract from our Ethical Anti-Corruption Principles Code regarding AntiCorruption Principles: Description “Serac’s associates will act Serac is convinced that trust is the base of a healthy economy and society – corruption destroys that trust. Through the risks according to the OECD Convention and difference it causes, corruption slows economics growth and social progress: the sums which are embezzled are often at from 17 December 1997 on the the cost of collective interest, increasing poverty, and environmental and health concerns. Corruption practices, pursuits and fight against corruption. On a scandals which are triggered are serious concerns to the reputation of companies and those of implicated individuals. general note, Serac encourages all its associates to contribute to Implementation these efforts of transparency in business while having constant Serac is hence committed to respect the Principles of the United Nations Convention against corruption: through this, Serac vigilance, lucidity and ethics. refuses to give, receive or supply, directly or indirectly, any form of benefit (whether it be monetary or in nature) to a State representative or on his/her behalf, to a political party or on their behalf, to an employee or a client’s public or Operations and transactions private agent or on their behalf, to a loan organization or a bank or on their behalf, in the sole objective to obtain or which are performed by Serac maintain a commercial transaction or even receive any ease or favour implying the transgression of a regulation. Group are saved accurately in the accounts of each subsidiary, in Measurement compliance with the effective norms and regulations. No parallel We launched a whistleblower system in order to allow all of our employees, clients and partners to report back if they un-saved activity, or other secret suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines and Ethical Code. No reports have been filed since the system account will be tolerated within has been implemented. Serac has also never faced any legal charges regarding any bribery, corruption or anti-trust cases. Serac Group.” Appendix  Ethical Code……………………….p 8  Suppliers Code…………………..p 20  2015 CSR Vision…………………p 28 Ethical Code I. Introduction II. Summary of commitments III. Social Aspects a. Human Rights b. Compliance to Local Laws i. Compliance to Labour Standards c. Employee Rights d. Customer, Supplier, and Subcontractor Relationship Management e. Moral and Sexual Harassments f. Political Neutrality g. Mutual Cultural Respect h. Management Systems IV. Environmental Aspects a. Respect for the Environment b. Awareness V. Economic Aspects a. Corruption b. Free Competition c. Conflicts of Interest d. Finance e. Confidentiality VI. Summary I. Introduction “We honor our commitments” is not only an advertising slogan: this motto has a significant place in the core of the existence of the Serac group since 1969. Through this motto, concepts such as ethics, respect, and responsibility are implicitly laid in the company foundations. Honouring our commitments enables us to make a promise to respect the terms and conditions of a contract and all its stakeholders. The concept of commitment shows that Serac chooses to be responsible, pro-active, and present with the concerned stakeholders, may they be direct or indirect. These commitments are multiple: they are firstly intended to our customer, towards whom Serac commits its deadlines, quality, and assistance. But not forgetting our partners, our suppliers, and civil society organisations and local authorities with whom we operate! To extend our willingness to go further in terms of CSR, Serac pursues its vision of a company convinced by the durability of its relationships with all its stakeholders. Serac has decided to create a Code of Ethics to highlight the existing group strategy in terms of social responsibility and sustainable development. Serac believes it must make ethics a vital means of improvement for its global performance. Ethics are essential to operations, won contracts and markets. It is also the pedestal of all forms of well managed collaboration with our employees, our clients and our suppliers. This Code of Ethics is aligned with the three pillars of sustainable development and commits Serac to the following axes:  Social and Societal  Environmental  Economic This Code of Ethics is intended to all of Serac’s different stakeholders and will be supported by its team members. What are Serac’s expectations from its team members in terms of ethics? Serac simply expects that its teams act in compliance to ethics and local laws, as well as the group’s Code of Ethics at any given time or place. Serac also expects its teams to be confident enough to speak out and act without fear. As a whole, Serac and its associates have the responsibility to notify all illegal and fraudulent conduct or that may be against ethics. By notifying and rising such issues, Serac will be able to maintain a healthy and ethical working environment without compromising its performance on all levels. In any case an associate will be reprimanded if he or she notifies Serac a concern in good faith. What to do in case of an issue? In the case where a situation goes against the Code of Ethics, Serac encourages its employees to share this information to their usual hierarchy communication process. This can begin with a discussion with a direct superior (or with a person at the following hierarchy rank), a representative from Human Resources or the legal department. Any associate can also take the initiative to contact the Ethics Committee through the following e-mail address: ethics@serac.com This committee is composed by management representatives, employee representatives, and the CSR representative. What are Serac’s commitments in terms of ethics? Serac does not tolerate reprisal against its associates, clients, suppliers or individuals that will notify the company of any issue whether ethical or legal. Anyone who uses reprisal towards a person who speaks up violates Serac’s ethical standards and will be internally submitted to possible sanctions defined in the Company Rules & Regulations, or, externally, to judicial proceedings. Those who speak up effectively help maintain a healthy and pleasant work environment while keeping it efficient and protecting the group’s reputation of excellence. Serac is committed to consider each reported allegation in a serious manner, with the objective of resolving each one in a fair and impartial way. From the overall tools that are available to each individual who wishes to communicate on an ethical concern, Serac will not receive any anonymous complaint. Indeed, employees, clients, suppliers or individuals (those who speak up) who would like to share their concern have sufficient and solid guaranties to not worry. Serac will be strongly compelled to confidentiality in all types of situations. II. Summary of Commitments Generally, Serac concurs with:  The principles in The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948;  The principles from the International Labour Organization;  The guiding principles of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) intended to international companies;  The principles of the United Nations Global Compact  Any legislative frame specific to countries in which the group operates. III. Social Aspects a. Human Rights By adhering to the United Nations Global Compact, Serac is committed to respect and promote fundamental rights from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights1, the dignity and value of a human being2. Serac is also committed to respect legislations which come from local Labour Codes where the group operates, as well as those from the International Labour Organization (freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, effective abolition of child labour, elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour)3. b. Compliance to Local Laws Whichever the country or economic zone where the group operates, Serac will always ensure its compliance to local rules and regulations. On a wider scope, Serac commits to be aligned with the framework of international laws and legislations/regulations: international trade, anti-trust laws, data protection. i. Compliance to Labour Standards Serac complies with legislations and regulations related to child labour and other forced or compulsory labour. In compliance with international standards, Serac commits to systematically compensate or remunerate its associates through the following means (non-exhaustive list): Salaries, Paid leave, Overtime. Serac is also committed that these compensations be at least equal if not above the minimum required by the law in the country in which Serac is established. Serac prohibits all illicit conduct constituted of sexual or moral harassment, including in the absence of hierarchy or subordination. 1 See The Universal Declaration of Human Rights 2 See the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 3 See the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Serac commits to guarantee its employees an adapted working environment in adequacy with its health and security awareness policy. Moreover, Serac will thoroughly make sure that each associate be: In legal age to work, Legal in the scope of their work and projects (visas, work permits, etc.) c. Employee Rights Serac ensures its associates’ rights. By adhering to the United Nations Global Compact, Serac commits to create an initiative to promote diversity, in conformance with the Millennium Development Goals. Serac also commits to fight against all forms of discrimination, regardless its nature, whether linked to sex, ethnic origin, nationality, religion, health, handicap, marital status, sexual orientation, political opinion or philosophical opinion of its associates, whether during the hiring process or in working relationships. Serac recognises the right and the importance of workers’ union. In any case, Serac will not tolerate any form of intimidation or harassment towards its associates who wishes to approach or keep away from a legally recognised trade-union. The respect of dignity and private life of each of its associates as well as their well-being constitutes an important concern to Serac. Consequently, any associate will never be forced to work over the number of hours initially planned in their work contract. In the event of overtime hours, these will be paid for and will not in any case be imposed. Serac is also committed in terms of equal rights of disabled individuals. The 2010 ratification of the Code of Employment for Workers with Disabilities includes fair and equal treatment of those with disabilities, especially regarding: access to employment according to acquired or potential expertise, professional training and professional evolution in the company. d. Customer, Supplier, and Subcontractor Relationship Management Serac commits to work honestly and fairly with all its customers by supplying them with quality products and services which meet their requirements. Serac is also committed to be accurate on the information given on its products and services rendered. Confidential, sensitive, or private information related to clients must not in any case be communicated to others by any employee of Serac Group. The support given by agents, consultants or intermediaries for commercial purposes may be necessary in areas where Serac Group’s implementation is poor due to technical competencies. The resort to these intermediaries is only justified in a contractual framework and only if the services are genuinely rendered. Their payment is according to these services and will be in line with their contract with Serac. Serac associates do not accept to receive, directly or indirectly, any payment, gift, loan, entertainment, or any kind of benefit from anyone engaged in a commercial relationship with Serac Group. Only courteous and hospitality acts are accepted, work meals, or other forms of expressions related to the profession or to the country’s culture, as well as gifts other than monetary if their value is low and if such practice is conform to customs. Hierarchy will have to be informed of all kinds of requests or offer of unusual benefits which concerns an associate. e. Moral and Sexual Harassments Serac respects French and European laws in effect regarding moral harassment. Any violation of this legislation will be sanctioned. Moral harassment is defined by repeated acts with the objective to degrade working conditions likely to infringe a worker’s rights at work and their dignity, to alter their physical health or to compromise their professional future. These acts cover numerous aspects but essentially4: acts with the objective to morally harm or upset an associate, voluntarily push an individual to commit a mistake, all forms of humiliation or hierarchical intimidation, physical or social isolation… Serac encourages all its associates to speak up if need be. 4 Code Civil du Travail, chapitre IV, article 169 Serac respects French and European laws in effect regarding sexual harassment 5. Any violation of this legislation will be sanctioned. Sexual harassment consists of harassing others through forced acts in order to obtain sexual favours for the harasser or a third party. Serac encourages all its associates to speak up if need be. f. Political Neutrality Serac has never and will never contribute in any form to the financing of any political party or similar organisation. Serac associates who have political activities will do it privately, outside workplace and working hours. They are prohibited, in this context, to communicate on their political memberships within the Serac Group. g. Mutual Cultural Respect Due to its international activities, Serac Group is regularly confronted to manage many nationalities, cultures and languages in its exchanges. Serac commits to respect a certain form of cultural neutrality towards all its clients, suppliers and employees in a mutual cultural respect context of customs. h. Management Systems Serac ensures to apply consistent attitudes with a policy of good company governance. Its board as well as the management commit to create and entertain management systems to prevent all forms of attitudes which may go against the Code of Conduct and to ensure that all of Serac Group’s associates are aware of the rules in the Code of Conduct. Serac has also set-up internal measures which allow verifying:  The working conditions of employees and all relevant stakeholders at its suppliers and sub-contractors, in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  The compliance to effective laws and regulations in its subsidiaries. 5 Code Civil du Travail, article L122-46 IV. Environmental Aspects a. Respect for the Environment Serac is aware of environmental impacts linked to its activities and therefore encourages all its stakeholders to prefer policies which respect the environment. In this context, Serac commits to respect the Principles established by the Rio Convention6. Serac’s environmental objectives are numerous: local and international legislation conformity, continuous improvement of existing systems, communication on progress to organisations such as the United Nations, setting-up extra-financial indicators, environmental issues awareness towards associates, analysis of CO2 rejection and energy consumption… To materialise these objectives, Serac commits to multiplying these initiatives: waste repurposing, energy saving programs, responsible resource management, less travelling… b. Awareness Serac is committed to pursue its efforts in Green IT, more importantly by the decrease of this ecological footprint linked to the use of Information Technology (IT). Serac commits to decrease nuisances linked to the manufacturing (exhaustion of nonrenewable resources), use (energy consumption) and end of life (pollution) of its IT equipment. Serac also commits to take the initiative to analyse the energy efficiency of its machines: electrical consumption, water consumption, polluting products… 6 See the Principles of the United Nations Declaration on the Environment and Economic Development, June 1992 V. Economic Aspects a. Corruption Serac is convinced that trust is the base of a healthy economy and society – corruption destroys that trust. Through the risks and difference it causes, corruption slows economics growth and social progress: the sums which are embezzled are often at the cost of collective interest, increasing poverty, and environmental and health concerns. Corruption practices, pursuits and scandals which are triggered are serious concerns to the reputation of companies and those of implicated individuals. Serac is hence committed to respect the Principles of the United Nations Convention against corruption7. Through this, Serac refuses to give, receive or supply, directly or indirectly, any form of benefit (whether it be monetary or in nature) to a State representative or on his/her behalf, to a political party or on their behalf, to an employee or a client’s public or private agent or on their behalf, to a loan organization or a bank or on their behalf, in the sole objective to obtain or maintain a commercial transaction or even receive any ease or favour implying the transgression of a regulation. Serac’s associates will act according to the OECD Convention from 17 December 1997 8 on the fight against corruption. On a general note, Serac encourages all its associates to contribute to these efforts of transparency in business while having constant vigilance, lucidity and ethics. b. Free Competition Serac respects all its stakeholders in its professional environment, including its competitors: exchanges are essential and Serac acts with its competitors as how the group would like to be treated. The interest for Serac is to work in an industry were commercial practices benefit from a good reputation: the fact of sharing information could give the impression that agreements on prices are made, sharing land or all other forms of manipulation or distortion with competitors. 7 See the United Nations Convention against corruption 8 See the Convention implementation In such, Serac commits not to associate to agreements with competitors with the intention to fix prices, falsify a call for tender, share certain markets, limit production or boycott a client or a supplier. Each associate is therefore prohibited from all interest from a supplier or client, except if it is done through the purchase of titles on public markets, in the context of a title portfolio management and in the compliance of rules prohibiting the use of privileged information. c. Conflicts of Interest In terms of conflicts of interest, Serac commits to prevent situations in which personal situations could be in conflict with the interests of Serac Group (the most simple suspicion of conflicts of interest could harm the Group’s reputation as well as those of its associates). This is why Serac commits in a proactive initiative which encourages its associates to report all potential conflict of interest, even if these could only give the impression to influence opinions or acts on other associates. d. Finances Operations and transactions which are performed by Serac Group are saved accurately in the accounts of each subsidiary, in compliance with the effective norms and regulations. No parallel un-saved activity or other secret account will be tolerated within Serac Group. Serac commits to communicate fully and accurately on such information to concerned parties when necessary. e. Confidentiality From the nature of activities of Serac Group, the term confidentiality is particularly sensitive and more importantly regarding: innovations, patents, commercial strategies, prices, or any other potentially sensitive activity. In the scope of his/her work, if an associate were in possession of sensitive information (personal information, protected expertise, confidential data…), the latter would ensure its compliance to confidentiality and will ensure its protection. Each Serac Group associate therefore has the obligation not to divulge professional and confidential information to which he/she has access to, to external third parties (including members of his/her family) or to individuals within the Group who are not entitled to such knowledge. Each associate is prohibited to directly or indirectly use, for personal reasons, privileged information that he/she could have in the context of his/her work. In the event of leaving, each associate will have to give back all the confidential information he/she had access to (including all electronic copies) to his/her hierarchy. VI. Summary 1. Thorough compliance to laws, regulations and internal norms. especially in terms of health and security protection and the preservation of the environment; 2. Respect of associates, by complying to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to the International Labour Organization fundamental conventions 3. Respect, honesty and fairness towards clients, partners and competitors; 4. Sincerity et trustworthiness of internal management, accounts, and financial information; 5. Respect of free competition rules and rejection of corruption in all forms, most importantly those prohibited by the UN and the OECD; 6. Loyalty towards the company, by avoiding conflicts of interest, breach of confidentiality or personal appropriation of company assets; 7. Solidarity-minded between subsidiaries; 8. Constant efforts for the sake of quality and sustainable development; 9. Political neutrality in the company, by avoiding financial contributions to political parties; 10. Mutual respect of local cultural differences. Ethical Code for Suppliers I. A few words from the Group Management II. United Nations Guidelines Compliance a. Human Rights b. Labour c. Ethic Conduct d. Environment “We honor our commitments” is not only an advertising slogan. It is a phrase which entirely defines Serac's existence, since 1969. Through this phrase, ethics, respect, and responsibility are all intrinsically linked to the company. Honoring our commitments is not only a promise to respect and agree to the terms and conditions of a contract, but also respect all stakeholders involved in its creation. Commitment is the choice that Serac makes to take responsibility for its actions, to be proactive and to be present directly and indirectly amongst the same stakeholders. Guy DUMARGUE Chairman of the Board Through this Supplier Ethical Code, A few words we want to ensure fair and ethical workplace standards in every corner of our supply chain. No exceptions or from the indulgence of any kind shall be tolerated towards the 17 points developed. Conceived as efficient as possible, this Group Code will be the direct translation of our commitment towards the community. Management Wilfrid MARIE Group Vice-President … United Nations Guidelines Compliance Serac believes that a strong commitment and a strategic approach to corporate responsibility are essential for managing the challenges and opportunities of a rapidly changing global environment. Therefore, in line with Serac’s vision for its suppliers, Serac wishes to actively engage its supply chain by the adherence of all its suppliers to its Supplier Ethical Code that has been developed with recognition of the Ten Principles outlined in the United Nations Global Compact, as well as with the following requirements from the United Nations initiative9: 9. Mines 1. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 10. Environmental 2. Forced or Compulsory Labour 11. Chemical and Hazardous Materials 3. Child Labour 12. Wastewater and Solid Waste 4. Discrimination 13. Air Emissions 5. Wages, Working Hours and Other Conditions of Work 14. Minimize Waste, Maximize Recycling 6. Health and Safety 15. Corruption 7. Human Rights 16. Conflict of Interest 8. Harassment, Harsh or Inhumane Treatment 17. Gifts and Hospitality 9 These principles are derived from United Nation Supplier Code of Conduct and are set out in the UN Supplier Code of Conduct (Rev.05) A. Human Rights Serac expects its suppliers to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and to ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses10. Harassment, Harsh or Inhumane Treatment Serac expects its suppliers to create and maintain an environment that treats all employees with dignity and respect and will not use any threats of violence, sexual exploitation or abuse, verbal or psychological harassment or abuse. No harsh or inhumane treatment coercion or corporal punishment of any kind is tolerated, nor is there to be the threat of any such treatment. Mines Serac expects its suppliers not to engage in the sale or manufacture of anti-personnel mines or components utilized in the manufacture of anti-personnel mines. 10 These principles are derived from Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and are set out in the United Nations Global Compact (see http://www.unglobalcompact.org/Issues/human_rights/index.html) B. Labour Child labour The minimum age for employment shall be based on the laws of the respective country and shall not be less than 14 years of age regardless of the type of work. The minimum age for allowing any type of employment or work which by its nature or the conditions under which it is performed may harm the health, safety, or morals of young people shall be based on national laws and shall not be under 16 years of age11. Forced labour Forced or compulsory labour of any type is prohibited. Workers shall be free to leave work or terminate employment with reasonable notice as provided for under the law. Employers are prohibited from withholding any identity papers, passports, training or apprenticeship certificates, work permits, or other documents. Employing convicts is permitted. The only condition is that their work must be voluntary and they must be remunerated for their work12. Wages and benefits Suppliers shall pay workers at least the minimum wage required by applicable laws and regulations and provide legally mandated benefits. (This also applies to apprentices, interns, and employees in trail period.) In accordance with national laws on maximum working hours, overtime shall be paid at a higher rate than normal working hours. The basis for calculating wages shall be formalized and known to all workers. Wages shall be paid in cash or by cheque or bank transfer. All other forms of payment shall only be permitted in special cases as provided for under national laws. Wages shall be paid in regular and reasonable intervals13. Freedom of expression and freedom of association Serac expects its suppliers to recognize the freely-exercised right of workers, without distinction, to organize, further and defend their interests and to bargain collectively, as well as to protect those workers from any action or other form of discrimination related to the exercise of their 11 These principles are set out in the ILO fundamental Conventions, No. 138, Minimum Age, 1973 and No. 182, Worst Forms of Child Labour, 1999 and in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. 12 This principle is set out in the ILO fundamental conventions, No. 29, Forced Labour, 1930 and No. 105, Abolition of Forced Labour, 1957. 13 These principles are set out in ILO Conventions No. 95, Protection of Wages, 1949 and No. 94, Labour Clauses (Public Contracts), 1949 and in a number of Conventions addressing working time (see: http://www.ilo.org/global/standards/subjects-covered-by-international-labour-standards/workingtime/langen/index.htm). right to organize, to carry out trade union activities and to bargain collectively14. Discrimination Suppliers shall not discriminate against any worker on the basis of race, skin color, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, ethnicity, disability, religion, political affiliation, union membership, etc. in hiring or employment practices, including access to training and continuing education, promotion, and remuneration15. Health & Safety Serac provides a safe workplace to its employees. Serac expects that the occupational health and safety of employees is a priority for the supplier throughout all significant aspects of its activities. As a minimum, the supplier must comply with all applicable health and safety laws, regulations and standards. The supplier shall take appropriate action, such as policies, standards, procedures, contingency measures and management systems, in order to prevent occupational illnesses and work-related accidents and to provide a safe and healthy workplace to its employees16. Serac encourages suppliers to: Communicate to its management, employees and contractors its commitment to improving health and safety, and to provide training on such commitment; Systematically evaluate its health and safety performance through appropriate audits and report progress. 14 These principles are set out in the ILO fundamental Conventions, No. 87, Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise, 1948 and No. 98, Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining, 1949. 15 These principles are set out in the ILO fundamental Conventions, No. 100, Equal Remuneration, 1951 and No. 111, Discrimination (Employment and Occupation), 1958 . 16 These principles are set out in the ILO Conventions, Recommendations and Codes of Practice C. Ethic Conduct Serac promotes integrity and ethics in all aspects of its activities. Serac expects the supplier to comply with all applicable laws and regulations on corruption, bribery, prohibited business practices and extortion. Furthermore, the supplier must never make or approve an illegal payment to anyone under any circumstances. Anti-corruption Suppliers shall commit to fight all forms of corruption, including blackmail and bribery. Suppliers are prohibited from offering Serac Group employees money in any amount, gifts, loans, discounts, or valuables. Gifts and invitations that fall within the scope of normal business hospitality, custom, and courtesy are excluded from this prohibition. Ensuring compliance Suppliers shall have all necessary internal procedures and processes in place to sufficiently ensure compliance with all of the above principles. Auditing Suppliers shall permit Serac to audit compliance with these principles or to have an independent third party that is approved by both parties audit compliance and to take appropriate action in the event of noncompliance. Conflict of interest The supplier must disclose any actual or potential conflict of interest, and discuss it with Serac’s management. Any activity that is approved, despite the actual or apparent conflict, must be documented. D. Environment Serac expects its suppliers to have an effective environmental policy and to comply with existing legislation and regulations regarding the protection of the environment. Suppliers should wherever possible support a precautionary approach to environmental matters, undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies implementing sound life-cycle practices. Compliance with laws and regulations Suppliers shall comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in which they operate. Suppliers shall obtain and keep current all required certificates, registrations and/or permits for operating their sites and meet the requirements of such certificates, registrations and permits. Chemical and Hazardous Materials Chemical and other materials posing a hazard if released to the environment are to be identified and managed to ensure their safe handling, movement, storage, recycling or reuse and disposal. Wastewater and emissions Suppliers shall monitor, control, and treat wastewater generated from operations before discharge. Suppliers shall monitor, control, and treat air emissions of hazardous substances before discharge into the atmosphere. Solid waste Suppliers shall recycle or reuse solid waste wherever possible. Suppliers shall ensure that all solid waste generated at all sites is managed under a secure, reliable waste management system that covers handling, movement, storage, recycling, etc. Suppliers shall endeavor to eliminate or reduce pollution caused by their activities in order to conserve natural resources. Pollution prevention Suppliers shall ensure that all substances that pose a threat to the environment are properly identified, labeled, and stored in order to ensure proper handling and disposal in the event of leaks or accidental spills. Suppliers shall ensure that they have an organisation in place that is prepared and has the necessary means available to deal with accidents entailing a risk of land or water pollution. Resource management Suppliers shall endeavor to reduce their consumption of energy, water, and non-renewable resources. Climate change Suppliers shall measure their emissions of greenhouse gases and voluntarily commit to reducing them. 2015 Vision and Actions Serac Cares DISCOVER OUR 2015 VISION AND OUR OBJECTIVES FOR THIS COMING YEAR UNDER PROCESS AUDITS CDP & ECOVADIS UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT G.R.I. 2015 C.O.P. MONTHLY INDICATORS REPORTING 2015 Vision and Ambitions The new « Serac cares » logo has been designed to symbolize and emphasize our commitment to CSR activities. As a matter of fact, ‘Serac’ spelt backwards is ‘Cares’. Business success and Corporate Social Responsibility do not rule each other out: actually, we believe they go hand in hand. As a matter of fact, since Serac machines are being recognized for their great resilience, high performance and mechanical precision, we are already talking about sustainability. As mentioned to you before, Serac Board of Directors has decided to improve its proactivity in the CSR field. In order to do so, each subsidiary appointed local CSR coordinators, who have recently been requested to provide data and monthly reports. It is critical that you understand how important your support is on those initiatives: as high level managers, you all have great impact on the efficiency and the dynamism of this global initiative. From now onwards, and every month, please make sure your teams provide the following indicators: Environmental indicators Electrical consumption, in KwH Fuel consumption, in KwH Water consumption (in M3) Paper and toner consumptions, respectively in Kg and number of used units. Offices and industrial wastes: we are currently working on the reporting process at this time and will keep you updated for further developments. Social indicators Absenteeism method of calculus has been sent to your local CSR coordinator. Feel free to request additional info if needed. Work accidents method of calculus has been sent to your local CSR coordinator. Feel free to request additional info if needed. We will of course develop additional indicators over time. Also, we hope to achieve a CSR project in each subsidiary every year: an example in 2015 would be the flood campaign we successfully achieved in SMA. Our standpoint today All subsidiaries appointed local coordinators. The first round of the previous indicators’ reporting was successful. Once they have been consolidated, the numbers are sent to the Executive Board for review and are discussed quarterly by the Board of Directors. We plan to communicate on these numbers once a sufficient period of time will have lapsed and when the process of reporting will be strong enough. As we are just starting to communicate on these elements, the matter is quite new for Serac: the CDP audits results for 2013 and 2014 are both unfortunately confirming it. We are however confident to significantly improve our scorings if everyone is on board. Our actions moving forward Thanks to our adherence to the United Nations Global Compact, our first due Communication On Progress (COP) will be published this summer and will constitute our first Annual Sustainability Report. It will summarize all of our initiatives and progresses on the ten UN principles: we plan to publish a COP annually from now on. It will be given to all of our stakeholders via our corporate website and on demand. We also plan to establish the definitive legal frame in which Serac’s CSR will evolve: although we are convinced of the pertinence of the United Nations programs, we need to study which versions/updates of these programs we will follow. A few CSR projects have been successfully conducted or are currently under progress: The Malaysian flood charity campaign: 10,000 ringgits have been distributed through donations directly to the flood victims of the Kelantan state. This action is a particular one: firstly for its emergency imperatives but also by its nature. Indeed, it can be assimilated to our Corporate Citizenship Program, which is slightly different than CSR concept: we don’t expect to conduct a CCP project in every subsidiary. Do feel free to suggest initiatives! Also completed and just fresh from the oven: the audit conducted by EcoVadis on our french subsidiary. This audit evaluated our general CSR performance and rated us Silver, which put us in the top 10% suppliers assessed. More complete report is available at the end of this note. Serac has been audited by CDP in 2013, 2014 and will be in 2015. Our scoring has been quite poor for the past two years (with an average score of 30%): we are convinced that with the new monitoring system, our scoring will significantly go up: results are expected by November 2015. Still undergoing, the recycling of office wastes project in SAS & 3S: in partnership with a professional reinsertion organism for disabled people, we plan to recycle all of our paper wastes (including grinded paper) from now on. This initiative combines both the environmental and social aspects of the CSR: environmental by recycling tons of paper, and social by giving working opportunities to our local community. See below few screenshots of the monthly template report, to be provided to Serac Shareholders Board: Monthly scorecard, by subsidiary all indicators Monthly consolidated scorecard all indicators Reasons why we initiated Serac Cares Our larger competitors have already a real advantage on their CSR programs: considering its growing size, Serac needs to catch up by implementing ambitious programs and reporting criteria in order to stay ahead of competition. More and more of our largest customers are requesting their current and potential suppliers to provide CSR data in order to be shortlisted: BASF, L’Oreal, Unilever being good examples. We are therefore convinced that your sales forces will benefit from corporate documents focusing on our CSR activities. Competition Benchmark 60% of the panel communicates on at least one aspect of the Sustainable Development 40% of the panel has no CSR strategy or at least don’t publicly communicate on it 20% of the panel is highly committed to CSR, by providing sufficient documentations or subscribing to international standards Highlights & conclusions With its current strategy, Serac will manage to enter in the top of its sectorial class, despite its size. Big players present strong cases: it seems that the smaller you are, the less you tend to integrate CSR to your strategy and corporate communication How things are organized? In terms of persons: In terms of structure: EcoVadis Audit Results Highlights Serac has an overall score of 56 out of 100 and the company is ranked alongside the 25% of companies which have Confirmed CSR engagement. Our global CSR performance overview Labour practices: Serac is in the TOP 13% of suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in the category Manufacture of GeneralPurpose Machinery. Fair business practices: Serac is in the TOP 10% of suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in the category Manufacture of General-Purpose Machinery. Suppliers: Serac is in the TOP 15% of suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in the category Manufacture of GeneralPurpose Machinery. Average in the category Serac CSR final Overall: Serac is in the TOP 8% of Manufacture of generalpurpose machinery scoring suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in the category Manufacture of GeneralSerac compared to all suppliers assessed by Purpose Machinery. EcoVadis. The graph shows the distribution of the Overall: Serac is in the TOP 11% of overall score of suppliers in %, at the time we suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in all extracted datas. categories. Benchmarking Industry sector: Manufacture of General-Purpose Machinery The grey bars represent the range of ratings This is the position of Serac compared attributed to companies operating within the to the average of all companies assessed by same industry as Serac. EcoVadis in the same industry. NOTE: The top and bottom 5% of performers are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. The global framework Serac is involved in: According to its current leader UN environment and anti-corruption. By Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, « The doing so, business, as a primary driver of Global Compact asks companies to globalization, can help ensure that embrace universals principles and to markets, commerce, technology and partner with the United Nations. It has finance advance in ways that benefit grown to become a critical platform for economies and societies everywhere. the UN to engage effectively with With over 12,000 corporate participants enlightened global business. » and other stakeholders from over 145 As a strategic policy initiative for countries, the UNGC is the largest businesses that are committed to voluntary corporate responsibility aligning their operations and strategies initiative in the world. with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) government institutions and other develops and disseminates guidelines groups. The latest GRI guidelines, for reporting on the economic, called G4, were published in may environmental and societal 2013. The use of these guidelines is dimensions of organisations’ activities, voluntary: they have become products and services. established as the standard for sustainability reporting worldwide. The GRI works closely with businesses, non-governmental organisations, The Carbon Disclosure Project, or CDP, of the world’s largest corporations, is an organisation based in the UK accounting for 26% of global which works with shareholders and anthropogenic emissions. corporations to disclose the EcoVadis became a trusted partner of greenhouse gas emissions of major procurement organizations aiming at corporations. As disclosure of implanting sustainable supply emission related data as CDP’s primary management practices. It aims at activity, the quality of the date improving practices of companies by reported to CDP is key. In 2008, it leveraging the influence of global published the emissions data for 1550 supply chains. For any enquiries, do feel free to contact Serac’s CSR manager, Thibaut FIATTE: thfiatte@serac.fr Document written in September 2015 12 months validity Serac
