Bilfinger SE Carl-Reiss-Platz 1-5, 68165 Mannheim, Germany United Nations Global Compact Two United Nations Plaza New York, NY 10017 USA Contact person Department Phone Fax E-mail Melanie Pooch C/TD -2775 -2836 melanie.pooch@bilfinger.com Communication on Progress (COP) 2014 Bilfinger Sustainability Report 2014 Foreword from the Chief Executive Ladies and Gentlemen, Bilfinger is a market leader in many areas in Germany and Europe. We are the partner that our customers trust, especially when it comes to solving complex tasks. Sustainability is an integral part of our corporate culture, permeating all work processes and the entire range of services. With our technologies and our competences, we help our customers to operate sustainably and to ensure that their production processes are both energy and resource efficient. For Bilfinger, sustainability is not just a commitment, but also a key component of business development. We invested heavily in the training of our employees again in the 2014 financial year, and in addition to professional training, focus in particular on the topics of occupational safety and compliance. A further increase in the percentage of women in the company and in management positions was also achieved. We are working intensively to expand our reporting through environmental key figures and to convince investors of the sustainability of our activities. In this context, in 2014 we participated for the first time in the CDP, the most important global benchmark for sustainable business operations. This year, we will be conducting a stakeholder survey in order to position our sustainability strategy for the coming years. Together with customers, partners, employees and representatives of the capital market, scientific institutions and social groups, we intend to identify sustainability-related issues that are of particular relevance for our company. Bilfinger will concentrate on these topics in the future and will report on the progress that is made. Page 2 / 2 Bilfinger has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) for many years, and consistently implements the ten principles of business ethics. We protect human rights, support the abolishment of discriminatory labor and social practices, improve environmental protection and fight all forms of corruption. Mannheim, May 2015 Herbert Bodner Chief Executive Officer Our Sustainability Report 2014 with a description of practical actions the company has taken to implement the Global Compact principles can be found at: http://www.sustainability.bilfinger.com
