CSR REPORT 2015 Co r p o rate S o c i a l R e s p o n s i b i l i t y R e p o r t Tabl e of Contents B usin e ss Su p p o rt a n d Co n tri b u ti o n 02 Message from the President 19 Social Contributions by KURODA ELECTRIC Group 20 Educational Support 03 About KURODA ELECTRIC Charity Results KURODA ELECTRIC Group Support and Outreach for ① Company Information Thailand Elementary School ② Financial Reporting ③ Principal Subsidiaries 21 Environmental Contribution Activities ④ Working with our Partners ① KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Ome, Tokyo) ⑤ Working with our Shareholders and Investors ② KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Kurokawa, Kawanishi, Hyogo) 22 Regional, Household and other Social Contributions 07 KURODA ELECTRIC Group CSR Outline ① KURODA ECO Point System ① Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶ ② Used Stamps Collection Drives Mission Statement ③ Hold Basketball Clinics ② The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of ④ Donations from Vending Machine Sales Conduct ⑤ Provision of Parking Spaces for School Crossing Guards ③ Joining the United Nations Global Compact（ GC） ⑥ Donation of Newspapers and Newspaper Shelves to Local ④ The Relationship between the UN Millennium Development Elementary and Junior High Schools Goals and CSR Activities ⑦ Work Experience for Local Junior High-School Student ⑤ 2014 CSR Goals with Principal Corresponding Activities ⑥ 2015 Financial Year CSR Activity Goals M a n a g e me n t S y s te m 23 Quality and Environmental Management Systems 13 Initiatives at KURODA ELECTRIC ① Quality / Environmental Policies 14 Corporate Governance ② Quality and Environmental Controls ③ Environmental Performance 15 Compliance ① The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code w i th E m p l o y e e of Conduct ② KURODA ELECTRIC Group Hotline 27 Working with our Employees ① Developing Skilled Human Resources 17 Risk Management ② Employee Welfare Programs ① The Corporate Action Committeeʼs Response to ③ Mental Healthcare Programs Compliance and Risk Management ② Information Security 31 The KURODA ELECTRIC Roadmap Editorial Policy The purpose of this document is to report on KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs activities and approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). As a vital communicative tool, the objective of this CSR report is to promote dialogue among all stakeholders for the overall betterment of society. We sincerely hope that by introducing the CSR activities of KURODA ELECTRIC Group we will be able to further promote such dialogue. The month of issue June, 2015（The date of issue last time：June 29, 2014） Target Period This report will deal with KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs 80th period, the 2014 ﬁnancial year (April 1, 2014-March 31, 2015) (some information, targets and forecasts from outside this period will also be included). The next report is currently scheduled for June, 2016. Scope of Report This report will cover CSR activities by KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. as well as aﬃliated domestic companies (KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd., KOMURA-TECH Co., Ltd., Sohwa & Sophia Technologies Inc., NICHIDO-DENKO Co. Ltd.) and major aﬃliated companies overseas. Reference Guidelines The GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006(3rd Edition) ISO26000:2010「Guidance on social responsibility」 UN Global Compact Policy on Communicating Progress 01 Message from the President With the fusion of electronics and telecommunications, highest caliber which circulates the latest our economic system is moving towards a new technologies and information. era. The competition over technological development has led to ever lower costs and Additionally we expressed our intention to join the higher functionality across a wide range of United Nations Global Compact (GC) in February, electronic and electrical goods, resulting in a 2011 and we were formally registered as one of pronounced spike in the development of new the signatory companies in March, 2011. Signatory products over a short period of time. Additionally, companies are expected to achieve better with the increasing globalization of economic corporate management by incorporating the 10 systems, the creation of production and GC principles into their management strategies, circulation networks which cross national day-to-day operations and corporate cultures. boundaries has become a more pressing matter It is our intention at KURODA ELECTRIC, under the than ever. We must continue to adapt pertinentry various principles of the GC, to manage according to these changes in business circumstances. At to global standards, to pursue greater growth and the same time, we face with the new challenges proﬁtability for our company, to develop our such as harmonious coexistence with the business from a global standpoint, to increase the environment, conservation of biodiversity and worth of our enterprises, and to always fulﬁll our human-rights/labor issue in supply chain which corporate social responsibilities (CSR). need to be addressed. S i n c e i t s e s t a b l i s h m e n t i n 1 9 4 5 , K U R O DA ELECTRIC has remained active as an independent trading company dealing in electric materials, general electronic parts, semiconductors and machinery. Most important of all, as a supplier of manufacturing parts and materials to the electronics industry, we at KURODA ELECTRIC have always developed our business in close contact with our customers. And since establishment our guiding policy has been to provide services vital to our customers without interruption, in a timely and eﬃcient manner, thus contributing to the development of both the world-wide manufacturing industry and to society, and growing in trust as a corporation. Currently, under this policy, KURODA ELECTRIC Group is running a business in 26 locations within Japan and another 33 in 15 countries overseas. As a customer-oriented supplier of parts, materials, products and services, as well as an active Chairman and President and company in the ﬁelds of design and manufacturing, Chief Executive Oﬃcer Chief Operating Oﬃcer we continue to build a global network of the Takashi Kaneko Koichi Hosokawa 02 Ab o u t KUR OD A E LE C TR I C 03 1 Company Information ⑴ Corporate Name KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. ⑵ Start of Operations October 1945 ⑶ Capital 10,045,761,000 yen (as of March, 2015) ⑷ Annual Turnover 326.4 billion yen (March, 2015 term on a consolidated basis) ⑸ Company Rep. Chairman and Chief Executive Oﬃcer Takashi Kaneko President and Chief Operating Oﬃcer Koichi Hosokawa ⑹ Number of Employees 327 (standalone, as of March, 2015) 4,753 (consolidated companies, as of March, 2015) ⑺ Listed Stock Exchange First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 2 Financial Reporting (Aggregated Account Summaries) Sa l e s Ope rating P ro ﬁts (Mil l ions of Y e n) First Half Second Half ( M i l l i on s of Yen ) First Half Second Half 9 , 895 3 5 0,000 326,412 10,000 8,669 3 0 0,000 2 8 7 ,8 3 9 7,500 2 5 0,000 6,445 5 , 653 186,713 4,572 2 0 0,000 19 4 ,9 6 0 1 5 2 ,4 2 5 152,771 5,000 4,602 1 5 0,000 3,736 11 0 ,4 0 9 78,171 2,636 1 0 0,000 2,500 1 3 5 ,4 1 4 139,699 4,097 4 , 242 5 0,000 8 4 ,5 5 1 2,709 74,600 1,966 77th Period 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period 77th Period 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period March, 2012 March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 March, 2012 March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 Ordinary Proﬁts Cu rre nt Te rm N e t P ro ﬁts (M i l l ions of Y e n) First Half Second Half ( M i l l i on s of Yen ) First Half Second Half 1 2,500 7,000 6 , 765 1 0 ,3 0 3 6,000 5,792 1 0,000 9 ,0 7 5 5,000 3 , 698 7,500 4,135 2,706 6 ,5 6 6 5 ,9 5 0 4,000 4 ,7 6 9 4,702 3,000 2,762 2,201 5,000 3 ,7 9 1 2,684 2,000 1,687 2,500 3,086 3 , 067 4 ,3 0 6 4 ,3 5 3 2 ,7 7 5 1,000 1,934 2,018 1,075 77th Period 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period 77th Period 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period March, 2012 March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 March, 2012 March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 Yearl y N e t P r oﬁ t pe r St o ck Ye arly Divide nds pe r Sto ck (Y e n) First Half Second Half ( Yen ) First Half Second Half 200 18 6 .9 3 189.44 40 36 32 30 30 150 30 1 3 4 .0 3 8 6 .8 9 101.48 20 15 17 16 100 89.52 7 1 .3 3 20 54.65 50 10 0 .0 4 87.96 10 14 15 15 16 6 2 .7 0 34.87 77th Period 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period 77th Period 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period March, 2012 March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 March, 2012 March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 For more detailed business reports, please refer to our URL. Business Reports http://www.kuroda-electric.co.jp/ir/library/report/ Factbook http://www.kuroda-electric.co.jp/ir/library/factbook/ 04 3 Principal Subsidiaries Domestic 4 1 KURODA TECHNO CO., LTD. 2 2 KOMURA-TECH CO., LTD. 3 Sohwa & Sophia Technologies INC. 4 NICHIDO-DENKO CO., LTD. 3 3 1 1 4 2 Overseas 1 Z. KURODA (Singapore) PTE. LTD. C Z. KURODA (HONGKONG) CO., LTD. 2 KURODA ELECTRIC (Malaysia) SDN. BHD. D KURODA ELECTRIC (SHENZHEN) CO., LTD. 3 SOHWA MALAYSIA SDN. BHD. E KC AUTOMATION (SHENZHEN) CO., LTD. 4 PT. TRIMITRA CHITRAHASTA F RAINBOW METAL TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD. 5 PT. KURODA ELECTRIC Indonesia G KURODA PRECISION TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. 6 Z. KURODA (Thailand) CO., LTD. H GUANGZHOU KURODA ELECTRONIC CO., LTD. 7 KURODA Auto-Tech (Thailand) LTD. I SHANGHAI KURODA TRADING CO., LTD. 8 KURODA ELECTRIC (Philippines) INC. J TIANJIN KURODA TRADING CO., LTD. 9 BORAMTEK (Vietnam) CO., LTD. K TAIWAN KURODA ELECTRIC CO., LTD. : KURODA ELECTRIC KOREA INC. L KURODA ELECTRIC U.S.A. INC. A ECO TECHWELL INVESTMENT INC. M NANKAI Enviro-Tech Corporation B ECOREA & KURODA ELECTRIC INDIA PVT. LTD. N KURODA ELECTRIC CZECH S.R.O 24 20 10 22 11 23 15 17 19 18 14 16 21 20 6 13 10 12 7 8 11 9 2 17 19 3 1 4 5 15 18 14 16 21 13 6 7 8 9 2 3 1 4 5 05 4 Working with our Partners At KURODA ELECTRIC Group we regularly purchase a wide range of materials, parts and other supplies. At the heart of all our operations, however, is the positive relationship we build and maintain with our trading partners. Therefore, when selecting suppliers, we always adhere to the strictest codes of fairness and impartiality and are careful to observe every applicable law when purchasing. 5 Working with our Shareholders and Investors The support of our shareholders and investors is vital for sustainable development at KURODA ELECTRIC. This is why we emphasize the importance of timely and pertinent information disclosure and communication in investor relations. ⑴ I n for m atio n Disclo s ur e and ⑵ S t ock Informat ion I n v e s t o r R elatio ns P o lic ies Total Number of Authorized Shares 120,000,000 At KURODA ELECTRIC We disclose important information pertaining to Total Number of Outstanding Shares 39,446,162 our social responsibilities in terms of ﬁnancial, environmental and social ( Of them, treasury stocks 1,810,864) standpoint to our stakeholders timely and pertinently. We value transparency, fairness and continuity when dealing with each and every Total Shareholders 5,455 one of our shareholders and investors. Not only do we disclose (As of March 31, 2015) information required by the securities exchangeʼs rules on timely disclosure, but in order to proactively promote fair disclosure of information we also publish documents regarding ﬁnancial results brieﬁngs directly to our website. In addition to the disclosure of information, in order to ensure an accurate and equitable assessment of our company, we also engage each of our shareholders and investors in direct communication thereby creating a proactive dialogue which then enables us, in the course of operations, to consult the many opinions of our stakeholders before making decisions. Our earnest wish is that, in order to maintain the fair and smooth circulation of our marketable securities (KURODA ELECTRIC stocks), we are able to utilize this dialogue to even further raise the value of our enterprises at KURODA ELECTRIC. 06 KURODA ELECTRIC Group CSR Outline Business 07 1 Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶Mission Statement ⑴ C or p or ate P hilo so p hy The items listed below, which form KURODA ELECTRICʼs corporate philosophy, are the root of the company groupʼs CSR policy. It is through this philosophy, unchanged since the companyʼs inception, that we recognize our dues to the community and environment and continue to develop our business with freedom and creativity. It is this very philosophy which speaks to the heart of our existence as a company and our sense of social responsibility. Life Freedom Creativity Dynamic enthusiasm, To allow our employees Most importantly, to grow in independence to always avoid complacency, and appreciation for all and capability through and to pursue new territories that the community and the delegation of and possibilities environment allow. responsibility. with bold resolution. ⑵ C om p a ny Mo tto For human existence, the two most fundamentally important things are Life and Freedom. Thus, for a company to continue developing in perpetuity it must respect and seek to actualize these two philosophies, and to build a corporate culture where the workplace overﬂows in both. With this logic in mind, KURODA ELECTRIC Group chooses the following as its Company Motto: Let us stretch our vital roots deep into the earth, and spread our limbs freely unto the sky. ⑶ M i s s i on Statem ent Additionally, at KURODA ELECTRIC Group, our employees are united in a single fundamental approach which is deﬁned by the following mission statement. Let us remain mindful when dealing with others that we owe our existence 1. to society at large and treat them with honesty and gratitude. Let us value the gift of life, cherish our freedom, 2. and so pursue vital living development. Let us reﬂect always on our actions and, through originality and ingenuity, 3. seek prosperity through business; Let us resolve to build character through our work. 08 2 The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct ( Herea ft er ʻ Cod e of Co ndu c tʼ ) The Code of Conduct was established as guidelines or principles which every oﬃcer and employee of the KURODA ELECTRIC Group must comply with in all his/her daily business activities. Our Code of Conduct does not stop at only the observance of laws and regulations but also gives heavy consideration to social and corporate ethics. The purpose of the code, rather, is to fulﬁll our social responsibilities and ensure the trust of our stakeholders by providing a set of fundamental rules for employees to follow in the course of their daily activities. The Code of Conduct is comprised of seven core themes, including those prescribed by ISO26000 guidances (Organizational Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices, Environment, Fair Business Practices and Consumer Issues) as well as Community Participation and Development. These seven themes reveal KURODA ELECTRICʼs fundamental approach to its corporate activities. 3 Joining the United Nations Global Compact（GC） In order for KURODA ELECTRIC to support the universal principles regarding human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption proposed by the United Nations, KURODA ELECTRIC expressed its intention to join the United Nations Global Compact and was formally registered as one of signatory companies on March 2, 2011. Guided in this decision by our Corporate Philosophy, Company Motto and Mission Statement, in addition to supporting the 10 fundamental principles regarding these issues put forth by the Global Compact we have also chosen the UN Millennium Development Goals as the backbone criteria for our CSR activities. As a global corporation and conscientious corporate citizens, it is our duty to contribute across all corporate fronts towards the realization of a sustainable society on a global basis. Th e 10 Prin c iple s o f t he G C Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Labor Principle 5 the eﬀective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment Principle 8 responsibility; and encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-Corruption Principle 10 including extortion and bribery While the wording may vary slightly, the 10 principles listed above can, for the most part, also be found in the KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct. Meaning that, even before KURODA ELECTRIC formally joined the UN Global Compact, we had already enforced these principles through the establishment of and compliance with our own code of conduct. 09 4 T h e R elatio ns hip b et ween t he UN Millennium D e velo p m ent Go als and C S R Act ivit ies Environmental Sustainability and Universal Primary Education are two of the goals put forth by the UN Millennium Development Goals, and we feel that it is our personal duty to contribute to these two matters to the best of our humble abilities. For this reason, we developed Envir onment al Action and Educational Suppor t. Additionally, in order to encourage individual employees to pursue environmental action and volunteerism in their own communities and households, we have introduced the KURODA ECO Point System as company's oﬃcial program since February, 2012.We have been promoting these Activities as the 3 Pillars of our Social Contribution Activities. KURODA ELECTRIC CSR Activities KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶Mission Statement The DNA of KURODA ELECTRIC The UN Global Compact Formal Entry on March 2, 2011 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact UN Millennium Development Goals The Backbone of our CSR Activities The 3 Pillars of our Social Contribution Activities Un i ver sal E n viro n m e n t al P rimar y E ducat i o n S ust ain ab ilit y Educational Periodic Release of CSR Report Environmental Support Contribution Activities Support for the Construction of KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Ome, Tokyo) Ban Parai Elementary School in Thailand KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Kurokawa, Kawanishi, Hyogo) Community Activities & Household Environmentally-Conscious Action in the Community Environmentally-Conscious Action in the Home KURODA ECO Point System 10 5 2014 CSR Goals with Principal Corresponding Activities Evaluation Method ◎：Exceeds Goal (value of 120% or higher) ○：Meets Goal △：Unsatisfactory 2014 F i na nci a l Y e a r 2 0 1 4 F i n an c i al Year Eval Page No. ̶ G o a l s a nd P l a n s ̶ ̶P ri n c i p al Ac t i vi t i es̶ Strengthening of CSR Activities and Information Disclosure in Accordance with Participation in the GC Preparation of the 2013 CSR Report and other Information Disclosure ○ ー Organizational Governance ①Inclusion in the securities report of new items deemed necessary by revised ordinances as well as previous timely disclosures in addition to compliance with the corporate governance codes established by the Implementation of Highly Transparent Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Financial Services Agency Management Practices and Strengthening of Practices Related to Governance ②Inspection of Management Practices by an Audit Committee in which ○ 14 Outside Directors (Three Persons) Form a Majority ③Nomination of One Independent Company Director (Reporting to Tokyo Stock Exchange) Continued Strengthening of Communication with Investors and Securities Analysts as well as Timely and Pertinent Disclosure in order to Promote Implementation of Consistent IR Activities for Investors ○ 06 Penetration of KURODA ELECTRIC's Management Policies and Strategies. Further Promotion of Human Rights Inclusion of Respect for Human Rights and Prohibition Against Awareness Discrimination in the Compliance Education of all Employees ○ ー Hu man Rig ht s Initiatives for Appropriate HR (Human Unconventional Human Resource Management in Utilizing and Resources) Utilization Aimed at Total Group Optimization for Diversiﬁcation of HR Appointing Personnel ○ ー Construction and enforcement of an ①Web Training for All Employees employee educational program in alignment with a class and a job. ②Global Personnel Training Program intended for Selected Employees ③Support Program aimed at Language Skill Improvement for Employees ○ 28 Labor Practices ①Implementation of Medical Checkups(Company burden) for 35-year-old or Older Employees ②Support for Brain Exams and Lung Cancer Screenings for 40-year-old Continuation of Employee Physical and or Older Employees Mental Health Measures ③Support for screening for cancer of the cervix and mammography for ○ 29ー30 Female Employees ④Implementation of Mental Healthcare Program (Company Burden) for all Employees Conduct Environmental Conservation Activities at KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forests (Ome City and Kurokawa in Kawanishi City) ○ 21 Implementation of KURODA ELECTRIC ECO Point System, with ○ 22 Env i ron men t Approximately 280 Employees Participating in ECO Activities Carrying out company-wide initiatives to reduce the use of oﬃce Strengthening of Environmental Conservation Activities paper (copy paper) by 5% from the previous ﬁscal year ○ 25 Continue using Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁed Copy Papers throughout the company ○ 25 Making a List of Environmental Laws, Regulations, and Other Requirements based on the investigation of about 90 environmental laws, to clarify applicability by location, notiﬁcation documents, and report deadlines clear ○ ー Community Compliance Education in Accordance with the KURODA ELECTRIC Compliance with related laws and Group Compliance Code of Conduct ○ 15 regulations, and thorough dissemination of the compliance code of conduct Strict Compliance with the Antitrust Act, Unfair Competition Prevention ○ ー Fair Business Customer / Law and Foreign Exchange Control Law Strengthening of the KURODA Group System for Legal Compliance in the Procurement of Supplies Proper Understanding and Adoption of Subcontractors Act ○ ー Client Interaction Participation and ①Strengthening of the Quality Assurance System as per our 2009 QA Policy Further Improvement of KURODA ELECTRIC Group Quality Measures ②Activities for the Stable Preservation of Quality which Meets Customer Demands ○ 24ー25 Practices Volunteers from the KURODA Group Companies based in Rojana Development Industrial Park (in Thailand's Ayutthaya Province) visited Ban Parai Elementary School for Education Support Activities. ○ 20 Continued Social Contribution in each of KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Established Areas Support for Overseas Aﬀorestation through the Collection of Used Stamps ○ 22 Hold Basketball Clinics ○ 22 11 6 2015 Financial Year CSR Activity Goals Our goal every year at KURODA ELECTRIC is to elevate our CSR activities even further than before. In addition to projects carried over from 2014 or earlier, we plan to set the following goals for 2015 and hope to meet them with more than 100% success. ⑴ Or ganiz ational G overnance ● Continued Strengthening of CSR Activities and Information Disclosure in Accordance with Participation in the GC ● Implementation of Highly Transparent Management Practices and Strengthening of Practices Related to Governance ● Continued Strengthening of Communication with Investors and Securities Analysts as well as Timely and Pertinent Disclosure in order to Promote Penetration of KURODA ELECTRIC's Management Policies and Strategies. ⑵ H um an Right s ● Continued Promotion of Human Rights Awareness ● Initiatives for Appropriate HR (Human Resources) Utilization Aimed at Total Group Optimization for Diversiﬁcation of HR ⑶ Lab o r Pr ac t ices ● Construction and enforcement of an employee educational program in alignment with a class and a job. ● Improvement of labor environment, and Enrichment of Employee Physical and Mental Health care program. ⑷ E nvir o nm en t ● Strengthening of Environmental Conservation Activities ⑸ Fair B us iness Pract ices ● Compliance with related laws and regulations, and increased Group awareness of compliance issues ⑹ Custo m er / C lient Int eract ion ● Strengthening of the KURODA ELECTRIC Group System for Legal Compliance in the Procurement of Supplies ● Further Improvement of KURODA ELECTRIC Group Quality Measures ⑺ Co m m unity Part icipat ion and D evelopment ● Continued Social Contribution in each of KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Established Areas 12 Initiatives at KURODA ELECTRIC Business 13 C orp orate Governa nce At KURODA ELECTRIC, in order to fully realize our management philosophy and further raise the value of our enterprises, we consider corporate governance to be an issue of prime importance. It is to this end that we conform to the corporate governance codes established by the Financial Services Agency and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and strive to follow healthy management systems, to strengthen internal controls, and to preserve administrative transparency through the timely and pertinent disclosure of information. Additionally, we at KURODA ELECTRIC consider compliance to be a vital foundation to fulﬁlling our social obligations, and recognize thorough compliance as an indispensable element of business operations. As we strengthen corporate governance, we are also proactively addressing compliance management. It is for this reason that we have established the KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct, a set of principles which all oﬃcers and employees are required to follow in the course of business. At KURODA ELECTRIC we deﬁne the issue of compliance broadly, comprehending not only adherence to laws and internal regulations but also to greater items such as corporate ethics. Thus, the Code of Conduct becomes a concrete standard for the professional behavior in business operations that all group member oﬃcers and employees must comply with. As a company that has adopted a committees system, we have appointed several outside directors. Outside directors are independent from the company in terms of investment, control, project management, proﬁt and ﬁnance, and are free from any conﬂicts of interest. These directors work from an objective standpoint to strengthen oversight and maintain the transparency of decision making. The separation of execution and supervisory functions is fundamental to the management of corporations that have adopted a committees system, including a nomination committee. At KURODA ELECTRIC, this means that the right to direct management of corporate aﬀairs is transferred to the president and other executive oﬃcers, while the Board of Directors overlooks their operations. Additionally there are three outside directors on the board and all of them are qualiﬁed as an independent oﬃcer by the regulation of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. So we ﬁled a registration form for the qualiﬁed independent oﬃcers to the Exchange. KURODA ELECTRIC Corporate Governance Gener al Stockholdersʼ Meet ing Nomination Selection of Candidates for Board Nominating Committee Board Members (Internal / External) (Majority Outside Directors) Board of Directors Selection Compensation Committee (Majority Outside Directors) (Important Supervision of Decision Making, Management, etc.) Reporting Inspection Committee (Majority Outside Directors) Compliance / Validity Inspection Nomination Reporting Compliance / Validity Inspection Executive Oﬃcers Executive Board (Decision Making, Management, etc. (Decision-Making about management is Carried under Delegation of the Board of Directors) out in Conference by Executive Oﬃcers) 14 C omplia nce At KURODA ELECTRIC Group we consider successful compliance as key to fulﬁlling our social obligations, and recognize thorough compliance as an indispensable element of business operations. Accordingly, we take a proactive stance towards compliance management. To be more precise, the KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct has been established as a guideline which employees must follow during all business activities. Compliance Education based on the Code of Conduct is carried out on an annual basis for all employees to be informed about thorough compliance awareness. The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct System 1 Basic Stance as a Corporation ⑴ Observance of Laws and Ordinances ⑵ Observance of Internal Regulations ⑶ Regard for Human Rights ⑷ Ban on Association with Anti-Social / Criminal Forces ⑸ CSR Activities 3 Basic Stance Regarding Business 2 Relationship with Employees ⑴ Procedure by Written Contract and Adherence to Terms Therein ⑴ Obligation of Good Faith Work ⑵ Fair Competition ⑶ Subcontractor Relations ⑵ Prohibition Against Harassment T KURODA ELECTRIC Group The ⑷ Import and Export Regulations ⑸ Safety of Goods and Services ⑶ Adherence to Labor Ordinances C Compliance Code of Conduct ⑹ Environmental Conservation ⑺ Regulations for Gift-Giving and Entertainment ⑷ Abolition of Forced or Child Labor ⑻ Regulations for Receiving Gifts or Entertainment ⑼ Prohibition against Gift-Giving or Entertainment to ⑸ Preservation of the Work Environment Public Oﬃcials 4 Information Strategies 5 Development of Sound Financial Practices ⑴ Protection of Intellectual Property ⑴ Protection and Proper Use of Company ⑵ Third-Party Intellectual Property Rights Assets ⑵ Fair Accounting Procedure ⑶ In-House Information Management ⑶ Accounting and Financial Reporting ⑷ Mana g ement o f Client & P ar t ner ⑷ Disclosure to Stockholders and Investors Information ⑸ Prohibition against Insider Trading ⑸ Protection of Personal Information ⑹ Promotion of Common Stakeholder Interests 15 1 The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct Basic Stance as a Corporation : Preserving Laws and Ordinances and Contributing to Society 1 Observing the law is a basic rule of society, and is essential for the continued existence of any business. In addition to adherence to these laws, KURODA ELECTRIC also aims to realize a more aﬄuent society through social contributions. Relationship with Employees : Our Responsibilities as Employers and Employees 2 The creation of a better work environment is a group eﬀort which depends on the workplace pride of each and every employee within the company and their desire to create good working environments. It is important that both company and employees recognize the respective rights and joint responsibilities of the other. Basic Stance Regarding Business : Fair and Legal Business Practices 3 The purpose of trade is to create sound proﬁt. However, while unfair practices in trade may produce large temporarily gains, they will inevitably lead to a drop in public credibility further down the line. By necessity, business transactions must always remain fair and legal. By preserving this basic stance a business will only grow in faith, leading ultimately to even better reputation and proﬁts. Information Strategies : Proper Management and Utilization of Information Assets 4 The information revolution continues at an accelerated pace, and we are constantly surrounded by a diverse and astounding network of information exchange. Included in that network is proﬁtable information, such as patents and other intellectual properties or private customer information which can be used during business. Such information is not a regular possession but rather a vital management resource, an informational asset to operations, and for this reason it must be handled appropriately. The proper management and use of information assets is a necessity for the development of sound business. Development of Sound Financial Practices : A Stable Financial Basis and the Preservation of Stakeholder Trust 5 The stockholders and investors who contribute funds to KURODA, as well as legislative bodies, expect absolutely trustworthy ﬁnancial reports. Management must always be completely forthright when addressing stockholders and investors. As KURODA ELECTRIC Group continues to pursue greater proﬁts and funds in order to develop and expand further we must always adopt duly appropriate management and ﬁnancial practices. 2 K URO D A E LE C TR I C G r o u p H o t l i ne KURODA ELECTRIC developed and operated an internal reporting system called Kuroda Electric Hotline, as a method for employees to blow the whistle when they have encountered a violation either of the law or company regulations or witnessed actions of an unethical or immoral nature. The company has now expanded this hotline globally to all group companies as the Kuroda Electric Group Hotline. Reports can be made anonymously via the hotline. The Corporate Action Committee (for addressing company-wide risks) and Legal / Intellectual Property Division deliberate how to respond to suspected compliance violations. Anonymous Hotline ❶ Blow the whistle using the Hotline ❸ Notiﬁcation sent by Email ected c u r it y is Prot . Se port No ❷ Report No. Issued by a Re sword ❹ Conﬁrm Content of Report a s and P Informant Controller ❺ Report on Resolution or ❻ Conﬁrm Resolution or Progress Progress of Investigation Se r v e r (Pr o v id ed by D Q u est, In c. ) 16 Ri s k M a na ge ment 1 The Corporate Action Committeeʼs Response to Compliance and Risk Management Our response to Compliance and Risk Management is one of most important problem to our Corporate Social Responsibilities. The Corporate Action Committee was established in order to raise the value of our enterprises, prevent against loss of credibility and to enforce trustworthy risk management practices. The Role of the Corporate Action Committee Regarding Risk Management ● Formulation of Basic Policy and Risk Management Control ● Risk Extraction and Analysis Risks Extracted by all Departments (via Committee Members) (Assessment by Risk Factor Analysis) Factor Analysis Company-Wide Risk Departmental Risk Risks Pertaining to a Departmental Cross-Section of the Company Risks to be Handled by a Speciﬁc Department Assign Priority Assign Priority Priority Risks Requiring Risks Requiring Attention Priority Risks to be Handled Risks Requiring Attention Action by the Committee but no Immediate Action by Each Department but no Immediate Action ● Measures for Prevention of Important Priority Risks Extracted and Analyzed Risks are Selected by the President for Priority 1st Priority ❶ Business / Investment Risk Investment Review Subcommittee Company-Wide Risks Addressed by 2nd Priority ❷ Product / Credibility Risk Corporate Action Committee (Expert) Committee ❸ Information Risk Information Security Subcommittee ❹ Legal Risk Legal / Intellectual Property Division Departmental Risk Risks to be Handled ❺ Employment Risk Human Resources by a Speciﬁc Department ❻ Crisis Management General Aﬀairs ● Prevention Measures and Risk Management Systems Inspection / Revision Continual Improvement of Risk Management Through PDCA Risk Extraction → Factor Analysis → Assign Priority → Select Prevention Measures Plan Correction by Management Act Do implementation of Measures Awareness / Training / Familiarization Check Inspection / Revision of Prevention Measures and Risk Management Systems 17 2 I nf o r m at i o n Se c u r i t y In 2008, in order to protect the private information and business secrets of clients and stakeholders alike, we formed the Information Security Subcommittee, establishing rules for Basic Information Security Policies, Rules for Information Security and Information Security Standards. Using these regulations as a guideline we strive to maintain and improve security through periodic web training for all employees as well as Information Security Self-Monitoring. KURODA ELECTRIC Basic Information Security Policies At KURODA ELECTRIC, we consider informational assets to be one of our vital management resources. The Basic Information Security Policies were established to ensure appropriate management and protection of our own informational assets as well client assets in our holding. KURODA ELECTRIC Basic Information Security Policies ● KURODA ELECTRIC will enforce appropriate security measures regarding its informational assets in accordance with their priority. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will also take the utmost care to ensure the security of informational assets of clients which are handled in the course of business, and will take constant measures to prevent risk of loss, destruction, falsiﬁcation or unauthorized disclosure. ● Together with the establishment of the Information Security Subcommittee, KURODA ELECTRIC will appoint managers to oversee the information security of all departments handling informational assets and through the company organizational structure will work to enforce and promote strategies for the security of informational assets. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will implement continuous information security training for all oﬃcers and employees and work to spread general and total awareness of information security policies. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will periodically review the operational status of information security measures and take corrective measures, as necessary, to ensure security. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will adhere to any laws and regulations pertaining to information security. 18 Soci al Co n t ribu tio n s by KURODA E LE C TR I C Gro u p Support upp an d Contribution 19 E d u cationa l S upport Financial Support for the Construction of Ban Parai Elementary School in Thailand Located approximately 500km northeast of the capital of Bangkok, in the Phayu District of Thailandʼs Sisaket Province, Ban Parai Elementary School is located near the Cambodian border, in an area where there are a lot of people who speak local languages such as Lao and Khmer. The three pillars of Social Contribution Activities at Phayao LAOS MYANMAR KURODA ELECTRIC are “Educational Support”, Phrae “Environmental Contribution and “Community & Nong Bua Lamphu Sakon Nakhon Kalasin Household Activities”. In August of 2010, as a link in our overseas educational support activities, the executive Sisaket committee approved a ﬁnancial support for the new Kanchanaburi school building construction project for Ban Parai Bangkok Sisaket Province School resulting in donating 1.7 million baht(approx. 4.7 Phayu District million yen) to the public interest incorporated CAMBODIA VIETNAM foundation, Plan Japan. KURODA ELECTRIC Group Support and Outreach for Thailand Elementary School As KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. (Parent Company) decided to support Ban Parai Elementary School located in northeast area of Thailand in 2010, Z KURODA (Thailand) as subsidiary company responded to HQ with supporting the elementary school such as providing computers, academic equipment, sport equipment, school bag and stationary,…etc. and visiting the elementary school every year. In 2015, on January 10 (Children's Day in Thailand: the second Saturday of January), total 36 employees (hereafter, abbreviated as Kuroda volunteers ) including management and staﬀ working for Z KURODA (Thailand) Co., Ltd. and KURODA AUTO-TECH (Thailand) Ltd. visited Ban Parai Elementary School. The kids and villagers were really excited to welcome KURODA volunteers. They woke up early in the morning and prepared breakfast and got the kids to ready for the local dance performance. After the opening speech, KURODA volunteers walked to playgrounds for open ceremony, meanwhile the kids had already jumped on and played with all equipment in the playgrounds. They looked really happy and very excited. After that it was time for dance performance performed by the kids, then KURODA volunteers played games with them and gave gifts to them all. 20 E nvi ron m en tal Contribution Activities Ome Ome Kurokawa Kurokawa KURODA ELECTRIC Forest Building (Company Forest Program) Since 2004, as a component of our Environmental Contribution Activities, KURODA ELECTRIC has implemented aﬀorestation, planned thinning, and other forest preservation and agricultural experience projects in Thailand, Kagawa, Kumamoto and elsewhere. Additionally, beginning in 2008, in order to oﬀer the opportunity for steady participation in areas closer to home, our forest preservation projects were extended to Ome City, in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area. In 2011, similar activities were began in Kurokawa, Kawanishi City, Hyogo Prefecture. 1 K URO DA E LE C TR I C C o m pa n y F o r e s t ( O m e , To k y o ) The KURODA Company Forest in Ome, Tokyo was initiated with the event of planting low-pollen cedar saplings in 2008. Since then, an annual forest maintenance event has been held to weed undergrowth that hinders the trees growth. In 2014, the cedar trees had grown to seven or eight meters in height, which is suﬃcient to not requiring weeding. Instead, we used hoes and other tools to maintain the forest roads (footpaths) made along the slope of the planted area, to make future maintenance work easier. 2 K URO DA E LE C TR I C C o m pa n y F o r e s t ( K u r o k aw a, K aw an is h i, H y og o) The high-grade “kiku-zumi” charcoal used in tea ceremonies has been made in Kurokawa, Kawanishi, in the Hokusetsu region, since the Muromachi period. At the Kurokawa Company Forest, KURODA ELECTRIC cultivates the sawtooth oaks from which this charcoal is produced, helping to promote biodiversity and contribute to local scenery and culture. In 2014, nearly 60 employees from KURODA ELECTRIC, Nichido-Denko, and Komura-Tech weeded undergrowth around the sawtooth oaks which were planted two years ago. 21 Regional, Household and other Social Contributions Strengthening Our Bond to Society and Community KURODA ELECTRIC Group is involved in a variety of social and regional activities both within and without the company. Through these contributions, we hope to strengthen bonds not only within the company but with the society and community at large. 1 KURODA ECO Point System KURODA ELECTRIC have introduced the Kuroda ECO Point System in February 2012 in order to encourage environmental contribution activities on the part of employees and their families, not only within the company but in the broader society and community as well. KECO (KURODA ECO) points are distributed based on activities carried out. In ﬁscal 2014, around 280 employees (including employees loaned to aﬃliated companies in and outside Japan) participated, engaging actively in environmental initiatives at work, home, and in the community. 2 Used Stamps Collection Drives KURODA ELECTRIC supports overseas aﬀorestation via the Defense of Green Earth Foundation. In 2012, we collect one full cardboard box worth of used stamps, etc. The proceeds earned through these collection drives are used to purchase seedlings for use in aﬀorestation at Mt. Nansi in Tongchuan, China or at Mt. Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. 3 Hold Basketball Clinics Players and staﬀ members of the company basketball club (the Kuroda Electric Bullet Spirits) belonging to Division 1 of the Kanto Industrial and Commercial Basketball Federation hold basketball clinics for persons from junior high school age up in Shinagawaku, where the company's head oﬃce is located. This is an eﬀort to help promote sports in the community and get people to experience the fun and beauty of basketball. 4 Donations from Vending Machine Sales KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. and Group company KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd. donate 1% of monthly sales from the beverage vending machines at their headquarter as Green Funds. These funds go to the Tokyo Development Foundation for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries supporting the KURODA ELECTRIC COMPANY FOREST (Ome, Tokyo) initiative. 5 Provision of Parking Spaces for School Crossing Guards Group company KURODA TECHNO is situated next to an elementary school, meaning that many of the roads near the factory are school routes. KURODATECHNO provides free parking spaces to nearby school crossing guards to help them ensure that children can safely commute to school. Donation of Newspapers and Newspaper Shelves to 6 Local Elementary and Junior High Schools In order to contribute to the local community, Group company KOMURA-TECH Co., Ltd. donates newspapers and newspaper shelves to local elementary and junior high schools. By encouraging children to read the newspaper on a regular basis, the company hopes to raise their interest in current events and improve their reading skills. KOMURA-TECH Co.,Ltd. donated newspapers (equivalent to the amount for a year) for elementary school students and newspaper shelves to Higashi-Osaka municial KUSAKA ELEMENTARY SCHOOL in February,2015. Work Experience for 7 Local Junior High-School Student Group company Nichido-Denko accepts second-year junior high school students in the town of Shimamoto to its head oﬃce plant to gain hands-on work experience. From November 5 to 7, 2014, three students from Shimamoto Daiichi Junior High School experienced the fun and arduousness of work while also learning about appr opria t e languag e, gr ee ting s, and pr o f e ssional manner s thr ough simple a s s e m b l y , d i s t r i b u t i o n , a n d l i g h t w o r k . T h e y a l s o e x p a n d e d t h e ir v i e w s o f occupations and learned desirable attitudes to work and labor. 22 Qu ality and E n v iro n m en t a l Manage m en t S y st em s Management System 23 QUALITY POLICY As a supplier of products and solutions oﬀering a clear added value to the customer via design / prototyping, provision of components, distribution of inventory and more, KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs ﬁrst priority is to ensure the trust and satisfaction of our customers by oﬀering a reliable source of quality which fulﬁlls customer demand. We therefore adhere to the following policies regarding quality at KURODA ELECTRIC : ⑴ As a business primarily concerned with supplying materials for production it is our duty to fully grasp the business environment, to conform to our clientʼs vision and demands, and, furthermore, to proactively oﬀer products and services which will contribute to our customersʼ proﬁts. ⑵ In the area of manufacturing, we will work with associated domestic and overseas companies in order to form a global response and further maintain and improve partnerships with our customers. ⑶ We will fulﬁll our social obligations by adhering to all applicable laws and regulations, will establish pertinent quality management systems, and through punctual implementation of the PDCA cycle will continually work to improve the eﬀectiveness of quality management. ⑷ In order to reduce the environmental burden and contribute to a recycling society we will manage our environmental burden and promote environmentally friendly products, thus raising environmental quality. ⑸ In order to continually oﬀer higher quality products and services we will analyze prior problems and complaints and adopt appropriate prevention measures. In addition, through eﬀective development of this analysis, we will also work to prevent possible future problems and complains. We will fully fulﬁll our administrative responsibilities, including the provision of appropriate management resources, in order to ensure, through the concrete objectives and plans of individual departments, all possible implementation of the above policies. June, 2009 K U RO D A ELECT RI C Co ., Lt d . P re si d e n t a n d Ch i e f Ex e c u t i v e O ﬃ c e r T a k a sh i K a n e k o 1 Quality / Environmental ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Policies As environmental awareness grows increasingly Fundamental Philosophy pressing, ecological care has become a valued At KURODA ELECTRIC we are aware that, in every sphere of business, global environmental conservation is the most important issue shared by component in the development of new products. us as human beings. In order to promote environmental awareness and conservation we aim to proactively contribute to such issues as energy In addition to recycling and the elimination of and resource conservation, waste reduction and the recycling of resources. SOC(Substance Of Concern), the presence of radiation, noise pollution and electromagnetic Environmental Policies ⑴ To pursue work in a manner which reduces the environmental burden to waves are all important issues for companies to its utmost minimum and to engage in environmental conservation and precautions against pollution. address. ⑵ To set environmental objectives and targets, to provide a framework for revision, to periodically review our environmental actions and to work for continual betterment. ⑶ To adhere to all laws and internally accepted regulations regarding At KURODA ELECTRIC, in order to eﬀectively environmental conservation while addressing the following: deal with problems of quality and the environment ① CO 2 Reduction ② Waste Reduction we have established oﬃcial quality and ③ The Sale of Environmentally Friendly Products ⑷ To show appreciation for the ecological services we are gifted with through environmental policies, as well as specialized the supply chain, to work to reduce the eﬀect of business activities on biodiversity, and to promote biodiversity conservation. in-house organizations. ⑸ To concretely manifest and maintain these policies, and promote their awareness among all employees. ⑹ To publish these policies widely and also furnish other appropriate information. Revised March, 2012 (Original Policy Adopted June, 2009) KURODA EL ECTRIC Co., L td . P resid en t an d Ch ief Ex ecu tiv e Oﬃcer Tak ash i Kan ek o 24 2 Quality and Environmental Controls ⑴ G l ob a l l y-Integr ated ISO C ert iﬁcat ion KURODA ELECTRIC acquired globally integrated ISO certiﬁcation in September 2009 and has been maintaining its certiﬁcation since then. The latest renewal was made in January, 2015. ⑵ R ec ogn iz ed as a E co P o wer C ompany by Sh i n agaw a War d The Shinagawa Ward of Tokyo, where KURODA ELECTRIC's headquarter is located, recognizes environmentally-friendly businesses that take an initiative in carrying out greener operations as Eco Power Companies. The KURODA ELECTRIC Tokyo headquarter was recognized as an Eco Power Company in March 2014. Shinagawa Ward web site http://www.city.shinagawa.tokyo.jp/hp/menu000022000/hpg000021904.htm ⑶ 5 % R e d uc tio n in Co p y Paper Usage In ﬁscal 2014, Kuroda Electric Co., Ltd., added a 5% reduction compared to the previous ﬁscal year in the use of oﬃce paper to its environmental targets and made company-wide eﬀorts to reduce its paper usage. It achieved the target with an 8.5% reduction year on year. ⑷ Continue using Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁed Copy Paper throughout the company KURODA ELECTRIC changed the copy paper it uses, company-wide, from the previous paper used (undisclosed raw materials, not environmentally friendly) to Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁed copy paper. ※Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁcation: An international certiﬁcation system that ensures that lumber and wood products are obtained from an appropriately managed forest. 25 ⑸ Management of Chemical Substances in Products In order to comply with all domestic and international laws and to meet customer demand, we at KURODA ELECTRIC are strengthening the reasonable management of chemical substances in products along all stages of the supply chain. Additionally, in order to provide pertient information to suppliers, we will hold periodic information sessions, maintain the newest version of client Green Procurement Guidelines, hold audits and more. In order to enforce reasonable management of chemical substances in products, we strive to work as a capable medium between our clients and suppliers. ⑹ I n v e s t i gatio n o f Co nﬂ ict M inerals Detailed rules based on Section 1502 of the Dodd‒Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), which were adopted by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (hereafter: SEC) on August 22, 2012, require companies listed on the US exchange to report on eﬀorts to avoid the use of conﬂict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold) originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and /or adjoining countries to the SEC. While the KURODO ELECTRIC Group is not listed on the US exchange, through its supply chain, in order to respond to customer requests (for investigation), KURODO ELECTRIC gathers information on conﬂict minerals from its suppliers. In 2014, in response to requests from a total of 364 customers, KURODA ELECTRIC gathered information on conﬂict minerals from a total of 1,372 suppliers and provided customers in question with responses based on the information gathered from its suppliers. ⑺ T h e W as te Managem ent and Public C leansing Law In order for KURODA ELECTRIC to comply with the Waste Management and Public Cleaning Law and ensure proper disposal of industrial wastes generated as a result of business activities, CSR/ISO Section's prior review & conﬁrmation scheme was established as thorough compliance countermeasures. 3 Environmental Performance (Reported Scope of environmental performance data is intended only for the sites of Kuroda Electric Co., Ltd reported in Globally-Integrated ISO Certiﬁcation.) KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. Data Concerning KURODA ELECTRICʼs 2012 Financial Year 2013 Financial Year 2014 Financial Year Environmental Performance ① Energy Consumption (Unit : MWh) 2,011 1,941 1,850 ② Gasoline Consumption (Unit : kℓ) 88 84 78 ③ CO2 Emissions (Unit : t-CO2) 1,160 1,213 1,155 ④ Business Paper Use (Unit : 1,000 Sheets) 2,912 2,837 2,610 ⑤ General Waste (Unit : kg) 64,909 76,098 76,941 ⑥ Recycled Waste (Unit : kg) 51,006 62,875 62,906 ⑦ Recycling Rate (Unit : %) 79 83 82 Data Concerning Group 2012 Financial Year 2013 Financial Year 2014 Financial Year companies in Japanʼs Energy Consumption & Energy Gasoline CO2 Energy Gasoline CO2 Energy Gasoline CO2 Consumption Consumption Emissions Consumption Consumption Emissions Consumption Consumption Emissions CO 2 Emissions （Unit : MWh） （Unit : kℓ） （Unit : t-CO2） （Unit : MWh） （Unit : kℓ） （Unit : t-CO2） （Unit : MWh） （Unit : kℓ） （Unit : t-CO2） KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd. 228 1.9 110 227 1.7 123 261 1.1 141 KOMURA-TECH Co., Ltd. 4,307 4.0 1,948 4,208 4.0 2,172 4,072 4.1 2,135 Sohwa & Sophia Technologies 338 2.0 161 315 5.8 179 297 5.6 171 Inc.（only headquarters） NICHIDO-DENKO Co., Ltd. 1,835 79 781 1,934 71 1,167 2,109 65 1,259 26 Wo rki ng wit h o u r E m p l o y ees with Employee 27 1 Developing Skilled Human Resources ⑴ J ob Sp eciﬁ c E d ucatio n an d Training KURODA ELECTRIC has implemented web-based job-speciﬁc education and training. These programs target not only regular employees but also part-time and dispatch employees. The web-based trainings which were carried out in 2014 consisted of 5 modules utilized by a total of 1,667 trainees. Every year, introductory training is also carried out for new employees when they ﬁrst enter the company, as well as follow-up training after they are assigned to a department. ⑵ G l ob a l H R Res o ur ce Sup port and Training In order to cultivate future HR capable of acting on the global business stage, we are selecting young to mid-career employees to undertake foreign language and intercultural studies. We are also promoting TOEIC examinations for all employees. ⑶ S k i l l s M anagem ent and L ifelong Learning KURODA ELECTRIC has instituted educational and training programs speciﬁc to the individual job categories and classes of employees. Most importantly, as part of this training, we strive to not only provide the information and knowledge base necessary in their professional duties, but also to oﬀer “Lifelong Learning” which will provide employees with chances to grow as members of society and the organization, and ultimately to become members of the core management staﬀ. The following is an overview and outline of our Lifelong Learning programs. Global Skills ［ Top Management Training ］ Business Accounting ● Team Building ● Fundamental Management Knowledge ［ Expatriated Workers ］ ● Intercultural Training ● Linguistic Ability Training ［ New Management Training ］ ● Management ● Labor Management ● Accounting ［ Leadership Training ］ ● Communication Skill Up ● Global Mind Set Presentation ［ Basic Awareness Reinforcement Training ］ Communication ［ Specialist Skills ］※ External ● Compliance ● International Trade ● Information Security ● Distribution ● Accounting ［ Training / Follow-up Training for New Employees ］ ● Morale Training ● Professional Manners ● Work Process (PDCA Cycle) Specialist Skills W eb Tra in in g All Linguistic Training (Self-Study / Recommended Lectures) Employees Sales Training Professionalism Training 28 2 Employee Welfare Programs G r ou p L ong T er m Dis ab ility I ncome Indemnit y I nsurance (G LT D) At most companies, when an employee is unable to work for an extended period of time due to illness or injury they are often entitled to Special Paid Absence so long as their tenure continues. But if they are still unable to return to work at the end of their appointed leave and their employment is thus terminated, the strain of hospitalization and doctorʼs fees on their household budget can be extreme. However, in order to create a work environment where employees can enjoy consistent peace of mind, and to help guard against any worst-case scenario, we at KURODA ELECTRIC provide Group Long Term Disability Income Indemnity Insurance (GLTD), guaranteeing a portion of an employeeʼs regular salary as compensation, potentially until the age of retirement, should they be unable to work for an extended period due to illness or injury. Additionally, this insurance provides ﬁxed period compensation for employees who take a temporary leave due to mental disorder. 3 Mental Healthcare Programs In order to help support our employeesʼ mental health, an employee assistance program was introduced in 2007. In order to ensure primary, secondary and tertiary precautions concerning workplace mental health, the program has adopted the following measures. Mental Checkups In order to ensure early detection and treatment of those at risk for mental disorders, all employees undergo web based stress checks once per year. Follow-up by External Specialists Just as follow-up exams are carried out when cause is found to worry after a physical exam, in the event that a stress check should show that something is amiss follow-up exams and treatment guidance are carried out by external specialists (psychiatrists or clinical psychologists) (consultation regarding employees or family members also available). EAP Consultation A consultation window is open for those with physical or mental health concerns. In principle, this window is available 24 hours a day to oﬀer support via email, phone and direct consultation（Consultations are also open to the families of employees）. Mental Training This training, for management, focuses on mental illness prevention tactics and the appropriate response to those with mental disease in the workplace. 29 The M ent al H e a l t h ca r e P r o g r a m An Employee Assistance Program (EAP) oﬀering support to employees and family via external specialist institutions. Overview of Support Programs The incidence of mental health related workmanʼs comp claims and settlements is on the increase, with some reports placing the ratio of disabled workers out due to mental disorders at 40%, thus making workplace mental healthcare more important an issue than ever before. In previous years, while employees were required to have periodic physical checkups, no such checkup was carried out for similar mental issues. With the addition of mental checkups to regular physical exams, our goal is to provide more comprehensive total healthcare. Periodic Examination Results & Feedback Reexamination as Necessary Appropriate Treatment Phys Yearly Diagnosis of Notiﬁcation / Diagnosis of Health Health Exam Physical Results Reexamination Physical Results Mental Health Diagnosis of Follow-up Early Treatment Mental Counseling Health Check Mental Results via Clinic, etc. with Doctor Implementation of period mental checkups makes regular diagnosis simple and possible. Additionally, EAP consultation need not only apply to personal problems, but may also concern coworkers, family members and other people close to the consulting person. When necessary, medical treatment and consistent follow-up care by a doctor is also possible. Diagnosis / Consultation Treatment / Countermeasure Mental Checkup via Counseling Specialist Assessment By Specialist or Counselor At Fixed Intervals as Appropriate per Individual EAP Consultation Medical Treatment Medical Care Geared Towards Physical and Mental Consultation Early Treatment and Recovery, via Reliable Specialists as Necessary 30 T h e K U R O DA E L E C T R I C Roadm a p This is an image after joining a company until we retire. Preparation will be made to fullﬁlling employment life by three systems, Personnel and Labor Relations,HR Development, Employee Beneﬁts&Welfare. ● Retirement Allowance ● Reemployment ● Special Incentive Leave ● Life-Planning Seminar The KURODA Alumni Club GOAL ● Nursing / Family Care Leave ● Adjusted Hours Commendation ● Employee Aid Programs for Long Service ● Employee Stock Options ● Promotion to Management ● Transfer to New Work Category Personnel and Labor Relations HR Development ● Volunteering Leave Commendation for High Results Employee Beneﬁts & Welfare ● COMPREHENSIVE INSURANCE ● GLTD INSURANCE ● Maternity Leave ● Childcare Leave / ● Job Speciﬁc Training Adjusted Hours Skills Training by Welcome to Position & Work Class the Company! ● Housing Subsidies for TOEIC Examination Young Workers ● Promotion of Property English Conversation Asset Building School Subsidies Mentoring System ● Jiseikai Club Support START ● Honeymoon 31 Publisher KUR O DA E L E CT R I C Co . , L t d Te l（ : 0 3 ）5 7645505 Inquiries CSR / ISO Division M a i l : k r d-csr@kuro da e le c tric .c o .jp
