CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Sustainability Report 2014 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative2014 Hartmann Sustainability Report business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 2 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement CEO STATEMENT As a leading supplier of sustainable moulded-fibre packaging and a Continuous improvements and a systematic approach to sustainability ­responsible citizen, we seek to enhance our efforts through new acat our production sites are achieved through new ISO certifications, tivities and initiatives. We consider it a prerequisite for success that which further raise our environmental efficiency and embed sustain­Hartmann’s entire production process is part of a sustainable value ability as a living part of our mindset and performance in still bigger chain from raw material back to raw material. In that context, the reareas of our business. cyclability of our products was validated in 2014 by tests showing that the products are well suited for re-entering the paper-recycling loop. Corporate Social Responsibility is an integral part of Hartmann’s business model and a key element of our competitiveness. Our commitWe maintain our climate ambition of a 25% cut in CO2 emissions by ment is as strong as ever and we reaffirm our endorsement of the UN 2020 – even if our efforts in 2014 did not entirely paid off yet. Our Global Compact and its principles. eco-friendly product imagic2® continues to gain market shares, and with its lower weight and volume when stacked, our transportation and storage needs are reduced. This along with many other activities going on in our business units towards reaching the climate target, and with the energy and engagement put into this, gives me confidence that we will get there. An internal campaign to raise the green and social awareness at ­Hartmann’s head office in Denmark engaged the staff and myself through new ways of thinking and acting green. The campaign was a direct benefit to both our working and personal lives, but will also have Ulrik Kolding Hartvig a wider impact on the communities in which we operate and live. CEO 2 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative2014 Hartmann Sustainability Report business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 3 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Hartmann at a glance Hartmann is the world’s leading manufacturer of moulded-fibre egg Customers packaging, market leader within the production of fruit packaging in Hartmann sells egg and fruit packaging to manufacturers, distributors South America and one of the world’s largest manufacturers of maand retail chains, which are increasingly seeking Hartmann’s marketchinery for producing moulded-fibre packaging. Founded in 1917, Harting expertise. Hartmann’s technology and related services are sold to mann’s market position is based on its strong technology know-how manufacturers of moulded-fibre packaging. and extensive experience of moulded-fibre production since 1936. Organisation Sustainability Headquartered in Gentofte, Denmark, Hartmann has 2,100 employSustainability and environmental considerations are integral elements ees. Production takes place at Hartmann’s own factories, of which four of Hartmann’s business model and strategy. All Hartmann’s products are in Europe, one in Israel, four in South America and one in Canada. are based on recycled paper, which is a renewable, CO2-neutral and biodegradable resource. Hartmann works closely with its customers to The Hartmann share support the need for sustainable products in the retail trade and was Hartmann’s shares have been listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen since the first manufacturer to offer both FSC-certified and CO2-neutral 1982. There is one class of shares, and each share carries one vote. retail packaging. Interested parties can receive financial reports and company announcements by subscribing to Hartmann’s news service at investor. Markets hartmann-packaging.com. Hartmann’s egg packaging is sold globally. The main markets are Europe, South America and North America, where Hartmann has strong market positions. Hartmann is market leader in Europe and in South America, where the product portfolio also includes fruit packaging. Hartmann has a small, but growing share of the North American market. Hartmann’s technology, including machinery and services, is also sold globally outside its main markets.. Finland Denmark Denmark England Poland Germany Germany France Hungary USA Switzerland Croatia Italia Serbia Canada USA USA Israel Production Production and sale Sale Brasil Brasil Chile Argentina 3 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative2014 Hartmann Sustainability Report business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 4 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Sustainability timeline Hartmann receives EU Award for Hartmann signs the UN Caring for Systematic labour rights ­Environmental & Sustainable Management Climate agreement assessments completed First Group Environmental Launch of group sustainability 22% energy reduction European sites Report published principles achieved since 2007 FSC certified 1995 1998 2000 2002 2003 2006 2007 2008 2011 2012 2013 2014 Hartmann joins “Choose fibre. Third-party verification UN Global Compact Save Nature®” ­marketing of climate calculations campaign launched First production site certified Hartmann site certified acc. to SA 8000 Anti-corruption programme Hartmann announced acc. to ISO14001 ­environmental Social Accountability standard introduced National Champion by management standard European Business Awards Corporate memberships Danish Council for Sustainable Development (RBE) The Confederation of Danish Industry – Network for Sustainable Development UN Global Compact UN Global Compact – Caring for Climate European Moulded Fibre Association (EMFA) Green Industry Platform (www.greenindustryplatform.org) 4 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative2014 Hartmann Sustainability Report business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 5 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Hartmann 2014 >300 70 mill >300 saved truck-transports as a 70 mill recycled newspaper saved as a consequence of imagic2® sales consequence of imagic2® sales 15,000 3.5% 15,000 trees planted in Mozambique Reduction on CO2 since base year. for CO2 compensation The target 25% by 2020 stands 30% 100% 30% of the underrepresented gender 100% of paper raw materials from in the other managerial levels FSC or recycled sources 50-65% 19 An estimated 50-65% of 19 employees moulded-fibre products trained in recycled within Europe anti-corruption 5 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative2014 Hartmann Sustainability Report business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 6 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement PROGRESS INITIATIVES Click on each progress initiative below to read more The below colours are used in the report to identify each sustainability theme. For a description of each of the ten principles, see Appendix 1. HUMAN RIGHTS • LABOUR RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT • ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW OF 2014 PROGRESS ACTIVITIES RELATED TO EACH GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 PROGRESS INITIATIVE CSR awards X X X X X X X X X X Sustainability campaign at head office X X X X X X X X X X Safety efforts and progress X X Hartmann Croatia ISO 22000 certified X X Low migration printing inks X X X Status on gender equality X Climate protection X X X Hartmann Germany ISO 50001 certification process initiated X X X Climate calculations third party verified X X X Climate protection in Hartmann Technology X X X Closing the loop with product recycling X X X Imagic2 environmental benefits in numbers X ® X Wastewater treatment plant in Hartmann Hungary X X X Anti-corruption training completed X 6 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 7 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Relative business impact of Global Compact themes Our suppliers and customers are mainly located in Europe and North America, with few suppliers in high-risk countries. All suppliers are required to respect and support our commitment to the ten UN Global Compact principles1. Business relevance of Global Compact themes Global Compact theme Environment Labour Rights Human Rights Anti-corruption Business relevance At Hartmann, a key focus area is climate protection. Life Cycle Assessence. Therefore, we continuously hold ourselves to the highest standments show that this is typically the most significant environmental ards as regards our social responsibility. impact related to our products. Due to increased international focus on corruption and the legal deWe relate to European and international frameworks and expectavelopment in the field, Hartmann has maintained a high focus on this tions for companies within the fields of human and labour rights and Global Compact theme in recent years. consider our responsibility to reach throughout our sphere of influ1) See Appendix 1 for an overview of the UN Global Compact’s ten sustainability principles and Hartmann’s commitment to these. 2) Source: European Moulded Fibre Association, and numerous internal LCAs. 7 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Hartmann Sustainability Relative business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 8 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement AWARDS European Business Awards Hartmann Croatia won CSR award – National Champion – CSR Index Hartmann won prestigious European Business Award (EBA). In December 2014, our Croatian business was awarded for its investments in corporate social responsibility. It was the sixth time the CSR Commercial success, innovation and business ethics are the European Index award was given and Hartmann Croatia won in the category of Business Awards’ criteria when selecting the company that has done midsize companies. best in the competition, first nationally and then internationally. The European Business Awards are granted in ten categories in 33 counHartmann Croatia was recognised for its efforts to promote the sustries, and Hartmann was named National Champion in Denmark in the tainability of its business through investing in human resources, new category ‘Environmental and Corporate Sustainability’. technologies, environmental protection and local community work. An example of the community work is Hartmann Croatia organising The main achievements that won Hartmann the award were: Christmas workshops and donations for orphaned children. • Responsible use of resources and FSC certification The objective of the CSR Index is to provide annual assessments of the • Climate strategy with CO2 targets and energy reductions as well as most successful Croatian companies to give them a clear picture of the CO2 neutral products for customers value of their efforts and the areas in which they can further progress • Social responsibility initiative – with the overall goal of implementing CSR in the Croatian economy. • Safety “This award recognises our sustainability achievements and the efforts to continuously strengthen our profile as a sustainable business,” says Ulrik Kolding Hartvig, CEO of Hartmann. The European Business Award is known for its high-calibre judges in a panel consisting of leading business and political figures, academics, entrepreneurs and thought leaders, supported by key influencers including EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht. Hartmann was nominated with the following words: “We were particularly impressed with the success Hartmann has demonstrated in its approach to Environmental and Corporate Sustainability and the impact this has had across its business and society as a whole. With this in mind, Hartmann has been selected for entry in the Environmental and Corporate Sustainability category.” Read more about the award here: http://www.businessawardseurope.com 8 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Hartmann Sustainability Relative business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 9 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Let’s Go Green – awareness campaign Being a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Hartmann is expected to The ultimate target of the competition was to reach a predefined level make its principles an integral part of the organisational culture and to of employee activity and engagement during the campaign that would practice active outreach to stakeholders in support of the UN Global result in making the head office climate neutral for 2014. At the award Compact principles. In this context Hartmann’s employees represent show that marked the end of the campaign it was concluded that the a key stakeholder. employees had exceeded the target level set. This triggered a CO2 neutralisation of the office emissions remaining after implementation During the spring of 2014, an extensive sustainability campaign was of the initiatives to lower the energy consumption in the building. conducted at Hartmann’s head office near Copenhagen under the slogan of “Let’s Go Green”. The campaign addressed the awareness For new employees, who did not participate in the campaign, there is a and mindset of the employees, who play a vital role in executing our follow-up programme to maintain the motivation and knowledge level sustainability strategy. The head office is not a company location with at the office location. the greatest environmental or social impacts. However, the employees there have a significant influence on the performance of the organisation as a whole. The core philosophy in the Let’s Go Green campaign was to engage employees in the sustainability agenda in a fun and motivating fashion. The campaign involved posters, quizzes and lectures leveraging the strong head-office team spirit to run an eight-week competition with fair trade prizes as the backbone of the campaign. During the campaign, the head office implemented solutions to optimise energy consumption, transportation, food waste and recycling, including social aspects in employee events and much more. On top, the campaign generated ideas on how to improve business processes in other parts of the organisation. A small example from the campaign is a new system for carpooling between company locations. 9 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Hartmann Sustainability Relative business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 10 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement ENVIRONMENT Environmental impacts in production are managed with the H ­ artmann STEP® Environment management model. For an overview of the Reduction in CO2-e ­model, see www.hartmann-packaging.com. Index 100 ISO 14000 certificates for environmental management were maintained or renewed in 2014 for all our European production sites. 80 60 CLIMATE PROTECTION Do more with less 40 Manufacturing always requires energy and traditional energy consumption contributes significantly to the growing problem of global warming. 20 However, Hartmann does not consider these factors a reason why the company should not act in favour of climate protection. 0 2012 2013 2014 Target 2020 Climate change gives the global challenge of doing more with less, and Hartmann has taken on that challenge. Over the past seven years, ­significant energy efficiency improvements have been realised, and since the base year 2012 a CO2-e reduction of 3,49% was achieved. The group climate emission target remains at 25% CO2-e by 2020* and so the journey towards the target will continue in the years to come. In the reporting year the focus was on efficiency improvements in our * The basis for the targeted 25% reduction by 2020 is the CO2-e emissions from energy consumption at our factories (electricity and heat) relative to the sellable product ­quantities put on stock (kg). This was changed since 2013 where the target was relative to the product quantities sold (kg), which means a <1% correction of the reduction reported in the 2013 sustainability report. The new method for calculating progress on the target better reflects the performance in each reporting year until 2020. 10 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Hartmann Sustainability Relative business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 11 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement manufacturing processes including the implementation of a new and promising tool for better control of the product drying process. HARTMANN GERMANY ISO 50001 CERTIFICATION PROCESS INITIATED: The focus areas for continued progress on the climate target are: Hartmann Germany is planning to obtain an ISO 50001 certification for energy management in 2015 with the aim of im• Investments in new process technology proving the overview of all on-site energy consumption and • Improvement and optimisation of existing equipment the general structure of site energy management. A structured • Product development and certified approach to energy management shall ensure an • Waste reduction efficient use of energy resources, contribute to the manufac• Replacement of fossil energy by renewable energy turing sites’ CO2 emission reductions and provide evidence of efficient energy management to external stakeholders. A number of options for replacing fossil energy by renewable energy exist. A mapping of these options and their financial, practical and enAn analysis of the needed changes and the potential gain was vironmental implications were initiated during the reporting year – carried out by the external advisory company EEB ENERKO starting with Hartmann Denmark. The mapping will continue in 2015. Energiewirtschaftliche Beratung GmbH. This analysis is the foundation for the next stage of the certification process, and in early 2015, internal audits will be carried out in preparation of the final ISO certification. WE SUPPORT 11 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Hartmann Sustainability Relative business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 12 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement CLIMATE CALCULATIONS third-party verified Hartmann’s corporate CO2 accounting scopes 1, 2 and partially 3 were The verification gives credibility to Hartmann’s climate calculations and completed in accordance with the GHG Protocol 6 with the figures is an assurance that calculations are complete and in compliance with third-party verified by the external company Climate Partner. Hartthe standards. With this verification, calculations can be used externally mann’s methodology for calculating product carbon footprints accord­towards customers and in the context of climate neutral products. ing to PAS2050 7 was also verified. The verification statement is found in appendix 2. CO2 neutral egg packaging Egg packaging with zero carbon footprint is sold to those of Hartmann’s climate friendly customers who acknowledge that climate protection cannot wait. For all CO2 neutral products sold, we supported a certified reforestation project in Mozambique, which ensures the restoration of depleted forest areas and improves the livelihoods of the local population. See more about the CO2 neutral concept and find a marketing brochure at www.hartmann-packaging.com – Egg Marketing – Sustainability. 6) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the most widely accepted international standard for accounting for corporate greenhouse gas emissions. 7) PAS2050 was developed by the British Standards (BSI) and came into effect in October 2008 and was revised in October 2011. Being the first widely acknowledged standard for product carbon footprints, this standard has been applied by many companies worldwide. 12 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Hartmann Sustainability Relative business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 13 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement CLIMATE PROTECTION IN HARTMANN TECHNOLOGY Hartmann Technology 8 supplies manufacturing technology for moulded-fibre packaging to the Group’s own companies and makes it available to external customers and licensees. In the development of the manufacturing solutions offered by Hartmann Technology, the possibilities for energy and climate efficiency for the customers are set for years after completion of the sale. This is a consequence of the long life spans of this type of machinery. Whether a technology customer is internal or external, climate protection is a key priority in all Hartmann solutions. This message was conveyed at a Hartmann Technology customer seminar in 2012, along with a specific ambition to reduce the energy consumption of the primary energy consuming machinery by more than 15%. The feedback nance. For this reason, energy efficient equipment from Hartmann is from customers confirmed that energy efficiency is a significant puralways supplied as part of a general solution, which has focus on energy chase parameter. However, there was also a certain scepticism as to the efficiency. This allows our customers to benefit from our extensive possibilities of achieving Hartmann’s ambition. knowledge in this area. By making a specific promise about the energy performance of equipment provided by Hartmann Technology, Over the past 3-5 years, Hartmann has undertaken dedicated research we take responsibility for this performance throughout the phases of into the parameters that influence the energy efficiency of mouldedproduction preparation, implementation and after sales as an inherent fibre production. This has resulted in the development of a new type part of our service and partnership offering. of oven, which is notably more energy efficient than its predecessor. The oven is typically the most energy intensive part of a moulded-fibre The first machine with the improved equipment was installed in South production line and the new type has enabled Hartmann to lower the America early in 2014 and, as is our custom, we keep a close dialogue energy specifications for our new ovens. with the customer to allow for the vital and mutual exchange of ­knowledge. In addition to the equipment, a modern and energy optimised moulded-fibre production depends on a number of factors such as the raw Learn more about Hartmann Technology at materials, the skilled operation of the equipment and proper maintewww.hartmann-packaging.com. “My customers expect Hartmann to deliver equipment with a top energy performance, which is a decisive factor when they select us as their supplier. I also have no doubt that the current focus on energy consumption will continue to increase our revenue in the years to come. Whether it is replacement of inefficient equipment or optimisation on existing machinery – the driver will be to reduce the energy consumption,” Mogens Berger Christensen, Vice President Technology 8) Hartmann Technology is a business unit within the Hartmann Group 13 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Hartmann Sustainability Relative business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 14 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Recyclability of moulded-fibre product tested and documented CLOSING THE LOOP WITH PRODUCT RECYCLING From a society point of view, paper recycling increases the lifespan of A prerequisite for recycling Hartmann’s products is that they are in materials and is a key strategy towards saving on primary raw materials, fact suitable for recycling. A priority in the production and design of lowering the energy and chemical consumption, reducing the impact moulded-fibre packaging is therefore to ensure that the qualities of the on fresh water and improving waste management policies. final product match the needs in a typical downstream recycling process, without inhibiting the process. A paper recycling process can be Each year, more and more paper, and in particular types of paper, is inhibited for example by non-paper content such as adhesives, which being recycled in Europe where in 2013, the recycling rate for paper may disturb the process. In 2014, the recycling qualities of a representareached a world record of 71.7%. In general, paper fibres are recycled tive Hartmann moulded-fibre product was tested according to a new an average of 3.5 times in Europe, notwithstanding that approximately recyclability assessment method for paper-based packaging developed 21% is not recyclable or collectable such as for example used tissue as part of the EcoPaperLoop2 project and performed by PMV3. The paper. As regards packaging waste in Europe, the most recycled fracpositive results show without any doubt that the tested product is retion is paper and board1. cyclable. No statistical data are available about the recycling of moulded-fibre Any non-recycled paper content in Hartmann products is Forest Stewegg packaging and the possibility of recycling varies a great deal dependardship Council certified to ensure the responsible use of new wood ing on national and local collection systems and practices. However, fibres. statistics on “household waste, paper waste and paper packaging waste recycling” in Europe can give an indication of the average recycling rate for moulded-fibre egg packaging in Europe. An estimate, derived from the listed waste fractions and qualitative insights about moulded-fibre in the waste streams, suggests a recycling rate within 50-65%. Considering both EU and national targets and plans for increasing recycling rates, recycling as a disposal method is bound to become ever more relevant in the years to come. 1) Source: CEPI 2) An extensive Central Europe Project with the aim to improve the quality of paper for recycling. The project is co-funded by the European Union 3) Chair of Paper Technology and Mechanical Process Engineering, Technical University of Darmstadt 14 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Hartmann Sustainability Relative business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 15 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement IMAGIC2® – Environmental benefits Wastewater generation and in numbers treatment in Hartmann Hungary The desire to conserve resources in the life cycle of Hartmann’s At Hartmann’s manufacturing facility in Hungary, the wastewater is moulded-fibre products makes recycling a priority in the product decontinuously monitored for unwanted substances. In the previous sign together with an efficient use of paper and other resources. Hartyears a deinking process step was added to the production to take out mann’s most recent high-end product, Imagic2®, is designed to meet impurities, which originate from the wastepaper. At the same time, the each of these aspects, for example through its reduced weight and recycling and utilisation of the freshwater on site improved, causing the ability to compress better when stacked. An assessment of the enwastewater to become more concentrated. Therefore, during the year, vironmental benefits of substituting other products for Imagic2® has process changes were implemented, resulting in reduced wastewater shown that, within the reporting year, Imagic2® provided savings of at loads. least 300 full truck transports and over 700 tons of wastepaper. The latter corresponds to approximately 70 million newspapers, which can Today, the wastewater is treated at the municipal wastewater treatthen be recycled for other purposes: ment plant in agreement with local authorities. However, with the goal to reduce the loads even further and to ensure sufficient wastewater treatment capacity for future activities, it was decided to build a wastewater pre-treatment plant. The construction of a combined chemical and biological treatment plant was initiated in the second half of 2014, with completion planned for early 2016. The initiative will ensure this manufacturing facility’s responsible use of water with a high degree of environmental protection and keep wastewater loads below BAT12 levels. Imagic2® saved more than 300 full truck transports and what corresponds to a minimum of 70 million recycled newspapers! 12) Best Available Technology 15 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Hartmann SustainabilityRelative business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 16 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement HUMAN RIGHTS Safety efforts and progress All OHSAS certificates were maintained or renewed in 2014. vailing types of incidents that occurred were stumble/falling accidents and incidents in the printing area. The unsatisfactory progress on the Accepting that a majority of accidents are difficult to prevent entirely LTI target caused an acceleration of planned precautionary activities. with physical prevention measures, work was undertaken to improve Examples include visual behaviour modification tools such as yellow the safety culture across operations. The thinking is that the responmarkings or illustrative cartoons as well as installation of safety equipsibility for safety lies equally with management and employees. In this ment in the printing areas. The latter is planned to continue into 2015. context, managers from all levels attend safety training and are instructed in how to practice safety management. This is done through leading For safety reasons, as well as reasons of efficiency and quality, certain by example and cooperating to establish and maintain a good safety operating areas have begun a 5S 3 organisational restructuring. With culture, for example with regular “safety walks and talks”. At a safety the introduction of the 5S methodology, the ensuing order, tidiness and walk and talk, alternating members of the management walk through improved structure are expected to contribute to a more pleasant as all production areas observing and talking with employees about safety. well as a safer working environment. These walks contribute to lifting employee awareness, which can help prevent accidents from happening. Human and labour rights on site level are managed with the Hartmann STEP® Human management model. For an overview of the model, see With relatively low levels achieved in the past years, the LTI target for 2014 was not met and in fact slightly exceeded the 2013 level. The prewww.hartmann-packaging.com “It is my personal belief that all injuries are preventable. Consequently I am very firm in ensuring that all management, employees, contractors and visitors are dedicated to reducing the risk of injury.” Gerry Lavis, President HNA at Hartmann’s factory in Canada accident statistics Index 100 80 60 “The safety target for 2015 is a 10% ­ 40 LTI-FR reduction from 2014 to 2015” 20 0 2012 2013 2014 Target 2015 LTI-FR 3) 5S is the name of a workplace organisation method that uses a list of five Japanese words: seiri, seiton, seiso, seiketsu, and shitsuke and which focuses on factors such as structure, sorting, standardisation a.m. 16 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Hartmann SustainabilityRelative business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 17 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Safety first! – especially when it comes to food safety for egg consumers Food safety Food safety is important to Hartmann’s customers and the requireEGGS AS NATURE’S SUPER FOOD ments to food safety measures are regulated ever more detailed and – PACKED FULL OF GOODNESS: strict within Europe. Hartmann’s policy is to stay clear of grey zones by keeping a steadily high level. For that reason, materials used in the Eggs have been described by nutritionists as nature’s large vitaproduction as well as the production processes are continuously monimin pill. They contain many of the essential nutrients required tored and controlled to ensure the quality. The end-products are testfor a healthy diet, including vitamins, minerals and high-quality ed in accordance with applicable requirements to further reaffirm the protein. safety of Hartmann’s moulded-fibre products. For example, eggs contain the highest quality protein you can Hartmann Croatia ISO22000 certified buy and an egg yolk is one of only few foods to be a naturally In the moulded-fibre production process, hygiene risks are assessed good source of vitamin D. and managed as an integral part of the local management systems. In November 2014, Hartmann’s production facility in Croatia was certiResearch shows that egg production has a much lower carfied under Food Safety Management standard ISO 22000, the internabon footprint than beef or pork production. Laying hens have tionally most widely acknowledged standard. ISO 22000 combines the low greenhouse gas emissions due mainly to their high feed principles of HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point) with esefficiency. In this way, eggs offer a responsible solution to the tablished product manufacturing practice. Through this external condilemma of how to feed the growing global population using trol measure, the quality of the preventive and corrective actions in the our planet’s finite resources. production process are defined, documented and verified. By obtaining the ISO 22000 certificate, Hartmann Croatia has proven its ability to Source: International Egg Commission (IEC) meet increasing customer needs in the field of food safety. A natural product deserves natural packaging! Eggs breathe Low migration printing inks and transpire. To allow for this natural process, without negaPrinting inks are generally used in low quantities and mainly on the tive consequences for the egg quality, eggs need packaging that outside of the egg cartons. Still, Hartmann needs to ensure that no eggs breathes and absorbs – such as moulded fibre. are contaminated with unwanted substances from the use of ink. For this reason, the inks used in Hartmann are subject to several applicable standards and limitations to the content. Such limitations include for example the absence of heavy metals and other unwanted substances. In the reporting year, the precautionary approach in Hartmann led to a decision to use exclusively “low migration inks” for direct printing. In addition to applicable restrictions for actively added ingredients in low migration printing inks, such inks are also subject to elevated requirements as regards the ink production process. By strictly controlling the ink production environment, Hartmann is able to avoid incidental contaminations with substances from the surrounding environment. “Besides the physical changes, ISO 22000 is also about behaviour and attitude change. During the implementation, I was very pleased to see our production staff take on the challenge and live the new procedures every day” Goran Grotić, Operations Manager, Hartmann Croatia 17 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Hartmann SustainabilityRelative business Report 2014 impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 18 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement LABOUR RIGHTS Human rights and labour rights on site level are managed with the The work with gender diversity was formalised in 2013 with the introHartmann STEP® Human management model. For an overview of this duction of a policy to increase the number of the underrepresented model, see www.hartmann-packaging.com. gender at the company’s other managerial levels, defined as the Executive Committee and managers reporting to the Executive Committee. Ethical sourcing The policy addresses relevant precautionary measures and transparIn accordance with Hartmann’s commitment to our 10 sustainability ency related to for example recruitment, performance reviews and principles we consider our responsibility to extend throughout our career development. For details about the policy, see www.hartmannsphere of influence. In the area of ethical sourcing we apply a systempackaging.com. atic supplier evaluation programme. During the reporting year, this included evaluating selected suppliers and the extent of the evaluation In 2015, a new European master data system will be introduced for was proportional to the risk related to the individual supplier. No supmonitoring HR data. The system will increase the internal transparency plier was de-selected on ethical grounds. In 2015, there will be a focus and monitoring of gender-related data such as gender statistics and on upgrading the competences of lead auditors in relation to ethical pay comparisons for equal work at all levels of the organisation. In time, sourcing. this information will be part of the foundation for managing the issue. Gender equality The value of gender diversity also applies to Hartmann’s Board of DiAccess to equal opportunities in employment, pay and development rectors. The Board has set a target for raising the share of the underas well as a discrimination-free working environment is a human right. represented gender to a minimum of 40% of the shareholder-elected At Hartmann, we are committed to providing a workplace where opmembers by 1 January 2017. This does not alter the fact that board portunities are equal and differences are valued. At the same time, we members are elected by the shareholders based on their individual want to attract the best and brightest people from the broadest pool competences and contribution to the board’s collective competences possible. This is why the right candidates are selected on merit, skill and and profile as well as the quality in the board work. personality. Representation of women 2013 2014 Target 1 January 2017 Board of Directors 25% 4 25% 40% Other managerial levels 5 37% 30% 4 Only the shareholder-elected members 5 Includes the Executive Committee and managers reporting to the Executive Committee 18 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative2014 Hartmann Sustainability Report business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 19 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-corruption training The internal anti-corruption training programme was completed in judgment that cooperation with the supplier in question was deemed 2014, which means that all selected key Hartmann employees have not to be possible under Hartmann’s anti-corruption policy. taken the anti-corruption training programme and committed themselves to the anti-corruption policy in writing. Going forward, the anti-corruption programme remains the precautionary measure taken for the active enforcement of the 10th sustainEnforcement of the anti-corruption principle remains an integrated ability principle. Where relevant, new employees will be required to part of Hartmann’s supplier handling process, and since the introduccomplete the programme to ensure their training and awareness and tion of the anti-corruption policy, at least one supplier has been revalidate their commitment to avoiding violations, wherever they may jected on the grounds that Hartmann will not be involved in any activioccur. ties related to corruption or bribery. In this particular case, it was the 1) Source: CEPI 2) An extensive Central Europe Project with the aim to improve the quality of paper for recycling. The project is co-funded by the European Union 3) Chair of Paper Technology and Mechanical Process Engineering, Technical University of Darmstadt 19 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative2014 Hartmann Sustainability Report business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 20 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement APPENDIX 1. HARTMANN GROUP COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES The original wording of the ten UN Global Compact principles can be found at www.unglobalcompact.org HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Hartmann will make an effort to promote the conditions outlined in Principle no. 3: each of the human rights principles in companies that are part of the Freedom of association and value chain to which the Group belongs. the right to collective bargaining Hartmann recognizes the right of its employees to be members of a Principle no. 1: trade union and to negotiate pay and working conditions collectively. Human rights – support & respect The Group further recognizes the right to organize and collective Hartmann will support and respect the protection of internationally bargaining in companies forming part of the value chain to which the proclaimed human rights. Hartmann’s commitment includes, but is not Group belongs. limited to, the following: Principle no. 4: Hartmann will endeavor to secure the well-being of employees and Rejection of forced labour their families by means of relevant local initiatives, practices and proHartmann will support the elimination of all forms of forced and comcedures that are in keeping with local traditions, conditions and needs. pulsory labour and does not accept the use of forced labour – neither inside the Group nor in companies forming part of the value chain to Hartmann will endeavor to secure fair wages by means of a wages which the Group belongs. policy, which is consistent with the situation prevailing in other local industrial companies, and which enables the Group to attract and retain Principle no. 5: qualified employees. The effective abolition of child labour Hartmann will not employ persons below the minimum age and the Hartmann will endeavor to secure health and safety in the workplace, Group will apply preventive procedures and practices accordingly. The by means of cleaner technologies, procedures and practices as well as Group will make an effort to promote that similar procedures and by the development of competences and efforts to change attitudes practices are applied by companies forming part of the value chain to among the employees. which the Group belongs. Hartmann will endeavor to secure good relations to the local comPrinciple no. 6: munity by means of active participation in social and business-related Non-discrimination activities at local level and by setting a good example to others. Hartmann will endeavor to prevent discriminatory practices and secure equal opportunities by means of the application of procedures Principle no. 2: and practices to prevent discrimination in connection with recruitment Human rights – abuses or dismissal, career development, training and education, or the grantHartmann will make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. ing of staff benefits. Hartmann will endeavor to promote non-discrimination and equal opportunities for employees in companies forming part of the value chain to which the Group belongs. 20 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative2014 Hartmann Sustainability Report business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 21 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Hartmann will endeavor to protect, respect and safeguard environPrinciple no. 10: mental values by means of the systematic and proactive integration of Refraining from bribery and corruption environmental considerations in its daily business activities, by the deHartmann will work against corruption in all its forms, including extorvelopment of environmentally friendly production methods and prodtion and bribery. ucts, by training its employees in environmental issues, and by influencing the stakeholders in the value chain to which the Group belongs. It will do this by means of openness towards relevant business partners and by setting up a set of guidelines specifying how to avoid bribery Principle no. 7: and corruption. Hartmann will also contribute to minimizing bribery A precautionary approach and corruption in companies forming part of the value chain to which Hartmann will support a precautionary approach to environmental the Group belongs. challenges. Principle no. 8: Environmental responsibility Hartmann will undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle no. 9: Environmentally friendly technologies Hartmann will encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 21 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative2014 Hartmann Sustainability Report business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 22 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement APPENDIX 2. Verification statement VERIFICATION STATEMENT ClimatePartner hereby confirms that the accounting for the carbon dioxide emissions generated by Brødrene Hartmann A/S, Ørnegårdsvej 18, 2820 Gentofte, Denmark, was performed in compliance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. The allocation of these emissions to the products was performed in compliance with the general requirements and principles of the Publicly Available Specification PAS 2050:2011 Specification for the assessment of the life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of goods and services. The organisational system boundaries were the production sites in Denmark, Germany, Hungary, Croatia, Israel, and Canada as well as the headquarters in Gentofte. The primary activity data reviewed reflects the production and administrative activities during the period from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013. The operational system boundaries include all emission sources from Scopes 1 and 2, as well as relevant emission sources from Scope 3. The emission sources accounted for include (an asterisk indicates no data to be verified for the production site in Canada): Direct emissions from heating (steam, natural gas, district Scope 1 & 2 heating, LPG) Direct emissions from fuels (diesel oil, gas)* Scope 1 Electricity Scope 2 Production of fuels (for mobility and heating) Scope 3 Collection of recycled paper Scope 3 Production of the product labels* Scope 3 Plastic wrap used for transportation* Scope 3 Transportation of employees with company and other cars* Scope 1&3 Transportation of employees by airplane* Scope 3 Additives* Scope 3 For the allocation of the emissions to individual products, the functional unit chosen is kg CO2 per kg product. The system boundary is cradle-to-gate, meaning that carbon dioxide emissions are included that were generated up to the point where the product leaves the organization. There was no new verification needed of the methodology for calculating carbon dioxide emissions from the transportation of the products from the production site to the customer, which was approved in 2012 based on a sample calculation for one customer – this permits the expansion of the system boundaries to extended cradle-togate for individual orders since transportation beyond the factory gate is accounted for. The carbon accounting performed by Brødrene Hartmann A/S accurately portrays the carbon dioxide emissions related to the company’s production at the different production sites. It is an appropriate basis for offering climate neutral products by offsetting the carbon dioxide emissions of particular production volumes. ClimatePartner Deutschland GmbH Munich, November 19, 2014 Ainmillerstrasse 22 80801 Munich Germany Sabine Kunz, Assessor Moritz Lehmkuhl, Managing Director climatepartner.com | Berlin | Munich | San Francisco | Athens | Tokyo | Vienna | Yerevan | Zurich 22 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative2014 Hartmann Sustainability Report business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights 23 Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement 23 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Hartmann 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Awards | Environment | Human rights | Labour rights Design and graphic production: MeyerBukdahl Anti-corruption | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Brødrene Hartmann A/S Ørnegårdsvej 18 DK-2820 Gentofte Denmark Tel. (+45) 45 97 00 00 Fax: (+45) 45 97 00 01 e-mail: bh@hartmann-packaging.com Web: hartmann-packaging.com CVR no. 63 04 96 11
