1 UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 Contents 1 About The Report United Media Center signed the UN Global Compact in December, 2013 and has committed to report its environmental, social and governance performance annually. This is the first Communication on Progress 1 About The Report published by our company. This report describes the steps we have taken during 2014 to make the Global Compact and its ten 2 Statement of Continued Support principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our firm. As a family owned company, we have always looked to the future and 3 About Media Center in our particular field of business have endeavored to contribute towards sustainable development of the economy, the environment and society. 4 Projects & Campaigns In the first part of the report United Media Center is introduced we describe our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles in our core business activities being a corporate citizen. We take our corporate responsibility seriously and live up to its demands each day by treating our employees, clients, customers 5 Market Presence and environment responsibly. In the second part, implementation of the UNGC principles is reported separately under Human Rights Management, Protection of Labor Rights, Environmental Management 6 Human Rights and Fight against Corruption. For that reason, UMC confirms our continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with 7 Code of Ethics respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We appreciate your views on our Communication on Progress 2014 report. You can send your 8 Labor Standards recommendations and questions to United Media Center Executive Board Office Dr. Mohamed Hamza El Houseni., who has been responsible of the preparation of this report. 9 Environment 10 Anti Corruption 11 Social Responsibility UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 2 3 UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 2 Statement of Continued Support 3 About Media Center United Media Center is the gateway of media communication that regulates interstate and international information through media channel. It is an independent media center represented by the government of Qatar, as the primary authority for communications, regulation and technological innovation. Dr. Mohamed Hamza El Houseni The headquarters of United Media Center is in Doha, Qatar. UMC is in strategic partnership with Egypt Media located in Cairo, Egypt with two different branches, wherein Alexandria and in West Cairo Egypt. We United Media Center also have partnership with Elite Media located in Abu Dhabi, UAE. Having an eclectic mix of experience Executive Board Office from government to private sectors, UMC has been engaged in any major governmental projects and committed to the following objectives: United Media Center is pleased to present its first annual United Nations Global Compact Communication • Connecting the aspirations of the government and the national vision of 2030 and deliver it to the on Progress report for 2014, covering the group’s activities for the period 1 December 2013 to 31 December community as one nation. 2014. • Creating innovative and effective strategies of the government future plans and projects through media synchronization. This report describes the steps we have taken during 2014 to make the Global Compact and its ten principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption part of the strategy, culture • Strengthening the link between the community and public and private sector through advancing media and day-to-day operations of our firm. This report is aimed at investors, analysts, customers, employees, information and communication in the form of campaigns and projects for the government. suppliers, politicians, and public authorities, as well as all other stakeholders that have relations with the • Educating and familiarizing the community about their culture, customs and heritage in support of the company and want to know the values and principles that define our actions and areas in which there is a country’s aim wherein the country of better living. certain need for improvement. • Supporting the nation›s economy by ensuring sustainable development and competitive framework for As we move into the second year of our engagement, we are committed to support and drive forward the the unfolding of the communications innovation. process of applying the ten UN Global Compact principles. By our commitment to the UNGC we emphasize • Providing leadership in strengthening the defense of the nation›s communications infrastructure. our efforts to embrace, support and enact a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards • Encouraging the highest and best use of spectrum domestically and internationally. and the environment as well as our efforts to combat corruption. We believe that the 2014 COP report not only highlights the importance we place on the 10 principles but also assists stakeholders to cross • Promoting competition, innovation and investment in media services and facilities reference each of the principles to the various initiatives we have implemented and the progress made to • Revising media regulations so that new technologies flourish alongside diversity and localism. date. UMC has evolved from a renowned media and publishing agency into a communications business equipped to lead in the digital age. Our capabilities have grown to encompass creative development Best Regards, across all media, TV, and digital video production, digital UX, design and build, digital publishing, social strategy and identity, community management and CRM and data analysis. Ambassador Dr. Mohamed Hamza El Houseni CEO UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 4 5 UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 4 Projects & Campaigns 5 Market Presence UMC works with the world’s biggest companies to deliver integrated information and in print and digital United media Center is one of the leading media and marketing hub worldwide. UMC started as a small publishing communications. We have initiated the most remarkable and significant event of the nation – media office to a regional group with more than 200 employees serving different countries. UMC become the “Qatar National Day 2014” and instigated the very first comprehensive and informative governmental a trusted partner of numerous global companies. communication engines including the very first published Qatar Labor and Business Guide, Qatar Our published projects are distributed in countries where in our General Headquarters and Regional Offices Business Guide, Doha Medical Guide, Eyes of Qatar Magazine, My Community Is My Responsibility is currently operating within the boundaries of GCC Countries, North Africa, UAE, North America and Asian Campaign, Watani Qatar Campaign and Made In Qatar Event. countries. Qatar Business Guide : Qatar Business Guide is the first and one of a kind “one-stop shop” business directory that provides informative communication lists of all forms of business alike in the region. A very user friendly and stress free guide that help both user and the business promoters bring the steadfastness of service without limits. Qatar National Record : Qatar National Record is a remarkable project served as a platform in bringing the honor and pride of the nation economic history and civilization. The record was published yearly in commemorating the vast and prosperous achievements of the modern State led by the efforts and sovereignty of the wise leadership of Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani and the people of the State of Qatar on the occasion of the National Day. Qatar Labor and Business Guide : Qatar Labor and Business Guide is comprise of a list of information and guidelines in relation to the Labor Law in the state and all laws and regulation pertaining to doing business in Qatar. The book serves as an informative handy tool for quick references on know-how’s doing business and as well new living in the state. Eye of Qatar Magazine : Eye of Qatar Magazine is the portal of communication in bringing comprehensive highlights of news and stories that will inspire community engagement and awareness for the state. It serve as a platform that will connect people and used as a medium guide constituted to meet the demands of the market and businesses in the day to day living. Doha Medical Guide : Doha Medical Guide is a comprehensive medical guide that provides full information about medical services and areas of interest that serve as a tool in connecting the community to the medical providers and services re: doctors, specialist, practitioners, hospitals, clinics, medical and beauty centers, pharmacies, laboratories, medical equipment stores, medical insurance companies, etc. UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 6 7 UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 6 Human Rights 7 CODE OF ETHICS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed huOur ethical principle is the values that set the ground rules for all that we do as employees of United Media man rights Center. Is based on the principles of the UN Global Compact and explicitly reiterates our commitment Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit to human abuses to respect for human rights, fair working conditions, environmental protection and respect for the law. During the year under review we finalized this Code of Conduct and the next step will be to introduce it OUR COMMITMENT throughout the Group. As we seek to achieve responsible media success, we will be challenged to balance these principles against each other, always mindful of our promise to shareholders that we will achieve United Media Center acknowledged the decree of business committee in respecting and supporting international human rights throughout our business operations and ensuring that we are not complicit in responsible media success. human rights abuses. During the course of 2014, we intend to review and enhance our existing policies and processes to determine how to further implement our commitment to respect and support international human rights throughout our operations. Honesty and Integrity : Being ethical in business means maintaining a high level of personal integrity. We accomplish our goals in an honest, fair and responsible manner, respecting ethical rules and principles required in the profession. In this course UMC created a Code of Ethics in line with the international standard of Corporate Social Responsibility that clearly and transparently defines the values that United Media Center embraces in pursuing the business goals and the responsibilities Respect for Others : Being ethical means treating everyone with respect. We demonstrate this by being courteous and UMC assumes within and outside the business. UMC commitment to protect human Human having an equal treatment of people. We are against all we respect gender, racial, religious, political, rights is not only attached in our Code of Ethics but also enacted in the form of various language and intellectual differences, as well as age differences. established method and control systems or procedures. Rights Excellence : Being ethical in business is about pursuing excellence in everything you do. Delivering the highest quality of service makes our business sense. We are committed to continuous learning and cherishing United Media Center fully accepts the obligations placed upon it by covering health creativity in the service of innovation. and safety. The executive committee of the company is aware that a job environment that is healthy, safe and environmentally-friendly is necessary. In order to prevent Professionalism : environmental pollution, occupational accidents and injuries at United Media Center We conduct all of our activities professionally and with integrity. We take great care to be offices and to make regular improvements in these areas, we abide with legal and Health completely objective in our judgments and any recommendations that we give, so that issues are other requirements that we are obliged to implement concerning environmental & never influenced by anything other than the best and proper interests of client. and occupational safety, obtain measure to reduce risks that can lead to occupational accidents and injuries, protect natural resources and reduce their consumption as Safety Equality and Discrimination : much as possible, lessen waste as much as possible and support re-cycling and reWe always strive to be fair and objective in our advice and actions and we are never influenced use, utilize technologies that are least harmful to environment and safest for in our decisions, actions or recommendations by issues of gender, race, creed, color, age, employees as long as they are commercially and technologically viable, communicate personal disability. with our employees, suppliers and business partners on environmental protection and occupational health and safety through effective communication and training. United Media Center pays great attention to Client fulfillment, aware of the fact that only continuous development of mechanisms helping us realize what our Clients want can improve our operations to mutual satisfaction . Client With the goal of further increase of client satisfaction and loyalty, special attention or Stakeholder was paid at the strengthening of our corporate image, improvement of the quality and adjustment of the prices of our services, as well as the improvement of organizational efficiency of the work of branch offices. Special stress was placed on the elimination of the basic causes of dissatisfaction, simplification of business procedures and education of clients about the use of alternative channels. UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 8 9 UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 8 LABOR STANDARDS 9 ENVIRONMENT Principle 3: Businesses should upload the freedom of association and the effective recognition Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges of the right to collective bargaining and furthermore uphold Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our Commitment United Media Center sustains environmental protection through engaging a preventive method and conOur Commitment stantly supports the development and increase of environmentally friendly technologies. Our aim is to minimize our negative ecological influence, to continuously improve environmental protection and to Our human resources policy aims to enrich United Media Center family with individuals that are respectful develop a greater sense of responsibility amongst employees and suppliers. to people and society, reliable, honest and would share our vision and value customer satisfaction. Our capable HR department also aims to develop human resources applications in order to improve performance, Implementation motivation and loyalty of our employees. The management of United Media Center oath to: We use internal training and communication to increase our employees’ awareness of environmental is• Not to discriminate employees based on religion, language, gender, physical disability or age, sues. Ongoing improvement of our environmental performance is a central element of the United Media Center. UMC main way of saving resources is by making sparing and efficient use of materials in its produc• Execute our lawful responsibilities tion, printing and distribution processes. We also set great store by ensuring that our production processes • Acquire more objective results by using scientific methods in all recruitment phases, are as efficient as possible and generate as little waste as possible. We try to use non-hazardous materials and also more environmentally friendly alternatives wherever possible. • Institute and use systems that would enable our employees to improve, work more productively and advance in their careers, UMC have a global Environmental Policy that applies to all of our offices and requires all employees to • Comparatively determine wages and additional benefits of our employees within the resources of the take reasonable care of the Environment. In addition, all employees receive training on our environmental company, approach as part of their induction when joining the firm. From a practical standpoint, we work to reduce • Safeguard confidentiality of private information of our employees, our environmental impact in four key areas: travel, energy, waste, and procurement. • Make necessary measure to protect environment and to promote occupational health and safety. • Value recommendations and ideas of employees and to implement and honor applicable ones, Implementation United Media Center protects the inherent dignity and worth of every human and provides for equal rights and opportunities free of discrimination. It prohibits discrimination in employment on the following grounds: age, association, color or race, creed or religion, ethnic or national origin, criminal conviction, family status, marital status, physical or intellectual disability, political belief, sexual orientation, source of income, sex (including pregnancy and sexual harassment) and having filed a complaint or given assistance. It is advantageous for an employeremployee relationship and thus an enterprise to be free from prejudice and discrimination. An effective workplace is developed and maintained by an employer’s efforts in providing equal access to employment opportunities and equitable treatment for all in the workplace. Employees are entitled to a workplace that preserves their human dignity and is free from discrimination and harassment and a workplace where each employee’s abilities, rather than inabilities, are the focus. Employees are entitled to be considered on an individual basis and not to be excluded because they belong to a particular group. Employees have the right to a positive work environment which enhances open dialogue concerning the needs of employees and employment policies that strive to accommodate these needs. UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 10 11 UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 10 ANTICORRUPTION 11 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and By introducing our Code of Conduct in 2014, United media Center established general rules for ethical bribery behavior in our business conduct. This document is a formal element of every employment contract and we expect our employees to comply with. Our policies and practices are aligned with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Global Compact, the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) core labour standards and the United Our Commitment Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. United Media Center primary values of integrity contained in the Code of Ethics expressly prohibit such We respect fundamental principles in all areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and behavior. The principles of honesty and integrity protect in the Code of Ethics represent a commitment by anti-corruption. We actively promote diversity and equal opportunities in everything that we do. We also the company to refrain from illegal conduct. The Companies of the Group follows the Code of Ethics principles encourage and influence the other organisations we work with to do the same. and adopted internal policy and procedures against bribery and extortion. In 2013 we reviewed our human rights policy in line with the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business Implementation and Human Rights. The review helped us to pinpoint our most material human rights risks relative to our five key stakeholder groups. UMC has established the principle of separation of duties. Payments are all recorded in its computer system and must be authorized by someone other than the people who managed the billing process and provided Employees with specific proxies. The systems in place for approval of contracts & payments are designed to prevent We manage our risks by delivering on our commitment to respect and promote fair reward, diversity and corruption. The company defies a conflict of interest as “any situation in which an employee uses his or her inclusion, equal opportunities, labour relations and freedom of association. contacts or position in the Company to advance his or her private business or financial interest, whether or not at the Company’s expense.” The policy continues to give employees examples of situations that could Supply chain be considered a conflict of interest and prohibits such behavior. We request our suppliers to disclose their human rights policies and engage with them where necessary to address any concerns we have. Our procurement contracts require suppliers to commit to the ILO core labor The second document is the Code of Ethics. The Code of Ethics states, “All dealings between the Group and standards and uphold the universal declaration of human rights. third parties must be conducted ethically and legally and without resorting to unlawful means. Corruption, illegal favoritism, collusion, and attempts to receive personal advantages for one self or for others are prohibited.” The Customers third is the UN Global Compact, which states “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, our business ethics code requires us to conduct business in a way which respects human rights. This includes including extortion and bribery.” The policy on such matters is contained within the company Handbook, being clear in our communications, ensuring accessibility to our people and privacy of customer data. given to all employees on commencement of their contract together with the Code of Ethics for signing. In summary: there is zero tolerance for any form corruption. Community our corporate responsibility, climate change and environment practices are aligned to the ILO core labor standards and UN Global Compact principles. Investment we embed the UN Principles of Responsible Investment across all asset classes. UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 12 13 UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 Contact Us T.: +974 40126717 F.: +974 44151985 P.O. Box: 992, Doha Estate of Qatar info@umcqatar.com www.umcqatar.com UNITED MEDIA CENTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 14
