DANOFFICE IT COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS (COP) 2015 The United Nations Global Compact Danoffice IT in brief Danoffice IT is a leading provider of information technology solutions to International Not for Profit Organizations and International B2B customers operating cross-borders. Danoffice IT was founded in 1995 and is situated in Denmark/Scandinavia, Switzerland/Europe, Washington/USA & Kenya/East Africa. With Danoffice IT one-stop-shopping platform which includes all major brands, certified personnel and tailor made services to deal with cross-border clients, we can assist clients’ HQ or local country offices, anytime and anywhere. Danoffice IT elaborates on 20 years of experience on exclusively supplying IT & IS solutions to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and Business-toBusiness partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having United Nations and World Bank as clients. Danoffice IT is a 360° IT vendor offering all areas of IT & IS including software, mobility, security, printing, data center, cloud computing, virtualization, small UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle), biometric solutions backed up with logistic services, installation, maintenance, counsel and training. Today Danoffice IT help more than 250 international not for profit and medium/large B2B organizations in over 163 countries by delivering critical solutions to their increasingly complex IT needs. Danoffice IT 3 business units: IT Solutions Mobile Data collection Civil drone Danoffice IT cooperate very closely with our clients, not only while selecting the equipment, but throughout the entire process, from analyzing needs, supplying and installing the most efficient turnkey solution to offering a number of valuable after sales services. A holistic approach which in the end should bring value to the client and return on investment. In our latest. Customer survey “98% of our clients would recommend Danoffice IT to colleagues and partners” 2 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT in brief Our Company Vision is to “Improve the world through IT”, hence, we have designed our logo to represent two hands embracing the entire World for a better future: Our Company Mission is “With our partners, we proactively offer IT solutions that meet future demands and bring value to our clients”. Our Values are described by our 7Ps, this is who we are and it is in our DNA. Passionate Professional Persistent Proactive Personal Positive Proud For more information, please visit www.danoffice.com and contact us at danoffice@danoffice.com. March 11th 2015 by: Per E.E. Svehag President & Partner 3 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Communications on progress content CONTENT: Danoffice IT – in brief Page 2 Communications on progress – content Page 4 Corporate Social Responsibility (SCR) & Global Compact initiative Page 5 Danoffice IT COP 2014 AGAINST POACHING Page 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Page 9 LABOUR STANDARDS Page 9 GREAT PLACE TO WORK INITIATIVE Page 10 ENVIRONMENT Page 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION Page 14 4 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) & Global Compact initiative The 6th of June 2007, Danoffice IT joined the UN Global Compact which is the world´s largest sustainability & citizenship initiative. A network-based initiative with the Global Compact Office and six UN agencies at its core. The Global Compact involves all relevant social actors: companies, whose actions it seeks to influence; governments, labour, civil society organizations, and the United Nations as an authoritative convener and facilitator. The UN Global Compact state ten principles based on a universal consensus about what comprehensive CSR ought to contain. All 10 principles are part of the Danoffice IT policies and have been so for some years. With the UN Global Compact initiative we have increased our focus on CSR and feel proud and humble to be member of an organization whose mission is to create a world where nature and people live in peace and harmony. An organization where committed partners recognize, that if we really wish to make the world a better place we need to start with ourselves. We all have a responsibility for the environment and for looking after each other, but as an international company with influence and means we carry an even greater responsibility than the ordinary man. Danoffice IT is devoted in making UN Global Compact a success and alongside with other dedicated members, strive to create awareness and set new standards for good governance. Danoffice IT wishes to demonstrate our continuing commitment by documenting our progresses made on the ten principles in an annual Communication On Progress (COP) report. The ten CSR principles have been integrated in all organizational levels from strategic, to tactical to operational level. Our COP report will communicate the progresses made to the international society for documentation and inspiration. Danoffice IT COP 2014 report is a part of the ”Statutory Statement of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to the annual report for 2014, cf. the Danish Financial Statement Act, § 99a.” 5 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 AGAINST POACHING: Being part of the global society, Danoffice IT believes it is important to have an active Corporate Social Responsibility policy and operations. In 2014 Danoffice IT continued our work with testing and implementing new technology into the non-forprofit community too achieve effectiveness and efficiency. This fall under our corporate vision “Improving the World through IT”. Firstly, we have joined a CSR activity called “AGAINST POACHING” which aims at bringing all poaching of endangered species to an stop. We believe we can make a difference by developing and implementing new technology that can step up the fight against the poachers. Danoffice IT work in close cooperation with WWF and UN bodies to stop poaching. Secondly, we try to find new technology that can support Humanitarian organizations in their activities in the field. Here we are looking into software and hardware that can be valuable for camp management and search and rescue missions. Against Poaching is a Corporate Social Responsibility activity from Danoffice IT and the Danish UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) manufacturer Sky-Watch ApS. Through this activity, we intend to participate in the protection of our heritage for next generations. Together, we wish to : 1. Make awareness. Our Facebook site currently gathers more than 38.000 likes https://www.facebook.com/AgainstPoaching. 2. Use our core competencies to equip the rangers with an innovative UAV/IT solution in their fight against poaching. We want to give access and facilitate the use of valuable innovative technology. This way, many lives of rangers can be saved, the rangers can be more efficient in the fight against poachers and stop the horrifying killing of animals. 3. Donate UAV and related IT equipment and raise funds for the purpose. 6 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 Poaching is one of the critical threats and increased exponentially over the past 10 years, as the black market prices for ivory has jumped . Elephants, Rhinos and other endangered spices faces the real risk of extinction unless the international community takes stronger action. Danoffice IT, have decided to contribute through a Corporate Social Responsibility activity named AGAINST POACHING. We want to help, and we are presently actively involved supporting leading conservation organization in the fight against poaching or illegal trade. In Suriname in the northeastern part of South America we are collaborating with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and started implementation of the use of civil conservation drones to monitor marine life activities. In South Africa, we have started “the fight against poaching” in close collaboration with the Gondwana Foundation and its team of rangers bringing the UAV technology closer to the field. The Huginn X1 civilian drone will be testing in differing conditions and scenarios in order to establish a set of standard operating procedures tailored to working with wildlife conservation in the African bush. We foresee that these drones will quickly become the front line for the defiance of Africa’s endangered species. We want to build awareness, donate and bring technologies to support this cause. During 2014, Danoffice IT has been in Africa in various parks to demonstrate and train rangers in the use of small civil drone technology and to receive feedback on animals behaviors and poachers pattern. In these test projects, the Huginn X1 UAV from Sky-Watch proved its effectiveness in various missions: The Huginn X1 conservation drone enables the rangers to monitor larger areas in less time and turned out to be more efficient and at less costly. The conservation drone is the eye in the sky that can reach anywhere regardless sea, savannah, forest or mountains. The small conservation drones (UAVs) collect invaluable information such as live film, images, mapping, GPS coordinates and much more live while flying or hovering. The conservation drones can/will also be able to save the lives of many rangers since unexpected confrontations between rangers and poachers can be avoided. Danoffice IT using the Sky-Watch Huginn X1 UAV conservation drone in South Africa, to protect the local Rhinos. 7 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 Testimonial from partners: “The drone really helped relief teams to cut down on wasted time and work, and make them more accurate in their targeting of assistance. In the future, we can think out in advance to make sure that drones are part of standard equipment of disaster response” Andrew Schroeder, Direct Relief’s Director of Research and Analysis (member of NetHope) “Using a drone can be very helpful in these kinds of situations, especially in the first phase of an emergency” Ronald Christiaans, EU Civil protection Expert and member of a combined UN Disaster Assessment and Coordination / EU Civil Protection Team ”We would like to monitor the exposed and sometimes remote areas more efficiently by using small conservation drones (UAVs). These offer invaluable information such as live film, images, mapping, GPS coordinates and much more. The costs of a civil conservation drone, like Huginn X1,are relatively low and are a significant addition to the range of other traditional solutions we normally rely on” Michael Hiwat from WWF. Danoffice IT CSR activities and progresses on the subject are communicated to our partners and staff through “Save the Savanna – Stop Poaching” FB site with 38.286 members but also in our company staff manual, posters placed within our premises and on the Danoffice IT corporate web site: www.danoffice.com 8 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 HUMAN RIGHTS: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. We shall respect all people regardless of nationality, race, religion, class or political opinions. Danoffice IT intends to promote social interaction between people and cultures and aim at a mix organizational culture. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Danoffice IT is committed to comply with all international export control regulation and legal requirements. Within 2013, we have increased our workforce on this topic in order to support our clients’ compliance. Our specialized export control staff train and educate Danoffice IT internal staff and is moreover informing and educating our international clients about the regulations in place. We strive to serve United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540's goal of protecting the world against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Danoffice IT strives to contribute to the fight against terror“ and to build a safer world by complying to US Export rules known as Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and enforced by U.S. Depart of Commerce / Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS), EU-regulation no. 428 of 5 May 2009 and the international Wassenaar Arrangement. Danoffice IT supports all human and legal rights, at a national level and within international law and only accept partners who do the same. Danoffice IT is a responsible company which tries to help others. So, we make annual donations of equipment or contributions to humanitarian organizations who work for the improvement of life quality. LABOUR STANDARDS: Danoffice IT aspires to be a dependable partner who always acts responsibly, honestly and fairly, whether dealing with colleagues, clients, vendors, investors or competitors. Continuously, Danoffice IT strive to educate and develop its employees professionally and personally through seminars, workshops, educational courses and the daily influence. Management gather all staff on regular basis to share knowledge of professional character, develop competences and learn about cultural differences in order to understand the diversity of the international world we live in. Such meetings have definitely an educational aspect. 9 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 Transparency & Communication within the company is key for success and employee satisfaction. Danoffice IT management communicated in 2011 the company global strategy until 2015. Stating the company´s Vision, Mission, Objectives and strategy. Employees are made aware that the first objective above revenue and profitability is directed to employee satisfaction: “to make Danoffice IT a Great Place to Work”. Another company initiative undertaken to support employees satisfaction is the Danoffice IT way of working cross-borders. By bringing our own recommendations into our own business we have employed a highly effective communication solution with webcams and software which link Danoffice IT country offices together in a very personal way and free of borders. In order to be as informative as possible and to make sure that all employees are given the same information, possibilities and rights we have issued a Staff Manual. The staff manual includes our values, company profile, history, corporate philosophy, global strategy and of course other valuable information towards a positive working environment : overtime work, illness and absence, staff development interviews, flexible working hours etc. Once a year we review the manual with regards to new regulations, new trends, new opinions and new initiatives so the document will always be up-to-date. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Danoffice IT workers have the right to be members of trade unions, collective bargaining and to strike if necessary. Trade unions can assist with negotiation of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, contract termination and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace safety and policies. The Danoffice IT staff has a representative who works as a contact person between employees and management and whose mission it is to ensure that all labour standards are fulfilled and that all employees have a contact person to turn to for ideas for improvement of health or safety conditions. We constantly implement new policies and standards to create a safe, likeable and motivating physical workplace. Since 2009, we have implemented a healthy diet program in our canteen following the World Health Organization recommendations on healthy diet to maintain health and prevent risk of obesity, heart disease and diabetes. The diet program is combined with a company sports club. Danoffice IT has a work-life balance policy encouraging flexible working hours and tolerance for personal and family issues and or needs. 10 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 GREAT PLACE TO WORK INITIATIVE: Danoffice IT participate in the ”Great Place To Work” initiative which includes in depth surveys, culture analysis, employee feedback and satisfaction questionnaire followed by an achievement and assessment conference with great success! We carry out Employee Trust Surveys and Culture Assessment analysis tests. Our main goal is to gain an in-depth knowledge of what our employees are thinking, doing, believing and achieving in their every day balanced work-life. In light of the survey, questionnaires and feedback we have developed individual training programs, competence programs and aided the possibilities to achieve more and be more in the workplace. On basis of many employee satisfaction statements we have added alleviation days to conform to illness and child care which we believe to be of big significance for a balanced work-life environment. Next Steps: Our aim is to understand and learn. We want to improve with a solid foundation and with purpose. Our passion for our workplace comes from our employees. Each and every person in our company is an invaluable asset who reminds everyone ─ partners, colleagues and clients─ that we work and perform via our Danoffice IT 7Ps DNA: • Personal • Proud • Passionate • Positive • Persistent • Proactive • Professional 11 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 As an evidence of Danoffice IT efforts towards employee satisfaction, we have created cARPE dIEM as an association for all employees, where we arrange social and educational events after working hours. The cARPE dIEM association is addressing and working with issues which reinforces and supports cultural differences and promotes the understanding and diversity of the international world we live in. Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Danoffice IT does not use any form of forced or compulsory labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to confirm the same behavioral policy before a cooperation and future Business endeavor can take place. Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour Danoffice IT does not use child labour nor do we accept partners who encourage the means of child labour. The Danoffice IT labour policy is not to employ any in our organization under the age of 16 or to have partners that are engaged in child labour in any form. Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation With presence in Europe, Africa and USA, our HR department constantly strives at building a workforce with balance of nationality, sex, race, religion, class and political opinions. Our latest analysis in 2014 showed a good balance between the groups. All employees receive equal conditions and equal rights, regardless of the physical location. 12 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 ENVIRONMENT: Mother Earth is a wonderful place, which we must guard and hand over to the future generations with care. Environmental friendly practice is also about business efficiency – it´s about optimal usage of valuable raw Materials. This gives through everyone’s participation to sustainable policies and business processes. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Danoffice IT only works with internationally recognized vendors with environmental friendly policies. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Since 2009 Danoffice IT has implemented the “Protect Mother Earth” recycling program. In partnership with our United Nations clients and our vendors, we collect used toners and cartridges from missions all over the World and recycle them in Europe. Our combined efforts have reached close to 30 000 units collected so far and counting. • Danoffice IT has an environmental friendly packing policy: we pack consignments to reduce weight and volume to a minimum, recycle what is possible and destroy waste in environmental friendly conditions. • All packaging materials are 100% bio-degradable. • It is in our nature to save energy via responsible use of energy efficient appliances, conforming to the latest standards of energy efficiency. We use low Watt LED bulbs for indoor and outdoor lighting. 13 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Danoffice IT encourages its clients to look at the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) as well as Total Impact on Environment (TIE). A cost saving solution combined with a green solution with minimum environmental impact. We always strive at a TCO/TIE solution with low power consumption, minimum of consumables, best quality and longest sustainable lifespan. ANTI-CORRUPTION: Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Danoffice IT promotes a steadfast zero tolerance policy against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption is damaging for the world growth and creates yet a bigger gap between rich and poor. Any Danoffice IT employee is obliged by code of ethics, to immediately report any suspicious conduct, corruptive communiqué or malign rule or transaction linked with corruption, to closest work-parent, manager and or top management. “Danoffice IT Corporate Social Responsibility program is built on our corporate shared Values, and the commitment of our employees and shareholders to live those core Values. With our CSR program we wish to be responsible for the impact our activities have on colleagues, partners, clients and communities around the world. Our membership and support of “The Global Compact” is a part of our CSR program and the Communications on Progress (COP) ensure transparency on what we do, how we operate and how we invest. The COP drive us to perform with the highest standards of good governance and ethics through all products and Per E.E. Svehag services.” President & Partner 14 ... Share more of our passion on www.danoffice.com
