www.cosmosaluminium.gr info@cosmosaluminium.gr Tel: +30 2410 567567 Fax: +30 2410 567510 A few words for us Cosmos Aluminium was founded in 2007 and is a Greek purely export company in the aluminium extrusion market sector. The company is located in the region of Larissa. Cosmos Aluminium employ more than 100 people and is one of the most technologically advanced factories of aluminium extrusion in Europe. Cosmos Aluminium contributes in the development of the local society by creating new occupations while at the same time by its exporting activities advertises the presence and productivity of Greece in a universal level. A message from the president During such difficult and defining times of a continued European crisis, which nobody knows when it would end, I am proud to announce Cosmos Aluminium continued support of the United Nations Global Compact initiative and the Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our strong commitment and continuous support to the principles of the UN Global Compact Initiative is communicated across our company from the president down to our support staff and subcontractors as well as to our stakeholders and the general public. As an active member of the UN Global Compact Initiative, it is also our obligation to communicate annually our corporate responsibility efforts through the publication of our Communication On Progress (CoP) report. COSMOS PROFIL S.A.  ALUMINIUM INDUSTRY  8th km National Road Larissa-Athens, Larissa, GREECE, P.O. Box 1379, Zip Code 411 10  VAT: No EL: 998789236 www.cosmosaluminium.gr info@cosmosaluminium.gr Tel: +30 2410 567567 Fax: +30 2410 567510 The principles and our actions Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Humanity is one of the core values of Cosmos Aluminium. Our company fully supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the relevant national and European legislation with reference to the fundamental rights of every individual, such as protection of privacy, freedom of opinion and expression, freedom of association, non-discrimination and the right to be heard. Our commitments are not only reflected on our internal employment policies and partnership standards, but additionally our company, as a corporate citizen, provides active financial support to organizations dedicated to human rights protection and supporting the non-privileged. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We do not tolerate forced or compulsory labour, excessive overtime, hard behaviour and harassment. We definitely comply with national laws and requirements concerning minimum age of employment, we would never employ any child or teenager in our workforce and we remunerate all overtime work. COSMOS PROFIL S.A.  ALUMINIUM INDUSTRY  8th km National Road Larissa-Athens, Larissa, GREECE, P.O. Box 1379, Zip Code 411 10  VAT: No EL: 998789236 www.cosmosaluminium.gr info@cosmosaluminium.gr Tel: +30 2410 567567 Fax: +30 2410 567510 Cosmos Aluminium ensures that every employee is trained and developed according to their customized needs and ambitions. Every new employee attends a training program, especially designed to cover all subjects that affect their daily job. The employees in our company are treated fairly, with respect and humanity, compensated financially and morally according to their achievements and developed in a safe environment of motivation and no discrimination. Our company maintains a blood bank as there is a voluntarily blood donation in the company premises according to our occupational doctor’s guides. Finally, Cosmos Aluminium participates in a basketball tournament in order to promote the warm relationships amongst employees. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We operate under the ISO 14001:2004 standard with one and only concern, the total environmental protection. We recycle everything; row and secondary materials and any possible wastes that are produced from our daily operations, keep records of energy and water consumption. Paper, plastic materials, batteries and apparatus are stored in separate containers and collected by certified companies. COSMOS PROFIL S.A.  ALUMINIUM INDUSTRY  8th km National Road Larissa-Athens, Larissa, GREECE, P.O. Box 1379, Zip Code 411 10  VAT: No EL: 998789236 www.cosmosaluminium.gr info@cosmosaluminium.gr Tel: +30 2410 567567 Fax: +30 2410 567510 Finally, we promote an environmental conscious lifestyle to employees for both the office and home through regular seminars and we follow methods to reduce our energy consumption. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery We are fundamentally opposed to any kind of corruption and bribery, our activities conform in total with the applicable law, and this is one of our major criteria in our selection process of a new supplier, customer or employee. The group acknowledges the important role of chain markets for its growth and wishes its suppliers to act with responsibility, integrity, honesty and transparency. We evaluate suppliers based on the following standards: • The overall business activity should be guided by respect for and compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. • Fair competition and refraining from unfair trade practices. Suppliers must also take care to safeguard the integrity, prestige and dignity of the profession to which they belong, with respect for the interests of consumers Moreover, we stopped dealings with the company which may be concerned with corruption. COSMOS PROFIL S.A.  ALUMINIUM INDUSTRY  8th km National Road Larissa-Athens, Larissa, GREECE, P.O. Box 1379, Zip Code 411 10  VAT: No EL: 998789236
