Communication on progress 2015 Communication sur le progrès 2008 www.gris-decoupage.com www.unglobalcompact.org G R I S D E C O U PA G E ’s c o m m i t m e n t to the Global Compact GRIS DECOUPAGE, founded in 1984 and based in Lesménils (department 54, France), specialises in the manufacture of mechanical components and flat or conical die-cut washers in medium or large runs. GRIS DECOUPAGE signed up to the Global Compact in 2006, thus demonstrating its commitment to the basic values of human rights, labour standards and environmental protection. But well before then, GRIS DECOUPAGE had already espoused the ideals underlying the ten Global Compact principles. Participation in the Global Compact was a logical step in the continuous improvement process adopted by the company a number of years ago. Continuous improvement was implemented initially in the fields of industry, quality and management and led to the ISO 9001 and ISO TS 16949 certifications obtained in 1993. It was subsequently extended in the early 2000s to cover environmental and sustainable development issues, as confirmed by the awarding of ISO 14001 certification in June 2007. GRIS DECOUPAGE is renewing its commitment to the Global Compact for 2015. In so doing, we undertake to uphold the ten principles on a daily basis, to make sure they are shared by all employees and to bring them fully to the attention of our subcontractors and suppliers. Francis GRIS President Communication sur le progrès 2008 Progress update from Global Compact participant 1. OBJECTIVES SET FOR 2015 For 2014, GRIS DECOUPAGE chose to illustrate the following groups of principles: Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN IN 2015  Human rights / Labour Operations with the CHSCT workplace health and safety committee to improve employee working conditions are undertaken on a permanent basis. Measures implemented in 2015 include: an action plan to limit load carrying in the Tool Preparation Sector. a night work awareness campaign conducted in conjunction with the Occupational Health Service. Each safety-related incident or accident is analysed with the members of the CHSCT. Action plans are then put in place. To cater for increasing grinding activity, the construction of a new building was required. Right from the design stage, consideration has been given to employee working conditions. Agreements were also reached between Management and the Personnel Representative during Works Committee meetings.  Environment In the context of our ISO 14001 certification, we carried out emergency simulation exercises to test personnel responsiveness to a potential environmental emergency involving a fire or a spillage of oil or other chemical. In addition, expansion of grinding activity required the construction of a new building, which has incorporated environmental features. Further, to improve internal communication on environmental matters, “information alerts” were produced and distributed to all personnel.  Anti-corruption Communication sur le progrès 2008 GRIS DECOUPAGE is not affected by this issue. However, our suppliers and subcontractors have been made aware of this problem. 1. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR Schift Work  Communication to employees : How to limit the damage? Night work awareness Don’t forget to take the kids to school at Awareness raising on night work was organised for shift-working teams in April 2015, run 7.30 !!! by an Occupational Health Nurse and Occupational Health Physician. Prior to that, observations on night shifts had been carried out on the various teams. The awareness raising sessions provided employees with the opportunity to engage in dialogue with the Occupational Health Physician and raise concerns about any potential effects night work might have on health. Overall, it emerged that night work was largely well tolerated by most employees. Nevertheless, a healthy lifestyle is recommended to avoid any weight gain or sleep deficit. One employee aged over 55 years expressed a wish to work days and this was accepted. Work start meetings Work start meetings have been introduced at Production level to improve two-way communication between line managers and teams. Each Manager calls his or her team together and comments on the results of the quality and safety tracking indicators. The Manager passes on any information (e.g. quality information alert) and notes team members’ remarks. If justified, an action plan is prepared.  Improvement in employee working conditions Inclusion of employee working conditions in design of new building During the construction of a new building to accommodate expanding grinding activity, employee working conditions were taken into account. Perforated sound-control sidings containing sound-absorbing felt have been installed to cut down noise reverberation in the workshop. In addition, to limit dust and oil mist emissions, extraction systems have been added at the deburring line dryer outlet and the outlet of the grinding machines. To limit load carrying, a travelling crane has been installed in the building. Tool Preparation action plan Following the work carried out by an ergonomics internee last year, two meetings were held between the sector’s employees and their Manager. Further to these meetings, an action plan was drawn up, which is monitored by the CHSCT. Actions implemented include: Actions on tool blocks, Provision of anti-fatigue matting. Other actions are in the pipeline. Safety / Psychosocial Risks action plan For the past several years, actions have been undertaken with members of the CHSCT subsequent to the updating of the single document on safety incidents and industrial accidents. Continuous improvement actions are also possible on a day-to-day basis through the Kaizen system, which has been in place since 1997. In 2015 an idea contributing to a better environment was promoted, resulting in an award for one of the employees: fitting a baffle to a centre lathe to redirect turnings and lubricant into the swarf bin rather than onto the floor. Awards Winners 2014 Following an initiative on psychosocial risks carried out in 2012 and 2013, an action plan was prepared. To date, approximately 70% of these actions have been completed. Further action plans are necessary over the long term and willCommunication sur le progrès 2008 be developed once our ERP system has been replaced. Progress assessments are performed regularly with CHSCT members, Management and the Personnel Representative.  Amélioration Improvement in employee working conditions Actions in Human Resources GRIS DECOUPAGE has drawn up an action plan on the prevention of severe working conditions. To address this issue, a working group will be set up to define the collective criteria for exposure to hardship at work. To achieve this, the company will build on the legal and regulatory provisions in partnership with the CHSCT. Our male/female parity agreement was renewed on 21 September 2015 for another three-year period. This further strengthens equality between men and women within our establishment in areas such as recruitment, effective pay, promotion of gender diversity in the production workforce, and access to training with provision for family commitments. To encourage employees to take an active role in their own career paths, the company began a campaign of professional interviews for all employees with more than two years’ seniority. The following questions are addressed: are the employee’s knowledge and skills in line with developments in the company’s activity? what professional development objectives are likely to help the employee adapt to changes in his or her job, broaden his or her qualification or expand his or her skills? does the employee have a career plan? how can the employee progress within the company? Etc. The professional interview provides a platform for genuine dialogue with employees and can thus more acurately target our co-workers’ career expectations, training and mobility on the basis of the company’s strategy and business model.  Employee training Training costs were also very high in 2015, amounting to €96.51K and 2.86% of the payroll (mandatory level 1% of payroll). The breakdown of training costs is as follows: 1. Production / Technical 24% 2. Quality 20% 3. Languages 20% 4. Management 16% 5. Safety 13% 6. Software 6% 7. Accounts / Finance 1% Cost of training Actual cost Obligation 1.6% of payroll As % of payroll New obligation 1% Communication sur le progrès 2008 2. ENVIRONMENT ISO 14001 Management System In the framework of our ISO 14001 certification, we are required to regularly test the procedures in place to deal with any emergencies that could arise in the company. A fire evacuation exercise was held in September 2015: it enabled all personnel to be tested in the event of a fire, particularly Maintenance and its role with regard to the environment. Another simulation exercise was organised in October 2015 to test personnel behaviour in the event of a chemical spill in the workshop. Reports were written following these exercises and distributed to those concerned. Action plans were established and added to the Environmental Management Programme. Training in use of fire-fighting devices In order to familiarise company personnel with the use of fire extinguishers and fire hose stations, a group of ten employees were given training in handling these firefighting devices, including dealing with real fires. Communication on the environment To improve communication to personnel on the environment, “environment information alerts” have been put in place to provide information about environmental incidents occurring in the company. Energy savings in a new building dedicated to grinding activity A heat recovery system has been installed to recover heat generated by the operation of an air compressor, which is then used to heat the premises and produce hot water for sanitary purposes. This action was included in a process to obtain an energy saving certificate. 3. ANTI-CORRUPTION All our subcontractors and suppliers have been informed of our participation in the UN Global Compact. The contract we ask them to sign each year requires them to uphold the basic values of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. We also demand that they ensure no product sold has been made by children or by foreign nationals working illegally as undeclared labour in France. Our subcontractors and suppliers are assessed every 6 months and informed of the results. If their score is other than “A”, subcontractors and suppliers are required to provide action plans. If 5 nonconformities are detected in any one year or if their order fill ratio is less than 90%, GRIS DECOUPAGE will no longer work with those subcontractors or suppliers. Communication sur le progrès 2008
