Moving toward the future, for the last 90 years… SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Contents 1 2 Presentation Chairman’s Message 4 CEO’s Message 7 Who We Are? 7 İsbank’s Vision, Objectives, Values and Strategy 8 Corporate Profile 10 İşbank in Figures 14 İşbank and Its Subsidiaries 17 Our Approach 17 İşbank’s Sustainability Approach 20 İşbank’s Stakeholders 22 İşbank’s Memberships 24 Organization Chart 26 Corporate Governance at İşbank 30 Risk Management at İşbank 34 For Our Customers 56 For Our Employees 70 For Our World 82 For the Society 92 İşbank’s Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 93 About This Report 94 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 96 GRI Approval and Index PRESENTATION In our success journey for more than 1 90 years, we have been the pioneer İŞBANK of sustainability in Turkey by creating continuous value for our country’s SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 economy and people. Beyond creating economic value, today we continue to support our society in the fields of education, environment, culture and arts with our social responsibility activities that we have created in a wide-spread and sustainable structure. With the power we get from our past as İşbank family, today we similarly have hopes for the future. We would like to present our sustainability report that includes the photos of our children who are the guarantee of our future, to the opinions of our valuable shareholders. Thank you for your contributions. 2 CHAIRMAN’S İşbank, founded one year after the establishment of the Republic of Turkey and celebrated its 90th MESSAGE anniversary in 2014, has followed a policy that has İŞBANK taken into account Turkey’s development goals together with the trends in international banking sector for this nearly century-long period. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Esteemed Stakeholders of İşbank, We have internalized sustainability in Having initiated numerous advances and our 90 years of history. innovations during its 90-year corporate İşbank, founded one year after the history, İşbank is among the best companies establishment of the Republic of Turkey in Turkey in representing a sustainability and celebrated its 90th anniversary in approach that is focused on creating 2014, has followed a policy that has taken long-term added value for all stakeholders into account Turkey’s development goals through efficient use of resources. together with the trends in international banking sector for this nearly century-long When we consider the increase in the period. İşbank, the largest private bank of world population and rise in energy use, Turkey with assets amounting to TL 237.8 global warming appears to be one of the billion, has made significant contribution most important challenges of our time. to the economic independence of Turkey The environmental and social problems and to the accumulation of capital that the that global warming brings along are country needed in addition to providing among the topics that will affect the customers with products and services lives of the world’s population the most that can be regarded as milestones for the in the future. As sustainability requires institutionalization of a national banking the establishment of a balance between system in Turkey by taking strength from meeting the needs of future generations, the corporate vision and mission set with continuity of natural resources and the the guidance of its founder, Mustafa business world, it is a multidimensional Kemal Atatürk. İşbank’s approach to view strategy that necessitates long-term the successes it has achieved in its own planning by considering economic, operations as a precondition for fulfilling environmental and social dimensions. the Bank’s social responsibilities clearly Those companies and institutions which shows that İşbank has internalized the key have realized that investment in human and business concept of sustainability since nature centered future is also a sine qua day one. non for their own existence, have started to develop their future strategies and business processes by comprehensively considering the impacts of climate change and the continuity of natural resources. 3 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Our approach has guided our In a company where employees are also stakeholders. shareholders, it is only natural that services İşbank, shaping its sustainability approach with lasting impact will be provided to the by adopting a holistic perspective, has society, customer benefit will be at the core, continued to develop new projects in 2014, and added value will be created through ranging from assessing the environmental an integrated stakeholder approach. As we and social impact of loans to developing quickly approach our 100th anniversary as products and services for disadvantaged a national corporate enterprise based on segments of the society; and from using a collective capital structure, I believe that natural resources more efficiently to our success story will continue well into the providing employees with continued future. training opportunities. Besides these various activities through which İşbank On behalf of the Board of Directors and has provided stakeholders with guidance personally, I would like to extend my thanks for the future, İşbank also continues to to all our stakeholders for their valuable be a model corporate citizen with social contributions and their unwavering trust responsibility projects that do make a and support. difference. İşbank’s holistic approach, which is based on economic development, social Yours sincerely, welfare and protection of the environment, is fully compatible with the concept of sustainability. H. Ersin Özince Chairman of the Board of Directors 4 CEO’S As a precursor of our founding mission, we strive to allocate the resources entrusted to us in an efficient MESSAGE manner in order to contribute to make economic İŞBANK development and rise in welfare sustainable and stable in Turkey. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Esteemed Stakeholders, In 2014, the Turkish economy displayed a to make economic development and rise in moderate growth due to sluggish economic welfare sustainable and stable in Turkey. In We are happy to be publishing this report outlook globally, increased geopolitical 2014, our Bank provided the largest support for the third time. With this report, which risks and intense sociopolitical agenda at to Turkish economy through lending. At the once again functions as a demonstration of home. Despite this challenging operating same time, our non-performing loan ratio has the importance İşbank places on sustainable environment, İşbank has continued to remained fairly below the sector average, at economic growth, we continue to present provide the Turkish economy the highest 1.5%, demonstrating our success in allocating our Bank’s comprehensive contribution to financial support by remaining committed to resources. the economy, society and the environment in sustainable and smooth growth policies. In Turkey. 2014, İşbank maintained its market leading Importantly, the concept of sustainability position as the private bank with highest should not be limited to its economic İşbank, having founded one year after the total assets in Turkey and was able to provide dimension. Instead, it should be assessed establishment of the Republic of Turkey with the Turkish economy with support totaling and applied by considering the social and the mission of pioneering social and economic TL 198 billion in 2014, through cash and environmental impact of leaving a cleaner, development in order to ensure economic non-cash loans. As a result, İşbank was able more peaceful and more livable society to independence, celebrated its 90th anniversary to reach out to every corner of Turkey thanks the next generations. Therefore, with an in 2014. During this period, İşbank has highly to an extensive service network and provide approach that brings together environmental, contributed not only to the growth of the customers with financial opportunities of any social and institutional governance financial sector but also to the industrial size, tailor-made to their needs and requests. dimensions, İşbank successfully restructured sector and served all segments of the society This approach allowed İşbank to make its ongoing sustainability activities within by widespread activities and innovative significant contributions to boost Turkey’s a methodical framework. In parallel to the approach in different sectors. Thanks to economic growth and employment. Environmental and Social Management adopting a long-term management vision Strategy (ESMS), which we implemented rather than focusing on short-term gains, Considering the existing close relationship in 2013, the Environmental Risk Evaluation İşbank was able to maintain a pioneering and between sustainable economic growth and Tool (ERET) has been successfully integrated leading role despite the changing market the lending policies of banks, credit policies into our business processes. In light of conditions. This perspective has also enabled that are formulated without measuring this model we are monitoring investments our Bank to implement measures to minimize associated risks and merely numerical growth financed through either international funds the negative impacts on our customers due and short-term gains driven, ultimately or domestic resources, from a social and to the changing domestic and international result in imbalances and volatility as has environmental impact viewpoint. As a result, economic conjuncture, especially in the been experienced in many countries. As a we are making an important contribution aftermath of the global financial crisis. precursor of our founding mission, we strive to efforts promoting sustainable economic to allocate the resources entrusted to us in development. Furthermore, besides our work an efficient manner in order to contribute to improve the quality of İşbank’s service 5 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 standards, we are putting our efforts to In order to contribute to social development improve efficiency in business and technology and leave a more livable environment to the processes. To this end, we have made generations that follow, we view corporate pioneering steps to establish a Sustainability social responsibility activities an integral and Management System by developing a inseparable component of our main business “Sustainability Policy” that encompasses the agenda. Therefore, we work to design and following issue areas: environmental and implement social responsibility activities that social impact, human resources and human are long-term, wide-ranging, integrated, rights, combatting bribery and corruption, gifts and sustainable by closely monitoring and and hospitality, and supplier management. addressing the needs and expectations of different segments of society. With our We always give consideration to the corporate social responsibility efforts in the environmental impacts of our operations. areas of education, environment and art and Since the 2000s, Turkey has figured among culture, which are planned by the Corporate the countries whose demand for energy has Social Responsibility Committee reporting increased the most. Given this fact coupled directly to our Board of Directors, we aim to with the trend of rapid liberalization in world create lasting value and to invest in the future energy markets, we focused on financing of our country. projects in the energy sector, which prioritize renewable energy and energy efficiency at I would like to extend my deepest gratitude most. The renewable energy projects we are to our shareholders, business partners, financing are expected to support the process employees and customers for their support of transition from fossil fuels as Turkey’s main to and unwavering trust in our sustainability energy source to renewable energy sources. activities in 2014. I sincerely believe that Thereby, İşbank enables to both reduce carbon thanks to our ongoing efforts in this area, we emissions and lessen Turkey’s dependence on will be even more successful in the coming foreign energy resources. Furthermore, we period. monitor the carbon footprint that results from our own business activities. Measurements Yours sincerely, conducted at our headquarter facilities located in İstanbul show that we have been successful in steadily reducing our carbon footprint each year since 2010. Adnan Bali Chief Executive Officer 6 Looking to future İŞBANK with hope there by delivering an outstanding performance SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 for the next generations… İŞBANK’S VISION, OBJECTIVES, 7 VALUES AND STRATEGY In summary, İŞBANK Our Vision İşbank’s goal is “to consistently increase the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 To be the most preferred bank in Turkey by value it creates for shareholders, as a bank that responds to its customers’ needs quickly, customers, shareholders and employees by effectively and with high quality solutions and maintaining our leading, pioneering and trusted that encourages its employees to achieve a high position as the regional financial power. level of performance in their jobs”. Our Objectives Our Values For our customers; Our values that represent our corporate identity, • to be the bank that is the most preferred guide us to reach our vision and objectives, service provider in all the sectors and and that are internalized by our employees as customer groups that we target their way of work and life, have been defined • to provide our customers comprehensive, reliable and high-quality service with our as “Leadership, that is powered by a Shared competent employees, extensive branch Mindset generated in Solidarity, and that network and non-branch banking channels is Trusted under all conditions with a strong • to abide by our high business ethics and Service orientation.” principles without compromise For our shareholders; Our Strategy • to consistently increase the value of our shares Our strategy is achieving sustainable and • to operate with effective risk management profitable growth based on “the bank closest to customers” philosophy in an effort to fulfill our For our employees; vision and objectives. • to be a preferred employer and to offer our employees programs and training opportunities that will foster their personal and professional development • to propagate our customer focused approach among all our personnel • to support and encourage loyalty, assuming responsibility and creativity • to deploy an employee hiring, evaluation, appointment and advancement system that is based on competencies and performance and that is fair and trustworthy 8 CORPORATE Continuing to support its customers in all circumstances and all times with its extensive branch network and alternative PROFILE distribution channels that become more and more efficient İŞBANK each day, İşbank serves about 14 million customers through a widespread service network. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Turkey’s Largest Private A Bank of the “Firsts” A Sustainable and Robust Bank Financial Structure İşbank is Turkey’s largest private A Bank that is not a follower of the A robust financial structure that bank with total assets worth changes but a leader in innovation focuses on sustainable growth and TL 237.8 billion. profitability As the sector leader in terms of total At the core of İşbank’s competitive power Shareholders’ equity totaling TL 29.3 loans and shareholders’ equity, İşbank also since the Bank’s founding is the vision of billion has supported the expansion in maintained its leadership position among developing innovative products, services İşbank’s business volume and has been private banks in terms of total assets, total and applications in line with global trends. instrumental in enabling the Bank to deposits and branch network. pursue its investments. As of year-end As a pioneer of savings concept in Turkey 2014, İşbank’s capital adequacy ratio stood İşbank continuously works to meet the with the introduction of the “Kumbara at 16%, significantly above regulatory needs of nearly 14 million customers quickly (Money Box)” fund for children and the requirements. and effectively with extensive service symbol of business reputation with the offerings through Turkey’s largest privately roll out of the country’s first commercial İşbank adopted a provisioning policy owned branch network (1,333 domestic cheque, İşbank has introduced many according to the legally required ratios branches) and the banking sector’s largest innovations to Turkey, including the first stipulated by the Banking Regulation and domestic ATM network (6,290 Bankamatik ATM (Bankamatik), the first online branch Supervision Agency (BRSA) for nonATMs). and the first mobile banking application. performing loans. As of year-end 2014, İşbank’s NPL coverage ratio was 76.9%, above the Turkish banking sector. 237.8 155.3 9 İŞBANK İşbank is Turkey’s largest İşbank’s total loan volume was private bank with total assets realized as TL 155.3 billion as of of TL 237.8 billion. end-2014. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 A Robust Brand Closely Broad Shareholder Base Contribution to Social Identified with Trust and Development Sound Reputation The brand name “İşbank”, identified A broad shareholder base is one of İşbank sees long-term efforts that with trust and sound reputation, İşbank’s most important assets. add value to the community as an is one of the key factors that essential component of the Bank’s differentiates the Bank from its sustainability approach. competitors. Since the Bank’s establishment, İşbank has İşbank has a broad-based shareholder The Bank continuously monitors the needs provided support to the Turkish people and structure consisting of nearly 190,000 of the country and society, and develops entrepreneurs not only in the domestic shareholders and institutional investors. corporate social responsibility activities to arena but also internationally. address those needs. Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. Mensupları Munzam As an effective service provider in Sosyal Güvenlik ve Yardımlaşma Sandığı İşbank adds value to society not only with foreign trade and international financial Vakfı (İşbank Personnel Supplementary its products and services but also with transactions, İşbank delivers efficient and Pension Fund), a fund which has a many projects and initiatives designed on-site services to Turkish companies membership of about 50,000 current and to provide for a sustainable world and through an international service retired bank employees, holds 40.15% of community in many areas including network. In addition, thanks to ongoing İşbank’s capital. environment, education, art and culture. relationships with investors through the strong correspondent network it has built on mutual trust and cooperation, İşbank is Turkey’s leading bank in obtaining sustainable foreign funds. İşbank has been ranked 118th in The Banker magazine’s 2014 “Top 1,000 World Banks” list, leaving many European banks trailing behind. İşbank also became the highest ranked Turkish bank on the list. 10 İŞBANK İşbank, who has been operating with the principle of adding value to the Turkish Economy as well as its IN FIGURES shareholders for 90 years, completed the year 2014 İŞBANK with a net profit of TL 3.4 billion. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 31.76% 40.15% Free Float İşbank Personnel Supplementary Pension Fund Shareholder Structure as of 31 December 2014 28.09% Atatürk Shares (Republican People’s Party) Key Financial Highlights (TL million) Thanks to a sound 11 reputation that has been 31.12.2013 31.12.2014 Change (%) protected, improved İŞBANK Total Assets 210,500 237,772 13.0 upon and resilient under Loans 134,843 155,315 15.2 all market conditions, İşbank continues to be Deposits 120,975 133,551 10.4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 clearly differentiated in Shareholders’ Equity 23,579 29,311 24.3 competition. Net Profit 3,163 3,382 6.9 Key Financial Ratios (%) 31.12.2013 31.12.2014 Interest Earning Assets (*) / Total Assets 92.1 92.3 Loans / Total Assets 64.1 65.3 Loans / Deposits 111.5 116.3 NPL Ratio 1.6 1.5 NPL Coverage Ratio 80.4 76.9 Demand Deposits / Total Deposits 21.2 22.0 Shareholders’ Equity / Total Liabilities 11.2 12.3 Capital Adequacy Ratio 14.4 16.0 (*) Interest earning assets include TL and FC legal reserves. Direct economic value generated in 20141 (TL thousand) 1 Unconsolidated figures as at 31 December 2014. 31.12.2013 31.12.2014 2 Operating expenses are inclusive of personnel expenses and reserve for employee termination Total Operating Income 10,286,236 11,249,655 benefits, which are also presented in the chart. Shared Value For further details about operating expenses, please refer to the “Other Operating Expenses” Operating expenses2 4,962,519 5,695,413 table in the unconsolidated financial report contained in the Annual Report 2014. Personnel expenses 2,275,548 2,456,179 3 Gross amount of dividends distribution to shareholders proposed by the Board of Directors. Reserve for employee termination benefits 37,400 49,744 4 Covers the expense amount of the Bank’s Tax provision 693,334 848,626 donation, contributions and social responsibility Dividends (gross3) 554,734 699,034 Donations4 24,327 27,242 12 İşbank delivers effective and on-site banking services to customers through its international service network. İŞBANK • Continuing its efforts to strengthen the Bank’s presence in global markets, İşbank closely follows markets that have economic and commercial ties SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 with Turkey, especially countries located in neighboring regions. To this end, the Bank continued its international operations and expansion of the foreign branch network in 2014. • By year’s end 2014, İşbank operated in 14 countries abroad with a total of 57 branches, including 17 İşbank Germany and 15 İşbank Russia branches, and 2 representative offices. • The Arasta-Nicosia Branch commenced operations in 2014, as the 16th branch in T.R.N.C.. İşbank has the widest bank branch network in T.R.N.C.. • With the openings of branches in Baghdad/Iraq, Tbilisi/Georgia, Prizren/ Kosovo and Edmonton-London/UK in 2014, the Bank became operational UNITED THE NETHERLANDS with 2 branches in these countries. KINGDOM GERMANY • İşbank responds in the fastest and FRANCE most effective way to the needs of SWITZERLAND approximately 14 million customers with an extensive service network. KOSOVO BULGARIA With 1,333 branches all over the GEORGIA country, the Bank has the largest TURKEY branch network among private banks; and with a total of 6,290 domestic Bankamatiks (ATMs), the Bank has the T.R.N.C. IRAQ largest ATM network in the sector. • İşbank’s product and service diversity delivered through alternative EGYPT distribution channels has contributed to increased access to financial services all over the country. In 2014, the number of customers who used Bankamatiks (ATMs) exceeded 8 million. The number of customers using the Internet channel climbed to 2.3 million, while the number of mobile banking users amounted to 1.5 million. • At end-2014, İşbank employed a total of 24,308 personnel. 49 622 969 13 İŞBANK NEW BRANCHES NEW BANKAMATIKS NEW İŞBANK (ATMS) EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 RUSSIA CHINA BAHRAIN 14 İŞBANK AND ITS Strong subsidiaries are key to supporting İşbank’s sustainable and profitable growth. SUBSIDIARIES İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Three-quarters of the companies in TSKB 293 İşbank’s subsidiary portfolio are traded on the Borsa Istanbul National Market. BIST: TSKB www.tskb.com.tr Number of companies Comprising 75% of İşbank’s subsidiary with İşbank participation portfolio, Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası İşbank Germany since 1924 A.Ş., Anadolu Hayat Emeklilik A.Ş., İş www.isbank.de Finansal Kiralama A.Ş., İş Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş., İş Yatırım Menkul İşbank Russia 25 Değerler A.Ş. and Türkiye Şişe ve Cam www.isbank.com.ru Fabrikaları A.Ş. are publicly held companies Number of companies and their respective stocks are traded Anadolu Hayat that İşbank has direct on the Borsa Istanbul National Market. BIST: ANHYT participation in, as of The ratio of the equity stakes portfolio to www.anadoluhayat.com.tr December 2014 İşbank’s total assets stood at 4% at end2014. Anadolu Sigorta 104 BIST: ANSGR İşbank’s subsidiary strategy is based on www.anadolusigorta.com.tr efficiency and profitability. Number of companies The efficiency of İşbank’s subsidiary Millî Reasürans with İşbank direct or portfolio is highly important in terms of www.millire.com indirect control the Bank’s equity investments. In light of its deep sector experience and know-how, İş Leasing the Bank keeps abreast of investment BIST: ISFIN opportunities that offer high growth and www.isleasing.com.tr profit potential in the financial services industry, while focusing on creating added İş GYO value for stakeholders. BİST: ISGYO www.isgyo.com.tr Financial Services İşbank, one of the pioneering institutions of İş Investment Turkey’s economy, has a number of financial BIST: ISMEN services subsidiaries that operate in a wide www.isyatirim.com.tr range of areas. These include: banking, insurance, private pension, capital markets brokerage services, portfolio management, private equity, factoring, reinsurance, leasing, asset management, securities investment trust, investment banking and real estate investment trusts. 15 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Glass Telecommunication Renowned for its Şişecam Avea glassmaking industry The founder and undisputed leader Avea is Turkey’s only GSM 1800 mobile of the Turkish glass industry communications operator. experience and expertise Founded in 1935, as another pioneer At end-2014, Avea controlled a 23% share in Europe and worldwide, of Turkish Industry, Türkiye Şişe ve Cam of the mobile communications market in Şişecam Group ranked Fabrikaları A.Ş. (Şişecam) is the holding Turkey with about 16.3 million subscribers. company of Şişecam Group; the Group between 3rd and 6th globally comprises 63 companies that operate in www.avea.com.tr and 2nd and 4th in Europe flat glass, glassware, glass packaging and in glass production as of chemicals, mainly soda ash and chromium Other chemicals. Besides Şişecam -the Group’s Nemtaş December 2014, according parent company stock of some of the Maritime Transport to capacity-based rankings. other Group companies (Trakya Cam, Nemtaş Nemrut Liman İşletmeleri Anadolu Cam and Denizli Cam ve Soda A.Ş. (Nemtaş) is active in shipping line Sanayii) trade on the Borsa Istanbul. operation, ship management, chartering and brokering. The company offers logistics Şişecam Group, which has a corner on the services with a fleet of five vessels that global glass market, carries out production have a total capacity of 252,959 DWT. activities in facilities and plants located in Turkey, Egypt, Russia, Georgia, Bulgaria, www.nemtas.com.tr Bosnia-Herzegovina, Italy, Ukraine, Romania, Germany, Hungary, Slovakia, and İşbank and its subsidiaries create important India. Considered one of the world’s leading direct and indirect added value for the glassmaking industry players, renowned Turkish economy. Thus, İşbank and its for its sector experience and expertise subsidiaries are in a pivotal position within in Europe and worldwide, Şişecam Group Turkey’s private sector. In the coming ranked between 3rd and 6th in the world and period, the Bank will once again join 2nd and 4th in Europe in glass production in forces with shareholders, customers and 2014, according to capacity-based rankings. employees, as well as other stakeholders to help realize Turkey’s economic development BIST: SISE, TRKCM, ANACM, SODA, DENCM goals. www.sisecam.com.tr 16 Taking the right steps towards continuous improvement and bridging the present with İŞBANK the future… SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İŞBANK’S 17 SUSTAINABILITY İŞBANK APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İşbank’s business model aims for the part of its sustainability targets by providing In light of the most basic Bank to be close to the customer while them with a working environment that is ideal of a universal targeting sustainable and profitable based on equal opportunity and continued growth. career and personal development options. sustainability approach, İşbank designs all its business activities namely “leaving behind in line with a sustainability approach. Part In light of the most fundamental ideal of a of this approach includes the sustainable universal sustainability approach, namely a livable world for the formation of corporate and human “leaving behind a livable world for the next next generations,” İşbank resource structures. The Bank views the generations,” İşbank carefully considers sustainability approach as a way to create the impact its business activities have on carefully considers the added value for the society, and therefore the environment. The Bank’s target is to impact its business contributing to social improvement and make the most efficient use of natural the betterment of quality of life for resources, particularly electricity, natural activities have on the individuals through implementation of gas and water. By means of a range of environment. original and targeted corporate social different applications such as IT tools and responsibility activities. İşbank’s business project finance mechanisms, the Bank model aims for the Bank to be close to the manages the indirect environmental impact customer while targeting sustainable and associated with the products and services profitable growth. When considering the that it offers to customers, and provides sector in which the Bank operates and the stakeholders with model applications in stakeholders within its scope of influence, environmental impact management. İşbank mostly stands out with the added value it creates for the economy. The added İşbank defines itself as an exemplary value created by the Bank in the context corporate citizen and therefore aims to of sustainability has been prioritized under undertake social responsibility projects four categories, as indicated below. that will enable it to expand the Bank’s • Customers desired scope of influence. In light of this • Employees objective, the Bank contributes to social • Society development by implementing corporate • World social responsibility projects in the areas of education, environment, culture and arts. İşbank’s sustainability approach is based on multilayered targets ranging from creating In order to take on the concept of direct added value for the economy through sustainability in a systematic and holistic banking activities to developing products manner within the organization, İşbank and services that meet customer needs and engaged in a range of activities in 2014 expectations; from training well qualified under the Sustainability Management human capital apt to the requirements System Project. Through the Sustainability of the financial sector to implementing Management System, the Bank both corporate social responsibility projects that ensured the internalization of sustainability have long-term targets. With a deep-rooted within the enterprise and structured corporate culture, İşbank makes employees sustainability management in a way that allowed for monitoring its application in • Commits to raising of the qualified 18 İşbank restructured its daily activities while striving for continuous work force that is required for all sustainability activities improvement. management and specialist positions at different levels on the basis of equal in 2014. Pioneering steps were taken to establish opportunity and in a way to foster its İŞBANK a Sustainability Management System and aim of becoming a globally competitive formulate a “İşbank Sustainability Policy” bank. that encompasses the following issue • Views its clients as the reason of areas: environmental and social impact, its existence and always adopts a human resources and human rights, customer-focused working approach. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 anti-bribery and anti-corruption, gifts and • Never tolerates bribery and corruption hospitality and supplier management. and heavily penalizes these kinds of acts. Fundamental Principles of İşbank’s • Employees or those representing the Sustainability Approach Bank shall not directly or indirectly demand or accept gifts from clients The Bank: in violation of the provisions of the • Takes into account the environmental Bank’s Gifts and Entertainment Policy and social impacts of the activities or perform acts that may be interpreted performed. as such. • Commits to play an active role in • Selects its suppliers in line with transition to a low-carbon economy and commercial practice and in a just, responds to the demands of public on honest and impartial way. Performs the axis of sustainability in new product purchasing and supplying transactions development processes. according to the Procurement Policy, • Aims to create a contemporary work taking into account the elements environment, where human rights are of professionalism, product/service respected and social justice and rights quality, durability, reliability and price. to work always improve, and to increase • Adopts medium and long term the awareness and consciousness of strategies considering the rights and all of its stakeholders by spreading this benefits of clients, and public interest understanding. at large. • Refuses all kinds of discrimination • Adopts the continuous improvement of the principle of equal opportunity, sustainability practices and sharing of differentiate or exclude people on these regularly with its stakeholders as the basis of gender, religion, political a principle. opinion, race, cultural or social origin, or that are related to selection. It regards In 2014, İşbank presented the Bank’s diversity in work force as one of the sustainability approach to stakeholders by main components of its intellectual formulating policies on the following issue capital. areas: • Respects the right to unionization • Environmental and Social Impact, and collective bargaining and plays a • Human Rights and Human Resources, pioneering role in making the use of this • Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, right widespread. • Gifts and Hospitality. • Adopts an approach based on the equal sharing of the values it creates Thanks to this approach, İşbank has and accumulates with its shareholders, established a new methodological clients, employees and other framework that brings together stakeholders. environmental, social and institutional • Supports a just rewarding approach governance dimensions, and thereby covering a collective working culture successfully restructures its sustainability that is in harmony with its ethical values activities. and strategic targets and taking into account the contribution of employees to its success. For more information on İşbank’s lives of the local community and other Under the framework of Sustainability Approach, you can visit the potential social impacts. In this way, even 19 the Bank’s “sustainable following link: if the local community does not complain about rights violations to the Bank, their and profitable growth by http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/aboutsensitivities are considered and İşbank’s İŞBANK being the bank closest isbank/sustainability/Pages/sustainability. Environmental and Social Management aspx Team works closely in the field to make to customers” mission, observations and to facilitate an exchange İşbank has developed an Sustainability Organization at İşbank of information with the members of the With the establishment of İşbank’s local community. Additionally, the identified SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Environmental and Social Sustainability Management System, environmental and social impact risks are Management Strategy the Bank has made some organizational evaluated together with the project owner changes to be able to centrally and upon which minimum set of guarantees (ESMS) in order to manage holistically manage sustainability. Within related to precautionary measures are the environmental and the framework of the Resolution of set for related parties’ further actions. the Board of Directors of İşbank dated Subsequently, follow-up activities that social impact of its business December 31, 2014, the Corporate oversee whether the parties adhere to activities. Governance Committee has been assigned these guarantees are also performed. with the duty of ensuring that the concept of sustainability is embraced by the Bank’s The following fundamental principles top management. Furthermore, the govern this system which functions as a abovementioned decision resolved that guide for İşbank’s shareholders, business the Head of Investor Relations Division partners, employees and all other has been appointed as the Sustainability stakeholders: Coordinator and has been given the duty • Informing customers about minimizing of ensuring coordination within the Bank’s the environmental and social risks executive bodies. With these recent related to their operations financed by changes the management of İşbank’s İşbank; sustainability activities, which are regarded • Encouraging clients to implement as an integral part of corporate governance an environmental and social risk processes, have started to be implemented management plan, if necessary, to in a much more efficient way. In addition, achieve higher levels of environmental a Sustainability Working Team has been and social standards in their operations; formed with participation of all relevant • Monitoring and analyzing on a regular departments in order to follow up on duties basis, the actions taken by clients to and responsibilities related to sustainability reduce environmental and social risks; management. • Reporting of the outcomes of the above-mentioned approach both on İşbank’s Environmental and Social customers’ activities and İşbank’s Management Strategy (ESMS) corporate and social responsibility Under the framework of the Bank’s strategies; “sustainable and profitable growth by being • Encouraging nationwide or the bank closest to customers” mission, international activities that might lead İşbank has developed an Environmental to innovative changes in the banking and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) sector; in order to manage the environmental • Developing partnerships with and social impact of its business activities. governmental and non–governmental With this strategy, while making capital organizations to follow best practices investment decisions, the Bank takes into and increase standards in the field of account possible impacts of the projects sustainability. on the natural environment, the daily 20 İŞBANK’S Using diversified communications channels, İşbank builds healthy stakeholder relationships that are based on STAKEHOLDERS mutual trust. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Putting a priority on stakeholder İşbank has also made use of stakeholder As a result of the dialogue, İşbank focuses on listening opinions and expectations kept in a importance İşbank to and accurately understanding the separate database and that were used opinions and requests of stakeholders, to identify the contents of the 2014 places on the concept of and on developing transparent two-way Sustainability Report. sustainability, the Bank communication with them. Stakeholder establishes relationships feedback on İşbank’s strategies, policies Relations with Suppliers and practices as well as its products and İşbank is especially attentive to the fact with stakeholders operating services provide a valuable database in that the Bank’s supplier firms act not only in a wide range of different supporting the development of the service in accordance with national legislation, but areas. Therefore, the Bank cycle, increasing stakeholder satisfaction also in line with universal human rights and, consequently, supplements the overall standards. İşbank prefers suppliers who regards all actors directly added value generated. Moreover, the Bank fulfill their occupational health and safety or indirectly affected by also makes use of the feedback obtained related responsibilities and therefore has the Bank’s products or under stakeholder dialogue activities to structured the Bank’s supplier policies identify the primary issues in corporate around universal working standards. activities as stakeholders. social responsibility and to formulate The Bank also considers strategies, policies and action plans. İşbank performs centralized purchasing by institutions and individuals taking into account the following criteria: Stakeholder dialogue is conducted cost advantage, standards of conduct, cost that might have an impact in different formats through diverse of transportation, duration of service. In on its business activities as communication channels and is focused on addition, the Bank, as much as possible, also stakeholders. increasing effectiveness through feedback purchases locally in order to support local gathering on a 24/7 basis. Thus, the Bank development and employment. carries out investments as needed to establish stakeholder dialogue in the most effective and efficient manner. In order to broaden its communication reach, İşbank makes effective use of the following tools within a multidimensional corporate communications strategy: the corporate website, websites of products and subbrands, the Intranet, as well as the Bank’s accounts on social media platforms and e-mail communication. 21 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İşbank’s Stakeholders and Forms of Communication Frequency of Industry Associations, Form of Communication Communication Branches, Instant Banking (Bankamatik (ATM), Internet Branch, Telephone Branch and mobile banking channels) customer Customers 24/7 basis representative contact, meetings, questionnaires that measure customer satisfaction and expectations, and social media Recruitment process, employee satisfaction surveys, Employees Daily training programs, performance evaluation, internal communication platforms, regular managers’ meetings General Assembly meetings, investor meetings, analyst/investor days, Annually and roadshows, teleconferences, daily communication activities of the Shareholders and Investors quarterly/when Investor Relations Division, IR website, Public Disclosure Platform (KAP), necessary Information Society Services Platform established within the framework of Turkish Commercial Code, Annual Reports and investor presentations CSR projects, information and General public As needed cooperation meetings, feedback mechanisms CSR projects, information and NGOs As needed cooperation meetings, feedback mechanisms Public Authority/Regulatory Agencies As needed Reporting processes, meetings Industry Associations, Organizations As needed Meetings and presentations, workshops, daily communications and Other Market Players Informational communications, press conferences, Media As needed special meetings and responses to written questions Daily communications with product and service suppliers, Suppliers Daily initiatives to raise supplier awareness on sustainability 22 İŞBANK’S Keeping in mind the importance of an accountable and transparent civil society, İşbank actively supports civil MEMBERSHIPS society related activities that are in line with the Bank’s İŞBANK corporate mission and values. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 As of end-2014, İşbank has provided • Credit Bureau (KKB) support to the domestic and international • Association of Business Communicators initiatives listed below and has also sent • International Chamber of Commerce representatives to these events. (ICC) Turkey Banking Techniques and • AKUT Search and Rescue Association Applications Commission • European Association for Banking and • National Education Foundation Financial History (EABH) • Middle East Technical University (METU) • European Financial Management and Alumni Association Marketing Association (EFMA) • Advertisers’ Association (of Turkey) • European Association of • Risk Managers Association Communication Directors (EACD) • Information Systems Audit and Control • Research Institute of Banking and Association (ISACA) Commercial Law • Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil • The Interbank Card Center Erosion, for Reforestation and the • Bilkent University Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA) • Call Centers Association • History Foundation of Turkey • Darüşşafaka Society • Banks Association of Turkey, Ethics • Deniz Temiz Association/Turmepa Commission • Foreign Economic Relations Board • Ethics and Reputation Society (TEİD) (DEİK) • Banks Association of Turkey, Working • Elginkan Foundation Group for the Role of Financial Sector in • Banker’s Association for Finance Sustainable Growth and Trade International Services • Institute of Internal Auditing-Turkey Association (BAFT-IFSA) • Turkish Quality Association (KalDer) • Finance Managers Association • Turkish Institutional Investment • Global Relations Forum Managers’ Association • UN Global Compact Turkey, Sustainable • Turkey Human Resource Management Banking and Finance Working Group Association (PERYÖN) • Economic Development Foundation • Turkish Industry and Business (İKV) Association (TÜSİAD) • İstanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts • Institute of International Finance (IIF) (İKSV) • Vehbi Koç Foundation 23 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İşbank and UN Global Compact • Businesses should uphold the freedom At the World Economic Forum held in of association and the effective Providing unconditional 1999, Kofi Annan -the Secretary General recognition of the right to collective support to initiatives of the United Nationsinvited leaders of bargaining. that aim to leave a more the business world, companies, the United • Businesses should support the Nations, labor unions and NGOs to join the elimination of all forms of forced and livable world for future Global Compact, an international initiative compulsory labor. generations, İşbank to support universal environmental and • Businesses should support the submitted its pledge to social principles in line with the UN’s effective abolition of child labor. “Millennium Development Goals.” The 10 • Businesses should support the the Global Compact’s ten principles of the United Nations Global elimination of discrimination in respect principles at the United Compact were announced to the public to employment and occupation. Nations Secretary General’s at UN Headquarters in 2000. During this • Businesses should support announcement, a call to private companies, a precautionary approach to Office on March 7, 2012. civil society actors and public institutions environmental challenges. was made requesting that they actively • Businesses should undertake initiatives participate in furthering activities on global to promote greater environmental sustainability. responsibility. • Businesses should encourage The Global Compact is comprised of 10 the development and diffusion of principles under 4 primary topics: environmentally friendly technologies. • Human rights • Businesses should work against • Labor corruption in all its forms, including • Environment extortion and bribery. • Anti-corruption Providing unconditional support to In line with the Global Compact initiative, initiatives that aim to leave a more member companies are expected to livable world for future generations, anticipate, support and implement these İşbank submitted its pledge to the Global principles. Compact’s 10 principles at the United Nations Secretary General’s Office on March The 10 principles of the United Nations 7, 2012. İşbank’s activities under the Global Global Compact Compact and the progress it has made in • Businesses should support and respect the current reporting period are mentioned the protection of internationally in different sections of this report. A proclaimed human rights. summary and a detailed index on the topic • Businesses should make sure that can be found on page 94-95. they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 24 Organization Chart(*) BOARD OF DIRECTORS İŞBANK CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Adnan Bali HEAD OFFICE DEPUTY CEO BOARD OF DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO COUNSELLOR Mahmut INSPECTORS Suat İnce Hakan Aran Levent Korba Ertuğrul Bozgedik İ. Hakkı Akşener Magemizoğlu BANKING ALTERNATIVE RETAIL LOANS INTERNAL FINANCIAL OPERATIONS HEAD OFFICE SME BANKING DISTRIBUTION MONITORING CONTROL MANAGEMENT & PAYMENT COUNSELLORSHIP SALES DIVISION CHANNELS & RECOVERY DIVISION DIVISION OPERATIONS DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION CORPORATE CORPORATE INVESTOR INFORMATION RETAIL LOAN & SME LOANS BANKING COMPLIANCE RELATIONS TECHNOLOGIES CARD OPERATIONS UNDERWRITING MARKETING AND DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION SALES DIVISION MANEGERIAL SUPPORT CREDITS RISK REPORTING FREE ZONE SERVICES AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT & INTERNAL BRANCHES PURCHASING MANAGEMENT DIVISION ACCOUNTING DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION COMMERCIAL FOREIGN TRADE CORPORATE SECRETARIAT TO BANKING & COMMERCIAL LOANS THE BOARD OF MARKETING LOAN OPERATIONS UNDERWRITING DIRECTORS DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION COMMERCIAL COMMERCIAL INTERNAL LOANS BANKING SALES OPERATIONS UNDERWRITING DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION BANKING & REAL ESTATE PRODUCT MANAGEMENT DIVISION DIVISION BRANCH NETWORK DEVELOPMENT DIVISION (*) As of 31.12.2014 25 İŞBANK AUDIT COMMITTEE Füsun Tümsavaş Prof. Dr. Turkay Berksoy SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO DEPUTY CEO Rıza İhsan Yalçın Sezen Senar Akkuş Yılmaz Ertürk İlhami Koç Ergün Yorulmaz Kutlusoy BRANCHES ABROAD AND RETAIL BANKING HR CORPORATE ECONOMIC FINANCIAL FOREIGN MARKETING MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATIONS RESEARCH ANALYSIS REPRESENTATIVES DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION DIVISION (OFFICES) INTERNATIONAL ENTERPRISE TREASURY RETAIL BANKING FINANCIAL CAPITAL MARKETS LEGAL ARCHITECTURE DIVISION SALES DIVISION INSTITUTIONS DIVISION COUNSELLORSHIP DIVISION DIVISION STRATEGY & RETAIL LOANS RETAIL BANKING CORPORATE SUBSIDIARIES MONITORING PRODUCT PERFORMANCE DIVISION & RECOVERY DIVISION MANAGEMENT DIVISION DIVISION COMMERCIAL & CORPORATE TALENT RETAIL BANKING LOANS MANAGEMENT CREDIT DIVISION MONITORING DIVISION & RECOVERY DIVISION CARD PAYMENT SYSTEMS DIVISION PRIVATE BANKING MARKETING AND SALES DIVISION 26 CORPORATE Under the Bank’s corporate governance structure and strategy, İşbank regularly improves its governance GOVERNANCE principles, policies and applications by reviewing their İŞBANK compliance status with the laws. AT İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Within the framework of attaching high The positions of the Chairman of the Board Throughout the Bank’s importance to the Bank’s corporate and Chief Executive Officer are filled by 90-year history, İşbank governance strategy in order to reach its two different individuals. These are not sustainability goals, İşbank focuses on any other executive member on the Bank’s has conducted its improving corporate governance principles, Board of Directors, except for the Chief operations in line with policies and applications, in compliance with Executive Officer. the laws, ethical values the laws, to support the accountability of the Board of Directors and the Executive During 2014, 14 Board meetings were held and industry standards. Committee. The Bank views the principles by İşbank with the full participation of all The Bank attaches high of fairness, transparency and responsibility of its members. As of year’s end, the Board importance to carrying as a key for establishing a strong and reviewed a total of 362 files, of which 313 efficient corporate governance system were files for loan underwriting and 49 out corporate governance and therefore gives a priority to informing were files on other issues related to loans. related activities that are in shareholders, customers and employees This summary is based on the work carried harmony with social values. about recent developments. İşbank’s out by convening meetings or by individual corporate governance activities focus on review and signing of the file by each generating added value for stakeholders Board Member, which resulted in 202 loan and the Bank attaches great importance to decisions. A total of 321 files were reviewed carrying out such activities in harmony with on non-loan matters and 321 decisions social values. were made. Consequently, 669 Board resolutions were made in 2014, including İşbank’s Board of Directors sets the those that were passed during meetings in strategy and policies of the Bank, and acts 2014. as a guide for the executive committee and therefore for the entire organization with Information on İşbank’s Board of Directors the decisions it makes. can be found on pages 52-53 and pages 72-73 of the 2014 Annual Report on www. The Board of Directors is as actively isbank.com.tr under the “Investor Relations/ involved in the preparation of risk Publications and Results” section. management strategies and policies as it is engaged in the oversight of the practices Eight active committees operate implemented by the Executive Committee at İşbank. and their outcomes. The committees operating at İşbank include the Audit Committee, Turkish Republic of İşbank’s Board of Directors is comprised of 1 Northern Cyprus (TRNC) Internal Systems chairman and 10 members. Committee, Credit Committee, Credit Revision Committee, Corporate Social 27 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Responsibility Committee, Risk Committee, At İşbank, the internal audit function is A total of 512 branches (510 domestic, Remuneration Committee and Corporate fulfilled by the Board of Inspectors. 2 foreign), 5 Head Office divisions and 4 Governance Committee. These committees The İşbank Board of Inspectors fulfills the subsidiaries were audited by the Board of are subordinated directly to the Board of duty of inspecting and supervising the Inspectors in 2014. The Board also audits Directors. operations of all the Bank’s Head Office İşbank’s banking processes and IT systems divisions, including internal control, risk annually as stipulated by BRSA regulations. Information on the committees active at management and corporate compliance Following the inspection activities carried İşbank is presented on pages 59-61 of the divisions, domestic and foreign branches, as out by the Board with respect to the Bank’s 2014 Annual Report under the “Investor well as the organizations under its control, banking processes and IT system, the Relations/Financial Information” section in accordance with the Bank’s strategy, following conclusions were reached as of accessible from the website address policies, principles and targets, and December 31, 2014: www.isbank.com.tr. relevant laws, rules and regulations. While • There was no lack of control in performing duties related to inspection, processes that could prevent the Bank İşbank Executive Committee the Board takes into account both national from operating effectively, reliably and The İşbank Executive Committee is legislation on banking and internal auditing without interruption; comprised of the Chief Executive Officer and implements international internal • There were no findings that would and 11 Deputy Chief Executives. İşbank’s auditing standards. significantly affect the integrity, CEO is the person who commands full timely availability, consistency and authority and responsibility over the With its activities certified to be in reliability of the information set forth conduct, administration and coordination conformity with international quality in consolidated and non-consolidated of the Bank’s day-to-day business in standards, the İşbank Board of Inspectors financial statements. the broadest sense. Each Deputy Chief combines the Board’s deeply rooted audit Executive is responsible for the business experience with advanced technology in Moreover, thanks to risk-oriented lines defined. a risk-focused approach to carry out its inspection programs, İşbank’s credit duties. A total of 197 inspectors and deputy portfolio was comprehensively inspected Information on the İşbank Executive inspectors (as of end-2014) functioning for in 2014. Remote audits executed by the Committee is presented on pages 54-55 the Board, conduct both field inspections Board of Inspectors at İşbank allowed for of the 2014 Annual Report, posted and remote inspection by using advanced the continuous inspection of areas deemed under the “Investor Relations/Financial IT tools. to be of high risk, in particular loans and Information” section accessible on the human resources. www.isbank.com.tr website. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 28 The Internal Control Division is assigned with the review, AT İŞBANK oversight and assessment of İşbank’s operations and with reporting its findings and conclusions to relevant parties. İŞBANK The Division’s activities are structured to comprise the Head Office divisions, branches, and subsidiaries that are subject to consolidation and companies from which the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Bank obtains support services. İşbank’s Internal Control System operation with the applicable legislation, Activities to prevent the The internal control efforts within the regulations and standards.The Corporate laundering of criminal internal control system primarily consist Compliance Division consists of four subof operational controls, information and units: proceeds and terrorism communication systems and financial • Corporate Compliance financing are carried out reporting systems controls, and compliance • Banking Activities Compliance purposefully and efficiently controls. • Financial Crimes • Capital Market Instruments Suspicious as stipulated by applicable The İşbank Internal Audit Department Transactions Investigation laws, rules and regulations fulfills the duty of inspecting and and the Bank’s Policy and supervising the operations of all the İşbank’s “Compliance and Compliance Risk Bank’s Head Office divisions, branches, Management Policy” and the “Policy for Compliance Program. partnerships subject to consolidation and the Prevention of Laundering of Criminal corporate bodies that provide supporting Proceeds and Terrorism Financing” are services. posted in Turkish and English under the “Investor Relations/Corporate Governance” Compliance at İşbank section on the www.isbank.com.tr website. Compliance is the foremost duty and responsibility of all İşbank managers and Policy for the Prevention of Laundering employees at any level. The functions and of Criminal Proceeds and Terrorism activities related to compliance executed Financing in the Head Office Divisions and branches Activities directed towards the prevention of İşbank are monitored by the Corporate of laundering of criminal proceeds and Compliance Division, which reports to the the terrorism financing are carried out Board of Directors. purposefully and efficiently within the framework of applicable legislation The Corporate Compliance Division and the Bank’s Policy and Compliance operates to provide maximum contribution Program, and formulated accordingly. to managing and controlling the compliance İşbank’s “Compliance and Compliance Risk risk purposefully and effectively, and Management Policy” and the “Policy for to ensure that constant alignment and the Prevention of Laundering of Criminal compliance are achieved in the execution Proceeds and Terrorism Financing” are and management of the Bank’s activities posted in Turkish and English under the with respect to their structure and “Investor Relations/Corporate Governance” section on www.isbank.com.tr web site. The Investor Relations Division received more than 500 29 information inquries either by phone or e-mail in 2014. The Division responded fully to all of these inquiries. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Capital Market Instruments Suspicious In the year 2014, the Investor Relations Corporate Social Responsibility Transactions Investigation Unit Division received more than 500 Committee Capital Market Instruments Suspicious information inquiries via telephone and The İşbank Corporate Social Responsibility Transactions Investigation Unit was e-mail, and all inquiries have been replied. Committee was formed in accordance established for the purpose of detection with the Corporate Social Responsibility and reporting of insider trading and market In the same year, İşbank participated in 11 Practices Regulation adopted and approved manipulation crimes in accordance with the foreign and 2 domestic conferences for by the Board of Directors. The following Communique on Obligation of Notification equity investors, and 3 foreign conferences currently serve as Committee members: Regarding Insider Trading or Manipulation for fixed-income security investors. During Aysel Tacer (Board Member), Ulaş Moğultay Crimes (V-102.1) published in the Official these events, the Bank held meetings (Board Member), Yalçın Sezen (Deputy Gazette edition 28889 on 21/01/2014. with the representatives of investment Chief Executive), Senar Akkuş (Deputy Chief companies amounting to a total number Executive) and Suat E. Sözen (Head of the İşbank’s “Compliance and Compliance Risk of 241. The number of meetings and Corporate Communications Division). Management Policy,” and the “Policy for teleconferences conducted with analysts the Prevention of Laundering of Criminal and investors by the Bank’s Investor The Committee carries out its activities in Proceeds and Terrorism Financing” are Relations Division was 185. accordance with the referenced regulation posted in Turkish and English under the and by taking into account the main areas “Investor Relations/Corporate Governance” Within the framework of the Resolution of contribution, designated as education, section on the www.isbank.com.tr website. of the Board of Directors of İşbank environment and art and culture. The on December 31, 2014, the Corporate Committee convened on 7 occasions during İşbank Investor Relations Division Governance Committee has been assigned 2014 with the participation of all members, The major task of İşbank Investor Relations with the duty of ensuring that the concept and undertook 22 decisions. Division is to effectively respond the of sustainability is embraced by the Bank’s information requests of both existing top management. The coordination of this Please refer to page 92 for the CVs of and potential investors, rating agencies, process within the Bank’s executive bodies the members of the Corporate Social international lenders and other related will be managed by the Investor Relations Responsibility Committee. institutions within the framework of related Division. regulations. The Investor Relations Division also engages in a range of activities to İşbank’s Corporate Governance Principles enhance the Bank’s corporate governance Compliance Statement can be found on practices. pages 68-75 of the 2014 Annual Report under the “Investor Relations/Publications and Results” section, accessible from the www.isbank.com.tr website. 30 RISK The risk management process and the associated functions are one of the primary responsibilities MANAGEMENT of İşbank’s Board of Directors. İŞBANK AT İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Sound risk management is crucial in To ensure that the Bank’s risk appetite Through effective and İşbank’s industry of operations. İşbank conforms to the business plan and the efficient risk management and its subsidiaries are leading players prevailing market environment, risk limits in the Turkish economy and represent set by the Board of Directors are closely policies, İşbank’s business a massive source of financial strength monitored. Breaches in market risk, liquidity activities continue to create (see pages 20-21 for more details). When risk, structural interest rate risk and added value. considered in this framework, the analysis, credit risk limits are analyzed by the Risk monitoring and reporting of the financial Management Division, by taking market and non-financial risk exposure of İşbank and industry conditions into consideration, Group as a whole, through the adoption and the findings are reported to the Audit of risk management principles specific to Committee and Board of Directors. banking and in combination with a group risk management approach, is imperative to In order to ensure the systematic achieve economic sustainability. management of risks on solo and consolidated basis, Risk Management Based on an overall assessment of risk Division’s range of activities include the categories, credit risk was once again the following: defining risks, measuring risks most important among the Bank’s potential by applying analytical methods, reporting risk factors in 2014. on measured risks and regularly monitoring the Banks’s risk levels. Due to the fact that maturity mismatch in assets and liabilities is prevalent in the The various risk management processes Turkish banking sector, liquidity risk and and functions involved therein rank interest rate risk are other financial risk among the primary responsibilities of types that are considered significant. İşbank’s Board of Directors. The Bank’s risk management policies and related The most important non-financial risk implementation procedures are formulated type faced by the Bank would appear to by the Board of Directors. be business environment risk. Geopolitical risks arising from political instability in İşbank Risk Committee the neighboring geographic region and The İşbank Risk Committee is responsible political tensions with some of these for formulating the risk management countries are the main factors that could strategies and policies that İşbank will lead to an increase in the Bank’s business adhere to both on a consolidated and environment risk profile. non-consolidated basis, presenting them İşbank’s Risk Committee formulates the risk management 31 strategies and policies that the Bank will adhere to both on a consolidated and non-consolidated basis, presents them İŞBANK to the Board of Directors for approval, and monitors their implementation. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 to the Board of Directors for approval, Members of İşbank Risk Committee In the Risk Committee meetings held in and monitoring their implementation. The (as of December 31, 2014): 2014, risk management practices of İşbank Committee is the common communication and its subsidiaries under consolidated platform with the Bank’s executive Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors risk policies were evaluated, risk reports systems in terms of assessing the Bank’s and Head of the Risk Committee presented to the Committee were risk exposure, recommending precautions Füsun Tümsavaş analyzed and decisions regarding the risk and actions to be taken. The Committee’s management systems and processes were principal duties include: Chief Executive Officer and Head of the made. • Preparing risk management strategies Credit Committee and policies, and presenting them to Adnan Bali Risk Management Policies Applied the Board for approval, by İşbank by Risk Type • Monitoring the effective usage of Deputy Chief Executive outcomes of the internal capital Ertuğrul Bozgedik Capital Adequacy Policy adequacy assessment process in the Capital Adequacy Policy defines the level of planning and decision making processes Deputy Chief Executive and Head of capital, on consolidated and unconsolidated of the Bank, the Asset & Liability Management basis that the Bank must hold against • Adjudicating by way of negotiating Committee potential losses arising from financial the issues addressed by the Risk Senar Akkuş risks associated with on and off balance Management Division, sheet items in addition to non-financial • Making recommendations to the Deputy Chief Executive risks caused by the Bank’s operations; and Board about the level of risk limits Mahmut Magemizoğlu establishes the principles for maintaining for exposures/possible exposures, and monitoring the minimum capital monitoring the limit breaches and Head of the Risk Management Division levels determined in accordance with the submitting recommendations to the Gamze Yalçın legal regulations and the Internal Capital Board regarding the elimination of any Adequacy Assessment Process. Risk breaches, The Risk Committee contributes to the management policies form an integral part • Making recommendations to the Board formation of Group risk policies structured of the Capital Adequacy Policy. on any changes in risk policies, on a consolidated basis, including both the • Monitoring the risk identification, financial and nonfinancial participations Credit Risk Policy definition, measurement, assessment of the Bank. In the activities that the Risk The Credit Risk Policy establishes the and management processes carried out Committee carries out on a consolidated framework for credit risk management, by the Risk Management Division, basis, control and monitoring, methods and • Monitoring the accuracy and reliability • İlhami Koç, Deputy Chief Executive, and responsibilities, and credit risk limits. relating to risk measurement • Burhanettin Kantar, Head of the Equity Senior management is responsible for the methodologies and their results. Participations Division execution of credit risk policies approved by also attend the meetings. the Board of Directors. RISK MANAGEMENT 32 İşbank’s “Consolidated Risk Policies” lay out risk AT İŞBANK management principles related to the Bank’s subsidiaries. Meanwhile, subsidiaries apply their own risk management İŞBANK policies in line with Consolidated Risk Policies and by taking into account their company-specific structures. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Monitoring credit risk is based not only on Operational Risk Policy Information Systems Management individual loans but also on the risk levels Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss Policy and composition of the loan portfolio. The resulting from inadequate or failed internal The purpose of Information Systems monitoring and credit risk management processes, persons and systems, or from Management Policy is to determine the process includes parameters such as external events. The Risk Management principles which will constitute a basis for maturity, industry, collateral, location, Division is responsible for risk management the management of information systems currency, loan type and credit risk ratings as related efforts on this particular risk. that the Bank uses to fulfill its activities a whole, in addition to the transaction and and procedures; and to define, measure, company related assessments. Categorization of the inherent operational control, monitor, report and manage the risks in the Bank’s day-to-day business risks stemming from the use of information Asset and Liability Management Risk activities and processes is made possible technologies. Policy by the Bank Risk Catalogue. It serves as the Asset and liability management risk is basic document to define and classify risks Risks derived from information defined as loss risk caused by the Bank’s and is subject to modification as conditions technologies are basically assessed failure to effectively manage all financial change. The methodology employed to within the scope of Bank’s operational risk risks arising from assets, liabilities and offidentify operational risks is referred to management. It is essential that those balance sheet transactions. All principles as “self-assessment.” This methodology risks -which could be seen as multipliers of and procedures related to the composition requires staff with roles and responsibilities the other risks derived from activities-are and management of the Bank’s assetin a particular business activity to become measured, closely monitored and controlled liability structure, and the Bank’s risk involved in the risk and control assessment within the framework of Bank’s integrated appetite, are formulated and established by process of that activity. The operational risk management. the Board of Directors. risk management process combines both qualitative and quantitative approaches Detailed information on the risk policies The Board of Directors and Audit in measurement and assessment. The implemented at İşbank is presented on Committee are obliged to ensure that measurement process uses data obtained pages 80-81 of the 2014 Annual Report, the Bank’s capital is used optimally; in from impact likelihood analysis, loss which is posted under the “Investor effect, they are required to keep risk database and risk indicators. Relations/Financial Information” section of limits under control and ensure that the www.isbank.com.tr website. the necessary actions are taken. The Consolidated Risk Policies Asset-Liability Committee is responsible Compliance with risk management for the governance of asset and liability principles related to the Bank’s subsidiaries management risk in accordance with the are monitored according to Bank’s risk appetite and risk limits determined Consolidated Risk Policies. Through by the Board of Directors and within the Consolidated Risk Policies, subsidiaries principles and procedures expressed in this identify their specific risk management policy. policies which are approved by their boards that form the framework of their risk management systems and processes. 33 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Adding to our success by providing the private sector and individuals with pioneering services… 34 FOR OUR Operating in line with the primary strategy “to be the bank closest to the customer,” İşbank has restructured the CUSTOMERS Bank’s products and services to a large degree. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İşbank’s products and services -which are • Launched Turkey’s first mutual fund; tailor-made for the needs of customers • Became Turkey’s first bank to introduce in different areas, from savings products trading of investment securities; to loans, investment banking offerings to • Initiated the first interactive telephone credit cards-are delivered to an extensive banking service; and diverse customer base through • Opened the first online banking branch; personal, corporate, commercial and private • Introduced the first WAP mobile banking İşCep banking operations with a multichannel distribution strategy. • service; Launched the first application-based İşbank launched the first native mobile banking service (İşCep) application-based native Having developed produced products and for customers; mobile banking service services that served as milestones for • Offered the first term deposit product (İşCep) for the Bank’s the Turkish banking sector throughout its for customers in Turkey, “Floating customers. long history, İşbank continues to pursue Account,” with yields indexed to an innovative service approach based on TRLIBOR; customer satisfaction. • Launched the “Environmentally Friendly Housing Loan” product to support Bankamatik İşbank’s illustrious corporate history includes many firsts and pioneering the development of environmentally friendly technologies in the housing The launch of electronic initiatives, which have set the trends in the sector; banking in Turkey with the Turkish banking industry: • Introduced Mobile Signature, enabling introduction of the country’s • Developed and introduced the customers to pay off loans without first ATMs: Bankamatik. “Moneybox” account to Turkey to foster visiting a branch and to withdraw cash a culture of savings; without using a bank or credit card; • Introduced the first use of cheques as • Developed and rolled out a multi-touch a convenient means of carrying out feature application, “Getiri Sihirbazı regular payments; (Return Comparison Wizard),” that • Launched electronic banking in Turkey, enables customers to compare yields on with the introduction of the country’s financial products; first ATMs: Bankamatik; • Developed and launched “İş’te Yatırım • Became the first Turkish bank to open iPhone,” an iPhone app that allows branches in Cyprus and Europe; users to monitor Borsa İstanbul data in • Rolled out the first investment account real time; service in the Turkish financial services industry; • Introduced “Mobile Key (Cep Anahtar),” • Developed and launched the “Parakod” 35 a mobile phone app that strengthens application that employs QR code the transaction security of the online technology to allow İşbank customers branch and mobile banking channels, to use their mobile phones to purchase İŞBANK and also enables cash withdrawals from any product or service either online Bankamatiks (ATMs) without the need without entering any card data, or from for a card; retail stores without carrying a credit • Developed and launched the world’s card; SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 first Bio-ID POS using fingervein-ID to • Became the first privately-owned bank authenticate a user’s identity; in Turkey to introduce the 2B Loan; • Developed and deployed an interactive • Developed and rolled out the “Karşılıklı messaging system that transforms POS Çek (Guaranteed Cheque),” a first in the terminals into two-way communication industry that aims to reinstate payment channels; by cheque as a reliable payment • Developed “Üstü Kalsın,” an innovative instrument; application, and a first in Turkey, that • Launched the “Şipşak (Quickie)” product Internet Branch helps customers grow their savings by rounding up outstanding credit card that allows customers to carry out instant shopping by scanning a QR code Always a standout with its commitment debt balances to a specified limit, and in print media, such as newspapers, to develop innovative services, İşbank uses the difference to purchase mutual magazines, banners or catalogues; was the first in Turkey to launch an fund shares; • Added the “Müzekart (Museum Card)” Internet branch for customers. • Developed the “Kur Korumalı feature to credit cards, providing (Opsiyonlu) Döviz Kredisi (Exchange customers the opportunity to visit Rate Protected Foreign Currency Loan museums or archeological sites -which with Option),” a foreign currency loan are operated by the Ministry of Culture with a guaranteed exchange rate option and Tourism of the Republic of Turkeythat protects the borrower against free of charge for one month every excessive increases in the exchange year, in line with the Bank’s socially rate; “Sabit Faizli Rotatif (BCH) Kredi responsible business approach; (Fixed Rate Revolving Loan),” a fixed• Provided customers with Intel Identity interest-rate revolving line of credit Protection Technology which enables for those who do not want to be users to login Internet Branch securely, Parakod affected by fluctuating interest rates; and Chinese Yuan credit and loans for removing the need to type a one-time password (OTP). Continuously renewing the Bank’s customers who conduct business with • Became the first bank in the world to services infrastructure in keeping with China; provide customers with Intel Identity recent technological developments, • Introduced the “Temassız Kartla Protection Technology (Intel IPT) which İşbank introduced the “Parakod” Para Çekme (Money Withdrawal by enables users to login İşCep securely, application, which employs QR code Contactless Card),” a contactless card removing the need to type a One-Timetechnology to allow customers to use application that enables users to Password (OTP). their mobile phones to purchase any withdraw cash with a single keypress; • Became the first bank in Turkey to product or service either online without • Designed and opened a specialized useTouch-ID technology which enables entering any card data or from the retail branch with a completely different and customers to login İşCep removing the stores without carrying a credit card. unique structure to deliver services need to type customer PIN. exclusively to companies backed by • Became the first bank in the world, foreign capital, an unprecedented İşbank provided customers with a service offering in Turkey; special banking application developed for Microsoft’s new generation entertainment platform Xbox One. 36 FOR OUR With a customer portfolio that includes diverse segments CUSTOMERS such as corporate customers, SMEs, tradesmen, small shop owners, İşbank’s lending activities aim to create added İŞBANK value for Turkey’s economy. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 placement policy of İşbank is a strong İşbank Loan Portfolio (Thousand TL) (December 31, 2014) indicator that the Bank has realized its aim of becoming “Turkey’s Bank,” as İşbank’s 155,315,498 official slogan states. Detailed information on İşbank’s services and loans to the real sector during 2014 can be found on pages 22-39 of the Annual Report 2014, posted under the “Investor Relations/Annual Reports” section 68,470,378 at www.isbank.com.tr. 44,430,292 In 2014, İşbank continued to carry out 33,316,218 added value based lending operations. 9,098,610 The Bank cooperated with Kredi Garanti Fonu A.Ş. (Credit Guarantee Fund Inc.) and with some Organized Industrial Zones. Corporate and SME Loans* Credit Consumer Total Loans Through this cooperation, İşbank signed Commercial Cards** Loans*** an agreement that grants guarantees Loans of Kredi Garanti Fonu A.Ş. to credits for construction to be built on the land owned * SME refers to companies with annual turnover or total assets ≤ TL 40 million and ≤ 250 employees. by its subsidiaries in Organized Industrial ** Individual credit cards *** Includes overdraft accounts. Zones. As in previous years, İşbank continued its efficient cooperation with KOSGEB (Small and Medium Enterprises For Companies advantage and economic strength of Development Organization) in 2014. Part İşbank’s customer portfolio ranges from customers in domestic and international of this cooperation was an agreement corporate customers to SMEs, tradesmen markets. Under the Bank’s innovative signed to meet the cash needs of firms in to small retailers. Taking this fact into services approach, İşbank closely follows Turkey’s Soma region, where a devastating account, İşbank conducts lending activities new developments in the sector; in addition mining disaster occurred in May 2014. with the aim to create added value for to transfer of funds, in the Bank delivers This agreement was titled “Agreement on Turkey’s economy. The Bank has continued cash management, credit card, sectorKOSGEB’s Interest Support for Working to structure its credit product portfolio to specific package and custom-designed Capital Credits that are Used in Soma and providing customers with tailor-made and product solutions. Thereby, İşbank assumes Kırkağaç (Manisa) and Ceylanpınar and needs based terms and payment options. a pioneering role in keeping Turkey’s Akçakale (Şanlıurfa).” As a result, in 2014, once again the Bank economic and commercial system on contributed to increasing the competitive solid foundations. The broad geographic İşbank continued to collaborate with the Turkish Grain 37 Board (TMO) during 2014 and extended loans against TMO receipts to its own depositors who submitted their İŞBANK products (corn and rice) to the TMO. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 KOSGEB and the Bank also signed a “Coİşbank engaged in a comprehensive Financing Loan Program Agreement” to cover the co-financing needs of companies range of activities under the agreement TL 155.315 framework and related to competitive that are eligible to benefit from KOSGEB support, via the SME Project Support calls issued by the Agriculture and Rural Development Support Institution (TKDK), million Program, Thematic Project Support under the EU’s Instrument for Preİşbank extended TL 155,315 Program, Cooperation-Collaboration Accession Rural Development (IPARD) million in total cash loans to Support Program, Entrepreneurship program. customers in 2014. Support Program, and the R&D Innovation and Industrial Practices Support Program at İşbank successfully integrated the the end of 2013. Agriculture Credit Assessment System (TARDES), which was put into service by İşbank also continues to offer a “KOSGEB the Credit Bureau (KKB) in order to evaluate Support Package” to meet the various customer credit requests, into its own financing needs of firms qualified to benefit system infrastructure in 2014. from the recourse and non-recourse loans provided by KOSGEB. Under the Support Having a strong corporate foundation Package, eligible companies are offered the in education, İşbank designs programs following credit products: Bridging Loan, based on the sharing of information Co-Finance Loan and Letter of Guarantee. and experience. These programs enable İşbank continued to collaborate with the customers to better familiarize themselves Turkish Grain Board (TMO) during 2014 with financial products and services, and and extended loans against TMO receipts significantly increase their decision-making to its own depositors who submitted their capacity with regard to critical issues such products (corn and rice) to the board. In as growth. İşbank reviews its activities addition, efforts under the “Framework in this area by establishing stakeholder Agreement of Cooperation for İmece dialogue and actively soliciting customer Card Accepting Merchants” continued in feedback. collaboration with the Association of Beet Growers Cooperatives (PANKOBIRLIK). While numerous enterprises in Turkey survive on the basis of their own capital The implementation of the cooperation and know-how, the percentage of those agreements signed with the Turkish seeking professional support and using Pharmacists’ Association (TEB), under specialized banking products is low which the Bank intermediates in pharmacist compared to more developed countries. health benefit payments to the Social İşbank sees answering basic financial Security Institution (SGK) and extends questions posed by SMEs or small business loans which are covered by the association’s owners such as “How can I get a loan?” or mutual assistance fund, continued “What is factoring?” as one of the Bank’s throughout 2014. main responsibilities. Therefore, İşbank 38 FOR OUR To date, İşbank has organized a total of 38 İş’le Buluşmalar CUSTOMERS Meetings -bolstering the Bank’s strong reputation in the eyes of customersin 31 cities across Turkey, reaching out İŞBANK to nearly 20,000 enterprises. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 strives to improve financial literacy among By the end of year 2014, 38 İş’le Buluşmalar has received 34 national and international the general public. To this end, the Bank has Meetings have been held in 31 cities, awards. The İŞ’TE KOBİ website offers adopted a new awareness-raising strategy reaching nearly 20,000 enterprises in rich expert video content along with and supports efforts to institutionalize the total. İş’le Buluşmalar Meetings has become sector-specific interviews, current news, private sector in Turkey and increase its a traditional event where İşbank’s top articles, industry-specific and economic efficiency, while in turn contributing to the level executives contribute, generating reports for members. Furthermore, the country’s sustainable economic growth. A a significant level of interest and website provides members with cost free summary of activities completed in 2014 participation. The meetings will continue in professional support in 16 different areas on improvements related to this aim is this fashion in the coming period. including foreign trade, entrepreneurship, provided below. technology, tax and business law, İş’te Seminer Instructive Workshops agriculture, livestock farming under the İş’le Buluşmalar Meetings An İşbank Since 2012, İşbank has launched instructive İşin Uzmanları service. Since its launch, classic workshops under the title “İş’te Seminer,” cost free professional support has been Realising the lack of a widespread and held in industrial zones in order to provided to more than 7,000 SMEs. Another comprehensive organization that would: facilitate SMEs’ sustainable growth and set service provided to registered members of • broaden the vision of the commercial competitive targets. İŞ’TE KOBİ is the KOBİ Pazarı section of the sector in general, and SMEs in particular, website, which gives users the opportunity and enable discovery of potential İş’te Seminer workshops with the title to introduce themselves and advertise business lines, “Succeeding in China” were organized on their services and products. As of end• enable monitoring development May 6th in Istanbul, May 8th in Kayseri and 2014, more than 9,000 enterprises have processes in different regions, May 9th in Konya, with the aim of realizing advertised their various activities through • offer a chance to analyze the experience and information exchange on the KOBİ Pazarı, thereby increasing their developments in global and domestic how to be successful in the Chinese market. market effectiveness. economies, These seminars targeted SMEs which • provide the means to scrutinize wanted to increase their trade volume with One innovative application of İŞ’TE KOBİ, different topics depending on the China. “SUNUMATİK” allows SMEs without different needs of localities, experience in preparing English or Turkish İş’te KOBİ presentations to become informed on İşbank collaborated with the Dünya daily Providing detailed and up-to-date this key topic. Helpful content is arranged newspaper and initiated “İş’le Buluşmalar information on İşbank’s recent products according to various sectors and slide Meetings” in 2008. and services as well as on recent economic templates are provided, thereby lifting the developments, the İŞ’TE KOBİ website language barrier and compensating for İş’le Buluşmalar Meetings is one of the most (www.istekobi.com.tr) has received more lack of IT know-how. As of year’s end, the important organizations in the Turkish than 7 million visitors in five years, of SUNUMATİK application was used by nearly banking sector today. İş’le Buluşmalar which 5.5 million were unique visitors. As 5,000 firms, helping improve the market meetings, which commenced in 2008 of end-2014, the website boasts more effectiveness of these enterprises both and has continued ever since, is a strong than 68 thousand members and to date within Turkey and abroad. expression of İşbank’s support to Turkey’s economy and the private sector. 39 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 International Financial Institutions İşbank provides strong support to the investment, production and employment capabilities Thanks to the Bank’s high of the real sector with long-term funds obtained from the international markets thanks to credibility, İşbank can its high credibility. İşbank maintains its cooperation with numerous international financial secure low-cost, long-term institutions, with a particular focus on SME financing. Information on the funds obtained by the Bank from international financial institutions during 2014 is summarized below. funds from international financial institutions. Loan agreements signed with international financial institutions in 2014 CREDIT SIGNING LOAN AGENCY DATE AMOUNT MATURITY PURPOSE The loan will be used to improve earthquake security and energy efficiency at residential buildings, which are covered by European Law no. 6306, “Law Concerning Investment May 9, EUR 200 Transformation of Areas Under Bank (EIB) 2014 million 10 years Natural Disaster Risk.” The funds will be used in Overseas financing SMEs, with a Private portion allocated to women Investment entrepreneurs and enterprises Corporation December USD 220 located in the priority (OPIC) 10, 2014 million 14 years development areas. European Funds will be used for the Bank for financing of agricultural Reconstruction enterprises, SMEs that want to and improve their energy efficiency, Development December USD 127.5 small-size energy producers and (EBRD) 19, 2014 million 5 years companies managed by women. 40 FOR OUR With long-term financial resources, İşbank provides strong CUSTOMERS support to investment, production and employment projects in the real sector. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 EUR 150 million Loan to İşbank from Securitization Funds for İşbank • USD 25 million is to be used to finance European Investment Bank (EIB) from Overseas Private Investment agricultural loans, which will be supplied A loan agreement with an amount of EUR Corporation (OPIC) to Turkey’s regions with development 150 million and a maximum maturity of On December 10, 2014 İşbank completed priority, under the Turkey Agribusiness eight years was signed between İşbank a securitization transaction amounting SME Financing Facility (TurAFF). and the EIB. The loan was fully disbursed to USD 250 million under the Bank’s by İşbank in 2014. The loan was distributed diversified payment rights securitization A Program for Sustainable Agricultural to the SMEs and the enterprises defined as program , with the participation of the Development: IPARD mid-caps having between 250 and 3,000 US development financing institution, The IPARD program, which targets EU employees, for their financing needs. A part Overseas Private Investment Corporation candidate countries, aims to contribute to of the loan is being used for the financing (OPIC) and Wells Fargo. The funds obtained the implementation of common agricultural of enterprises that have an environmental through this transaction will mainly be used policies and to the sustainable development and social responsibility policy or for the for financing SMEs, with a portion of the of the agriculture sector and rural areas. financing of corporate social responsibility funds to specifically be used for providing projects on issues such as energy women entrepreneurs with financing Support from İşbank to Agriculture and efficiency, environment, protection against natural disasters and improvement on and meeting the financing needs of SMEs Rural Development occupational health and working conditions. located in regions that fall under the Turkish İşbank extends support to the agricultural Incentive Law. sector and rural development under the EUR 200 million Framework Agreement agreement signed with the Agricultural between İşbank and the European EBRD Loans with a total amount of USD and Rural Development Support Institution Investment Bank (EIB) 127.5 million under TurSEFF, TurAFF (TKDK) related to the EU’s Instrument for A framework agreement with an amount of and WIB Pre-Accession Rural Development (IPARD) EUR 200 million and a maximum maturity Loan agreements totaling USD 127.5 million program. of 10 years was executed between İşbank with a maturity of five years were signed and the EIB on May 9, 2014. The loan will between İşbank and the EBRD on December What is IPARD? be used by İşbank to provide financial 19, 2014. The European Union (EU) supports eligible support to individuals who have the rights agricultural production and renewal under Law 6303 on the Transformation Of this USD 127.5 million loan: projects through grants-in-aid allocated by of Areas Under Natural Disaster Risk to • USD 12.5 million will be used to finance the EU and the national budget set for the renovate, rebuild or reinforce buildings that SMEs owned or managed by women initiative under the IPARD program. IPARD are under natural disaster risk; to finance entrepreneurs under the Women in aims to support the implementation of the the tenants residing in such risky buildings Business Programme (WiB), common agricultural policy and contribute for their purchasing houses at different • USD 90 million is to be used to finance to the sustainable development of the locations and to provide funding for title activities in renewable energy and agriculture sector and rural areas. deed acquisition for the owners of shanty effective and efficient use of energy houses. under the Turkey Private Sector Sustainable Energy Finance Facility (TurSEFF), IPARD projects that are not directly supported by the 41 program can be financed –besides equity financing– through loans provided by İşbank. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 IPARD Partner: İş Bankası • Diversification and development of onan increase of installed energy capacity to The portion of the project outside the farm activities 13,000 MW. İşbank places great importance support amount can be financed with • Development of local products and on undertaking business activities in the loans to be extended by İşbank in microenterprises the energy sector by considering their addition to the qualifiers’ capital. Based • Development of rural tourism economic, social and environmental on the agreement signed with TKDK, • Aquaculture development impacts. As a result, more than 3,300 MW İşbank offers Operating Loans with a of the Bank’s current energy portfolio 36-month maximum term at reduced Which Cities Does the IPARD Program consists of renewable energy investments. interest rates and monthly installmentInclude? İşbank’s contributions to renewable energy based repayments; or Investment Loans Afyonkarahisar, Ağrı, Aksaray, Amasya, total some USD 3.5 billion, considerably with a 1-year grace period and a 60-month Ankara, Ardahan, Aydın, Balıkesir, Burdur, above sector average. maximum term to those who would like to Bursa, Çanakkale, Çankırı, Çorum, Denizli, benefit from the IPARD Program. Diyarbakır, Elazığ, Erzincan, Erzurum, The renewable energy projects that are Giresun, Hatay, Isparta, Kahramanmaraş, being financed by İşbank will significantly Which Activities does the IPARD Karaman, Kars, Kastamonu, Konya, Kütahya, contribute to the transition from fossil Program Support? Malatya, Manisa, Mardin, Mersin, Muş, fuels as Turkey’s main energy source to • Investments that aim to restructure Nevşehir, Ordu, Samsun, Sivas, Şanlıurfa, renewable energy sources. Once these the processing and marketing of Tokat, Trabzon, Uşak, Van, and Yozgat. projects become fully operational, it is agricultural and fishery products, and to foreseen that Turkey’s carbon emissions raise production to EU standards İşbank and the Energy Sector will drop by more than 5 million tons, while • Processing and marketing of milk and the country’s dependence on foreign milk products Energy Financing Amounting to an energy sources will be lessened and the • Processing and marketing of meat and Installed Capacity of 13,000 MW current account deficit will decrease. meat products Since the 2000s, Turkey has figured among • Processing and marketing of fruit and the countries where demand for energy has Wind Power Plant (WPP)s: İşbank’s vegetables increased the most. Given this fact and the Priority • Processing and marketing of fishery rapid pace of liberalization in world energy Wind Power Plants are among the priority products markets, İşbank focuses on providing projects that İşbank prefers to finance. • Diversification and development of rural financing to projects in the energy sector, During the pre-assessment phase, İşbank economic activities primarily those related to renewable energy evaluates the environmental and social and energy efficiency. Thanks to the Bank’s impacts of WPPs. Besides financing, İşbank high brand value and reputation based also provides customers with support on on trust, it was able to rapidly diversify its the management of environmental and sectorial customer portfolio resulting in social impacts of WPPs. 42 FOR OUR CUSTOMERS İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Financing for Promoting Alternative the main aim of creating added value for As an important renewable Renewable Energy Sources Turkey’s economy by capitalizing on the source of energy, Renewable energy, which has important country’s existing national resources. advantages over fossil fuels, has developed geothermal allows for in Turkey mainly through construction Solar Energy continuous energy of hydroelectric and wind power plants İşbank attaches special importance to generation independent due to infrastructure and investment utilization of the currently unvalued long preferences. However, other alternative sunshine durations in Turkey through of weather conditions, renewable energy resources are available various investments. while imposing less in the country, such as geothermal energy. social and environmental Although Turkey is the World’s seventh Therefore, İşbank aims to encourage richest country in terms of geothermal licensed and unlicensed solar energy risks compared to energy, it is currently able to use only 4% investments that allow for the production other resources if right of this energy potential. In recent years of clean energy, thus reducing greenhouse technologies are chosen however, investments in geothermal gas emissions, in contrast to energy energy have gained considerable obtained through fossil fuels, which and implemented. momentum. requires a high amount of raw material use. İşbank plans to use its experience in this As an important renewable source of field and guide investors of differing sizes energy, geothermal allows for continuous in realizing the aim of a clean future for all. energy generation independent of weather conditions, while imposing less social and A Key Concern of Modern Life: Energy environmental risks compared to other Efficiency resources if right technologies are chosen Energy efficiency is the reduction in the and implemented. amount of energy consumed per unit of service or product, without causing As a sustainable resource, geothermal a decline in living standards and service power not only allows for the generation quality in buildings, or a fall in the quality of electricity with hot water resources and amount of production in industrial available in the natural environment, facilities. By using energy efficiently but also creates significant employment for heating, lighting, transportation, opportunities in regions where it is located. household appliances and at every stage of our daily lives, a positive contribution to İşbank maintains interest in and provides energy savings in Turkey can be achieved support to geothermal power plant without reducing needs. This is crucial projects. Beyond the Bank’s financial and to leave behind a livable world for future operational goals, İşbank will continue generations. to support this area in the future with With the Energy Efficiency and Environment Package 43 that it has developed, İşbank provides support to firms looking to reduce costs by preventing losses of energy and İŞBANK enhancing energy efficiency via capital investments. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 As the most important energy source Placing great importance on increasing the Having announced the Bank’s full support in today’s world, fossil fuels such as oil share of renewable energy resources in the to Turkey’s transition to a low carbon and coal are being depleted rapidly, and total amount of energy produced in Turkey, economy in the fight against global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions arising İşbank supports biogas power plants that warming, İşbank aims to provide support to during the generation and consumption allow for continuous renewable energy environmentally friendly customers with of energy are among the major causes production by eliminating the greenhouse long term credits and innovative banking of global warming and climate change. gases caused by agricultural and domestic solutions. As a result, more emphasis is being put waste. on developing energy efficient solutions. More information on İşbank’s energy Turkey’s foreign energy dependence Energy Efficiency Based Product efficiency efforts and pertaining to currently stands around 70%. According Portfolio agreements signed with international to data published by the Ministry of With the Energy Efficiency and financial institutions and international Energy and Natural Resources, which is Environment Package that it has developed, banks can be found on page 43 under the actively working to lessen the country’s İşbank provides support to firms looking to “Collaboration with International Financial foreign energy dependence, potential reduce costs by preventing losses of energy Institutions” heading. energy savings of up to 30% exists in and enhancing energy efficiency via capital the construction industry, 20% in the investments. İşbank’s Energy Efficiency İşbank’s Approach to Project Financing production industry and 15% in the and Environment Package covers the Audit and Sustainability transportation industry in Turkey. Loan, Energy Efficiency Improvement Loan, İşbank’s project financing processes and Green (Environmental) Automobile are being shaped around economic, An Alternative Energy Resource: Biogas Loan. environmental and social aspects of Turkey has massive potential in biogas, sustainability approach of the bank. The another important renewable energy SMEs are able to use the: effects of global warming and climate resource. • Audit Loan to finance survey, change on our planet, which has begun to project and efficiency improvement be more observable in recent years, have Biogas technology, which allows for the project services they have obtained raised environmental and social awareness disposal of environmentally problematic from authorized energy efficiency across the planet. This development has waste and their use in energy production consultancy firms; led banks and other financial institutions after processing, is of tremendous • Energy Efficiency Improvement Loan to undertake much more thorough importance in renewable energy to finance investments in projects that reviews that aim to set common targets production. In Europe, in particular, have a minimum estimated energy for all relevant actors in combatting global a significant portion of total energy efficiency rate of 20%; and warming and climate change. As a result, consumption is met with electricity • Green (Environmental) Auto Loan to lending policies and mechanisms were produced from a number of small biogas finance the purchase of hybrid and light restructured accordingly. Global banks and, power plants. commercial/commercial vehicles that in particular, supranational institutions are compliant with Euro 5 standards. nowadays implement much more sophisticated assessment methodologies 44 FOR OUR İşbank provides financial support to biogas power plants, CUSTOMERS which allow for continuous and renewable energy production through the elimination of greenhouse gases İŞBANK caused by agricultural and domestic waste. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 and stricter lending criteria for reviewing, İşbank does not provide financing to Reflecting İşbank’s utilizing and monitoring the financing of investments that attract significant focus on environmental investment projects. One of the largest opposition from local residents and supporters of Turkey’s economic, social nongovernmental organizations, and sustainability, the Energy and cultural development since its especially large-scale hydroelectric power Efficiency and Environment inception, İşbank integrates contemporary plants that might have negative impacts Package, developed for approaches in environmental sustainability on the cultural or historical assets of the into its processes for evaluating potential region where the project will be realized. İşbank customers, supports impacts of the projects to be financed. firms looking to reduce İşbank assesses the possible impacts As a prerequisite for lending, investors are costs by preventing losses of such projects not only on the natural required to obtain all necessary permits environment of the investment site, and approvals, including but not limited of energy and improving but also on the daily lives of the local to the environmental impact assessment energy efficiency via capital community. The Bank also keeps a close (EIA) reports and decisions regarding the investments. watch on current or potential public projects taken into the evaluation. In order reactions that may be triggered by the to estimate and manage the environmental projects, incorporating these views in its and social impacts of major investment evaluation process. As a matter of principle, projects above a certain scale, İşbank set up İşbank takes care not to transfer resources an Environmental and Social Management to projects that lack the support of the Team under the Project Finance Unit. local residents or generate a negative Following preparatory and initial setpublic reaction. As a manifestation of up work, the team officially became this approach, İşbank neither evaluates operational and assumed important nor finances small-scale hydroelectric functions in the 2014 operating year. power plant projects with an installed capacity of less than 25 MW, due to public As in all of the Bank’s operations, İşbank responses these projects arouse and their resorts to systematic methodologies insufficiency with respect to environmental in environmental and social impact impact assessment processes. In financing assessment activities. İşbank set up projects that are considered to involve an Environmental and Social Impact environmental and social risks as a result of Assessment Scoring System, for the the meticulously made assessments, İşbank assessment of environmental and social requires customers to set up mechanisms impacts of projects to be financed that that will eliminate the identified risks. The are above a certain size regardless of the modifications and revisions required by the Bank may at times even go beyond the compulsory requirements stipulated by Turkish law. For projects taken into the evaluation stage by İşbank, 45 investors are required to obtain all necessary permits and approvals, including the environmental impact assessment İŞBANK (EIA) report; in fact, this is a prerequisite for lending. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 project type. As a result of the scoring For Individuals • Competencies in customer analytic and results, a management plan detailing how İşbank’s operations are based on the campaign management, the risks will be eliminated for projects and mission of being the “closest bank to • Robust technological infrastructure, providing a framework for dealing project customers” and a customer-based service and specific risks is required from investors approach. The Bank, guided by a life stage • Channel diversity in delivering services. for the projects which are assessed to be banking understanding, offers tailorenvironmentally or socially at higher risk. made banking products and services with Leading the Sector in Customer After the lending process is completed, this quality-orientation to individual customers Satisfaction for Five Consecutive Years management plan is closely monitored by with a broad multi-channel delivery Today, consumer rights have become an İşbank. network, thereby creating added value for important topic both for public authorities customers. In light of these principles and as well as for consumers themselves. In projects whose environmental and social the Bank’s meticulous work ethic, İşbank By placing customers at the heart of its impacts are determined to be high risk, has occupied a stable and deeply rooted business, İşbank has established high İşbank assigns well qualified environmental position in the lives of individuals for the quality standards thereby sustaining consultants or academics who provide past 90 years. customer loyalty. As a result of the Bank’s support during the financing period with sensitivity in this regard, İşbank ranked first respect to the identification of negative As of December 2014, the Bank registered in the area of “Retail Banking” according environmental and social impacts caused 10.2% growth in consumer loans, to TL to the 2014 Satisfaction Survey for Turkey or expected to be caused by the project, 42.4 billion, outperforming the sector conducted by the Turkish Society for as well as the determination of necessary average. Quality (KalDer). measures to eliminate such impacts to the maximum extent. In all projects that are İşbank’s total saving deposits increased The fact that İşbank has ranked first in this subject to evaluation by İşbank, checks are 10.3% to TL 88.5 billion during the same survey for five consecutive years, and for a conducted under this methodology ensures period. total of six times, shows that the Bank has whether the risks that could arise during a stable performance and has reached high the investment and operation periods are The primary factors contributing to İşbank’s quality standards in customer satisfaction. appropriately managed or not. competitive edge in retail banking include According to the results of the same survey the Bank’s: for the year 2014 on credit cards, İşbank’s İşbank aims to continue providing financing • Wide branch and ATM network primary credit card brand -Maximum Kartto energy, renewable energy and energy throughout Turkey, was designated the credit card offering efficiency projects in the future with a • Well-trained, highly-competent and the highest customer satisfaction. With management approach that takes into skilled workforce, this result, İşbank ranked first once again, consideration both Turkey’s economic • Transparency based customer the Bank’s fourth first place ranking in this development and social sensitivities. relationship management, category. • Broad product range enriched with dayto-day innovative solutions, 46 FOR OUR The fact that İşbank has ranked first in this survey for five CUSTOMERS consecutive years, and for a total of six times, shows that the Bank has a stable performance and has reached high İŞBANK quality standards in customer satisfaction. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Retail Banking Based on Customer of products and services that will serve to Continuous Improvement Based on Needs and Expectations increase customer satisfaction and loyalty, Customer Feedback In retail banking marketing efforts, İşbank irrespective of the revenues generated. In line with the aim of achieving the aims to deliver customer-centric solutions highest customer satisfaction, İşbank that are comprehensively designed in line Customers are guided to use whichever considers every complaint, query, service with the basic strategy of being the bank channel is more practical and more request, suggestion and acknowledgment closest to customers, thereby ensuring advantageous to them in fulfilling their message received from customers carefully an improved customer experience and banking needs; from among the service and improves its business processes enhanced customer satisfaction. Working channels, these include the branches, accordingly. Messages submitted to the to rapidly integrate advancements in Bankamatik (ATM)s, Internet Branch, Bank by customers through the Telephone mobile technologies into very fabric of Telephone Branch and mobile banking Branch on the 0850 724 0 724 number, the Bank’s products and services, İşbank applications. Efforts to ensure sustainability the “Contact Us” link on the website at focuses on bringing customer satisfaction such as knowing the customer base, good www.isbank.com.tr, the Internet Branch, to up to perfection using “big data.” In order service delivery to customers and effective or the branches and/or by postal mail or to gain insight into the broad customer communication with customers are possible fax at 0212 316 04 04 are handled by base and contribute to making customer only if customer data is complete, accurate and responded to by teams specialized relationships permanent, İşbank actively and up-to-date. İşbank expends systematic in the relevant fields, to deliver customer uses various analytical models, such efforts in upgrading the quality of the satisfaction. The Bank applies its innovative as customer segmentation, credit card Bank’s customer data, which is vital in management approach to customer segmentation, lifetime value, propensity relationship management. relations and has also started responding to buy and customer churn of certain to customer suggestions and expectations products and services. As part of the Bank’s “5-Star” Service Standards coming in via Twitter and Facebook in comprehensive operations in this area, the To ensure continuity in customer 2014. In İşbank’s social media accounts, Marketing Optimization application, which relationships, İşbank uses its extensive which include a “İşbank Support” follow-up aims to develop a business model that customer analytic capabilities, undertakes function, language that is suitable to social makes the right offer to the right customer integrated use of the branches, Internet media jargon is used. at the right time, has been granted the Branch, Call Center, ATMs, e-mail and SMS bronze prize in the “Integrated Marketing on a multichannel integrated campaign The Bank systematically oversees the Performance” category by International management systems infrastructure, and performance in this area, and swiftly Gartner Awards. Furthermore, this carries out a large number of customer works to address any aspects that cause innovative optimization approach received communications simultaneously. In one-tocomplaints. At İşbank, products and services the “Outstanding Innovation” prize from one communication, the Bank meticulously are shaped in line with customer requests, Global Business Excellence. looks out for the rules of communication while customer rights are carefully determined on the basis of customer monitored at every level. The situation in Işbank takes a long-term perspective in preferences and customer groups. select business lines is summarized below. managing customer relationships. Based on this approach, İşbank prioritizes the delivery İşbank carefully considers every complaint, query, service 47 request, suggestion and acknowledgment message received from customers and improves the Bank’s business İŞBANK processes accordingly. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Aiming to Resolve Complaints in One For Youth For Pensioners Business Day İşbank is the first bank to develop products In the package that İşbank has prepared for İşbank bolstered the Bank’s services for parents and children with the aim of pensioners, who make up an important part infrastructure and human resources improving financial literacy among the of the Bank’s customer portfolio, the needs capacities to ensure that customer general public and further increasing and expectations of this age group have requests and complaints are answered in national savings rates. Representing the been carefully taken into consideration. the fastest way possible. İşbank aims to national savings campaign launched by respond to customer feedback coming in İşbank during the 1920s, the Moneybox Having provided customers with a broad via especially alternative channels in one Fund, a product version of İşbank Moneybox array of retail banking products throughout business day, in order to ensure the highest adapted to present-day encourages their active professional lives, İşbank also level of customer satisfaction. parents to start early in saving for the offers them a high added-value service future of their children. The Moneybox during their retirement years with the The resolution time of İşbank customer Fund, which is a distinctive product in “Emekli Paketi (Pensioner Package).” complaints decreased from 2.62 to 1.69 the Turkish banking sector, is the largest working days in 2014. Type-A investment fund in Turkey as of Innovative Products and Services That end-2014. Add Value to People’s Daily Lives İşbank’s Difference: Life Stage Banking Besides the Bank’s innovative services The difference between İşbank and the Targeting youth in the 12-18 age group, “İlk approach and strong information systems competition is the close relationship it has İmza Hesabı (First Signature Account)” is a infrastructure, İşbank sets itself ahead of with customers, which is closely linked to bank account product specially designed to the competition by developing products, the lifelong banking approach. Based on help children develop the skills to manage services and process innovations that the goal of providing lifelong support to their own accounts and encourage saving create added value for customers. The Bank customers, İşbank delivers tailor-made habits among teenagers. closely follows evolving customer needs and service packages to customers who are at expectations in a rapidly changing, dynamic different stages in their lives. For Young Adults modern age, while providing customers with Another customer group that İşbank places useful cash management applications. Under the Life Stage Banking concept, high importance on in order to expand İşbank engages in efforts that specifically and renew the Bank’s customer base, is İşbank’s retail banking product portfolio target the youth, young adults and university students. Given that today’s comprises more than 110 banking offerings, pensioner segments. university students will figure among ranging from automatic payment orders, the most important business partners investment products, to retail cash of İşbank in the future, the Bank has management, loans and deposits. Taking developed “İş’te Üniversiteli Bankacılık into careful consideration the transactions Hizmet Paketi (University Banking Package customers perform and the services at İş).” The limits of University Credit Cards they use, the Bank presents the most that students are granted under this appropriate/suitable products via offers program are updated regularly after their conveyed through ATMs and the Internet graduation, thereby ensuring ongoing Branch, through promotional campaigns via customer loyalty. branches, or via SMS and/or email offers. FOR OUR 48 The resolution time of İşbank customer complaints CUSTOMERS decreased from 2.62 to 1.69 working days in 2014. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 More Accessible and Secure Banking, With numerous innovative applications İşbank’s alternative distribution Shortly “Instant Banking”… in the area of alternative distribution channels under the “Instant Banking” İşbank’s vision in alternative distribution channels, İşbank once again received brand channels is “being Turkey’s best various international awards in 2014. The • Bankamatik (ATM) multichannel bank.” The Bank, which has Bank’s applications presented with awards • Internet Branch structured all of its applications in this this year are listed below. • İşCep field under the “Instant Banking” brand, • İşPad promotes the use of alternative distribution • The İşbank website(isbank.com.tr), • İşWap channels in line with its notion of being the updated based on customer needs and • Telephone Branch bank closest to its customers. In 2014, the user experience and featured a visually ratio of comparable transactions performed attractive design, was deem worthy of Examples of numerous practices through “Instant Banking” channels following awards in 2014: “Silver” award implemented by the Bank in 2014 within continued around 80%, a rate generally from Stevie International Business the scope of “Instant Banking”, are listed accepted as the success threshold Awards 2014 in the “Website/Financial below: worldwide. While the number of customers Services” category, “Outstanding • The Bank maintained efforts to offer using İşbank’s Bankamatiks (ATMs) climbed Award” from Web Awards 2014 in the Instant Customer service through over 8 million in 2014, Internet Branch “Bank” category, “Silver” award from W3 various alternative distribution users reached 2.3 million. As the channel Award 2014 in the “Banking” category, channels throughout 2014. with the highest transaction volume as of “Silver” award from Davey Awards 2014 • In the Commercial Internet Branch, the end-2014, the Internet Branch performed in the “Financial Services” category, duration of Electronic Funds Transfer 29% of all İşbank banking transactions “IMA Outstanding Achievement Award” (EFT) transactions were extended by 1 during the year. from Interactive Media Awards 2014 in hour, resulting in increased customer the “Financial Services” category. satisfaction. The number of İşbank’s mobile application • İşbank also won the “Bronze” award • İşbank introduced innovations that (İşCep) users increased by 100% compared for “Login İşCep with Intel Identity enabled faster access and more userto the previous year, rising to 1.5 million. Protection technology (IPT)” application friendly solutions to the Personal The app, which allows customers to at Stevie International Business Awards Internet Branch. conduct more than 140 different types of 2014 in the “Best New Product/Service” • “Chat Banking” Service (Canlı Yardım), transactions, maintained its pioneering category. by which customers are able to obtain position in the sector in terms of service information about the Bank’s products diversity; 19% of total İşbank transactions With a total number of 6,290 Bankamatiks and services and the Instant Banking (including branches and all other service (ATMs), İşbank continues to lead the Turkish channels by chatting with customer channels) were performed using İşCep, up banking sector with the largest domestic representatives, has begun to serve significantly from previous years. ATM network in Turkey. Private Banking Customers on Personal Internet Branch • In order to ensure that incoming requests from customers via the Telephone Branch are handled more effectively , İşbank upgraded In 2014, İşbank once again received numerous 49 international awards for its innovative applications in alternative distribution channels. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 the interfaces of the customer financial data directly on the homepage. languages was established in Georgia/ representative’s response system to Furthermore, with the renewed Batumi, Kosovo/Prishtina and Iraq/Erbil. improve customer satisfaction. website and increased sales transaction • Use of alternative distribution channels • Customers whose cash or card became functionality, customers could more by customers to conduct transactions, stuck in Bankamatiks (ATMs) were easily become informed about or instead of using branches, contributes prioritized in the Bank’s Telephone apply for campaign offerings through significantly to the protection of the Branch voice response system, and SMS, İşbank’s websites (isbank.com.tr; environment in view of the energy subsequently the Bank provided a maximum.com.tr or maximiles.com.tr) and paper consumed for services at fast refund, after the completion of and via mobile devices. In addition, the branches. certain checks by relevant customer “Instant Customer” function added to • Besides using the e-mail and SMS representatives. isbank.com.tr’s English website made it channels to inform customers about • If an interruption occurs during a Call easier for expats in Turkey to become new applications, services and Center call, the Bank sends an informing İşbank customers. promotion of alternative distribution SMS to the customer and prioritize the • Under the Digital Assets Project, the channels, İşbank also uses an instant customers sooner call. Bank aligned all foreign websites, information application under the • The Bank ensured a Damage using a uniform format both in terms of infrastructure support by EVAM. Efforts Notification and Support Line to the content and visual design. Furthermore, to enhance the technical systems Telephone Banking Voice Response the Bank undertook new initiatives to infrastructure of İşbank have continued System. This line serves customers who present customers with products and throughout 2014. İşbank customers have an insurance policy from İşbank services that create added value via the were regularly informed about new and responds to their customer support websites. For example, a calculation services and applications through requests after the checking policy. This module showing currency changes was Instant Banking applications integrated new line is expected to significantly added to İşbank’s London website, and a into social media channels and through contribute to customer satisfaction at calculation module for house loans was communications on various other digital İşbank. added to İşbank’s Georgia and İşbank platforms. • The quality standards of the service Georgia real estate websites, thereby • Efforts to diversify the transactions provided by İşbank’s Call Center giving customers the opportunity to on İşbank’s mobile banking application representatives is guaranteed under calculate needed loan amounts and İşCep were furthered by putting into EN15838:2009 Quality Standards. directly apply for house loan through service the “Support Line” module that • İşbank renewed the corporate website the websites. ensures faster customer access to (isbank.com.tr) in 2014 under the Digital • Within the scope of international İşbank’s Call Center. Assets Project and equipped it with banking activities, in 2014, İşbank • The Intel Identity Protection SharePoint support; subsequently, the brought new Bankamatiks(ATMs) Technology (Intel IPT), which enables website was presented to users with in Prizren/Kosovo, Tbilisi/Georgia, users to login İşCep securely, removing a new user-friendly and responsive Edmonton-London/UK, Baghdad/Iraq the need to type a One-Time Password design and with new content. Thanks and Intourist Hotel/Georgia. In addition, (OTP) and Touch-ID technology which to the recent updates, the website for cases in which customers want to enables customers to login İşCep offered easy and swift customer access, block their cards due to theft or loss, removing the need to type customer compatibility with mobile devices, and a voice response system in the local PIN were introduced for customers. 50 FOR OUR In response to customer needs and expectations, İşbank CUSTOMERS launched a significant number of new Instant Banking applications in 2014. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Also a special banking application all the Bank’s business activities, İşbank into a savings plan that guarantees the developed for Microsoft’s new continues with efforts to raise awareness future of our youth. First introduced in May generation entertainment platform on the importance of savings with small 2001, the Moneybox Fund has maintained Xbox One has been launced. With this amounts, contributing to the fact that a pioneering position in the market ever application, users can carry out banking savings occupies an important place in since. With the mission to guarantee the transactions on the TV screen by using society. future of our children, the Moneybox Personal Internet Branch and they can Fund is a significant contributor to the also calculate loans, follow the latest Üstü Kalsın® (Keep the Change) establishment and development of the financial data, view Daily financial news “Üstü Kalsın® (Keep the Change)” is an awareness of long-term investment that is via “Economy Bulletin” and watch İşbank innovative credit card service the first of currently lacking in Turkey. product demos/videos easily. With its kind in Turkeythat demonstrates how these innovations, the Bank has aimed a credit card product, which usually offers With a share of nearly 22.76% of the Type to strengthen customers’ perception opportunities for shopping, can also be A funds market at end-2014, the Moneybox that İşbank is “innovative and uses used as a savings tool and enable investing. Fund was the biggest Type A fund in Turkey, technology effectively.” This service encourages customers to save and stands apart from competitor products without changing their spending habits. in that it targets youth to encourage Saving Based Products… The balance due shown in the monthly savings. As the pioneer of savings since the very account statement is rounded up to a day it was founded, İşbank has been maximum limit set by the customer and the Well aware of its environmental at the forefront of producing services difference between the two amounts is responsibilities, İşbank’s thematic retail and products to encourage savings and added to their investment account under banking products contribute to leaving a to foster a savings culture among the this service. Üstü Kalsın is available to all more livable world for future generations. wider public as well as among different customers who have both a credit card age groups. Thereby, the Bank has been and investment accounts with İşbank. As a Investing in the Future: The Retail contributing to the accumulation of savings result, all Maximum Kart users are able to Pension System that will finance investments and boost save while shopping with their credit cards. For the purpose of widening the use employment in Turkey. of the Private Pension System, which Saving for the Future of Our Children: is an important instrument in terms of İşbank has continued with various Kumbara Fonu (Moneybox Fund) national savings, the State Contribution communication campaign efforts in 2014 İşbank’s products and services always practice was introduced at the beginning through traditional media channels or acquire new features and functions in order of 2013. Through this new practice, the the Bank’s services channels under Gold to meet changing customer needs and Turkish state contributes an amount Banking, Kumbara Fonu (Moneybox Fund), expectations, and thus reflect the Bank’s equal to 25% of the contributions paid Private Pension, Regular Savings Order, and sustainability approach to services. The to the private pension account in the Üstü Kalsın (Keep the Change) products. İşbank Kumbara (Moneybox), which the name of the participant, provided that The Bank’s goal is to ensure that mattress Bank has offered to customers for over 85 the State Contribution is limited to 25% savings become part of the economy that years to raise awareness of savings among of the minimum wage. In addition, İşbank personal savings increase. Giving due children, transformed into the İşbank undertook innovative efforts to provide consideration to its social responsibility in Moneybox Fund in the 2000s, turning customers with additional contributions. 51 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Regular Saving Order Service new cabins that are suitable for wheelchair known for their environmentally friendly Rolled out in 2013, the Regular Saving users and they were launched to put into characteristics, starting from the Order product allows İşbank customers service all across the nation.. Meanwhile, production phase. Both cards are made of to conduct regular transfers to their the Bank maintained compatibility with recycled plastic material, from a production time deposit accounts from their current screen reading software used by visually method used for the first time in Turkey. accounts. impaired individuals of İşbank Internet Furthermore, all paper materials related Branch, with renewed design features. to the cards are obtained without harming The instruction sum collected from the After the mobile banking application İşCep, the natural environment and ecological current account is transferred to the time İşPad (used in tablet PCs)has become life. Holders of Maximum TEMA Card or deposit account on the due date. These accessible by visually impaired customers. Maximum TEMA Business Credit Card, like orders may be placed through our branches all other İşbank credit card holders, are or the Internet Branch. Helping customers İşbank’s Sustainability Themed able to prevent paper waste by requesting save on a regular basis with small amounts, Products to have their account statements sent the regular savings order may be in TL, USD, With a range of thematic retail banking to them by email only. Continuing with Euro or GBP. products, İşbank contributes to raising business development efforts to support environmental awareness and protecting TEMA Foundation, İşbank offered the TEMA Europe’s Largest Biometric ATM natural life. Business Credit Card to customers as of Network March 2014. With 2,546 Biyokimlik (Bio-ID) Bankamatik Maximum TEMA Card and Maximum (ATMs) nationwide, İşbank serves TEMA Business Credit Card MaxiPara (MaxiMoney) Project with the customers with Europe’s largest Biometric While Maximum TEMA Card and Maximum Kartal Municipality ATM network. As of end-2014, the number TEMA Business Credit Card holders have full İşbank has collaborated with the of customers using Biyokimlik (Bio-ID) access to installment-based shopping and Municipality of Kartal to introduce a prereached 83,000. “MaxiPuan” extra loyalty bonus points, all paid card, MaxiPara Kartal Card, to provide campaigns and all other privileges offered social aid to individuals in need. İşbank plans In keeping with the policy to make it easier by the world of Maximum, they also have to expand the scope of MaxiPara Kartal for disadvantaged individuals to use the the opportunity to contribute to the TEMA Card in the near future, enabling all Kartal Bank’s services, İşbank designs special Foundation, which works to protect natural inhabitants who would like to obtain a card services for disabled customers. assets and the natural environment. While to receive certain discounts at contracted customer benefits derived from the card stores and shops. İşbank continued to conduct various remain intact, a contribution calculated at a projects in 2014 in the area of alternative specific percentage of the purchases made Environmental Investment Fund distribution channels to help disabled using the card, is transferred to the TEMA A first in the Turkish banking industry, the customers perform their banking Foundation from İşbank’s own resources. Environmental Investment Fund gives transactions easily. The number of “Talking environmentally friendly companies the Bankamatiks (ATMs)” that facilitate In addition to being cards that provide opportunity to both make long-term use of transactions by visually impaired customers support for the TEMA Foundation, their savings and to contribute to efforts using Bankamatiks topped 2,078. Maximum TEMA Card and Maximum to protect the environment. As one of the MoreoverBank designed Bankamatiks with TEMA Business Credit Card are also most original investment instruments in 52 FOR OUR In keeping with the policy to make it easier for CUSTOMERS disadvantaged individuals to use the Bank’s services, İşbank designs special services for disabled customers. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 the banking sector, the Environmental Environmentally Friendly Housing Loan Currently, the solutions offered to Fund results in the creation and transfer With the Environmentally-Friendly Housing customers who use mobile payment of resources to the TEMA Foundation, Financing Loan, İşbank extends loans at systems require the installation of an which receives sustainable financing to preferential interest rates in an effort to additional device on the consumers’ phones implement environmental projects. raise the attractiveness of purchasing or replacement of the SIM card. structures that are compatible with Investing part of its portfolio in companies nature and are designated as sustainable, In contrast, the Parakod Şipşak application that integrate Environmental Management ecological, green and environmentally enables customers to make purchases Systems in every phase of their production, friendly. without the need for an additional device the fund is managed with the belief that or card. The fact that the app can be quickly those companies adopting environmentally Environmental Vehicle Loan downloaded on smartphones, which have friendly measures now will be more To encourage the purchase of vehicles an in-built camera and Internet connection, profitable than others over the long run. equipped with state-of-the-art technology and can be used immediately, is considered to protect the environment and which are to be a major advantage for customers. The pioneer of mutual funds in Turkey, İş increasingly popular, and to contribute to Portföy Yönetimi (İş Asset Management the preservation of the environment, İşbank With Parakod -offered as an extra feature in an İşbank subsidiary) manages the designed the İşbank Green (Environmental) İşCep, İşbank’s mobile banking applicationEnvironmental Investment Fund with a Auto Loan. This lending product offers İşbank customers may do their shopping in team of specialists in light of financial and attractive interest rate options to finance retails stores and on e-commerce websites environmental criteria, and offers investors the purchase of environmentally friendly without any credit card by using their QR the opportunity to support environmental vehicle models. code. In addition, Parakod users can also pay projects and companies with high their Turkcell phone bills instantly through environmental awareness while investing. Parakod Şipşak (Instant Money Code) their mobile phones by scanning the Since November 2012, İşbank has offered barcode on the invoice. Furthermore, with The Environmental Investment Fund the “Parakod (Instant Money Code)” the new feature Parakod Şipşak feature, had 1,009 investors at end-2014, with application to customers as a simple, customers can shop instantly by using their a total portfolio size of TL 7.34 million. reliable and innovative method of payment. smartphones to scan product QR codes The Environmental Investment Fund was In 2014, İşbank administered promotional printed in newspapers, magazines, posters designed to be as environmentally friendly campaigns to encourage wider uptake or other similar platforms. as possible and provides customers with of Parakod Şipşak in collaboration with İş the option of receiving their investment Kültür and Limango companies. İşbank is committed to offering innovative account statements via e-mail. products to customers in parallel with This technology enables İşbank customers developing technologies in payment to purchase any product or service either systems. online without entering any card data or from retail stores using their mobile phones, without a credit card. 53 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Card Program that Goes Beyond With the Müzekart project launch campaign, Mars Entertainment Group is not just Shopping to Provide an Excellent İşbank was deemed worthy of the Golden restricted to the cinema industry. Maximum Customer Experience World Award in the “New Service Launch” Card holders have access to privileges at In 2014, İşbank continued to enrich and category at the competition held in 2013, gyms, restaurants and other various venues widen the Bank’s credit card program an annual event of the International affiliated with Mars Entertainment Group, pursuant to the mission of creating added Public Relations Association (IPRA). The resulting in added value for customers. value for customers. To this end, İşbank campaign also won the Bronze award in further improved the services provided the “Marketing Campaign of the Year in İşbank continued its collaborations with to customers under the Maximum Kart the Banking Industry” category at Stevie well-known organizations in the cinema Program, as it has uninterruptedly for 13 Awards. In addition, in 2014, with the sector in 2014. The !F Istanbul International years now, by responding to the emergency “Maximum Kart is Müzekart” campaign, Independent Film Festival and !F Music cash needs of customers with an eye the Müzekart Project won the Silver Effie Festival received supported from İşbank. toward achieving business excellence. award (first prize) in the Effie Turkey With this support, İşbank provided İşbank has also introduced innovation into Advertisement Competition in the Card customers with ticket discount and preview the Credit Card Program, and has targeted Payment Systems category. opportunities. enriching the cultural lives of customers via the Müzekart (Museum Card) and Under the cooperation between İşbank Through its credit card program, İşbank Cinemaximum initiatives. and Mars Entertainment and Sportif İş. continued to support the advancement of A.Ş. Group, owner of Turkey’s largest kiteboarding in Turkey in 2014. The sport In 2013, İşbank introduced the Müzekart cinema chain, İşbank began offering of kiteboarding, which is rapidly becoming (Museum Card) feature to all credit cards the “Cinemaximum” service under the more popular in the country, attracts a with the Maximum feature, a first in the sponsorship of Maximum Card on 589 great deal of attention from people of all sector. The Bank offers credit cardholders cinema screens at 67 different locations ages. To reach these diverse age groups, the chance to visit more than 300 museums in 27 cities. The Cinemaximum initiative is the Bank began to provide special privileges or archaeological sites -which are under the not merely limited to the creation of a new under the newly created “Kitemaximum” responsibility of the Republic of Turkey’s brand of movie theatres and advertising brand to İşbank’s Maximum Card holders. Ministry of Culture and Tourismfor one campaigns; it also targets spurring the Kiteboarding schools located in Akyaka, month every year, free-of-charge. With this development of the cinema industry that Gökova and Burç Beach, İstanbul, and joined practice, which sets Maximum Card apart has grown significantly in the country in 2014 by a kiteboard instructional facility from other similar offerings in the sector, in recent years, thereby contributing in Çeşme, were given support from İşbank. İşbank takes justified pride in this unrivaled to growing film viewing interest at all In this way, the Bank reached out to even cooperation, which contributes to the age segments from children to adults. more sports enthusiasts than merely İşbank protection and promotion of our country’s Various events and occasions are carried credit cardholders. İşbank also lent support cultural assets and their transfer to next out to make the cinema experience more to the first World Kiteboard Championship generations, while providing a unique value enjoyable for İşbank credit card customers, and Kiteboard Turkey Championship, proposition to customers. including previews, premieres, free garnering the appreciation of fans of this tickets and product promotions, as well as growing sport. campaigns that target different segments of society. İşbank’s cooperation with the FOR OUR 54 İşbank strives to swiftly integrate technological CUSTOMERS advancements in into its own business operations and therefore continuously carries out product development İŞBANK efforts. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Similarly, under a special collaboration customers. Having a relationship culture With the primary aim of conducting its with Vialand -Turkey’sfirst theme parkfocused on listening to and understanding operations while considering the common the Bank continued to offer a privileged the customer, İşbank shares information public good, İşbank has been undertaking entertainment experience to Maximum and offers solutions that respond to field activities -all around Turkey and Card holders with special opportunities the needs of individual customers from especially in cities where the density of in ticket purchases and parking in 2014. A different societal segments, thus helping transformation is higherinforming those in promotional campaign at the end of the them reach appropriate, informed and need of financial support about the Urban 2014 school year gave children a 50% objective financial decisions. Transformation Program and the Bank’s discount as a reward for their successful Urban Transformation Credit Program. report cards, thus making a theme park visit In addition to in-person communications Under the Mobile Vehicle project, more than more affordable for many İşbank Maximum with customers, İşbank maintains an 10,000 individuals in 24 different cities Card customers. interactive relationship with retail were informed about the availability of and commercial customers through all urban transformation credits. In order to enhance the value of the electronic media, including the website, portfolio of offerings, İşbank established telephone banking branch, call center and İşbank makes the economic value it creates collaboration with İstanbul Yiyecek İçecek social networks. The Bank makes extensive with research and analysis work accessible Group (Istanbul Food and Beverages use of these media to share financial to customers. The analysis efforts Group) and started provide customers matters in formats that are as entertaining undertaken by the Bank’s economists with privileges and opportunities in the as they are informative and educational, to are published on a user-friendly portal at following restaurants owned by the Group: raise customer awareness in an enjoyable research.isbank.com.tr first and foremost NumNum, Mikla, Trattoria Enzo, Terra way. Numerous informational content types for the Bank’s customers, as well as to all Kitchen and Kronotrop. and a Q&A section are accessible at www. İşbank stakeholders. By regular updates isbank.com.tr, including materials on a to market data such as foreign currency Raising Awareness on Financial Literacy broad variety of products and services, from exchange rates and stock published on the By improving financial literacy, İşbank borrowing terms and conditions to private Bank’s digital platforms, İşbank provides believes that customers may access the pension and insurance. Demonstrations on guidance to customers in making financial Bank’s services and products more quickly the use of Instant Banking channels and decisions. The calculation applications and efficiently. To this end, the Bank makes security-related features are also available integrated into İşbank’s websites provide systematic use of branches, alternative to customers. opportunities to easily compare and distribution channels and external become informed on a wide variety of communication platforms, in addition to İşbank was the first Bank to provide topics, from mortgages to personal loans. its professional staff, in awareness raising financial support in in the form of credit efforts on financial literacy. A significant products under the long-term Urban part of the process of informing customers Transformation Project, which was initiated about financial products is carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Urban through face-to-face communication with Planning in 2013, to ensure that citizens reside in safe and secure buildings. Achieving continuous success by implementing the right strategies and there by winning the future for our country… 56 FOR OUR İşbank aims to create a modern working environment in which the scope of respect for human rights, social justice EMPLOYEES and workers’ rights is constantly expanded. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İşbank places great importance on İşbank designs human resource increasing employee satisfaction, management processes and practices to considering diversity and equal support the Bank’s vision of being the bank opportunities in the workplace, establishing most preferred by customers, shareholders an ethically sound and fair remuneration and employees in Turkey, by maintaining system, and providing continuous support the market position as the leading, to the professional development and pioneering and most reliable bank. motivation of employees. Basic human resource processes at İşbank, The workforce, who has a strong faith in such as career management, recruitment, and enthusiastically embraces the shared dismissal, compensation and benefits, and values of the Bank, plays a key role in performance management are undertaken achieving İşbank’s targets and building a in an open and transparent manner and are long-term future. The sustainability of the shared regularly with the Bank’s employees. spirit of being a member of İşbank is highly important at this point in time, and is only Importance of Diversity and Equal possible through the sustainability of a Opportunity workforce made up of highly motivated Granting equal opportunity to all employees who are respected and valued employees is the foremost of İşbank’s key by their managers and colleagues. responsibilities towards employees. İşbank perceives diversity in the workforce as a İşbank aims to create a modern working key component of the Bank’s intellectual environment in which the scope of respect capital. This perspective enables the for human rights, social justice and workers’ permanence and advancement of a modern rights is constantly expanded. working environment that allows thinking differently, acting differently and building İşbank’s Human Resources Policy on innovation and individual competencies The primary human resources policies of at İşbank. İşbank are built on the principles of equal opportunity, fairness, transparency and high performance. 57 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Human Rights and Working Life at İşbank makes a strong contribution to 24,308 İşbank Working life at İşbank is governed by the country’s economy. By implementing local hiring processes, personnel are hired At the end of 2014, constitutional freedoms, human rights, rule to positions closest to their places of the number of banking of law, social justice and democratic order. residence. With that, İşbank aims both at professionals working at İşbank employees, who are well-informed realizing more effective and efficient use the İşbank Head Office and on mutual rights and responsibilities, of the local workforce and at increasing branches totaled 24,308. are aware of the fact that good personal the contribution of these regions to overall relations are key to business success growth, well-being and stability in Turkey. and to establishing a sustainable work environment. İşbank has launched the “İş’e Merhaba (Welcome to İş)” orientation program to Workforce Planning at İşbank facilitate the process of adaptation to Workforce planning is carried out in work for newly hired employees, support alignment with İşbank’s business activities them in technical know-how, guide them and strategies. İşbank’s human resource in their daily work routines and ensure needs are met through the recruitment and that they have access to the necessary employment of individuals who have the information through appropriate and required qualifications and competencies fast channels. Under this program, each for the specific job using modern evaluation newly hired employee is paired with a tools and methods. “Teammate” to support the employee’s transition process in the first four months The Bank’s basic recruitment criteria are put of employment. Furthermore, a “Training into writing and hiring processes are carried Consultant” supports new hires during out according to these criteria. Newly hired the first four months with regular e-mail employees work in the positions of officer, communication and remote training, assistant specialist, assistant inspector thereby enabling the new employee to or specialist staff. The Bank also recruits receive up-to-date information on topics individuals as support personnel. crucial for successfully fulfilling their job By generating employment under different requirements. banners in all of Turkey’s 81 provinces, 58 FOR OUR The workforce, who has a strong faith in and EMPLOYEES enthusiastically embraces the shared values of the Bank, plays a key role in achieving İşbank’s targets and building İŞBANK a long-term future. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Career Management Based on Expertise have the opportunity to rise to higher After the first stage as and Experience ranks depending on their performance and a manager, employees A variety of career paths are available at İşbank’s staffing needs. İşbank, including the positions of inspector, are provided with After the first stage as a manager, specialist and officer. The career paths of equal opportunity of employees who join İşbank within these employees are provided with equal advancement based positions lead up to senior management opportunity of advancement based on their positions. Trainee assistant specialists performance, irrespective of the initial path on their performance, they took when they joined the Bank. and trainee assistant inspectors who start irrespective of the initial work at İşbank are entitled to be promoted path they took when they to the positions of assistant specialist or İşbank’s “Employment Policy”: assistant inspector depending on the result • deems every employee as a talented joined the Bank. individual with high potential, of the assessment performed after the completion of the first year of employment. • is based on the principle of training After completing a certain prescribed and equipping the qualified personnel period of employment in such positions, needed for any managerial or individuals may be promoted to the posts of specialized position across different specialist or inspector, provided that they levels, from within the Bank’s own successfully pass their qualification exams. employees. Once specialists and inspectors complete the period of time they are required HR Processes Boosted by Information to spend in these positions, they are Technology appointed to management roles according İşbank focuses on undertaking efficient to their performance and İşbank’s staffing use of human resource information needs. systems and other technology tools in all activities related to human resource If the newly hired officers successfully management. The Bank’s strong pass the Supervisor Selection Exam they organizational infrastructure ensures the take at the end of a specified period active participation of employees in human of employment, they are appointed to resource processes and supports employee supervisor positions. After completing satisfaction. An integrated human resource the prescribed period of time in such infrastructure has been developed for the roles, these employees will be appointed Bank’s constantly expanding organization in to manager positions as sub-manager, if order to create: they successfully pass the exam for the • human resource processes which promotion to the position of sub-manager. enable employees to play a more active Employees holding the title of sub-manager role, Health requirements of İşbank employees and the family 59 members who benefit from health care are met within the framework of specified principles. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 • faster action and response by human It is essential that the remuneration of injury compensation, moving allowance resource professionals, and İşbank’s managers and employees at any and insurance, per diem allowances, lunch • decision support systems for decisiongrade should also comply with the Bank’s payments, clothing assistance, financial makers to make more efficient use of • ethical values, assistance for marriage and nursing, child human resource data. • internal budgets and strategic allowance, natural disaster and death objectives, and should be determined assistance. Furthermore, employees are In order to more efficiently manage in line with İşbank’s long-term able to make use of health benefits, social different processes within İşbank’s performance. Performance-based recreational facilities and shuttle services. human resources function, the Bank incentive payments at İşbank take into Besides these payments, a premium continued to use the Human Resources consideration the term of the risks bonus payment can be made once a year, Management System in 2014. During taken, do not guarantee the amounts in according to the Articles of Incorporation the year, innovations such as integrating advance, seek to positively impact the of İşbank and Collective Bargaining health processes, that were previously Bank’s corporate values, and are subject Agreement. handled manually, automatically into the to objective criteria. operation system and paperless banking The healthcare demands of İşbank applications helped İşbank transform the Compensation and Benefits at İşbank employees and their family members, Bank’s internal activities towards achieving İşbank determines employee salaries and who also make use of these healthcare more sustainability. As a result of these social benefits in accordance with market insurance rights, are met based on a set of innovations, targets such as decreasing the conditions and the Collective Bargaining predetermined criteria. Where necessary, operational workload and reducing costs Agreement. Entry-level salaries are information on health related issues is for regular mail were reached. Improvement determined fairly based on the position provided to the Bank’s employees by requests in the current system and recent hired for. The Bank’s employees also receive İşbank’s staffed medical doctors. legal changes led to more efficient business bonuses and allowances as required by processes. Furthermore, new applications their positions. Furthermore, a foreign The following issues are regulated in the were put in place to ensure higher language allowance is paid to those Collective Bargaining Agreement signed employee satisfaction. employees who prove their competence in between İşbank and the Bank-Finance a foreign language with an internationally and Insurance Workers’ Union (BASISEN): İşbank’s Remuneration Policy recognized certificate acceptable to the working hours, healthcare support, İşbank implements remuneration practices Bank. Additionally, along the lines of warnings, penalties, disciplinary measures, that comply with Labor Law and legal and provisions agreed to by both sides under occupational health and safety. regulatory requirements applicable in the Collective Bargaining Agreement, Turkey, as well as with the structure and employees are entitled to the following scope of the Bank’s business activities, benefits: cash deficit compensation, foreign strategies, long-term goals and risk exchange and financial analyst allowance, management structures. relocation allowance, death and physical 60 FOR OUR In order to ensure that İşbank employees receive EMPLOYEES affordable and high quality healthcare services, İşbank enters into agreements with private healthcare providers. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Healthcare Support International Standards in Occupational İşbank views its Healthcare support at İşbank is provided Health and Safety occupational health and in accordance with the conditions set in Harmonization efforts that were the Healthcare Support Implementation implemented with Law no. 6331, which safety related efforts not Regulation and in line with Healthcare entered into force on January 1, 2013 as only as a legal requirement, Support Implementation Guidelines. the Occupational Health and Safety Law, but also as a means to to expand the occupational health and Agreements with Private Healthcare safety culture at İşbank are managed by both prevent on-the-job Institutions İşbank’s Human Resources Management accidents and illnesses, and In order to ensure that İşbank employees Department. to ensure the establishment receive affordable and high quality healthcare services, İşbank enters into In all of İşbank’s operational buildings, risk of an occupational health agreements with private healthcare assessments with regard to occupational and safety culture providers. The number of private health and safety are conducted. at İşbank. institutions with whom İşbank has Furthermore, projects to ensure healthier executed an agreement for this purpose as and more effective working conditions of December 31, 2014 is indicated below. are actively implemented. As of end-2014, all employees working in a total of 1,181 branches have received two hours of Doctor: 3,333 occupational health and safety training, Clinic: 351 while 6,930 personnel working in the Bank’s 30 main buildings have received four hours Laboratory: 78 of occupational health and safety training. In Optic: 221 addition, all employees were provided with a 4-hour Occupational Health and Safety Hospital: 296 (OHS) e-learning opportunity. Pharmacy: 4,196 İşbank views its occupational health and In order to ensure patient satisfaction and safety related efforts not only as a legal control for service quality at healthcare requirement, but also as a means to both institutions, the İşbank Human Resources prevent on-the-job accidents and illnesses, Department together with the Bank’s and to ensure the establishment of an medical doctor staff, when needed, pay occupational health and safety culture at regular visits to healthcare institutions İşbank. where İşbank personnel and other beneficiaries are being treated. Occupational Health and Safety Boards In order to plan and coordinate occupational health and safety (OHS) activities at İşbank, the Bank established an Occupational Employee Performance Management System at İşbank 61 requires annual assessments of employee performance on the basis of competencies based on position titles and İŞBANK measurable goals estimating employees’ contribution to business results. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Health and Safety Unit that reports directly performance level and opportunities for İşbank’s Employee Performance to the Directorate General. Furthermore, improvement without waiting the appraisal Management System in 29 buildings where more than 50 period. The Performance Management System is employees work, İşbank set up OHS Boards. an important tool used for: In addition, occupational safety experts Balanced scorecard results are considered • attracting well qualified human capital and medical doctors have been appointed as goals for managers. On the other to İşbank, to the Directorate General facility and to hand employees’ goal evaluation is • considering and developing each buildings where OHS Boards are in place. based on measurable goals defined by employee as a potential source of The ratio of representation of OHS Boards their line managers at the beginning of talent, to the total İşbank workforce amounted to the performance period, accordingto • planing and managing employee 30% as of end-2014. Improved measures employee’s specific job description. The performance in line with the Bank’s encompassing all employees were line managers are supposed to inform the corporate goals and to guarantee developed based on findings obtained from employee of these goals before assigning corporate success. systematic risk assessments. the goals and embedding them on to the system. The priority objectives of İşbank’s Employee Within OHS, besides healthcare provided Performance Management System to employees and their dependents, the Devised every year in cooperationwith include assessing employees’ contribution following services are also provided: periodic related business units, the “Sample Goal to İşbank’s success using systematic, health check-ups, OHS training, first aid Set” is shared with all employees in order periodic and measurable indicators; training, information on measures to be to guide managers in goal settingand supporting the adoption of the Bank’s taken in order to prevent occupational to ensure that theindividual goals are high performance culture and enhancing accidents and illnesses. coherent with position titles.. In addition, employee engagement and motivation in supplementary resources are presented on alignment with employee expectations ; There were no fatal occupational accidents the Bank’s corporate portal pages, which identifying personnel development needs; in 2014. include presentations, articles, case studies and supporting the staff’s professional and and the like that are prepared to make personal development through constant İşbank’s Employee Performance the employee performance management feedback. Management System process more efficient.The Bank’s Executive Employee Performance Management Committee conducts annual evaluation Across the Bank, Employee Performance System at İşbank requires annual about İşbank’s managers reviewing all Management System is considered as assessments of employee performance data and information obtained from a a tool that will provide the adoption of on the basis of competencies based on wide variety of sources like performance customer-oriented and innovative approach position titles and measurable goals scores, reports prepared by the Board by all employees and accelerate success estimating employees’ contribution to of Inspectors, administrative decisions, at the individual and institutional level by business results. Even though performance rewards/penalties, employee and customer strengthening communication between appraisals at İşbank are conducted annually, satisfaction ratios, goal achievement ratios, employees and managers. The system managers are encouraged to meet with balanced scorecard results, credit risk rating is continuously improved according to their subordinates periodically and give performance. corporate needs. them constructive feedbackabout their 62 FOR OUR İşbank constructed a qualified training program for the EMPLOYEES employees through its deep-roted corporate structure and expert staff. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Training Activities at İşbank Training Activities Crowned with In training planning, İşbank offers training, learning and Awards İşbank pays close attention development programs on any topic In recognition of its efforts to develop a required by its staff, by taking the culture of continuing education within the to the diverse requirements respective position and career track of organization and innovative applications and employees’ access employees into account. that make a difference, İşbank was to opportunities for presented with the BEST 2014 award by The wide variety of training programs is the Association for Talent Development development in all manner intended to meet any development need (ATD), an internationally renowned of needs. by which business results are affected, and organization in the field of education/ to support a structure that will improve training. and sustain the Bank’s operations and performance. The common objective in In order to ensure the sustainability of all training programs is to provide support its human resources, İşbank supports to İşbank employees in relation to their employees with diversified personal/ changing job descriptions as well as the professional development programs tailorBank’s needs and the sustainability of made to their competencies. İşbank offers operations. In training planning, İşbank pays employees training programs which include close attention to the diverse requirements innovative applications to support them and employees’ access to opportunities for in meeting their business targets in line development in all manner of needs. with their occupational roles. Furthermore, personnel have the opportunity to participate in ongoing programs such as “Sales Academy.” Alternative Training Methods Instructor-led training is supported with new learning approaches and tools; in this way continuous development is ensured on different platforms, via corporate tube -İşTube and corporate wiki-İşpedia applications, as well as online books, e-games, and regular informational mailings. In addition, the e-learning platform is accessible for employees at any İşnank’s leadership culture oriented towards continuous 63 development and change and passing it on the next generation of managers, while establishing İşbank İŞBANK leadership as a hallmark of the Company, current senior and middle level managers as well as prospective managers are supported through a range of structured tools. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 time and is used as an efficient source to Training Catalogue for Personal Legal Compliance and Other Issues provide continuity of knowledge and access Development During Orientation Trainings, newly hired whenever needed. The İşbank Training Catalog plays an employees are provided with print copies important role in the self-identification of of the section in the Collective Bargaining Orientation Training for New Employees improvement areas by employees. Designed Agreement on “Discipline and Disciplinary Newly hired employees participate in tailoras a key tool for self-development and Measures”; they are also reminded of made orientation programs to become career needs, the İşbank Training Catalog the fact that they must abide by these informed on roles they are required to is an application where all employees can measures during their tenure at İşbank. assume as part of their new job. One of the communicate their requests. In the management training programs, basic aims of the orientation program is to newly promoted managers are informed make new employees feel valued and to Management Development Programs about procedures to disclose irregularities create a first enjoyable, memorable venue One of the Bank’s basic objectives is and misconduct at the Bank’s branches. of interaction that will enable them to gain to foster a leadership culture oriented Moreover, training sessions – regarding insights into the Company. To ensure this is towards continuous development the detection and prevention of fraud and achieved, the orientation program includes and change. With the aim of creating abuse – are organized for the members of learning via games. this culture and passing it on the next the Bank’s Audit Board at certain periods in generation of managers, while establishing their careers. Designed according to employees’ initial İşbank leadership as a hallmark of the positions, Orientation Training aims to Company, current senior and middle In accordance with legal and regulatory equip the new hires with the knowledge level managers as well as prospective requirements, the Bank administers and skills they need at the time they start managers are supported through a range of training programs in order to employ a working. structured tools. sufficient number of first-aid personnel at İşbank’s branches and headquarters. These programs are designed according The Management Development Programs Furthermore, employees are supported to the blended learning model and are and Conferences are administered for with internal and external programs organized to provide ongoing development the manager and prospective managers on stress management. In addition, that continue after the instructor-led , and are aligned with their needs and personnel are also provided with personal training, under supporting development differentiated on the basis of job family improvement opportunities on healthy programs provided afterwards. As part requirements. The İşbank Management nutrition through videos, conferences and of the orientation process, each class Development Programs are also important other educational activities. is assigned a training mentor. These and exemplary in supporting sustainable mentors continue to advise individuals employment and securing employee An average of 22.8 hours of training was on any relevant issues that may arise satisfaction. provided for each employee in 2013 and it post-training. The ultimate goal of these increased to 28.2 hours in 2014. practices is to ensure the lasting presence of the knowledge and skills acquired during training. 64 FOR OUR EMPLOYEES İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Training at İşbank Key indicators İşbank regularly measures the loyalty, satisfaction Training time and content with managers per employee by gender of employees through (hours) Title systematically employed Specialist Support Staff Positions Management surveys. Men 21.55 33.39 25.47 Gender Women 6.17 26.45 27.59 Regular Employee Satisfaction Surveys Training time İşbank regularly measures the loyalty, per employee by gender (hours) satisfaction and content with managers of employees through systematically Men 29.81 employed surveys. The results of these Women 26.50 surveys are used to improve human resources practices and to guide manager’s personal and managerial development. Training time per employee by title (hours) Feedback Mechanisms to Communicate Support Specialist Requests and Suggestions to the Senior Staff Positions Management Management 21.28 29.31 26.42 İşbank employees have the opportunity to directly communicate issues on human resources functions to the Note: Training programs which are held senior management through the Human for Private Security Guards are monitored Resources Information System. The Human under the Support Staff category. These Resources Information System, which programs affect the gender-based allows employees to convey complaints and breakdown of training time per employee. requests to the management on any issues, provides important feedback and thereby contributes to the Bank’s decision-making processes. İşbank encourages employees to sports events and 65 ensures that its human capital comes together and works toward common goals. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Efforts to Increase the Perception of employees. In order to support new theater İşbank aims to increase Being a “Preferred Brand” actors who will become active members the motivation of “We” The activities carried out to strengthen the of the İş Theatre Company, İşbank held sense of belonging that Improvised Theatre Workshops under the of human capital through • represents the most powerful aspect of slogan of “Let’s Play Together.” sport organizations towards the İşbank culture, to employees. • to enhance the perception of being İşbank encourages employees to most preferred employer, intensively participate in teams in in• to boost employee motivation house or external sports events in order to have occupied an important place within strengthen the feeling of “We” in the Bank. human resources practices. Thereby, the Bank ensures that its human capital comes together and works toward The İş Players Theater Company was common goals. established to ensure that İşbank employees socialize more through Placing great importance on adding value different arts activities and thereby to the social lives of employees, İşbank develop a sense of corporate belonging. carries out various campaigns and provides This Company staged “Twelfth Night” advantages for the Bank’s employees with by William Shakespeare. The revenues different contracted companies; it also collected from the performances, in which organizes and holds “Hobby workshops” for employees participate on a voluntary basis, the benefit of employees. are donated to various foundations. The Theatre Company has already started İşbank and its employees have been planning the plays it will stage in 2015. supporting the Blood Donation Drive of Turkish Red Crescent for the last years, İşbank has the aim of contributing to the donating blood and, for the first time, personal development of employees and stem cells, at different campaign locations therefore plans to establish in-house in Turkey in 2014. İşbank will continue social exchange workshops. Furthermore, to encourage the Bank’s employees to İşbank aims to produce content on forming participate in such initiatives in the coming in-house social exchange platforms for period. 66 FOR OUR İşbank aims to develop and implement innovative practices EMPLOYEES that increase applicant satisfaction in recruiting processes in 2015. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İşbank Continues to be the “Preferred Employer Brand“ İşbank strengthens its İşbank aims to develop and implement innovative practices that increase applicant organization structure satisfaction in recruiting processes in 2015. With these new practices, the Bank targets strengthening the perception of being a “preferred employer brand,” and thereby bolstering which is based on the loyalty of high-performing and high-potential employees. conducting different financial business Key Human Resources Indicators of İş Bank (December 31, 2014) processes with efficient İşbank HR Key Indicators (December 31, 2014) and coordinated way, by its competent human The Number of Employee People % capital. Women 12,418 51.09 Men 11,890 48.91 Total 24,308 100 Distribution of personnel by age groups People* % 0-30 6,125 25.21 31-45 17,519 72.10 46-65 647 2.66 66+ 7 0.03 Total 24,298 100 *Board Members are not included in the numbers mentioned above Distribution of personnel by educational background People % 67 Middle School 101 0.42 High School 4,544 18.69 İŞBANK Graduate School for 2 or 3 years 510 2.10 University 18,190 74.83 Master Degree 954 3.92 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Ph.D Degree 9 0.04 Total 24,308 100 Distribution of personnel by HO-Branch-Region People % Head Office 5,876 24.17 Branches 17,676 72.72 Region 756 3,11 Total 24,308 100 Geographical distribution of personnel People % Turkey 24,009 98.77 International 299 1.23 Total 24,308 100 Number of Leavers Labor turnover (Excluding Deaths) Turnover rate % Women 391 3.18 Men 473 4.01 Number of personnel employed during the reporting period People* % Women 534 50.57 Men 522 49.43 Total 1,056 100 Distribution of personnel employed during the reporting period People* % 21-23 129 12.22 24-26 518 49.05 27-29 332 31.44 30-32 49 4.64 33+ 28 2.65 Total 1,056 100 *First entry, second entry and entry from subsidiaries were included. 68 FOR OUR EMPLOYEES İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Distribution of Board Members by gender Women Men Chairman 0 1 Vice Chairman 1 0 Member 1 8 Distribution of Audit Committee Members by gender Women Men Member 1 1 Distribution of Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Members by gender Women Men Member 2 3 Distribution of Risk Committee Members by gender Women Men Member 3 3 Distribution of Senior Management by gender Women Men Chief Executive Officer 0 1 Deputy Chief Executives 1 10 Executives* 924 1,342 *Titles higher than the II. Manager positions are taken into account. Creating added value for the environment and the society by keeping corporate social responsibilities at the forefront and sustaining success… 70 FOR OUR EARTH In order to contribute to the fight against climate change globally, İşbank is committed to further boosting the Bank’s efforts to reduce environmental impacts. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Since its establishment in 1924, İşbank a multidimensional approach. The Bank has conducted business activities by being focuses both on efficiently managing aware of the Bank’s social responsibility of the environmental impact of its service leaving behind a liveable world to future processes to meet climate change and generations. With this understanding, environmental sustainability targets, and supporting economic growth by aims to incorporate stakeholders into the considering the environmental and social sphere of impact with social responsibility dimensions has always been a priority projects on environmental awareness. for İşbank. In order to manage the Bank’s concurrent activities in these areas, İşbank İşbank’s Environmental Footprint implemented the Environment and Social In parallel with the Bank’s continuously Management Strategy in 2013, and the growing business, İşbank’s operations “Environmental and Social Policy” in 2014. and customer base are expanding. The Bank has formulated its environmental Organizational expansion increases the policy in line with the following principles: importance of efforts such as scientific • optimizing the environmental footprint measurement, management and reduction of activities that constantly evolve and of environmental footprint. diversify in line with the organizational growth In this context, İşbank’s most important • placing greater emphasis on the targets are to identify and to minimize the environmental focus in the products negative environmental and social impacts and services delivered to customers that may arise from the Bank’s lending • continuing to work intensively and activities by fulfilling certain criteria, interactively with stakeholders engaged particularly in those projects financed in the environment and encourage their by the Bank, and to restructure internal voluntary involvement, and raise social sustainability-related practices within a awareness on issues related to the more systematic framework. environment. İşbank’s Carbon Footprint In keeping with the target to measure, Please refer to page 19 for the ESMS. manage and reduce its carbon footprint, İşbank initiated the operational emissions management in 2011 to cover the years Thanks to İşbank’s comprehensive efforts, 2008-2011. The first phase of the İşbank the Bank furthers its work on sustainability, Green House Gas (GHG) inventory and an area in which it has acquired experience carbon emissions management was and know-how over the years, by applying completed in April 2011. Systematically carrying out work to reducing the 71 environmental impact of the Bank’s business activities, İşbank achieved a 4.5% decrease in its carbon footprint in İŞBANK 2014. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 The basic steps of the first phase covered Scope of carbon footprint computation Environmental data collection and determination of the technical framework for computing the Operational Boundary: No operational limitation was imposed on the calculations, and Social Policy carbon footprint. Within this framework, the following steps were taken for the and İşbank’s commercial transactions, and all of its activities whether direct or (ESP) Head Office: • Review of the operational structure indirect were included in the scope of the calculation. The “Environmental and Social Policy” and determination of the sources of (ESP) was one of the important emissions (lighting and heating/cooling, Geographical Boundary: The geographical developments at İşbank in 2014. etc.). boundary was taken as all Head Office • Examining the references for sources buildings within the borders of İstanbul for of emissions (e.g. accounting records the target years. and invoices) and data collection. Filling in of missing data on the basis of the For the periods subject to reporting, approximation method under the the Scope standards were differentiated Intergovernmental Panel on Climate on the basis of emission sources and Change (IPCC) 2006 and the GHG detailed calculations were completed in Protocol. accordance with the GHG Protocol • Modification of the program “Our (www.ghgprotocol.org). Impacts” to adapt İşbank’s emission sources and operational structure; in According to the GHG Protocol, İşbank’s other words, preparing a platform that natural gas and fuel resources were is appropriate for the Bank’s emission assessed under Scope 1, and the electric sources and the emission calculation power obtained from the network under algorithm. Scope 2. • Performing the computation of total carbon-equivalent emissions for 2008, Emissions originating from Scope 3 2009 and 2010. are emissions that result from the organization’s suppliers and are excluded In its Sustainability Report released in from the calculation. the first quarter of 2013, İşbank publicly disclosed data on its gas emissions and The Bank’s carbon footprint was reduced by resource utilization during the 2008-2012 nearly 7% in 2013. period. 72 FOR OUR EARTH İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İşbank’s Carbon Footprint (2008-2014) Thanks to İşbank’s comprehensive efforts, Breakdown of scope (tons) 2012 2013 2014 the Bank furthers its work Scope 1 4,063 3,504 2,769.63 on sustainability, an area Scope 2 15,234 14,361 14,280.28 in which it has acquired Scope 3 experience and know-how over the years, by applying Out-of-scope [1] a multidimensional Total carbon-equivalent emissions (tCO2e) 19,297 17,865 17,050 approach. [1] GHG not covered by the Kyoto Protocol, HCFC-22 Emission Ratios per Employee, Consolidated Assets and Revenue 2012 2013 2014 Emission per employee (tCO2e/total number of employees)” 3.518370 3.513274 3.441663 “Emission according to total consolidated assets (tCO2e/ billion USD)” 0.000173 0.000156 0.000143 “Emission according to consolidated net profit (tCO2e/ billion USD)” 0.009273 0.010463 0.010572 Number of employees (Head Office) 5,471 5,085 4,954 Total consolidated assets (USD, -,000) 112,646,913 114,371,924 119,177,369 Consolidated net profit (USD, -,000) 2,081,083 1,707,389 1,612,807 73 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Resource Usage A total of 2,205,000 saplings have been planted 2012 2013 2014 under the “81 Forests in 81 Cities” project, resulting in Electricity (KWh) 32,969,258 31,061,752 29,624,209 an estimated annual carbon Natural gas (m3) 1,454,126 1,237,672 1,022,875 capture capacity of 27,000 tons/CO2. İşbank’s carbon footprint is calculated Under İşbank’s “81 Forests in 81 Cities” employing the GHG Protocol. Sources initiative that commenced in late 2008, of data are Intergovernmental Panel on a total of 2,205,000 saplings have been Climate Change (IPCC) and International planted on an area of 1,500 hectares. Energy Agency (IEA). Furthermore, some 35,200 saplings in total have been planted on a 22 hectare area in The positive impacts of forestry area the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus development projects on carbon emissions (TRNC). The estimated annual carbon are regarded as carbon-offsetting capture capacity of these saplings amounts mechanisms in several other countries. to 27,000 tons/CO2. 74 FOR OUR EARTH Since its establishment in 1924, İşbank has conducted business activities by being aware of the Bank’s social responsibility of leaving behind a livable world to future İŞBANK generations. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İşbank’s Water Footprint Since İşbank operates in the Starting in 2013, İşbank began to disclose data on the Bank’s water footprint in its banking sector and does Sustainability Report. Since İşbank operates in the banking sector and does not develop/ produce water based products, it does not undertake business operations in locations not develop/produce water where water resources might be threatened. In addition, the Bank also closely monitors based products, it does water consumption out of general respect to nature and with the aim of reducing its not undertake business consumption of natural resources. operations in locations İşbank is not involved in business activities that might constitute a threat to water where water resources resources. Despite this fact, the Bank closely monitors the use of natural resources, abides might be threatened. In by applicable rules and regulations, out of general respect towards nature. The use of water resources is also closely monitored in order to be able to take necessary measures. addition, the Bank also Data from the Directorate-General Headquarters was collected and categorized in terms closely monitors water of water use as ‘used water from the grids’ (blue), ‘waste water’ (grey) and ‘spring water’ consumption out of general (green). The measurement figures are presented in the table below. respect to nature and with Water (m3) the aim of reducing its consumption of natural 2012 2013 2014 2014 resources. Mains water 64,958 67,365 58,970 Wastewater 32,479 33,683 47,678 Spring Water (Green)(1) 66,498 Total 97,437 101,048 173,146 (1) In the report of the World Water Forum 2014, new criteria were set by adding spring water (green) to measurements in Istanbul. 75 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Water consumption by number of employees and area of usage In 2014 İşbank undertook efforts to raise the 2012 2012 2013 2014 BREEAM (green building) Amount of mains water used (m3) 64,958 67,365 58,970 certification rating of the Number of employees 5,471 5,085 4,954 Bank’s Head Offices to Area of usage (m2) 226,461 207,087 200,534 “EXCELLENT.” Amount of mains water used per employee (m3/employee) 11.87 13.25 11.9 Amount of mains water used per area of usage (m3/m2) 0.29 0.33 0.29 BREEAM In-Use Building and Building • Providing staff working in the building Management Certification with occupational safety training Within the BREEAM In-Use (green programs, buildings) certification of İşbank’s Head • Making improvements to the landscape Offices located in Levent, Istanbul, the Bank surrounding the office facilities and conducted the following efforts to raise its increasing their value by adhering to rating from “VERY GOOD” to “EXCELLENT” ecological standards, in 2014. • Development of cycling and • Monitoring, reporting and documenting motorcycling parks, on current policies, operating systems • Taking initiatives to obtain part of the and consumption levels, needed energy supply in 2015 from • Initiating the use of energy efficient suppliers that use renewable energy lighting luminaires (LED) in certain areas sources. to be able to assess their contribution to overall energy efficiency in the On December 31, 2014, the Bank completed building, work to raise its rating to “EXCELLENT”; • Preparation of a risk assessment report it is waiting for finalization of BREEAM’s for the building, assessment process in first quarter 2015. • Reporting on and improving preparation and coordination of activities to be undertaken in cases of natural disasters, 76 FOR OUR EARTH İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 The BREEAM In-Use, Building and Building Management Certification process conducted for İşbank’s Head Office Tower1 located in Levent, İstanbul was completed in 2013. With the improvement work performed in the building, the Bank’s rating was raised from “GOOD” to “VERY GOOD”. The certification process and the improvement efforts performed were summarized in the table below: The green building Improvement work was completed. certification process was Tower 1’s current status was analyzed. Areas of improvement were The Bank applied for the BREEAM launched for Tower 1. identified. In-Use certificate. 2012 2013 January 2014 At the beginning of the process: • The Building User Manual was prepared. At the end of the process: Building Performance: GOOD Building Performance: VERY GOOD Building Management Building Management Performance: GOOD • The Building Operation policies are renewed and started to implementation. Performance: VERY GOOD • The Building Operation&Maintenance Manuals were offered for easy access. • A Noticeboard was placed showing how to arrive at the Kule Çarşı Shopping Mall. • A survey was made for building users to evaluate the quality of indoor air quality and comfort conditions. • Training was provided to users of the building. • Recycling bins were placed. • An Ecological Report and Flood Risk Report were prepared. • The use of electrical small home appliances (e.g. hot water kettles) was terminated. Alternatives with high energy efficiency began to be used instead. • Warning signs were posted to raise awareness on energy conservation among users. With the aim of paperless banking, İşbank makes use of 77 all technological possibilities and undertakes themed awareness raising activities for employees. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İşbank’s paperless banking target awareness among its customers and E-mail Functionality on Bankamatiks İşbank offers its products and services encourage them to choose to receive (ATMs) to millions of customers on a 24/7 basis various documents, such as receipts and With the new application launched by through diversified distribution channels. account statements, by e-mail. İşbank in 2014, the option of sending e-mail The interactive service relationship with receipts of transaction carried out on customers requires the production and Activities conducted by İşbank under the Bankamatiks(ATMs) has been provided to sending of tens of millions of account vision of paperless banking in 2014 are customers. statements, bank receipts, agreements and listed below. similar documents, all of which require a Regulation on Double-Sided Printing huge amount of paper consumption. Registered E-mail System (RES) In order to decrease paper consumption at İşbank initiated efforts to ensure secure İşbank, the default settings of printers in Focusing on conducting business processes e-mail communication through the use have been set to double-sided printing. based on a sustainability approach, İşbank Registered E-mail System (RES) in 2014. With this new practice, the aim is to save has initiated various efforts to minimize RES based pilot implementations were put around 100 million pages per year. paper waste in all business processes to the into place with selected institutions. The extent possible. As part of these efforts, aim is to expand the use of RES to all public Investment Account Statement the following targets have been prioritized: institutions in the coming period. Campaign Bringing the use of paper under control, A new campaign was implemented in order raising awareness on environmentally Automatic Shut Down of Computers to change the receiving of investment friendly approaches, saving more on paper In 2014, İşbank completed systems account statements from paper to e-mail and space, and lessening the workload. The infrastructure activities to ensure the in 2014. Customers who receive their Bank has also started to evaluate all printed automatic shutdown of computers on account statements in paper form were documents within the paperless banking the Bank’s network that are still running suggested to change to e-mail notification. vision that aims to reduce paper use to the after 20:00h. The aim of developing such These customers were offered this option extent possible. a systems infrastructure is to conserve during their visits to İşbank branches under energy and extend the operating life of the Counter Opportunity Initiative and In line with this project, the Bank launched computers. based on the sales offer of the customer a slew of innovative practices between representative. 2011 and 2013. Contributing to cost Removal of Current Account Statements control processes, each of these practices for Debtors Termination of Printing of Transaction represents a valuable step towards The current account statements for Registry Lists (T8 – BCH Transaction List protecting the environment. Along the debtors that were sent by İşbank to and ELJ) same lines, İşbank took steps to raise commercial customers by regular postal İşbank terminated printing of T8 lists mail, were completely abandoned as of received by all branch managers in the 2014. Bank’s services network and of ELJ lists received daily by branch employees in 2014. 78 FOR OUR EARTH One of İşbank’s priorities under the Bank’s environmental and social policy is to take close care with the management of environmental and social impact of projects it finances. İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Termination of Mass Printing of BHS Investment in “Green” Information A Model to Calculate Environmental With recent arrangements within İşbank, Technologies Risks: ERET the branches now automatically monitor As part of the Bank’s comprehensive One of İşbank’s priorities under the Bank’s new BHS versions and these are only efforts related to information technologies, Environmental and SocialPolicy is to printed if absolutely necessary. In this way, İşbank allocates a significant amount of take close care with the management mass printing of BHS, which had caused resources to projects related to energy of environmental and social impacts of problems with regard to updating the use and energy efficiency. In 2014, PDUs projects it finances. The Environmental documents and disposal of the used ones, were installed in the Banks’ systems rooms and Social Management Team which is a was fully abandoned. and energy use cabinets have started to part of Project Financing Unit, makes use be monitored regularly. Thanks to these of the Environmental Risk Evaluation Tool Cooperation with TEMA in Waste Paper activities, systems that use too much (ERET), a tool that assist in assessment Management energy were identified and this contributed of the environmental and social risks of Another area of cooperation that İşbank to first steps towards replacing these with investments of corporate customers who entered into with TEMA is waste paper more energy efficient versions. require a facility amount of USD 10 million management. or more and ensures that the investor With a project conducted in 2014, waste With the Data Center Monitoring Software company takes precautions in line with paper from all İşbank branches was recycled Integration, which was implemented in the identified risk category. Suggested through the TEMA Foundation. Within the 2014, the Bank’s systems started to be monitoring activities are also shared framework of the project, documents which monitored as a whole. The temperature of with investors upon which a consensus are stored in branch archives and which the systems rooms were increased from is reached between the parties as part must be destroyed as a result of coming 19C to 23C, taking into account ASHREA of financing agreements. Projects are to the end of their preservation period are standards. Through this modification, monitored based on their risk categories. collected by the TEMA foundation as soon the Bank achieved lesser energy use for Especially in projects that are in high as they reach an economically beneficial cooling. In addition, the Bank installed new risk categories (A and B+), independent size. The TEMA Foundation plants one panels and plans to install hot corridor environmental consultants are hired to sapling on behalf of our Bank for every 100 closure technology to prevent a mixture support pre-assessment and monitoring kg of paper collected. The first forest with of warm and cold air and increase energy processes. In high risk projects, the 3,800 saplings was planted in Manisa in efficiency in cooling. investor company is expected to provide 2013. guarantees with regard to adherence to the Environmental and Social Action Plan which is prepared and monitored by the independent consultant and sets the requirements that the investor company has to fulfill based on project specific risks.. Adherence to the action plan is monitored on a regular basis once the project is initiated.Monitoring periods are generally specified as quarterly, semi-annually or annually depending on the project specifics. The number of İşbank-supported projects whose risk assessment has been conducted by using ERET totaled 35 as of the end of 2014. A 79 sample cross section of the model and summary information regarding the projects that are rated via tool are provided below. Sample ERET Model Cross Section İŞBANK RISK ASSESSMENT DIMENSIONS AFFECTED ISSUE AREA BY ISSUE AREA PROBABILITY/ MANAGEABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Evaluations of risk levels FREQUENCY LEVEL OF RISKS AND ----on issue areas are made Impact on OF RISK OF RISK RESULTS under categories 1, 2, Environment REALIZATION and 3; with 1 being the and/or Local lowest risk level --Community --Impact on Wild Life or Sensitive Areas --1 --1 2 ----BRaw Material and Waste Management --1 --2 3 ----B+ --------------Impact on Air and Water Quality --2 --1 1 ----C ------------------------------------Environmental and Social Risk Level of Project BEnvironmental and social risks are categorized under C, B, B+, and A; whereby, the lowest risk level is signified by C and highest risk level is signified by A. C BB+ A ERET Degree Distribution ERET Degree Distribution (Percentile in the Scaled Portfolio According (Percentile in the Scaled Portfolio According to Financing to Financing Amount) Amount in 2014) 0% 8% 25% 5% A C BC ERET Degree 21% ERET Degree Distribution Distribution B26% A 41% 74% B+ B+ 80 FOR OUR EARTH With the aim of protecting the environment and raising environmental awareness among different societal segments, especially children, İşbank implemented İŞBANK the “81 Forests in 81 Cities” project, which commenced in late 2008. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISK Targets for Future İşbank aims to further the LEVEL OF PROJECT In this context, the Bank will continue; Bank’s stable growth in Environmental and social risks are • to manage the use of energy and other categorized under C, B, B+, and A; whereby, natural resources and consumption of the coming period by using the lowest risk level is signified by C and paper in a systematic manner and to resources more efficiently. highest risk level is signified by A. reduce their direct negative impacts on the environment; Stakeholder Dialogue and Achievement • to launch innovative practices in order Rate of High Targets to reduce the indirect environmental With the aim of protecting the environment impacts of the products and services and raising environmental awareness that it offers to its customers; and among different societal segments, • carry out its systemic efforts for especially children, İşbank implemented the expansion of forested areas in the “81 Forests in 81 Cities” project, particular within the scope of social which commenced in late 2008. With this responsibility projects. initiative, which is being implemented in collaboration with TEMA Foundation and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Works, the Bank has once again proved that it is a good corporate citizen aware of its environmental responsibilities. Adding color and value to people’s lives as a company with one of the largest social responsibility budgets… 82 FOR THE SOCIETY Pursuant to the planning completed by the Social Responsibility Committee, which operates under the Board of Directors, İşbank continued to the projects and İŞBANK initiatives that create social added value in 2014. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Social Responsibility Approach Based İşbank’s corporate social responsibility on Creating Lasting Value approach İşbank, which maintains a highly reputable corporate culture in line with Our Mission the principles of the Republic of Turkey, Contribute to social progress through views corporate social responsibility social responsibility activities structured in activities as inseparable from the Bank’s a sustained, far-reaching and sustainable main business activities. The Bank closely framework. follows society’s needs and expectations, ranging from culture to arts, and thereby Our Strategy continues with its social responsibility İşbank’s corporate social responsibility efforts in a long-term, integrated, wideactivities are carried out in accordance with ranging, and sustainable fashion. Pursuant a strategy molded at the center of the basic to the planning completed by the Social principles spelled out below*: Responsibility Committee, which operates under the Board of Directors, the Bank • contribute to the advancement of our implemented projects and initiatives that country’s people and to enhance their create social added value in 2014. Viewing quality of living, social responsibility related activities as a • aim to preserve and further the social way to intelligently contribute to the future values created by the Republic, of Turkish society, İşbank undertook efforts • support bringing up generations that in this area under the guidance of the espouse the principles of Atatürk, and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee which will play a role in advancing our and the supervision of the Board of society to the level of contemporary Directors. civilization, • provide opportunities for the progress The İşbank Corporate Social Responsibility of Turkish art and culture, and to Committee; promote the same across the world, • establishes policies, • bring our people together with world • evaluates demands, project proposals art and culture, and sponsorship terms, • undertake a pioneering role in • creates success and supervision criteria, protecting the environment and raising and environmental awareness among • monitors the results. people. * The principles set out under the Corporate Responsibility Implementation Guidelines released by the İşbank Board of Directors resolution dated November 7th, 2007 and numbered 33785. 83 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Our Priorities turning the sport into a popular and Permanent value In line with the current needs of our country and our people, İşbank attaches demanded one in Turkey, and reaching out to more children and thereby increasing the İşbank’s corporate goal is to create priority to the following fields in its social international success of Turkey in chess. permanent value through social responsibility initiatives: responsibility activities. • education Thanks to the Bank’s nearly 10-year main • environment sponsorship, the Turkish Chess Federation • art and culture has taken the following steps: • Registered players increased from İşbank’s efforts in the areas of education, 30,000 to 455,370 in number, environment, art and culture in 2014 are • Chess trainers increased from 2,000 to summarized below. 69,556 in number, • Chess tournaments increased from 400 EDUCATION to 3,900 in number, • Chess clubs increased from 600 to Chess 2,004 in number. The Main Sponsor of the Turkish Chess Federation The number of medals won in international Next year, İşbank will celebrate its 10th chess tournaments has risen to 260. anniversary as the main sponsor of the Turkish Chess Federation. The Bank has Main Sponsor of the Chess Federation of designed its support to chess, a sport that the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus highly contributes to children’s intellectual (TRNC) development, in a wide-ranging and longAs the Bank with the most extensive term fashion. In sponsorship activities that network in TRNC, İşbank signed a main expand day by day, the Bank has set itself sponsorship agreement with the TRNC the following targets: making chess more Chess Federation in 2013; thereby, the Bank popular among school children, increasing demonstrated that its contribution to TRNC accessibility of the sport, eliminating is not only limited to banking services. existing deficiencies in chess training, 84 FOR THE SOCIETY İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Setting up Chess Classes in Elementary License cards come in three types: While undertaking Schools • Electron Bankamatik Cards for players corporate social Within the Bank’s main sponsorship of who are over 18 years of age, the sport of chess, İşbank continued to • Maestro “First Signature” Bankamatik responsibility activities, undertake important projects in 2014. The cards for players in the 12 to 18 age İşbank encourages Bank’s efforts during the year included: group, stakeholder participation in turning chess into an easily accessible sport • a token plastic card for players under in elementary schools, directing parent and the age of 12. its projects and initiatives. teachers’ attention to this field, eliminating material deficiencies at schools in need, Playchess.com and opening chess classes at schools in In 2008, İşbank entered into a line with previously set targets. During comprehensive collaboration with Playchess, the Bank’s tenure as main sponsor, İşbank the world’s largest online chess platform opened chess classes in a total of 11,841. with some 250,000 registered users. As In 2014 alone, the Bank set up classes at a result, the content on the website was 1,600 schools. translated into Turkish and the site became accessible from www.tsf.org.tr. More than Under the Bank’s sponsorship of the TRNC 7,000 licensed chess players who log on to Chess Federation, the first chess class was Playchess.com from Turkey can now play opened at 23 Nisan Elementary School, online chess via the website, free-of-charge. which hosts more than 1,000 pupils and is located in Kyrenia, on November 17, 2014. İşbank Chess Festival for Children under 8 The total number of schools where chess Conceived as a way to offer children a chess classes have begun in TRNC with İşbank playing environment which is fun while support is 59. also supporting their parents’ efforts to encourage them to play the game, İşbank Distribution of Chess License Cards has conducted the “İşbank Chess Festival through İşbank Branches for Children under 8” every year since Since 2007, the licenses granted by the 2006, right after the end of the academic Turkish Chess Federation to registered school year. Formerly held only in Istanbul, players have been issued in the form of the festival this year for the first time also ATM cards, in an effort to establish a strong took place in Ankara and Izmir. A total of and ongoing relationship with the players 777 young chess players participated in the and their families. ninth edition of festival in 2014. 85 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Turkish Youth Chess Championship Tournament at İş Oyunu (Mind Game) documentary. This (U12) Another aim of İşbank’s main sponsorship documentary, in which the importance of The Turkish Youth Chess Championship of the Turkish Chess Federation is to spread chess, its function in education and the (U12) was held January 2631, 2014 in this sport among the Bank’s employees and Bank’s sponsorship activities are touched Antalya Kemer with İşbank’s support. Some subsidiaries. Therefore, İşbank strives to upon, was broadcast on İZ TV in December. 1,459 young chess players aged 7-12 from enhance communication among employees 63 cities participated in the championship and provides them with opportunities 81 Students from 81 Cities Project tournament. to improve their chess playing skills. As a In cooperation with Darüşşafaka, İşbank result, chess has also become one of the has authored one of the longest-running Turkish Youth Chess Championship tournaments traditionally held by İşbank and largest social responsibility projects (U18) every year for employees. “Tournament ever conducted in the field of education in The Turkish Youth Chess Championship at İş” took place for the fifth time in 2014. Turkey: “81 Students from 81 Cities” which (U18) was June 30 July 6, 2014 at Konya Players who ranked among the top three in started during the 2008-2009 academic Rixos Hotel with İşbank’s support. Some this year’s tournament received awards. year. Under the project, İşbank meets 299 young chess players, ages 13-18, the educational expenses of 81 children from 34 cities in Turkey and the TRNC Meetings with Successful Chess Players from 81 cities who successfully pass the participated in the championship. 74 of Twenty-eight young chess players Darüşşafaka entrance exam each year. these participants were registered in the aged 7-17 who had won awards at Thereby, the Bank supports educational player pool of the National Chess Team of international tournaments, their families, expenses of these children starting from Turkey. representatives of the Turkish Chess the fifth grade through to the final year Federation, members of the press and of high school. İşbank plans to continue İşbank Chess League İşbank senior management, all came supporting these students through their Istanbul Technical University Socar K.N.I. together at a meeting on September 9, university education. By the time the won the 2013-2014 season of the İşbank 2014. During the ceremony held for the first students admitted to the project in Chess League. The İşbank Chess League young prize-winning chess players on 2008-2009 academic year graduate from is the strongest league in Turkey in chess the 41st floor of İşbank’s Head Offices, Darüşşafaka, the total number of student and ranks among the best chess leagues in certificates were presented to them by receiving support is expected to reach more Europe. Ersin Özince, Chairman of the Board of than 1,000. Directors and Adnan Bali, CEO. In 2014, in addition to 81 new students, 5 Akıl Oyunu Documentary more children who lost their fathers in the In order to foster interest in chess among Soma mining disaster were also accepted to different segments of the society, İşbank the program. supported another project in 2014: Akıl 86 FOR THE SOCIETY İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İşbank also provides students at • “Halime Kaptan (Captain Halime)” In addition to 81 students Darüşşafaka with social development and “Küçük Mavi Gezegen (Small Blue who received support, 5 opportunities. Some of these activities Planet)” in 2011, include: • “Sait Faik’ten Çocuklara Öyküler more children who lost their • “Welcome Party” for newcomers at the (Children’s Stories by Sait Faik)” in 2012, fathers in the Soma mining beginning of the academic year, • “Aziz Nesin’den Çocuklara En Güzel disaster were also accepted • New Year’s reception, Öyküler (The Best Stories for Children • Hosting of students in Istanbul within by Aziz Nesin)” in 2013, to the program in 2014 on a the “One Million Books, One Million • “Yazarlarımızdan Öyküler (Stories by Our full scholarship. Children” campaign, Writers)” in 2014. • Inviting students to exhibitions and workshops at İşbank Museum and Besides Turkey and TRNC, the campaign shows in İş Sanat. also distributed books to 1 million elementary school children who brought “One Million Books, One Million their school reports to İşbank branches in Children” Campaign Germany, Bulgaria, France, Georgia, the İşbank launched one of the largest book Netherlands, Iraq, the UK, Switzerland, drives ever with the “One Million Books, Kosovo and Russia. As in previous years, One Million Children” campaign, in the a number of books for visually impaired 2007-2008 academic year. In academic children were published in the Braille year 2013-2014, the campaign was alphabet and were sent to the libraries of implemented for the 7th time and 8 million schools where visually impaired children books were distributed to elementary are educated. Furthermore, books were school children. distributed to pupils studying at Regional Boarding Schools and youth residing in Under the campaign, the following books children’s homes. were distributed to 1 million children who brought their school reports to İşbank Book Donations to Schools and Libraries branches in Turkey and the TRNC: As an extension of the Bank’s social • “Alice in Wonderland” in 2008, responsibility initiatives that contribute to • “Yazarlarımızdan Masallar ve Öyküler education, İşbank continues to send the (Fairy Tales and Stories by Our Writers)” books published by the İş Bankası Kültür in 2009, Yayınları publishing house to schools and • “Yazarlarımızdan Öyküler (Stories by Our public libraries throughout the country. As Writers)” in 2010, of end-2014, İşbank sent nearly 10,000 books to 1,050 schools and public libraries. 87 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İşbank Firefly Mobile Education Unit ART AND CULTURE • Social Sciences and Humanities One of the Firefly Mobile Education Units of • Biography Series the Educational Volunteers Foundation of Kültür Yayınları • Osprey Military History Series Turkey (TEGV) was administered by İşbank. İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları is a publishing house that was established in 1956 by The Sait Faik Story Award, presented every The vehicle, which houses an educational Hasan Âli Yücel, a former Minister of year in collaboration with Darüşşafaka and room equipped with 12 PCs, has so far Education, and continues publishing Kültür Yayınları and in commemoration of visited the cities of Sivas, Trabzon, Erzurum, operations by providing rich content and Sait Faik Abasıyanık, was given to Mahir Bayburt, Rize, Düzce, Bolu, Karabük, high quality printing services to customers. Ünsal Eriş this year for his book titled Zonguldak, Bartın and Istanbul since “Olduğu Kadar Güzeldik (We were Beautiful beginning its travels in 2001. To date, the Kültür Yayınları attracts much attention as Much as Possible).” mobile education unit has reached out with the works that it is publishes, and to some 44,880 students with creative thereby has become an indispensible İş Sanat Concert Hall educational activities. publishing house, first and foremost for Since 2000, İşbank’s exhibition and researchers, but also for all interested performing arts activities have been carried Golden Youth Awards readers. out under the aegis of İş Sanat. Having Every year since 1971, a number of celebrated its 14th anniversary last year, students equal to the age of the Bank who In 2014, around 2.5 million books published İş Sanat hosted 32 concerts, 7 children’s are successful in the university entrance by Kültür Yayınları were sold to readers. activities and 5 poetry readings. Under exam are recognized under the “Golden the “Shining Stars” concerts, the following Youth Awards.” To date, some 3,000 have İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları releases its young artists performed in the National received Golden Youth awards. publications under 15 separate headings: Reassurance in the 14th season: Denizcan ENVIRONMENT • Hasan Âli Yücel Classics Eren (flute), Ülker Tümer (cello), Deniz • History and Memoirs Şensoy (violin) and İlayda Zeynep Köksal 81 Forests in 81 Cities Project • Modern Classics (violin). Among these artists, Deniz Şensoy İşbank’s “81 Forests in 81 Cities” project, • Books for Children and Young Adults was presented with the “Shining Stars implemented in collaboration with TEMA • Examples of Turkish and World Meriç Soylu Award.” Foundation and the Ministry for Forestry Literature and Water Works, was initiated in late • Biographical Interviews (Nehir İş Sanat Concert Hall, one of the country’s 2008 and has planted a total of 2,205,000 Interviews) leading arts platforms where major Turkish saplings on an area amounting to 1,500 • “99 Sayfada” (99-Pages) Article Series and international artists perform, regularly hectares in 81 cities in Turkey. Furthermore, • Life & Culture hosts children’s plays, poetry readings and a total number of 35,220 saplings have • Chess exhibitions; it has organized more than been planted on an area of 22 hectares in • The Arts 1,100 events in 14 years of operation, and the TRNC. Maintenance and care efforts, to • Economics, Business Administration welcoming over 500,000 arts-lovers. In be conducted in the 5-year period after the and Personal Development 2014, some 28,437 people attended İş planting, continued throughout 2014. • Researches and Analyses Sanat events. 88 FOR THE SOCIETY İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Türkiye İş Bankası Müzesi Preparations for Painting Museum The Laboratory of (İşbank Museum) İşbank is home to Turkey’s largest private Conservation and Opened in November 2007, the İşbank painting collection; established in the Museum is dedicated to the mission 1940s, the collection now includes more Restoration of Art Works of securely housing and protecting than 2,000 art works. İşbank’s collection at MSGSU, established documents, banking equipment, holds paintings by the founder of Mimar with the support of İşbank, communication devices, photographs, Sinan Fine Arts University (MSGSU) Osman pictures, advertisements, promotional Hamdi Bey, Şeker Ahmet Pasha, Hoca tends to the care and materials and films which bear witness both Ali Rıza, İbrahim Çallı and many other maintenance of art works in to the Bank’s own corporate history, and to renowned artists. In order to exhibit the Bank’s collection. the economic development of Turkey. this invaluable collection, İşbank aims to transform the Bank’s historical building The İşbank Museum collection mainly in the Istanbul district of Beyoğlu into a consists of three-dimensional objects museum. that depict the transformation phases of banking in Turkey during the Republican After having been established at Mimar Period, and objects that have become an Sinan Fine Arts University (MSGSU), the indispensible part of people’s daily lives. Laboratory of Conservation and Restoration The pieces in the collection have been of Art Works immediately launched efforts obtained from İşbank’s branches. In order to for the care and maintenance of art works secure longevity of the pieces, international in İşbank’s collection. In addition, the museum protection standards are applied Conservation and Restoration of Art Works to preserve the collection for posterity. undergraduate program started accepting Workshops are held at the museum to students in the 2013-2014 academic year. provide children with a venue to learn about topics such as Budget Thrift and Saving, Museum Memory and Reading. Furthermore, financial literacy training is also provided for adults at the museum. In 2014, more than 12,000 individuals participated in workshops held at İşbank Museum. İşbank Museum welcomed almost 80,000 visitors in 2014. The total number of museum visitors since the initial opening of the museum has climbed to 400,000. 89 İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 İş Sanat Galleries Nizip district, is “Muzalar (Muse) House,” As a member of the Since 1976, İşbank has regularly opened which was discovered in 2007. Believing Board of Trustees of arts galleries to showcase pieces from the that excavations in the ancient city will Bank’s prized collection. The İş Sanat Kibele make valuable contributions to protecting the Istanbul Culture and (Istanbul) Gallery and İzmir Art Gallery our country’s cultural heritage, İşbank Arts Foundation (İKSV), exhibit paintings, sculptures and ceramics has agreed to sponsor excavation efforts İşbank provides support not just from established masters but also of Muzalar (Muse) House for a 5-year from promising newcomers. The works period. With İşbank’s support, excavations to international film, of the artists put on display at the Bank’s at Zeugma Ancient City’s Muzalar House theatre, jazz and classical galleries are included in the collection, were furthered in 2014; during the music festivals, and to the which is thus expanded further. The year, three new mosaics were identified collection aims to ensure that masters of and shared with the public. Among the International Istanbul Music the Turkish plastic arts are remembered. excavated mosaics, which were all very Festival organized by the The Kibele Arts Gallery located in the well-preserved, is a depiction of four Foundation. Head Offices building in Istanbul, hosted idealized women in the second guest room retrospective exhibitions of Eşref Üren, representing the mythological muses and Cihat Aral, Mehmet Mahir and Meriç Hızal in Hera, as known during ancient times. In the the 2013-2014 season with 21,187 visitors courtyard penthouse-roof the pictures of in total during this period. two mythological women heroine figures were found. In addition, in the courtyard In the 2013-2014 season, the İzmir Art of the house, Oceanos and Thetis figures Gallery staged seven exhibitions in which among numerous marine animals were also a large number of paintings, prints and excavated. ceramics went on display for visitors. Interest in these art works among visitors İstanbul Foundation for Culture and was very high. Besides exhibitions, the ArtsThe İstanbul Music Festival gallery organizes workshops to contribute As a member of the Board of Trustees of to the education of new generations about the Istanbul Foundation for Culture and the value of the arts. Arts (IKSV), İşbank provides support to international film, theatre, jazz and classical Excavation Sponsorship for “Muzalar music festivals organized by the Foundation. (Muse) House” in the Ancient City of Zeugma İşbank functioned as a sponsor for the One of the archaeological project sites “Sinfonia Varsovia & Julian Rachlin” situated on the banks of Birecik Reservoir, concert held in the Hagia Irene Museum in the southeastern province of Gaziantep’s as part of the 42nd Istanbul Music Festival on June 17, 2014. FOR THE SOCIETY Highlights from İşbank’s Contributions to the Society Since 1924 90 İşbank’s contribution to the society began in 1924 that marked its incorporation. Put together by referring to the visuals in our archives as well, İşbank’s social responsibility milestones are presented below. İŞBANK 1924 Karagöz Gazetesi Komandit Şti., a newspaper limited company, became a subsidiary of İşbank. 1928 First moneyboxes were started to be distributed. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 1929 In response to the Hilal-i Ahmer (the former name of the Turkish Red Crescent) Society’s request, the Bank donated 5,000 liras and the Bank’s employees were encouraged to become members of the society. 500 liras were granted to Türk Maarif Cemiyeti (the former name of the Education Association of Turkey TED) as financial aid. 1930 The Bank disbursed 2,000 liras to Milli Tasarruf Cemiyeti (National Thrift Association), 1,000 liras to the Darüşşafaka in line with the request of the Cemiyeti Tedrisiyei İslamiye (Islamic Education Society), 400 liras to Himaye-i Etfal Cemiyeti (Society for the Protection of Children), and 2,000 liras to the Milli Tasarruf Cemiyeti (National Thrift Society) as grants-in-aid. 1931 500 liras were granted to Darüşşafaka as financial aid. İş Kumbarası (İş Moneybox) children’s magazine started to be published. 1932 150 liras were donated to Darüşşafaka. 1933 Ankara Cinema became a subsidiary of İş Ltd. 1934 200 TL was granted as financial aid to Himaye-i Etfal Cemiyeti (Society for the Protection of Children). 1938 The Bank acquired the painting “Magnolias” by İbrahim Çallı. Scholarships were granted to five students at İstanbul University. 1939 Donation was made to the Impoverished Student Dormitory in Edirne. The education expenses of 83 students at Darüşşafaka were covered after the Erzincan earthquake. 1953 İclal Rıza Ersin became Turkey’s first woman bank manager, who was appointed to İşbank Nişantaşı Branch. 1956 İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları publishing house was established. 1965 The first edition of İş Dergisi (İş Magazine), which is the Bank’s internal publication that is still being published, was printed. 1969 Turkey’s first underwater color film was shot with the support of İşbank. Giving an account of the lives of spongers and directed by Behlül Dal, the film Vurgun (Depth Intoxication) had Nevin Bıyıkoğlu as screenwriter. 1971 Top 10 scorers in the university admission exams were given TL 5,000 prize money. After 1976, the award program was transformed into the project that awards students in the number that is equal to İşbank’s current age, and was named “Golden Youth”. 1973 On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Turkish Republic, the film Atatürk’ten Anılar (Memories from Atatürk) was overhauled and screened in and out of Turkey. An exhibition titled the “50th Anniversary of the Republic” was opened at Zafer Çarşısı in Ankara on occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Turkish Republic. 1974 Travelling exhibitions were launched under the title Anatolian Exhibitions. 1978 Travelling exhibitions were launched under the title Anatolian Exhibitions. The Bank commissioned the production of movies for children, which were screened in various cities. İş Sanat İzmir Art Gallery was opened. 91 İŞBANK 1979 Gratuitous educational grants were provided to 1,000 primary school, 1,000 secondary school and 1,000 high school students on occasion of the International Year of the Child, who were identified through a lot drawing carried out in the presence of a notary public. İş Bankası Kültür Yayınları was commissioned to SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 publish Keloğlan Masalları fairy tale book for distribution to village schools freeof-charge and were sent to branches. 1981 Sivas Student Dormitory was opened. Sivas Cumhuriyet University Sivas Student Dormitory was opened. 1999 Educational grants were started to be provided to students who suffered losses in the Marmara Earthquake. 2000 İş Sanat was established. Sakarya University İşbank Student Dormitory was opened. 2001 İş Sanat Kibele Gallery opened its doors with the Ayvazovsky exhibition. One of the Firefly Mobile Education Units of TEGV (Educational Volunteers Foundation of Turkey) began offering service with the sponsorship of İşbank. 2005 The Bank became the main sponsor of the Turkish Chess Federation. 2007 Türkiye İş Bankası Müzesi (İşbank Museum) was opened. Kocaeli University Faculty of Medicine Morphology Building was opened for service with the support of İşbank. 2008 “One Million Books, One Million Children” campaign was launched. An exhibition titled “The Story of a Moneybox” was put on display in the İşbank Museum. The social responsibility project “81 Students from 81 Cities” was initiated. The social responsibility project “81 Forests in 81 Cities” was commenced. 2009 The exhibition “Atatürk and the Republic in Pictures Building a Nation (19231938)” was opened in the İşbank Museum. The exhibition was later also put on display at Van Yüzüncü Yıl University. Leyla Gencer Children and Youth Unit was opened with the sponsorship of İşbank, where the State Opera and Ballet would stage plays for 2,000 children every week. 2010 The exhibition “Grand Bazaar in 10 Steps” was mounted at the İşbank Museum. The Moneybox Magazine started to be republished. The cooperation established with the Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University for the establishment of Turkey’s first Painting Conservation and Restoration Laboratory was publicly announced. 2011 “Writing History in Glass since 1935” was opened at the İşbank Museum. 2012 A student dormitory accommodating 300 students was built at the 100. Yıl University after the Van Earthquake. The Fine Arts Conservation and Restoration Laboratory set up in cooperation with the MSGSU was opened. The “House of Muses” excavation in the Ancient City of Zeugma was sponsored. 2013 Set up at the Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University (MSGSU), the Laboratory of Conservation and Restoration of Art Works immediately launched its efforts for the care and maintenance of the art works in İşbank’s collection. In line with the “81 Forests in 81 Cities” project conducted in Turkey, the “Türkiye İş Bankası Forest” was founded in T.R.N.C. İşbank signed a main sponsorship agreement with the T.R.N.C. Chess Federation. 2014 In addition to the support given to 81 pupils under the “81 Students from 81 Cities” project implemented in collaboration with Darüşşafaka Schools, five other children who lost their fathers in the Soma mining disaster were also accepted to the program in 2014 on a full scholarship. As part of İşbank’s main sponsorship of the Northern Cyprus Chess Federation, the first chess class was opened in the TRNC in 2014. 92 İŞBANK’S CORPORATE İŞBANK SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 COMMITTEE Aysel Tacer Board Member Ulaş Moğultay Board Member Born in 1959 in Siverek/Şanlıurfa, Aysel Born in 1979, İstanbul, Ulaş Moğultay Tacer graduated with a degree in business graduated from Boston University, administration from the Faculty of Economics Department. He began his Economics and Administrative Sciences at professional career as economic advisor at Marmara University. She began her career the World Bank in 2005. Mr. Moğultay was as a clerk at İşbank’s Taksim Branch in 1980. elected to the Board of Directors of İşbank Ms. Tacer was elected as a member to on March 28th, 2014, and to the Corporate İşbank’s Board of Directors on March 31st, Social Responsibility Committee on July 2011, as a member to the Corporate Social 24th, 2014. Responsibility Committee on April 1st, 2011, and as an alternate member of the Credit Committee on May 30th, 2011. Yalçın Sezen Senar Akkuş Suat E. Sözen Deputy Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Head of Corporate Communications Born in 1965 in İzmir, Yalçın Sezen Born in 1969 in Diyarbakır, Senar Akkuş Division completed a degree in public administration graduated with a degree in economics Born in 1970 in Kars, Suat E. Sözen from the Faculty of Economics and from the Faculty of Economics and graduated with a degree in economics Administrative Sciences at the Middle East Administrative Sciences at the Middle East from the Faculty of Economics and Technical University. He joined İşbank in Technical University. She joined İşbank Administrative Sciences at the Gazi 1987 as an assistant inspector trainee on as an assistant specialist at the Treasury University. He joined İşbank in 1991 as an the Board of Inspectors. Mr. Sezen was Department in 1991. Ms. Akkuş was assistant training specialist trainee in the appointed as a Deputy Chief Executive on appointed as a Deputy Chief Executive on Training Division. Mr. Sözen was appointed April 13th, 2011. April 13th, 2011. to the Corporate Communications Division on January 31st, 2008. ABOUT This is the 3rd Sustainability Report published by İşbank. The reporting process and determination of the report content are carried out based 93 on the: THIS REPORT This report is intended to provide our • “AA1000 APS Standard”, a widelyİŞBANK stakeholders with transparent, accurate recognized standard developed by and comparable information regarding Account Ability, and grounded on the İşbank’s activities and performance results, principles of “comprehensiveness, within the framework of sustainability and prioritization and accountability” and corporate social responsibility. The report is • “GRI Sustainability Reporting Principles” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 also aimed at displaying the economic and The report content was prepared social implications of our activities. by taking into account the topics that are essential and preferential This second Sustainability Report released in terms of the İşbank’s strategy, by İşbank covers the period January 1st as well as stakeholder reviews and December 31st, unless otherwise stated. recommendations gathered through The report is published annually and the various forms and channels of Bank aims to release the next report in communication. Please refer to the March 2016. section, “İşbank’s Stakeholders”, page 20-22. Various sections of the report include preand/or post-reporting period data and/or Statement of Compliance with information for the purpose of: GRI Guidelines • establishing relevant trends, This report has been prepared in • communicating developments and accordance with the G3 Global Reporting progress in relation to the headings Initiative (GRI) Guidelines version 3.1 İşbank addressed, self-declares its corporate disclosure • bringing forth the permanence of process to GRI Application Level A. İşbank’s performance. The data herein will provide a benchmark for the The report’s GRI approval process is sustainability reports to be released by completed. İşbank in the future. UN Global Compact Communication on Report content Progress The content of this report is limited to the This report also represents the annual activities and operations of İşbank, and Communication on Progress 2014 within excludes the Bank’s subsidiaries. the scope of the UN Global Compact, which İşbank is a signatory of. The UN The financial data set forth in the section, Global Compact Communication on İşbank in Numbers (page 10-15), and Progress 2014 is provided on page 94-95 financial data for the reporting period in this report to ensure the follow-up of reflect İşbank’s consolidated figures as of disclosures made by the Bank in the context December 31st, 2014. of the primary elements of the Global Compact, including labor force, human Method for defining the report content rights, anti-fraud, the environment, and the This report tackled, as a matter of associated ten principles. priority, the topics identified as a result of interviews with İşbank’s senior and middle Publication of the report managers and of working meetings, as The İşbank Sustainability Report has been well as the feedback from stakeholders. published in Turkish and English. The Findings from the day-to-day operations of report’s electronic version is accessible on the Bank’s different units also served as a the Bank’s website at www.isbank.com.tr. valuable database for this study. 94 UN GLOBAL Principle İşbank’s Approach Section on Page Additional No COMPACT 2014 Explanations İŞBANK COMMUNICATION The business world ought to İşbank acts in accordance with domestic and international legislation regulating For Our Employees 56-68 support and respect human rights standards, including the ON PROGRESS internationally UN Declaration on Human Rights. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 accepted human 2014 rights standards. The business world İşbank supports protection of human For Our 56-68 shall not tolerate rights on a global scale. Employees human rights abuses. The business world İşbank has accepted the freedom of For Our 56-68 ought to support its employees to organize in trade Employees the right of forming unions and has recognized the right trade unions and to collective bargaining. In this vein, recognize the İşbank is an exemplary corporation in right of collective Turkey. As of the date of this report, bargaining. 24,308 employees are part of the collective bargaining agreement. İşbank employees are members of the BasiSen trade union. The business world Equal opportunities and diversity For Our 56-68 ought to prevent constitute the main pillars of İşbank’s Employees any form of forced human resources policy. Granting labor. equal opportunities to all employees is one of the main responsibilities of İşbank. İşbank, which values diversity in its workforce, perceives diversity as an integral component of the bank’s intellectual capital. This approach enables development and constant improvement of a modern working environment at İşbank that encourages thinking and acting outside of the box, and fosters innovation and personal development. In addition, İşbank stands strongly against any form of discrimination in the workplace, forced labor and child labor in Turkey and around the world. The business world İşbank is against child labor and For Our 56-68 ought to stand supports all initiatives taken for its Employees against child labor. elimination. The business İşbank is against discrimination in hiring For Our 56-68 95 world ought to and work processes and supports all Employees fight against initiatives taken in this direction in the İŞBANK discrimination in business world. hiring and work processes. The business world İşbank intensively continues efforts For Our Earth 70-80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 ought to support all related to the protection of the approaches directed environment by staying in close contact towards prevention with relevant stakeholders. of environmental problems and protection of the environment. The business world İşbank supports numerous activities For Our 34-54 ought to support and developments in Turkey in order to Customers 70-80 all activities and increase environmental responsibility For Our Earth developments and raise awareness on environmental that will increase problems in Turkey. responsibility towards the environment. The business world İşbank supports development and For Our 34-54 ought to support expansion of environmentally Customers the development friendly technologies, mainly through and expansion of renewable energy and energy environmentally efficiency projects, by financing friendly different sectors and by developing technologies. targeted products. The business İşbank fully, rightly and efficiently For Our 34-54 world, ought to supports the fight against corruption Customers 26-32 fight against any and terrorism financing in the Corporate form of corruption, framework of the established national Governance including bribery legislation and the Bank’s own policies. at İşbank and racketeering. 96 G3.1 CONTENT INDEX İŞBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Standard Disclosures Part 1-Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Level of Disclosure Description Reporting Location of Disclosure 1.1. Statement from the most senior decisionFully CEO’s Message pg. 4-5 maker of the organization 1.2. Description of key impacts, risks and Fully Chairman’s Message pg. 2-3 opportunities CEO’s Message pg. 4-5 2. Organizational Profile Profile Level of Disclosure Description Reporting Location of Disclosure 2.1. Name of the organization Fully Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. 2.2. Primary brands, products and/or services Fully Who we are? pg. 7-14 http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/Pages/aboutisbank.aspx 2.3. Operational structure of the organization, Fully Corporate Profile, pg. 8-9 including main divisions, operating İşbank and its Subsidiaries, pg. 14-15 companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Fully İş Kuleleri 34330 Levent/İstanbul 2.5. Location of organization’s headquarters Fully Activity map of İşbank, pg. 12-13 2.6. Nature of ownership and legal form Fully Shareholding Structure, pg. 10 2.7. Markets served(including geographic Fully Corporate Profile, pg. 8-9 breakdown, sectors served and types of İşbank in Numbers, pg. 10-19 customers/beneficiaries) İşbank and its Subsidiaries, pg. 15 2.8. Scale of the reporting organization Fully Corporate Profile, pg. 8-9, 14 İşbank in Numbers, pg. 10-13 İşbank and its Subsidiaries, pg. 14-15 2.9. Significant changes during the reporting Fully Within the reporting period, 49 new branches and 622 new 97 period regarding size, structure and ATMs started providing services while 969 new İşbankers ownership were employed. İŞBANK 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Fully For detailed information, visit the below web address and see İşbank 2014 Annual Report pg.24, pg.28, pg.37, pg.40: http://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/hakkimizda/yatirimciiliskileri/finansal-bilgiler/yillik-ve-ara-donem-faaliyet SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 raporlari/Documents/FaaliyetRaporu2014.pdf 3.Report Parameters Profile Level of Disclosure Description Reporting Location of Disclosure 3.1. Reporting period (e.g. fiscal calendar year) Fully 2014 for information provided 3.2. Date of most recent previous report(if any) Fully 2013 3.3. Reporting cycle (annual, biennial etc.) Fully Annual 3.4. Contact point for questions regarding the Fully You can submit your additional information requests report or its content within the scope of the Sustainability Report via kurumsal. iletisim@isbank.com.tr 3.5. Process for defining report content Fully İşbank’s Sustainability Approach pg. 17-19, About this report pg. 93 İşbank made a prioritization analysis in interaction with its shareholders and determined the content of the 2014 Sustainability Report. Following topics were determined by taking Bank’s priorities and shareholders’ opinions into consideration: • Effective corporate governance • Customers (responsible products and services) • Employees • World (effective processes and operations in terms of ecosystem) • Corporate social responsibility Findings of the Prioritization Analysis and the draft report were presented to the İşbank Top Management and the feedback they gave was used in finalizing the report. 3.6. Boundary of the report (e.g. countaries, Fully The content of this report is limited with the İşbank’s divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint activities in Turkey. Thus, it does not cover the subsidiaries, ventures, suppliers) associate partners and branches of the Bank outside the country. 3.7. State any specific limitations on the scope Fully See GRI Index, Report Parameters, Indicator 3.6. or boundary of the report. 3.8. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Fully This report does not cover the subsidiaries of the Bank. subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organization 98 G3.1 Content Index İŞBANK 3.9. Data measurement techniques and Fully In the information collection process, İşbank uses various the bases of calculations, including standards and data collection systems, and implements SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 assumptions and techniques underlying a meticulous internal and external audit method. estimations applied to the compilation of Furthermore; as well as implementing international the Indicators and other information in the reporting standards, the Bank fully complies with the report applicable laws and regulations in Turkey. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any reFully In the amended sections, footnotes are added to the tables. statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g mergers, acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11. Significant changes from previous Fully No amendments were made in reporting period. reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12. Table identifying the location of the Fully See GRI Index, Report Parameters, Indicator 3.1. Standard Disclosures in the report 3.13. Policy and current practice with regard to Fully Consulting, content development and editorial services for seeking external assurance for the report the Sustainability Report were provided by Finar Kurumsal in conformity with the GRI 3.1 Reporting Principles. Specific financial performance indicators were independently audited by KPMG. For more detailed information, see İşbank 2014 Annual Report: http://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/hakkimizda/yatirimciiliskileri/finansal-bilgiler/yillik-ve-ara-donem-faaliyetraporlari/Documents/FaaliyetRaporu2014.pdf 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Profile Disclosure Description Reported Explanation 4.1. Governance structure of the organization Fully Organization Chart of İşbank pg. 24-25 ,including committees under the highest Corporate Governance pg. 26-29 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Fully Chairman of the Board of Directors is a non-executive governance body is also an executive member. officer 4.3. For organizations that have a unitary board Fully Corporate Governance pg. 26-29 99 structure, state the number and gender As of 24.01.2014, Hüseyin Yalçın is an “Independent of members of the highest governance Member” in the İşbank Board of Directors. body that are independent and/or nonFor detailed information please look at the Annual Report İŞBANK executive members 2014 of İşbank http://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/hakkimizda/ yatirimci-iliskileri/finansal-bilgiler/yillik-ve-ara-donemfaaliyetraporlari/Documents/FaaliyetRaporu2014.pdf SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 4.4. Mechanisms for shareholders and Fully Mechanisms for the communication of İşbank employees’ employees to provide recommendations or opinions and suggestions pg. 64 direction to the highest governance body 4.5. Linkage between compensation for Fully Corporate Governance pg. 26-29 members of the highest governance body. For detailed information about Profit Distribution Policy of Senior managers and executives(including İşbank: departure arrangements) and the http://www.isbank.com.tr/EN/about-isbank/investororganization’s performance(including relations/corporate-governance/dividend-distributionsocial and environmental performance) policy/Pages/dividend-distribution-policy.aspx 4.6. Processes in place for the highest Fully Corporate Governance pg. 26-29 governance body to ensure conflicts of For detailed information, see İşbank Articles of Association interest are avoided. given in the link below. http://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/hakkimizda/yatirimciiliskileri/kurumsal-bilgiler/ana-sozlesme/Sayfalar/anasozlesme.aspx 4.7. Process for determining the composition, Fully Corporate Governance pg. 26-29 qualifications, and expertise of the For detailed information, see İşbank 2014 Annual Report members of the highest governance pg.60-61 “Committees That Carry Out Activities At İşbank” body and its committees, including and pg.74 “Activity Principles of the Board of Directors”: any consideration of gender and other http://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/hakkimizda/yatirimciindicators of diversity. iliskileri/finansal-bilgiler/yillik-ve-ara-donem-faaliyetraporlari/Documents/FaaliyetRaporu2014.pdf 4.8. Process for determining the compositions, Fully Vision, Objectives, Values and Strategies of İşbank pg. 7, qualifications and expertise of the Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) members of the highest governance pg. 19 body and its committees including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity 4.9. Procedures of the highest governance Fully Corporate Governance pg. 26-29, body for overseeing the organization’s İşbank’s Sustainability Approach pg. 17-19 identification and management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles 4.10. Processes for evaluating the highest Fully This issue is one of the tasks of the İşbank Corporate governance body’s own performance, Governance Committee which was established in 2013. particularly with respect to economic, For detailed information please see: Corporate Governance: environmental and social performance pg. 26-29 100 G3.1 Content Index İŞBANK 4.11 Explanation of whether or how the Fully In all its activities, İşbank supports the precautionary precautionary approach or principle is approach of the UN Global Compact. In conformity with this SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 addressed by the organization principle, the Bank has adopted a risk based approach that is implemented in its activities. 4.12. Externally developed economic, Fully İşbank’s Stakeholders, pg. 20-21 environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13. Memberships in associations(such as Fully İşbank’s Stakeholders, pg. 20-21 industry associations and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: •Has positions in governance bodies; • Participates in projects or committees; •Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or •Views membership as strategic 4.14. List of stakeholders engaged by the Fully İşbank’s Stakeholders, pg. 20-21 organization 4.15. Basis for identification and selection of Fully İşbank’s Stakeholders, pg. 20-21 stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Fully İşbank’s Stakeholders, pg. 20-21 including frequency of engagement by İşbank’s Sustainability Approach pg. 17-19 type and by stakeholder group 4.17. Key topics and concerns that have been Fully Main issues about the shareholders’ participation are raised through stakeholder engagement, specified in detail in the following sections: and how the organization has responded For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 to those key topics and concerns, including For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 through its reporting For Our Earth pg. 70-80 For Our Society, pg. 82-91 Standard Disclosures Part II Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Profile Disclosure Description Reported Location of Disclosure Aspects Product Portfolio Fully İşbank in Numbers, pg. 10-13 For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 FS1 Policies with specific environmental and Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) social components applied to business pg. 19 lines FS2 Processes for assessing and screening Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) 101 environmental and social risks in business pg. 19 lines İşbank’s Sustainability Approach pg. 17-19 İŞBANK FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) implementation of and compliance with pg. 19 environmental and social requirements İşbank’s Sustainability Approach pg. 17-19 included in agreements or transactions A model to calculate environmental risks: ERET pg. 78-79 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 FS4 Process(es) for improving staff Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) competency to implement the pg. 19 environmental and social policies and İşbank’s Sustainability Approach pg. 17-19 procedures as applied to business lines For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/ Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) business partners regarding environmental pg. 19 and social risks and opportunities A model to calculate environmental risks: ERET pg. 78-79 İşbank’s Stakeholders, pg. 20-21 Audits Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) pg. 19 Active Fully Within the reporting period, there were no significant Ownership issues that would require İşbank to develop a voting policy in its subsidiaries where it has the right to vote or right to advice on voting. DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Economic performance Fully İşbank in Numbers, pg. 10-13 Market Presence Fully Corporate Profile, pg. 8-9 Aspects Indirect Economic Impacts Fully For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 For Our Earth pg. 70-80 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Materials Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 Energy Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 Water Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 Biodiversity Not Applicable Emissions, effluents and waste Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 Aspects Products and Services Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 Compliance Fully Corporate Governance pg. 26-29 Transport Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 Overall Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 102 G3.1 Content Index İŞBANK DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Employment Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 Labor/Management Relations Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 Occupational Health and Safety Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 Aspects Training and Education Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 Equal remuneration of women and men Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Investment and Procurement practices Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 Non-discrimination Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 Freedom of association and collective Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 bargaining Child Labor Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 Aspects Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 Security Practices Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 Indigenous Rights Not Applicable Assessment Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 Remediation Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Local Communities Fully For Our Society, pg. 80-91 Corruption Fully For Our Society, pg. 80-91 Aspects Public Policy Fully For Our Society, pg. 80-91 Anti-competitive behavior Fully For Our Society, pg. 80-91 Compliance Fully For Our Society, pg. 80-91 DMA PR Disclosure on Management 103 Approach PR Customer Health and Safety Fully For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 İŞBANK Aspects Product and service labelling Fully For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of Fully Financial Awareness Process, financial products and services pg. 34-54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Marketing Communications Fully For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 Customer Privacy Fully For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 Compliance Fully For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 Standard Disclosures Part III – Performance Indicators Product Portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business Fully Credit Portfolio of İşbank, pg. 36 lines by specific region, size( e.g. micro/ SME/large) and by sector FS7 Monetary value of products and services Fully İşbank in Numbers, pg. 36 designed to deliver a specifics social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and Fully Products within the scope of Environmental Sustainability, services designed to deliver a specific pg. 51-52 environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Audit FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) assess implementation of social and pg. 19 environmental policies and risk assessment A model to calculate environmental risks: ERET pg. 78-79 procedures Active Ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) in the institution’s portfolio with which the pg. 19 reporting organization has interacted on A model to calculate environmental risks: ERET pg. 78-79 environmental or social issues FS 11 Percentage of assets subject to positive Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) and negative environmental or social pg. 19 screening A model to calculate environmental risks: ERET pg. 78-79 FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental Fully İşbank’s Sustainability Approach, pg. 17-19 and social issues for shares over which the İşbank and its Subsidiaries, pg. 14-15 reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting 104 G3.1 Content Index İŞBANK Economic SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Profile Disclosure Description Reported Explanation Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and Fully Key Financial Highlights, pg. 10-13 distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and government EC2 Financial implications and other risks Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 benefit plan obligation EC4 Significant financial assistance received Fully İşbank is not utilizing any government incentives or from the government financial supports. Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of Fully Relations with Suppliers, pg. 20 spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Fully Having a widespread branch network, İşbank pays utmost of senior management hired from the attention to recruiting from local communities. İşbank’s local community at significant locations of managerial staffs including the General Manager, Assistant operation General Managers and managers are all Turkish citizens. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Fully For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 investments and services provided For Our Society, pg. 80-91 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant Fully For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 indirect economic impacts, including the For Our Society, pg. 80-91 extent of impacts Environmental 105 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 İŞBANK EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Partially For Our Earth pg. 70-80 recycled input materials Energy SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Partially For Our Earth pg. 70-80 source EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 efficiency improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 or renewable energy based products For Our Customers, pg. 34-54 and services and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 consumption and reductions achieved Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Not Applicable withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Not Applicable recycled and reused Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Fully İşbank does not own or rent any land property in or near the managed in, or adjacent to protected “protected areas” and “areas with high biodiversity”. areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of Fully Within the scope of the “81 Forests in 81 Cities” project of activities, products and services on İşbank, 2.205.000 young trees were planted. biodiversity in protected areas and For Our Society, pg. 87 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected and restored Fully See GRI Index, Report Parameters, Indicator 3.6. EN14 Strategies, current actions and Not Applicable future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List Species and Not Applicable national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk 106 G3.1 Content Index İŞBANK Emissions, Effluents and Waste SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 emissions by weight EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas Partially For Our Earth pg. 70-80 emissions by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 emissions and reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Partially For Our Earth pg. 70-80 substances by weight EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air Not Applicable emissions by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 destination EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 disposal method EN23 Total number and volume of significant Fully Within the reporting period, there were no significant leaks spills caused by İşbank. EN24 Weight of transported, exported, Not Applicable imported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I,II, III and VIII and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status and Not Applicable biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Fully For Our Earth pg. 70-80 packaging materials reclaimed by category Compliance 107 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and Fully Within the reporting period, there were no financial/nontotal number of non-monetary sanction financial penalties given as a result of not complying with İŞBANK for non-compliance with environmental environmental laws and regulations. laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of Not Applicable transporting products and other goods SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 and materials used for the organization’s operations and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental protection Partially For Our Earth pg. 70-80 expenditures and investments by type For Our Society pg. 80-91 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 employment contract and region, broken For Our Society, pg. 80-91 down by gender LA2 Total number and rate of new employee Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 hires and turnover by age group, gender and region LA3 Benefits provided to full time employees Not applicable that are not provided to temporary or part time employees by major operations LA15 Return to work and retention rates after Partially For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 parental leave, by gender Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Fully Every two years, a Collective Bargaining Agreement is collective bargaining agreements signed between İşbank and BASİSEN. The Collective Bargaining Agreement covering the period between 01.01.2014 and 31.03.2016 was signed on the 26th of June 2014. LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of workforce represented in Not Applicable formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs 108 G3.1 Content Index İŞBANK LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Fully Within the reporting period there were no injuries, lost days and absenteeism and a number no work accidents that resulted in death, while there SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 of work-related fatalities by region and were no working days lost and no absenteeism due to by gender occupational diseases. LA8 Education, training, counselling, Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 prevention and risk control programs in place to assist workforce, their families and community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 formal agreements with trade unions Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per Fully Training Activities at İşbank, pg. 56-68 employee by gender and by employee category LA11 Programs of skill management and Fully Training Activities at İşbank, pg. 56-68 lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 regular performance and career development reviews by gender Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 women to men by employee category by significant locations of operation Social: Human Rights 109 Investment and Procurement Practices İŞBANK HR1 Percentage and total number of Fully Vision, Objectives, Values and Strategies of İşbank, pg. 7 significant investment agreements İşbank’s Sustainability Approach pg. 17-19 and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns or that have undergone human rights SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, Fully Relations with Suppliers, pg. 20 contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination HR4 The total number of incidents of Fully Within the reporting period, there were no issues of any discrimination and corrective actions kind of discrimination at İşbank. taken Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 identified in which the right to exercise There were no issues/cases in 2014. freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child Labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 identified as having significant risk for There were no issues/cases in 2014. incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to effective abolition of child labor Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 identified as having significant risk for There were no issues/cases in 2014. incidents of forced and compulsory labor, measures to contribute to elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor HR8 Percentage of security personnel Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 trained in the organization’s procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations 110 G3.1 Content Index İŞBANK HR9 Indigenous Rights Not applicable SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of Fully Within the reporting period, none of the activities of İşbank operations that have been subject to were investigated or evaluated within the scope of human human rights reviews and/or impact rights. assessments Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human Fully Within the reporting period, there was no breach of rights field, addressed and resolved human rights. through formal grievance mechanisms Social: Society Local Community SO1 (FSSS) Nature, scope and effectiveness of any Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) programs and practices that assess pg. 19 and manage the impacts of operations A model to calculate environmental risks: ERET pg. 78-79 on communities, including entering, operating and exiting SO1 (FSSS) Percentage of operation with implemented Fully For Our Society, pg. 80-91 local community engagement, impact For Our Customers pg. 34-54 assessments and development programs FS13 Access points in low-populated or Fully With its 1.333 branches in Turkey, İşbank has the largest economically disadvantaged areas by branch network among the private banks while with its type 6.290 ATMs throughout the country it has the widest ATM network in the sector. FS14 Initiatives to improve Access to financial Fully For Our Customers p. 34-54 services for disadvantaged people SO9 Operations with significant potential Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) and actual negative impacts on local pg. 19 communities A model to calculate environmental risks: ERET pg. 78-79 S010 Prevention and mitigation measures Fully Environmental and Social Management Strategy (ESMS) implemented in operations with pg. 19 significant potential and actual negative A model to calculate environmental risks: ERET pg. 78-79 impacts on local communities Corruption 111 SO2 Percentage and total number of business Fully Corporate Governance at İşbank, pg. 26-29 units analyzed by risks related to Risk Management at İşbank pg. 30-32 İŞBANK corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Partially For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Fully For Our Employees, pg. 56-68 corruption Risk Management at İşbank pg. 30-22 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation Fully İşbank’s Stakeholders, İşbank’s Memberships pg. 20-22 in public policy development and lobbying S06 Total value of financial and in kind Not applicable contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions by country Anti-competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiFully For detailed information please see page 147 of Annual competitive behavior, anti-trust and Report on the link http://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/ monopoly practices and their outcomes hakkimizda/yatirimci-iliskileri/finansal-bilgiler/yillik-ve-aradonem-faaliyetraporlari/Documents/FaaliyetRaporu2014. pdf Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and Fully For detailed information please see page 142 of Annual total number of non-monetary sanctions Report on the link http://www.isbank.com.tr/TR/ for non-compliance with laws and hakkimizda/yatirimci-iliskileri/finansal-bilgiler/yillik-ve-araregulations donem-faaliyet-raporlari/Documents/FaaliyetRaporu2014. pdf Social: Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and Partially For Our Customers pg. 34-54 safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of nonNot applicable compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 112 G3.1 Content Index İŞBANK Product and service labelling SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 PR3 Type of product and service information Partially For Our Customers pg. 34-54 required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of nonFully There were no complaints received by İşbank within the compliance with regulations and reporting period. voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer Fully For Our Customers pg. 34-54 satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by Fully For Our Customers pg. 34-54 type of beneficiary. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, Fully Vision, Objective, Values and Strategies of İşbank pg. 7, standards, and voluntary codes related For Our Customers pg. 34-54 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of nonFully There were no complaints received by İşbank within the compliance with regulations and reporting period. voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated Fully There were no complaints received by İşbank within the complaints regarding breaches of reporting period. customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Fully There were no complaints received by İşbank within the noncompliance with laws and regulations reporting period. concerning the provision and use of products and services. www.isbank.com.tr TÜRKİYE İŞ BANKASI A.Ş. Head Office İş Towers 34330 Levent/İstanbul-TURKEY Phone: (+90 212) 316 00 00 Fax: (+90 212) 316 04 04 Call Center: (+90850) 724 0 724 E-mail: 4440202@isbank.com.tr This report has been published using 100% recycled paper.
