United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress 2015 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR STANDARDS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION CORRUPTION PREVENTION The Quality Connection 3 DECLARATION OF SUPPORT 4 THE ­L EONI GROUP 6 HUMAN RIGHTS 8 LABOUR STANDARDS 10 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 13 CORRUPTION PREVENTION Declaration of support | UN Global Compact 3 Declaration of support As a globally active company, L­ EONI has made it its mission to ensure observance of human rights, and has recognised labour standards at our 82 subsidiaries in 31 countries. This form of responsibility was already taken on in 2003 with the publication of the L­ EONI Social Charter, continued in 2007 with the L­ EONI Code of Ethics and taken further forward in 2011 by joining the UN Global Compact. The obligation under the German Corporate Governance Code, the ­LEONI Social Charter and the L­ EONI Code of Ethics constitutes a solid basis for all of L­ EONI’s activities and its commitment to fulfilling the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Sustainability has especially high priority for L­ EONI. It means both a long-term business outlook and integration of ecological and social aspects into our management systems. We regard this as a contribution both to safeguarding our Company‘s future and towards the sustainable growth of business and society. This is why we have been participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2007 and why we have certified our principal production facilities in accordance with the ISO 14001 environmental standard. It is also why we launched our Green Technology Initiative in 2009, with which we are advancing towards being the leading manufacturer of cables for environmentally friendly technologies. Prevention of corruption is managed as a key compliance field in our Compliance Management System. Through this, L­ EONI ensures that its anti-corruption conduct is in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. This L­ EONI Global Compact Communication on Progress documents the key steps we made in 2014 towards upholding the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and details our measures and results. ­LEONI is committed to ongoing support of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and to continual improvement in applying those principles. Nuremberg, July 2015 ­LEONI AG The Management Board Dieter Bellé Dr Andreas Brand Dr Frank Hiller WIRES CABLES CABLE SYSTEMS COMPONENTS WIRING SYSTEMS OPTICAL FIBERS The LEONI Group | UN Global Compact 5 The ­LEONI Group Leading cable systems manufacturer with a global footprint ­LEONI is a global supplier of wires, optical fibers, cables and cable systems as well as a provider of related services to the automotive sector and other industries. The group of companies, which is listed on the German MDAX, employs about 70,000 people in 31 countries and generated consolidated sales of EUR 4.1 billion in 2014. Established nearly 100 years ago, the company has now become one of the world’s largest and most success­ful cable manufacturers. In addition to tailor-made cable solutions, the Group can increasingly offer its customers complete systems with perfectly harmonised components – from the cable itself to all the required connectors and fixings. The ongoing growth of the company as a provider of development work and systems is a significant trend in this respect. Experience in and presence on the markets of the future ­LEONI focuses its business on the core markets of Automotive & Commercial Vehicles, Industry & Healthcare, Communication & Infrastructure, Electrical Appliances as well as Wires & Strands. Our customers include wellknown names such as ABB, BMW, Bosch, Continental, Deutsche Telekom, EADS, Ericsson, Fiat, GM, Hyundai, IBM, Jaguar / Landrover, Johnson Controls, MAN, Mercedes-Benz, Meyer Werft, Philips, PSA Peugeot Citroen, Renault / Nissan, Shell, Siemens, Solarworld, Volvo and VW. The company already leads the world market as a supplier of single-core automotive cables, while in the wiring systems market it occupies first place in Europe and fourth place in the world. In addition, L­ EONI is one of the leading manufacturers throughout Europe in all of its other business areas. Geared to global trends The company intends to benefit more from global trends in the future. These often present companies with major challenges, as they frequently entail greater consumption of resources and cause more damage to the environment. At the same time, however, they also provide some major opportunities. L­ EONI is therefore preparing itself, its products and services for the expected changes in demography, ecology, mobility, globali­sation, industrialisation and urbanisation. Tradition and progress since the 16th century A small wire factory in Franconia, Bavaria, laid the foundation for today’s global player L­ EONI back in 1569. It was at this time that Frenchman Anthoni Fournier and a handful of staff in Nuremberg began to produce the finest gold and silver threads, known as Lyonese wares, for precious embroidered textiles. His sons opened further workshops in the region. L­ EONIsche Werke Roth-Nürnberg AG emerged from these beginnings in 1917. Today, L­ EONI still upholds the ability to change, and maintains the keen sense for trends in the market and customer requirements that have always been among the key characteristics of the company, which was renamed ­LEONI AG in 1999. At the same time, long-standing values serve as a guide for acting in a predictable and responsible manner. » Further information is available from the L­ EONI w ­ ebsite at www.leoni.com 6 Human rights PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence; and PRINCIPLE 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ­LEONI supports and respects the protection of internationally recognised human rights within its sphere of influence and ensures that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. ­LEONI Social Charter and L­ EONI Code of Ethics ­LEONI AG was one of the first companies anywhere in the world to draft a Social Charter, back in April 2003. This Charter applies directly to all ­LEONI Group companies worldwide. Ensuring employee and human rights as well as assuming social responsibility have always been integral elements of our corporate policy. ­­LEONI’s European Works Council and the International Metalworkers’ Federation (IMF) are co-signatories to this ­Charter. In the L­ EONI Social Charter, the Group commits to respecting internationally recognised human rights and to support their observance. We also encourage our business partners to respect this declaration in their own corporate policies. We regard this as a beneficial basis for reciprocal business relationships. In March 2007, L­ EONI also introduced its own Code of Ethics. This Code of Ethics is binding for all employees of the L­ EONI Group worldwide and has been made accessible to every employee. The Code of Ethics describes in unequivocal terms the values and conditions of responsible and integral behaviour that have always guided L­ EONI. It is essential that ­LEONI employees act in compliance with the internal regulations and the statutory regulations of the legal system that applies to them. When joining » The L­ EONI Social Charter ­LEONI, all new employees must confirm through a relevant paragraph in their employment contract that and the L­ EONI Code of Ethics are published on the L­ EONI website they will comply with the L­ EONI Code of Ethics. www.­l eoni.com. Courses on ­LEONI Code of Ethics compliance The training courses on the L­ EONI Code of Ethics have been running since 2011 on a globally available training platform in 14 different languages. Approximately 13,000 employees were trained through these courses via email in 2014. With these courses, L­ EONI can ensure that the employees trained on them are aware of the particular importance of protecting international human rights and can act accordingly. Additional clauses in all T&Cs further obligate all of L­ EONI’s suppliers to observe the protection of human rights. Human rights | UN Global Compact 7 Health and safety at work Acting sustainably ensures our company’s future. Specific principles for action are embedded in our guidelines for environmental, occupational and health protection to safeguard everyone who works for or with L­ EONI. These include avoiding injury to or illness of our employees by preventive detection of risks and effectively averting any threats. Acting in a safety-conscious manner is part of every employee’s job. Compliance with all legal obligations on safety at work and other requirements is the basis for our activities and the applicable national standards are minimum requirements in this respect. L­ EONI undertakes to observe all pertinent laws and directives on safety at work as well as internal rules of conduct. ­L EONI GUIDELINES UND SYSTEMS RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES ■■ The obligation to uphold internationally recog■■ Every L­ EONI employee is, upon being recruited, nised human rights is laid down in the L­ EONI handed or given access to the L­ EONI Code of Code of Ethics and the ­LEONI Social Charter. Ethics. ■■ The e-learning module on the L­ EONI Code of ■■ Around 13,000 employees and managers worldEthics contributes to sharpening the awareness wide have completed an e-learning course on among management and staff of human rights. “Compliance Basics and ­LEONI Code of Ethics”. ■■ Embedded in our guidelines for environmental, occupational and health protection are principles for action that ensure the health and safety of everyone who works for or with ­LEONI. 8 Labour standards PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, in addition to upholding PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labour and PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ­LEONI is committed with worldwide effect to providing a working environment for its employees that is free of discrimination in both employment and occupation, and in which there is freedom of association. The right to collective bargaining is effectively recognised. L­ EONI strictly rejects child and all forms of forced labour. These principles are codified in the L­ EONI Social Charter. Measures Part of the annual Control Self Assessment of managers pertaining to L­ EONI’s Social Charter involves confirming at all of the Group companies that all employees are of at least the minimum age under local law and are at least 15 years old. The Control Self Assessment also proves that there is no discrimination when employing new staff or in the employment conditions. Furthermore, breaches of these principles require Human Resource Reporting and can also be reported directly to our Chief Compliance Officer via our internal compliance process. In addition, the Internal Audit department checks this on a random basis as a separate control factor of our Internal Control System (ICS). We received no reports of any breaches of this kind in 2014. Supply chain management In order to apply the principles of the UN Global Compact in everyday work, it is of great importance to L­ EONI that social responsibility is also taken into account in the context of supply relationships. This applies not only within ­LEONI, but also to suppliers’ operations and for the Company in general. Since 2006, our W ­ iring Systems Division has therefore been using a supplier self-audit to check potential suppliers in the selection process in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. The supplier will receive approval to supply only if either the L­ EONI Social Charter and the Code of Ethics or the principles of the UN Global Compact are accepted. In addition to our Social Charter, which suppliers were already required to accept in the past as part of our » Note item “Social responsibility” General Terms and Conditions, the principles of the UN Global Compact have also been adopted in our T&Cs. in our General Terms and Conditions: http://www.leoni.com/AGB.179.0.html Here we draw express attention to the fact that, in the event of any serious or repeated breach of the principles as detailed in the T&Cs, L­ EONI is entitled to terminate the supply relationship without notice. Labour standards | UN Global Compact 9 Diversity Due to our Group’s worldwide operations, our workforce includes people from many nations, cultures and ways of life. With facilities in Egypt, Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Romania, Russia and the USA, among other places, virtually all of the world‘s religions, including Christianity, Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism, are represented. To promote acceptance of this diversity, L­ EONI regularly provides training on the General Equal Treatment Act. Social commitment ­LEONI commits itself with donations for and sponsorship of various social projects, where we give priority to sustainability and a regional approach. In 2014, we made donations to children’s aid organisations, sports associations, crèches and orphanages, to name just a few projects. The largest individual donation, amounting to EUR 50,000, went to two social projects in Tunisia. ­L EONI GUIDELINES UND SYSTEMS RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES ■■ ­LEONI provides training on the General Act on ■■ Approximately 13,000 employees and manEqual Treatment to ensure a working environagers have completed the e-learning module ment that is free of discrimination. “Compliance Basics and ­LEONI Code of Ethics” and have received training on those principles of the L­ EONI Social Charter that concern labour standards. ■■ The right of association as well as equal oppor■■ As at the end of 2014, the proportion of women tunity and equal treatment are assured in in our entire workforce around the world had ­LEONI’s Social Charter. fallen slightly to 53%. ■■ Through participating in the Diversity Charter ■■ In pleasing contrast, however, the proportion ­LEONI ensures diversity and mutual respect. of female employees in management positions had risen slightly to 28%. ■■ In the selection of suppliers, a Control Self Assessment ensures that suppliers accept the principles of the UN Global Compact or alternatively the ­LEONI Social Charter and the ­LEONI Code of Ethics. ■■ Our principles on observing labour standards are also embedded in our T&Cs. 10 Environmental protection PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ­LEONI supports protection of the environment with a precautionary approach and has several ongoing initiatives to promote greater awareness of responsibility for the environment. We therefore encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ­LEONI regards environmental protection as a primary corporate objective. Our environmental management is geared to keeping the impact of all our processes on nature as minor as possible. The principles of our environmental policy also play a role in the selection of our suppliers. Initiatives GREEN TECHNOLOGY At L­ EONI, this concept covers all products, system solutions and services that make the use of energy more efficient and easier on resources, thereby reducing emissions and pollution of the environment. L­ EONI already serves all the key environmental technology markets as defined by the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety (BMUB) and is very well positioned in many of these sectors. The following table summarises the fields of application for Green Technology: Market segment Examples of applications for ­LEONI products Environmentally friendly power  Solar energy (e.g. photovoltaic installations and solar thermal energy plants) generation and storage  Bioenergy (e.g. biogas and biomass plants)  Hydropower (e.g. tidal and pumped-storage plants) Energy efficiency  Measurement and control technology to reduce energy consumption  Energy-efficient automation and drive technology Raw materials and materials efficiency  Measurement and control technology to prevent waste  Lightweight materials and components Recycling management  Waste separation and disposal plants  Recycling (plastics recycling plants) Sustainable water management  Water treatment, distribution, supply and cleaning plants  Household appliances with high water consumption efficiency Sustainable mobility  Vehicles with hybrid, electric and fuel cell power  Charging cables and infrastructure  Rolling stock engineering Core markets Environmental protection | UN Global Compact 11 In 2014, ­LEONI further extended its product portfolio for Green Technology. Details of the latest developments can be found in the Research & Development section of our 2014 Annual Report. In financial year 2014, ›› 2014 Annual Report Research & Development our Group-wide sales of products and solutions for green technology rose by 17 percent to EUR 251.0 million Page 89. (previous year: EUR 214.5 million). Revenue from the sale of Green Technology applications Wiring Systems Wire & CABLE Solutions Millions of euros 41.3 126.8 2010 168.1 87.2 135.9 2011 223.1 98.9 123.7 2012 222.6 92.1 122.4 2013 214.5 103.8 147.2 2014 251.0 We also assessed our manufacturing processes with regard to green technology: In 2014, our Group-wide sales of products that are manufactured in environmentally certified facilities or using energy efficient plant and machinery increased from EUR 3,087.8 million to EUR 3,143.7. EUR 1,128.5 million were attributable to the Wire ›› Further information can be found in our & Cable Solutions Division (previous year: EUR 1,076.8 million), and EUR 2,015.2 million to the Wiring Systems 2014 Annual Report Page 97. Division (previous year: EUR 2,011.0 million). CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT In 2014, L­ EONI decided to suspend reporting to the CDP for a period of one year (reporting year 2013). This allowed us to work on our data quality and optimise our reporting processes. Our goal is to use valid data to define significant/relevant measures to reduce emissions on a continuous basis. Conserving natural resources ­LEONI endeavours to reduce energy consumption – and thereby CO2 emissions – throughout the Group. Both Divisions run environmental management systems and multifaceted environmental protection activities, which are adapted to the respective requirements of their activities. Despite the Wire & Cable Solutions Division’s high dependency on production facilities, energy efficiency in manufacturing continued to increase as planned. As part of the Division-wide environmental objective for 2014, the larger production facilities were required to analyse the generation and distribution of air pressure (the main element in the WCS production processes) for efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Depending on the analysis results, they were then obliged to implement any measures for improvement needed. Another method to increase energy efficiency was to install modern lighting concepts (energy efficient lighting systems, presence detectors, daylight control) in the production halls of several sites in Germany, Poland and Slovakia. In 2014, two further cable production sites in Germany (Stolberg / North Rhine-Westphalia and Roth / Bavaria) successfully passed the assessment for initial certification of their energy management systems in accordance with the ISO 50001 standard. 12 Direct and indirect CO2 emissions across the Group In 2014, approximately 47 tonnes of CO2 were emitted for every EUR 1 million of revenue. Energy consumption In 2014, approximately 170 Mwh of energy were consumed for every EUR 1 million of revenue. Recycling ­LEONI participates in the “Our Cars” initiative and thus in projects to recycle them, for example, the EU End-of-Life Vehicle Directive. Thanks to our use of copper (a 100 % recyclable material) as the main element in our products, ­ LEONI has an ideal starting position in terms of recycling. ­L EONI GUIDELINES UND SYSTEMS RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES ■■ In our environment management system we are ■■ In 2014, our Group-wide sales of products manucertifying our plants to the ISO 14001 standard. factured in environmentally certified facilities Additionally, we put a set of internal environor using energy efficient plant and machinery mental guidelines in place in 2014. amounted to EUR 3,143.7 million. ■■ Within our two divisions (WSD and WCS), a total of 49 organisational units had been certified in accordance with the environmental management standard ISO 14001 by the end of 2014. An internal audit is performed in each of these units at least once every year. In addition, the central services departments of both divisions perform further internal audits of a sample of randomly selected units. Corruption prevention | UN Global Compact 13 Corruption prevention PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Zero tolerance for corruption – new guidelines ­LEONI’s company management takes a clear stance against corruption (zero tolerance). The L­ EONI Code of Ethics, published in 2007, clearly reflects our anti-corruption mindset. ›› T he L­ EONI Code of Ethics is available at www.leoni.com. From 2015, we will continue to develop the Code of Ethics and focus on preventing corruption by introducing a specific Group guideline “Anti-corruption”. We are also planning to write a detailed audit process for the particularly high-risk group “Business Partners”, which includes commercial agents, intermediary companies and agencies. In addition, a guideline for gifts & hospitality will provide clear regulations for the granting and accepting of gifts, invitations to business meals and invitations to events. The guidelines have been reviewed by an external law firm. Employee training – controls ­LEONI has been providing e-learning training on prevention of corruption to all 150 managers in the first four management tiers and further employee groups (e.g. Purchasing, Sales) for several years. The modules are ›› S ee also “Compliance training for the L­ EONI Code of Ethics” available in eight languages and can be accessed worldwide via a global training platform. Approximately under “Human rights”. 5,000 L­ EONI employees have been trained so far. We have now planned a series of classroom training sessions and videos to present and explain the regulations in the new guidelines. All ­LEONI managers must submit a Declaration of Undertakings every year as well as compliance controls via Control Self Assessments. This means they are regularly reminded of their managerial responsibility to combat corruption. (Compliance) audits assess whether compliance guidelines are being adhered to. Compliance desk A new compliance desk was set up in 2014 to conduct a pre-evaluation of compliance issues, and follow up any information provided via email, telephone, by hard copy or with the form designed for this purpose. ­L EONI GUIDELINES UND SYSTEMS RESULTS AND KEY FIGURES ■■ New Group guidelines to prevent corruption ■■ Our anti-corruption guidelines, the ­LEONI Code of Ethics, have been made available to all ­managers and employees worldwide and have also been translated into 20 languages. ■■ Compliance desk introduced in 2014. ■■ Approximately 5,000 employees and all 150 managers have already completed the “AntiCorruption” e-learning module. ­LEONI AG Marienstraße 7 90402 Nuremberg, Germany Phone +49 (0)911-2023-0 07/2015/en_web Fax +49 (0)911-2023-455 E-mail info@­leonicom www.­leoni.com
