UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 JANUARY STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Mater reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Henrik Marstrand CEO & Founder, Mater A/S. Mater Mater is a Danish design brand with a strong vision to create timeless and beautiful design based on an ethical business strategy. Mater is committed to creating ethical, sustainable and socially responsible design in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In Mater we treat our employees, customers and suppliers with respect, humility and dignity. In collaboration with our supply chain we try to develop more sustainable, safe and secure methods in the production. Through our way of thinking we enforce production of recycling materials and believe that value lies within the story and history of our products. It is our mission that every single product at Mater meets the requirements of sustainable production. HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS Vision At Mater we have taken an active role in the work and compliance with human rights as described in UN Global Compact – this is part of the company Code of Conduct. We respect human rights as absolute, and strive to ensure all humans in our determination to provide all humans the rights and freedoms they wish to enjoy. Mater will never voluntarily be complicit in human or labour rights abuses, and instead always seek to uphold the rights and freedoms of all, contributing where our reach allows.  PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Progress internationally proclaimed human rights; We try to be part as much part of the production as possible, but have experienced more difficulties as our and production of certain designs has reached amounts to witch the small suppliers cannot deliver. This means, that we have moved certain aspects of production to larger suppliers, hence our sphere of influence has  PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are diminished. This is one of the main reasons to why we have chosen BRICpro as a partner. They have the not complicit in human rights abuses. knowledge and power to influence the production facilities in a way that corresponds to our needs – in an ethical and environmental way.  PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold BRICpro address human and labour rights through a specially developed dialogue tool which focuses on the freedom of association and the health and safety. They enter into dialogue with the factory about the importance of CSR and helps to find effective recognition of the right to ways to make improvements. All factories has been through an initial assessment and dialogue, and it is collective bargaining; standard practice to follow up on potential improvements at the factories.  PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; We encourage our remaining manufacturers to support the principles of the 'UN Global Compact' within they possible reach and we are still experiencing continuous improvements. Our collaboration with our  PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of suppliers, and continued support for their ethical and environmental improvements, has proven to be of child labour; and great importance to the local community and we strive to improve working conditions according to the principles of the UN Global Compact at the production sites. We try to keep the suppliers we have had  PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of long lasting association with by allowing them to produce the designs we sell in smaller quantities. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Results Our collaboration with our suppliers, and continued support for their ethical and environmental improvements, has proven to be of great importance to our local community and we strive to improve working conditions according to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact at the production sites. We encourage our manufacturers to support the principles of the 'UN Global Compact' within their possible reach. We have experienced continuous improvements, SELECT PROJECTS BRICpro FSC & SOLAR ENERGY Maters overall strategy place great emphasis on ethical criteria We now only produce wooden products which is FSC certified or otherwise and since the project SUSBIZ INDIA is no longer in progress we certified, recycled or reclaimed materials. At Mater we love sustainable designs and have looked for a responsible partner to facilitate and build solutions. This is why we are working on a lamp which is self-sustained through solar responsible operation in the countries where we manufacture energy. Hopefully this is available next year. our products. This led us to BRICpro who assist companies in creating ethical business relations with socially responsible manufacturing units, factories and workshops in emerging GLAD DESIGN AND PERNILLE HOLM markets. They are now facilitating the development of three We have agreed to assist and cooperate with Pernille Holm and Glad Design in a selected products by Mater. project to create more possible opportunities for the disadvantaged. This program differs in a very significant way from many other business processes in Denmark. It Through BRICpro, Mater adopts sustainable production does so by equally focusing on the social bottom line as the economic – The practices supporting employees, local craft traditions and the program is about creating jobs for disadvantaged unemployed citizens and activate environment. them in a new textile production workshop. The main challenge is that these people are vulnerable because they have conditions that contributes to special needs that enterprises must take in consideration. It can be physical or mental disabilities or social problems such as individuals with criminal records. Pernille Holm is driving the process to setup the workshop with Mater as the commercial partner for a range of cushions and throws. ENVIRONMENT Vision Mater is a Danish design brand with a strong vision to create timeless and beautiful design based on an ethical business strategy. Mater combines exclusive high-end design with working methods that support people, local craft traditions and the environment. Progress Sustainability is a core element in every aspect of our production processes. We seek to find innovative ideas bringing sustainable design to every element in our business. Consequently, we actively support the international recognized non-profit organization FSC™. In an FSC™-certified forest no more trees than the forest can reproduce is felled, and over-exploitation of nature is avoided. In addition, FSC™ guarantees that flora and fauna are protected and that the people who work in the forest are guaranteed education, safety and a fair pay. Further we look into alternative materials that grow faster and have better sourcing credentials Danish law requires us to manage our waste in an environmentally sound manner. It also imply that waste must be sorted so that the most can be recovered and recycled. We try to adopt these thoughts to not only our products but also suppliers, as there are no such rules in India and China. We will continue to  PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support work with our partners (customers, suppliers, authorities) to obtain and develop the most optimal a precautionary approach to environmental products and services. Throughout 2014 we have moved a substantial part of our big environmental challenges; selling series Mater High Stool to FSC certified partners in Europe, mainly two operations, Vudex in  PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to Slovenia and Kvist Industries in Denmark, thereby supporting certified wood as much as possible. promote greater environmental responsibility; and Results All of our products are characterized by sustainability, whether it is through FSC-certified materials,  PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the recycling, fair trade principles, reclaimed materials or staining done by substances of plant origin. development and diffusion of Sustainably harvested natural mango wood is grown and tended for, and once the productive life of the environmentally friendly technologies. tree is over, it is cut down and another one is planted. Incidentally, mango, as a fruit is widely consumed across the country hence the wood is plentiful. SELECT PRODUCTS LIGNIA DINING TABLE TERHO LAMP For centuries timber has been prized for it’s beauty and The Terho lamps are designed by the Finnish endurance however demand for premium hardwood designer Maija Puoskari. In Finnish Terho means has put enormous strain on natural resources and acorn and the name refer to the natural and many once abundant species have been depleted by sympathetic shapes of acorns found in nature. And harvest – some to extinction. With outstanding ofcause the wood used is FSC-cerified. sourcing credentials Lignia® and Lignia XD® are premium timbers which have been created from sawn The special color of alder wood and the opal made plantation timber with colour and performance locked of white mouth blown glass is a unique into the core – fit for purpose, plentiful and sustainable. combination of glass and wood only seen in lamps Sustainable and abundant supply and of cause it is FSCdesigns on rare occasions. certified CLOUDY CHAIR LOUNGE 1920 SHANGHAI The Cloudy Lounge Chair is designed by Made from Recycled Elm salvaged from 100 the Spanish design duo Stone Designs. The year old buildings in Shanghai. This wood inspiration for the Cloudy Chair arose in has unique features and no chair will be the woods of Romania while looking up at totally identical. This is what we call the trees trying to find a ray of light over Reclaimed and we are proud that this chair the clouds. It is made of FSC certified oak brings life to a beautiful material that would veener with a black water based stain and otherwise have been discarded. respects the local environment. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Mater has a zero-tolerance towards corruption. In building ethically viable communities any form of bribery and corruption must be sought eliminated.  PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work Progress against corruption in all its forms, We recognise the risks of corruption in our supply chain, and as a consequence of this, we continue to including extortion and bribery. work closely with our suppliers in India and China to eliminate any form of misconduct, including extortion and bribery. Results We have, to our knowledge, not had any incidents to report, and we continue to show a zero-tolerance.
