UN Global Compact Communication on Progress for FY 2014 Brunnenbachstrasse 1 CH-8340 Hinwil Phone +41 43 843 61 www.belimo.com Communication on Progress for 2014 statement of continued support is the global market leader in the development, production and marketing of actuator solutions for controlling heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems. Actuators and control valves make up the company's core business. Belimo's aim is to be a trusted partner across the globe for its customers, offering them the added value they expect. Research and market-relevant innovation as well as rapid and customized execution are key. Commitment, credibility and reliability characterize our behavior. Belimo delivers more than just products. W e support our customers with innovative, efficient and energyoptimizing solutions and bring success to both our customers and ourselves. We are close to our customers throughout the world, we speak their language and we understand them. Everything we do gives them the reassurance that they have chosen the very best. Belimo is firmly committed to sustainability, as reflected in our values. This commitment was further strengthened in with the signing of the United Nations Global Compact. In doing so, Belimo has undertaken to adopt, support and implement a range of principles within its sphere of influence from the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. These principles are consistent with the values and the code of conduct of Belimo. I am pleased to confirm that Belimo reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In our first annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our channels of communication. Jacques Sanche Chief Executive Officer Page 2 of 5 BELM©' Communication on Progress for FY Summary of Policy, Actions and Outcomes The table below summarizes the significant aspects related to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. More information can be found in the referenced documents which are available for downloading at HUMAN RIGHTS Principle Policy, Actions and Outcomes Reference Principle 1 : Belimo's values and code of conduct convey the company's key Businesses should guiding principles and fundamental values. The United Nations support and respect Global Compact principles In the area of human rights, labor the protection of standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption nf nf proclaimed human The principles are embedded in the Code of Conduct which serves rights. as a day-to-day guideline. Belimo is determined to manage its business in compliance with high ethical standards and applicable law. Employees shall act accordingly. New employees learn about our values during their introduction -> Annual Report 2014, programs. The individual employee's long-term ability to internalize p. 35 and put those values into practice is also part of the annual employee appraisal. Belimo's code of conduct was launched in Two years later workshops were held around the world in order to train employees on the code of conduct. The discussions held helped to ensure that our values and corporate culture are understood by everybody In the same way. In the 2014 global survey employees were asked to rate the code of conduct workshops, with a score of 8.1 from max. 10 points they were very well received. Principle 2: More than 80 percent of the added value in our products comes from -> Annual Report 2014, Business must make our suppliers, the bulk thereof being procured from Europe. So the p. 35 sure that they are not main risk of human rights abuses may be brought into the equation complicit in human via our suppliers. rights abuses. In Belimo formulated a supplier code of conduct in the form of a binding self-declaration. By signing the supplier undertakes to -> Supplier Declaration comply with Belimo's Code of Conduct Conduct in the working environment covering corruption, human rights, child labor, health and safety, and environmental protection. Until now the code of conduct for suppliers has been signed by more than hundred suppliers which equates to around 90 percent of the procurement volume. Belimo usually conducts about audits per year, both new and existing suppliers are audited on site. Amongst others also compliance with aspects of the code of conduct is assessed. Apart from audits main suppliers are visited by Belimo employees, usually at least once a year. In FY 2014 no cases of violation have been registered. Page 3 of 5 Communication on Progress for 2014 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3: Belimo recognizes employees' freedom of association. Members of -> Code of Conduct Businesses should employee organizations or unions are neither favored nor uphold the freedom discriminated. of association and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining. Principle 4 : The Belimo code of conduct and the supplier declaration excludes -> Code of Conduct The elimination of all Implicitly all forms of forced and compulsory labor. forms of forced and In FY 2014 no cases of violation have been registered. compulsory labor. Principle 5: The Belimo code of conduct and the supplier declaration prohibits -> Code of Conduct The effective child labor. No employees are hired who have not yet reached the abolition of child minimum age of 15 years. labor. In FY 2014 no cases of violation have been registered. Principle 6: Belimo promotes equal opportunities and the equal treatment of -> Code of Conduct Eliminate employees regardless of gender or age. An employment is purely discrimination with based on professional knowledge and achievement. respect to -> Annual Report 2014, Belimo is delighted by the constantly high percentage of women, e.g. employment and p. 36 47% working at the main sites in Hinwil (Switzerland) and Danbury occupation. (CT, USA). The location in Danbury provides more than 45 disadvantaged -> Annual Report 2014, people with jobs. Belimo received the Business Leadership Award p. 38 for its long standing pioneer engagement with disadvantaged people from the organization Ability Beyond Disability. The third worldwide employee survey conducted in confirmed -> Annual Report 2014, the good result in the area of engagement from the survey. p. 36 Belimo took part for the first time in the renowned Swiss Employer Award, achieving second place in the category employees . The average length of service in Hinwil is eight years, a result of Belimo's efforts to offer its employees long-term prospects. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Environmental protection is embodied in the values, the Belimo code Businesses should of conduct and the supplier declaration. support a W e strive to use our resources sparingly and avoid the use of precautionary -> Code of Conduct materials that place an unnecessary strain on the environment and approach to are difficult to discard. W e are mindful of energy consumption, environmental environmental protection is taken into account in compliance with challenges. legal and international standards. In the reporting the Hinwil headquarter was certified according -> Annual Report 2014, to the international standard ISO 14001. p. 35 Belimo's internal reporting was amended by key performance figures for the locations Danbury and Hinwil to include water, electricity, heating, and waste. Belimo has been a Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) supporter since and has responded to the questionnaires since 2009. Page 4 of 5 Communication on Progress for FY 2014 Principle 8: The premises in Hinwil are continually reviewed and adapted in -> Annual Report 2014, Businesses should regard to comfort and energy efficiency. Since there has been p. 34 undertake initiatives a tool in use for monitoring detailed environmental and energy key to promote greater figures. environmental Even though the number of actuators produced increased by 6.4% responsibility. the electricity consumption in Hinwil was only 0.5% higher compared to the previous year (FY 2014: 2'267 MWh). Various measures like need-based lighting contributed to reducing energy consumption. The usage for district heating accounted for 814 MWh in 2014 (FY MWh). A mild winter and the implementation of various actions like optimized room temperature regulation was the main driver for this significant decrease. The new production, logistics and administration building in Danbury (CT, USA) was completed and started operations in 2014. The building was constructed in compliance with the LEED standards for sustainable construction. The next step is to achieve certification. Double occupancy caused a higher consumption of electricity, water, heating, etc. at this production site in Principle 9: We strive to design products that contribute to increased energy -> Mission Businesses should efficiency in our customer's applications. encourage the Following two examples promising higher value for customers development and coupled lower energy consumption: diffusion of environmentally • The Belimo Energy Valve™ simultaneously measures energy friendly technologies. flows and optimizes the flow rate so that energy waste in buildings is reduced. This has been proven by the successful use around the world. • Thanks to the Belimo Fan Optimiser, fans can be controlled based on demand according to the damper positions of the downstream VAV units. Supply pressure regulation presently the standard method can thus be dispensed with and fan energy consumption cut by as much as 50%. The Federation of European Heating, Ventilation and Conditioning Associations, REHVA, is the leading European professional organization representing a network of more than engineers from 27 European countries, whose mission is to develop and disseminate economical, energy efficient and healthy technology for mechanical services of building. Since May 2009, Belimo has been an active supporter of REHVA. For the year 2014 Belimo decided to upgrade its membership to a silver partnership. The Swiss research and innovation building NEST (Next Evolution in Sustainable Building Technologies) is a joint project between -> Annual Report 2014, industry, research and the public sector supported by Belimo. p. 34 Therein, not only forms of living and working, but also the energy flows and utility engineering of tomorrow's houses are being researched. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Corruption and bribery of any kind are not tolerated, nor Is it -> Code of Conduct Businesses should permissible to become involved in such acts in including work against any offers of illegal payments or similar gifts, for the purpose corruption in all its influencing the decision making. forms, including In the reporting year Belimo has not been involved In any legal extortion and bribery. cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. Page 5 of 5
