INSPIRATION ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT nt 2013 n v i ronme ee t o n si der th documen ec his Pleas printing t e befor Smart city e-fficient buildings Energies Industry services Investors Customers Employees All stakeholders in a process All stakeholders in All stakeholders in a of ambitious growth innovative solutions commitment to responsibility INVESTORS CUSTOMERS Four balanced, high-growth The most extensive European strategic market segments coverage in the industry and and profit margins that rank integrated, end-to-end among the best in solutions throughout the the business. investment life cycle. EMPLOYEES A community of entrepreneurs who are proud of their corporate values, technical expertise and contribution to the green economy. ALL STAKEHOLDERS IN SPIE’S PERFORMANCE SPIE IS CONTINUING TO FOCUS ON ROBUST GROWTH IN ITS MARKETS AND DEVELOP RESPONSIBLY IN PARTNERSHIP WITH ITS STAKEHOLDERS. 2 SUMMARY EUROPEAN INSPIRATION Europe has long been a land of inspiration for SPIE and its stakeholders. That’s where the Group derives its strength, leveraging contact with expertise and a vast number of projects to help build a better living environment for the region’s inhabitants while protecting their natural surroundings. 10 An independent European leader Since its founding, SPIE has constantly reaffirmed its European roots by developing its operations throughout the region. Download this document Profile | Key figures | Interview with the Chairman and CEO | to your mobile phone Management team | SPIE around the world | SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: 22 Investors All stakeholders in the Group’s continuous growth over the past ten years, leveraging a business model that has proven its worth. Interview with an expert | Performance | Corporate governance | Acquisitions | Shareholder structure 34 Customers All stakeholders in solutions adapted to the technical, financial and environmental challenges facing companies and local authorities. Smart city | e-fficient buildings | Energies | Industry services 62 Employees All stakeholders in an ambitious company with regard to worklife, internal promotion and social dialogue. Convictions | Champion apprentice 74 Appendix Summary table of CSR Report SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 3 EUROPEAN INSPIRATION “Ik ben SPIE.” Breda “What I appreciate is that we are becoming a larger and larger organization by creating partnerships beyond our borders. SPIE is a company that is focused on Europe. We interact with many colleagues from other countries.” Watch the interview DION VISSERS INFRASTRUCTURE – HIGH-VOLTAGE LINES Project Manager SPIE Nederland ——Mission Installing high-voltage lines for Tennet, the electricity transmission system operator. ——Location Breda (Netherlands) With SPIE for 17 years A shareholder for 2 years 4 “Je suis SPIE.” Bordeaux “SPIE is developing in all energy-related fields, including information technology, which is an energy driver for companies. This dynamic is important for attracting talented people as well as for our European customers in search of a local partner.” Watch the interview DELPHINE FERRIER INFORMATION SYSTEMS Head of Department SPIE Communications ——Mission Managing and developing technological and service businesses (consulting, engineering, integration, facility management, operated services and cloud computing) based on information systems. ——Location Bordeaux (France) With SPIE for 5 years A shareholder for 3 years SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 5 EUROPEAN INSPIRATION “I am SPIE.” London “SPIE is passionate about safety, the environment and engineering excellence. It’s also a company that conducts itself in a controlled, correct, reasonable manner, with well-managed acquisitions and a strong ethical commitment. Our customers respect that, as do I.” Watch the interview GEORGE ADAMS ENERGY Director of Energy and Engineering SPIE UK ——Mission Optimizing installation energy efficiency. ——Location London (UK) With SPIE for 7 years A shareholder for 4 years 6 “Eu sou SPIE.” Faro “SPIE is a mixture of cultures, experiences and projects that allows us to constantly enhance our skills. We need to always anticipate the future and look further ahead. My greatest source of pride is that my team is as proud as I am to work for SPIE.” Watch the interview ANA MARGARIDA FERNANDES ENERGY EFFICIENCY Manager, Multi-technical Maintenance SPIE Portugal ——Mission Studying and recommending energy efficiency and facility upgrade solutions. ——Location Faro (Portugal) With SPIE for 5 years A shareholder for 3 years SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 7 EUROPEAN INSPIRATION “Ich bin SPIE.” Erlangen “SPIE is my new homeaway-from-home and I feel very comfortable here. After the acquisition of our company, we refocused on our core business, which I think is wonderful. What I also like is that the company is people-centric. And that’s coming from a woman.” Watch the interview MANUELA SCHÖNNAGEL FACILITY MANAGEMENT Project Manager SPIE GmbH ——Mission Comprehensive management of buildings and installations, in particular for SIEMENS in Erlangen and Forchheim. ——Location Erlangen (Germany) With SPIE for 1 year 8 “Je suis SPIE.” Brussels “With its expertise in heating and refrigeration installations, SPIE is able to serve the entire country. Whether we’ve been awarded a major contract or we’re helping somebody with a heating problem, we feel proud.” Watch the interview FERMIN HURTADO DE JESUS COMMERCIAL SECTOR Heating Technician SPIE Belgium ——Mission Servicing of building heating facilities. Preventive maintenance, trouble-shooting and repair of HVAC installations. ——Location Brussels (Belgium) With SPIE for 29 years A shareholder for 8 years SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 9 AN INDEPENDENT EUROPEAN LEADER PROFILE As the independent European leader in multi-technical services in the areas of energy and communication, SPIE supports its customers to design, build, operate and maintain facilities that are energy-efficient and environmentally friendly. SPIE, sharing a vision for the future €4.6 37,000 REVENUE IN 2013 (1) bn EMPLOYEES representing Nearly 500 LOCATIONS in 34 countries Watch the video 99 nationalities “Partner of long-term confidence” (1) Throughout this document, “Revenue” corresponds to “Production” as reported in SPIE financials. On a pro forma basis including 2013 acquisitions, the Group posted consolidated production of €5,116.5 million and generated EBITA of €315.5 million. 10 MARKETS A balance between its four high-growth strategic segments. Smart city e-fficient Energies Industry buildings services 35%* 24%* 23%* 18%* * 2013, pro forma RESOURCES MANAGEMENT A full set of resources to serve a Control of the entire value chain continuous improvement to serve the green economy. dynamic. --Skills clubs Environmental Quality, health Social --Technological Institute management and safety responsibility --Management School (ISO 14000) (OHSAS 18001, (ISO 26000) --Innovation ISO 9001) --Partnerships SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 11 AN INDEPENDENT EUROPEAN LEADER KEY FIGURES Reaffirming our position as an independent European leader Since setting up its first subsidiaries in Belgium and Portugal in 1997, SPIE has enjoyed 15 years of continuous growth in Europe. In 2007, the Group established a firm foothold in the UK and decided to focus its development on a shared ambition: becoming the independent European leader in multi-technical services. Today, SPIE deploys its energy and communication capabilities across all sectors of the European economy. 84  ACQUISITIONS SINCE JULY 2006 €3.1bn €2.7bn REVENUE 2006 2007 EBITA €97m €129m 12 €921 REVENUE ACQUIRED IN 2013 2% ASIA-PACIFIC m 98% GERMANY BELGIUM NETHERLANDS UNITED KINGDOM €4.6 WATCH THE VIDEOS bn SPIE ENS SPIE Devis SPIE ICS SPIE GmbH United Belgium Netherlands Germany Kingdom €4.1bn 2012 2013 €262m €298m SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 13 AN INDEPENDENT EUROPEAN LEADER INTERVIEW WITH THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO SPIE, a European leader With the acquisition of Hochtief Service Solutions – renamed SPIE GmbH – SPIE crossed a new growth threshold in Europe last year. Germany is now the Group’s second largest market, after France, and represents a solid base to support SPIE’s development in Central Europe. What do you think was the main This acquisition has also transformed highlight of 2013? SPIE internally. We are now a fully Gauthier Louette We made a major European group, which is reflected acquisition in Germany that tangibly in the composition of our management expressed our ambition to be wholly team. We enjoy greater capacity European. With the other acquisitions to deliver integrated high-quality completed during the year by our teams solutions throughout Europe. For our in the Netherlands, Belgium and the UK, teams, the acquisition represents almost half of our pro forma revenue a change of scope. In all, 7,200 was generated outside France. employees from acquired companies joined us in 2013, an all time-record. This gives us a broader foundation from Consolidating and integrating these which to manage economic fluctuations acquisitions are our top priority for 2014. as well as new opportunities to pursue We’re already pursuing this objective, in the region. SPIE today has the best working closely with senior executives European geographic coverage of any from these companies. company in its industry, which is a key lever for affirming our leadership in the multi-technical services segment. 14 “SPIE today enjoys the best European geographic coverage of any company in its industry.” GAUTHIER LOUETTE, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, SPIE 7,200 921M From a more general standpoint, how was business in 2013? G. L. It was a year of contrasts: € challenging in France, better in the United Kingdom, good in Belgium employees from in additional revenue and the Netherlands and excellent acquired companies through acquisitions. in the Nuclear and Oil & Gas sectors. joined us in 2013, In France, we were faced with an all time-record. a recessionary environment that led to negative organic growth for our regional operations. Our subsidiaries managed this situation by protecting their margins, thereby achieving satisfactory results. In the Communications sector, the market held up well thanks to fast-growing segments like facilities Read the press management, data centres and cloud release about computing services. our 2013 results. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 15 AN INDEPENDENT EUROPEAN LEADER In North-western Europe, we developed at a much faster pace in 2013. We became “We decided to the industry’s second largest company in Belgium and generated organic growth develop the green of 8% in the Netherlands. In the UK, we substantially improved our margins economy very early while continuing to diversify our business portfolio, in particular through forwardon and have looking acquisitions such as ENS, a provider of electrical transmission acquired recognized engineering services. expertise in Our positions improved remarkably in the Nuclear and Oil & Gas sectors. intelligent systems, We enjoyed 22% growth among oil operators and our potential for expansion which will be one 4,6bn of the keys to in this segment is considerable, especially in Australia, where we have started € to develop. In the Nuclear sector, business was up 9% and we created our own training the world of SPIE generated €4.6 billion in revenue centre to meet demand, in anticipation of post-Fukushima upgrades and EDF’s tomorrow.” Grand Carénage programme. in 2013, a 10.9% increase over Are these results in line with the previous year. the trajectory that you’ve set for the forthcoming IPO? G. L. Since the launch of our LBO in 2011, we’ve maintained a considerable advance on our business plan. In 2013, our revenue increased sharply to €4.6 billion, with industry-best margins that continued to improve. Over the past three Your Group has developed significantly years, additional revenue from over the past five years. Has that made acquisitions has totalled more than it different? €1.2 billion. Yet even with our recent G. L. On the contrary, we have acquisition in Germany, we’re continuing constantly reaffirmed our business model to pay down debt more quickly than and corporate values during that period. anticipated. Our debt-to-EBITDA ratio For years, local service, a sense declined from 4.1 to 3.9 over the year. of responsibility and a strong performance ethic have been key values Our business model continues to deliver for SPIE, as well as for the teams that thanks to the recurring nature of our have joined us. These teams work operations and to our low exposure in the same professions and maintain to cyclical variation. At present, 84% the same rigorous safety standards. All of our services generate recurring revenue of this helps to create a single identity. from our customers’ operational, upgrade We are a European group that is proud and renovation budgets, and this provides of its diversity but which also shares a clear advantage at a time when new beliefs that bring us together. investments are in decline. Our order intake, which was up 6% for the year What has changed recently is that excluding Germany, also reflects our new needs are emerging among our excellent positioning in our market customers. They’re expecting more segments. comprehensive solutions that integrate 16 technical, legal, financial and +10.9% +13.8% environmental expertise. They’re also more interested in comprehensive Increase in revenue Increase in EBITA management of their multi-site in € billions in € millions installations. That explains the success of our technical facility management 298 services, which currently account for 35% 4.6 262 4.1 of our business. In addition to responding to calls for bids, we have embarked on a programme to constantly optimize 2012 2013 2012 2013 our customers’ performance. That’s what makes a local presence so important, along with developing synergies throughout Europe. Revenue by reporting segment (1) Germany What would you say to an investor who and Central asked you about SPIE’s advantages? Europe G. L. I would say that we’re a company France 14% with a history, results and ambition. 48% North-western We decided to develop the green economy Europe very early on and have acquired 23% recognized expertise in intelligent Oil & Gas systems, which will be one of the keys and Nuclear to the world of tomorrow. Thanks to 15% our European and international scope, (1) 2013, pro forma we’re able to anticipate emerging needs and to support our customers over the long haul. We’re also a catalyst Workforce at 31 December 2013 for improvement in many areas, including new urban infrastructure, energy 37,238 employees efficiency, intelligent networks, electric vehicles, renewable energy, and the transition to digital solutions. Europe Indeed, SPIE is responding to most current technological challenges. 88% Africa 6% With the support of employees that are Asia committed to the company, of whom 15,000 became shareholders in 2011, Middle East 3% these skills are deployed to serve 3% a business model based on self-financed growth that has proved its validity. Asset cycle services (1) SPIE’s services are positioned to support its customers’ New facilities Asset support assets, thereby 16% 84% creating an important advantage. (1) 2013, pro forma SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 17 AN INDEPENDENT EUROPEAN LEADER SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM GAUTHIER LOUETTE DENIS CHÊNE Chairman and Chief Chief Financial Officer, Executive Officer, SPIE SA SPIE SA ALAIN LANGLAIS THIERRY SMAGGHE PHILIPPE GIRAULT PASCAL PONCET YVES COMPAÑY Managing Director, Human Resources Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, SPIE Sud-Ouest, Director, SPIE SA SPIE Île-de-France SPIE Est SPIE Oil & Gas Morocco and Portugal Nord-Ouest Services 18 VINCENT MAGNON OLIVIER DOMERGUE JOHAN DEKEMPE ALFREDO ZAROWSKY LEI UMMELS Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Deputy Managing Director, Managing Director, SPIE Communications SPIE Nucléaire SPIE Belgium Strategy & Development, SPIE Nederland SPIE SA PHILIPPE JAMES THODEN GILLES BRAZEY EMMANUEL MARTIN MARKUS HOLZKE GUIDICELLI VAN VELZEN Chief Operating Officer Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, for France, SPIE SA SPIE Sud-Est SPIE GmbH. SPIE Ouest-Centre SPIE UK As from 1 April 2014 SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 19 AN INDEPENDENT EUROPEAN LEADER SPIE AROUND THE WORLD While actively pursuing its development in Europe, SPIE enjoyed a year of strong international growth in the oil and gas industry in 2013. A EUROPEAN GROUP OPEN TO GLOBAL MARKETS In Europe, SPIE’s network of locations is constantly In international markets, SPIE supports global oil and gas expanding through projects to continuously strengthen operators in every phase of their operations life cycle in its territorial coverage. The Group is also developing Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific, both through strategic acquisitions of companies that are upstream in exploration and offshore/onshore production leaders in their respective markets and fit seamlessly and downstream in refining and petrochemicals. with other SPIE units. EUROPE Belgium France Germany Greece Hungary Netherlands Poland ASIA Portugal Switzerland PACIFIC United Kingdom Australia Bangladesh Brunei SOUTH Indonesia Malaysia AMERICA Myanmar Venezuela MIDDLE EAST Thailand Iraq Iran AFRICA Kazakhstan Oman Algeria Qatar Angola Saudi Arabia Chad United Arab Emirates Congo Yemen Gabon Libya Morocco Nigeria Download SPIE maps 20 SPIE GMBH IN THE HEART OF EUROPE The German market leader in integrated specialised offers such as industrial energy multi-technical maintenance services, SPIE services. Its customer portfolio includes some GmbH combines a number of advantages in of the world’s leading companies, such as terms of size, experience, expertise and Siemens, Daimler, Audi, Lufthansa, Mercedes, reputation among its customers. With more Continental, NXP and Saint-Gobain. than 5,000 employees in Germany and MARKUS HOLZKE, Managing Director SPIE GmbH neighbouring Central European countries, The combination of its areas of expertise – SPIE GmbH offers a wide array of technical Facility Management, Energy Solutions, “We are SPIE.” services for buildings and industrial sites. Building Technology & Service Solutions – “With SPIE, we’ve found The subsidiary has recognized expertise in within a single organisation is unique in the a partner that shares our facility and energy management services as European market. This enables SPIE GmbH strategic vision on such issues as energy, well as in building technologies and services. to position itself on complex multi-technical workplace safety, planned projects with powerful (One-Stop Solution) growth and a In the building sector, SPIE GmbH develops capabilities for outsourcing and to support its performance-based advanced solutions in the areas of property customers at every link in the value chain. culture, and that helps and equipment operations and in the us to get to where we management of complex facilities throughout SPIE GmbH not only shares the same service want to go. We couldn’t imagine a better starting the life cycle of their installations. In culture as the Group’s other subsidiaries but point for our development. Germany, for example, the company has also works in comparable areas of expertise We appreciate SPIE’s become one of the main suppliers of services and operation. This alignment constitutes a cutting-edge expertise for renovating and operating datacentres. key advantage for deploying necessary in complex technical synergies between subsidiaries, developing services, especially In industry, SPIE GmbH meets the specific joint offerings and promoting the SPIE brand in the area of energy. Thanks to our shared needs of the pharmaceutical, automotive and in Europe. creativity, we will now semiconductor sectors, among others, with be able to develop services for our customers, which gives us a unique position in the European market.” SPIE GmbH factsheet COMPANY SPIE GmbH provides services in electrical, mechanical and HVAC engineering, as well as in the area of energy and communication networks and integrated installations management services that 100bn extend from building technology planning to operational, energy consulting and contractual energy supply services. REVENUE (1) €691 million € HEADQUARTERS Essen, Germany The estimated MANAGING DIRECTOR Markus Holzke amount, in volume, MARKETS Facility Management of the European Energy Management facility management Building Technologies market, which is led OPERATIONS Germany and Central Europe by Germany, France and the United WORKFORCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2013 5,253 employees Kingdom. (1) 2013, pro forma. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 21 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: INVESTORS € 921M IN REVENUE ACQUIRED IN 2013 22 All stakeholders in a process investors of ambitious growth Get on board as SPIE takes off. We’re a fast growing European group whose products and services squarely address the challenges of the energy transition, intelligent urbanisation and smart industries. Come discover the new green economy, supported by thousands of SPIE team members in Europe and around the world. 24 28 29 30 32 Interview with Performance Corporate Acquisitions Shareholder an expert governance structure SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 23 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: INVESTORS Nathalie de Vries DUTCH ARCHITECT AND URBAN PLANNER, CO-FOUNDER OF THE MVRDV ARCHITECTURE FIRM. More about MVRDV’s projects. 24 INTERVIEW WITH AN EXPERT NATHALIE DE VRIES The city of tomorrow Nathalie de Vries is one of the co-founders of MVRDV, a Rotterdam and Shanghai-based architecture and urban design practice. She is recognized worldwide as one of the leading experts in urban development, and is currently working on ambitious projects such as the Grand Paris plan. She shares with us her vision of tomorrow’s cities. More than 50% of the world population now lives You mean that cities are, first and foremost, in cities. Do you think that they are bound to expand about people? endlessly, or do we need a new model for cities Absolutely. Cities are driven by a double force: people of the future? want to form communities, and they want to fulfill their In every city the future should always be present in the personal wishes at the same time. We all tend to consider now. Cities constantly change, sometimes slowly, somemore and more the place we live in as a product which times fast, but they all share the same fundamentals: should reflect our needs and our aspirations. This condia city is where people decide to live together because it tions the role of architects, urban planners, and of all makes their life easier. In a city, you can live, work, buy other stakeholders: cities less and less need “one size and exchange whatever you need in the same place. fits all” solutions and more and more frameworks, within However, the way people and cities interact is changing: which people can live a better life in cities that look like our notion of time and space is not the same as it was them. In this respect, I love the Gyre shopping center we only fifteen years ago. On one hand, cities are becoming have built in the Omotesando district of Tokyo: it is very much larger because we can travel at high speeds: today, economical of space, and it shows that shopping centers it takes less time to go from Paris to Rotterdam by train can come back downtown instead of being in the suburbs. than to cross the greater Paris area by car. In a way, this The design includes a spiraling external path on the outmeans that large parts of Europe have become one single, side, connecting different balconies, opening up a normally gigantic metropolitan area. On the other hand, people closed building type to the surrounding streets. Even on also want to be able to work and meet people within higher levels the shops created open windows. We plan walking distance of where they live: there are more and to go one step further with a project for a shopping mall more “cities within cities” which create networks between in Lyon, France, where the complete roof will be used as them and with the larger cities. These networks need to a second public space. be reinvented, and we have to answer a crucial question: what is a city now? We have to envision the possibility You have said Europe was one large city. that it is becoming less and less of a geographical notion, Does that mean that there should be a common and more and more of a communications and transporurban policy at the EU level? tations notion. Urban entities are going to change, with Yes and no. There is no need to decide at the EU level that both larger and smaller circles interacting with each a housing scheme should be the same in Amsterdam and other. in Madrid, for instance. On the other hand, common SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 25 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: INVESTORS “The EU has a key role in transportation schemes and these are crucial in the development of the ‘larger city’.” regulations are necessary to ensure that the same levels of environmental quality, or of safety, can be attained. Then, the EU has a key role in transportation schemes such as high-speed train networks, and these are crucial in the development of the “larger city”. It is all a question of scale, and of taking interactions into account. So, this means that many people are concerned when decisions have to be taken? Naturally yes, and citizens above all. They must be able to decide how they want to live. This means that they need all the Mirador inhabitants. It is like a village central place, more room in the decision-making processes, but also, all the more since another feature of the building is that literally, more space and freedom to act. Efficient buildings is provides a great variety of apartments to suit very and urban schemes must provide both private and public different lifestyles. This concept we already introduced in spaces, but we have to let the people who live around it the Silodam housing building in Amsterdam, with public invent new functions for them. Our job as architects is to balconies, communal areas and great varieties of different create these new hybrid spaces but we must not housing types for different social classes. predestinate them. That is one of the keys of our work at MVRDV. Take for instance the Rotterdam Market hall, which The Rotterdam Market Hall, the GYRE shopping mall is due for completion in October this year. Traditionally, and the Mirador actually exist. Meanwhile, some marketplaces are iconic places surrounded by buildings; of your proposals appear to be rather utopian, we thought the idea all over again by building a house or at least extremely ambitious… over the marketplace. This means that, on a relatively Sure! Some of them are very experimental. The point is small area of 100,000 square meters, we managed to that, as architects, we need to work along three distinct integrate 100 fresh food market stalls, food-related retail timeframes. There is the present time, with actual buildings units, restaurants, preparation and cooling spaces, built according to today’s wishes and current conditions, a supermarket, 1,200 parking spaces and 228 apartments. but into which we try to incorporate solutions for a better The two main functions of a marketplace are better life. Then, we model prototypes of what could be done in combined, which provides the freedom to start new, 20 years’ time. Then again, we do some purely prospective additional functions. The boundary between the private research work, where we can go off-limits and imagine and public spaces is reduced, since many of the apartments very advanced solutions. It is essential that we work on have windows leading on the market. In a way, you can these three steps simultaneously: it gives us the opportunity say we brought the street into the building! Another to show people what could be done, and to get them example of providing people with free spaces to enjoy is accustomed to new ways of thinking. It is not so much the Mirador building we designed in the suburbs of Madrid. our goal to realize every daring proposals, but much more It is much higher than the other buildings in the to open the discussion and stimulate and broaden the neighborhood. This enabled us to include a large “skyperspective on sometimes preconceived notions. This is plaza” on the 12th floor, with a great view on the nearby what we have done with our proposal for a radical Grand mountains. This plaza has become a meeting place for Paris scheme. Our response to the former French President 26 generation of architects. In the same way, we would love to create think-tanks with companies like SPIE which have the capacity to conceive a long-term vision for cities, and which have a global vision thanks to the range of activities they are involved in. That global vision is crucial: smart buildings can only fulfill their potential in smart cities and regions. For instance, a positive energy building is not necessarily a solution; it is more important to think of positive energy neighborhoods. Sarkozy’s urban planning consultation was a proposal to What do you mean by “smart”? turn the Greater Paris area into one of the densest, most Does it mean high technology everywhere? compact and therefore most sustainable cities in the world. Not necessarily. Technology moves too fast to provide Based on an analysis of the city fabric, it’s future prolong-term guidelines. What we need is use available grammatic needs and spatial possibilities, we developed technology to provide durable improvements, in two main a series of 17 large scale interventions. Of course, not all areas: first, to reduce their waste production to a of it will be considered feasible by decision-makers, but minimum. Then, connectivity, transportation, and services it shows what could be achieved if all needs–housing, must reach new levels of efficiency. These are the goals transportation, free spaces, services, and energy were we pursue, and technology is only the means to help us addressed systematically. Changing the vision people have reach them. Once again, it all comes back to creating for cities takes time. frameworks within which cities can sustainably become more and more productive, and more efficient. Only the Do you think that this way of working should apply combined expertise of all stakeholders can provide this. to other stakeholders, and would you like to develop This implies redefining the relations between them: your work with them? “ordinary” people must be listened to, and not impose Collaborative work is definitely a key issue. Traditionally, “top down” solutions on them. Decisions must be taken construction and urban planning are done in successive at the right level, and this level can range from the steps with subcontractors taking the stage one after the neighborhood to local, national or even international other. If we want to come up with more efficient and smargoverning bodies. It also implies adapting our respective ter solutions for cities, I think we need to think together, timeframes. Cities live for centuries: architects cannot work together and confront several visions, which can just think about them until a project has been completed, complement themselves. This is what we have started or politicians until the next election has taken place. doing on the prospective side with The Why Factory, which Changes are already happening but I am convinced that is a global think-tank and research institute jointly run by we can go one step further. MVRDV and the Delft University of Technology. It explores possibilities for the development of our cities by focusing To conclude, does this mean that you are optimistic on the production of models and visualizations for cities about cities and their future? of the future. In general, working with students and uniDefinitely, yes! Anyway, an architect cannot afford to be versities is a great way to envision the future with a younger pessimistic. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 27 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: INVESTORS PERFORMANCE Very satisfactory growth in 2013 In addition to the major acquisitions made during the year, SPIE owes its good results to on-going initiatives to improve operating efficiency and risk management. In 2013, SPIE once again achieved a significant increase in As in previous years, this record margin was supported by EBITA. Could you give us your view of this performance solid cash flow generation. Our cash conversion rate well from a financial perspective? exceeded 100%, standing at 110% at year-end. This indicator, It is indeed very satisfying to see that our EBITA increased which is truly at the centre of SPIE’s business model, reflects by around €36 million in 2013, or nearly 14% year-on-year. the strength of our results, year after year. Of course, this good performance is due in part to the Group’s increased size, stemming in particular from acquiIs cash conversion still just as important in SPIE’s sitions made during the year. However, it primarily reflects management culture? our on-going initiatives to improve operating efficiency It’s more important than ever. The concept illustrates very and risk management across all of SPIE’s businesses. As simply the synergy between the two pillars of SPIE’s manaa result, our EBITA margin continued to rise, ending the gement culture, which are securing and regularly increayear at 6.5%. sing our EBITA, on the one hand, and carefully managing and continuously monitoring our working capital requirement, on the other. In fact, operating cash flow, which lies at the intersection of these two approaches, is the EBITA (€m) linchpin of our management culture. We talk about it a 350 great deal internally and it is recognised by all as a major collective objective. Our business model, which is actually 315 298 very simple, is broadly embraced and applied at all levels 300 of the Group so that everyone knows how to contribute to 262 the whole from day to day. 6.5 250 243 6.4 6.2 The model has demonstrated its steadiness and resilience 220 6.1 197 in recent years – even though the business environment 200 6.0 was at times sluggish in some of our markets – seeing 5.4 166 that our cash conversion rate has exceeded 100% in six 150 years out of seven since 2007. 129 4.6 97 All of our teams can be justifiably proud of what we have 100 4.2 accomplished. The experience that we have acquired and 75 our now deeply instilled culture are crucial assets for the 3.7 50 Group. Nevertheless, we need to adapt continuously and 3.2 several initiatives are already in the works for 2014 and 2015 concerning such things as defining and contractua0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011* 2012 2013 2013 PF lising our offers, managing operating risks and optimising our invoicing cycle. We are particularly attentive to improEBITA margin ving our least well-performing businesses and quickly * Pro forma data for the twelve months ended 31 December 2011 rolling out SPIE processes to the companies that joined the Group recently. 28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Denis Chêne, Chief Financial Officer, Our corporate governance practices are SPIE SA systematically designed to ensure transparency, prevent and manage risks, and clearly define Read the press the responsibilities associated with our values. release about our 2013 results. BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPIE SA is a limited liability Éric Rouzier What are the advantages of this approach for SPIE? company incorporated in Clayton, Dubilier & Rice This very demanding approach makes the steady geneFrance as a société anonyme Alfredo Zarowsky ration of a high level of free cash a fundamental characand governed by a Board SPIE SA teristic of SPIE’s business model. It is a factor that of Directors. Its head office Gabrielle guarantees our Group’s financial vitality, independence is located at 10 Avenue de Van Klaveren-Hessel and ability to take the initiative, notably in the area of l’Entreprise, 95863 CergySPIE Nederland Pontoise, France. Representing the corporate acquisitions. mutual fund CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF Daniel Boscari To start, it allowed us to successfully deleverage during SPIE SA EXECUTIVE OFFICER two successive LBOs, giving us substantial breathing Representing employees Gauthier Louette room over the long term in relation to our bank covenants. as from 30 January 2014 Second, this steady, foreseeable flow of cash gave us the DIRECTORS NON-VOTING MEMBERS wherewithal to finance our external growth, with more Michel Bleitrach AND OBSERVERS than 85 acquisitions since 2007. Former Chairman of Keolis Justin Méthot Denis Chêne Caisse de dépôt et placement Looking back at just the past three years, from 2011-2013, SPIE SA du Québec we generated more than €850 million in operating cash Dominique Gaillard Alexandre Motte flow. After interest and tax expense, all available cash Ardian Ardian was reinvested in SPIE’s development. Thanks to our Sir Peter Mason KBE Jean Artur operating performance over those three years, we had Chairman of Thames Water SPIE Sud-Ouest sufficient resources to fully finance thirty acquisitions Roberto Quarta Pascal Castagné – including that of SPIE GmbH – representing a total Clayton, Dubilier & Rice SPIE Communications annual revenue of €1.2 billion. Christian Rochat Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Revenue (€m) COMMITTEES 2012* 2013 % change The Risk Assessment The General Management Committee recommends Committee defines and deploys France 2,500.4 2,446.6 -2.2 whether to pursue projects that the company’s operating Germany and Central Europe 63.4 296.3 +367.6 involve a specified degree of strategy and coordinates potential risk. initiatives. North-western Europe 892.0 1,054.8 +18.2 Oil & Gas and Nuclear 658.7 764.8 +16.1 TOTAL 4,114.5 4,562.6 +10.9 Values * Reported figures PERFORMANCE/LOCAL PRESENCE/RESPONSIBILITY SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 29 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: INVESTORS ACQUISITIONS A new dimension of growth SPIE’s acquisitions in 2013, carried out almost exclusively in North-western Europe and Germany, gave the Group a new dimension in terms of headcount, financial results and development opportunities. SEVEN COMPANIES JOINED SPIE IN 2013 Outside Europe SPIE ENS: specialised in overhead The acquisition of Australia-based Plexal Group allowed power lines in the United Kingdom. SPIE to enhance its Oil & Gas operations in the Asia-Pacific region. Plexal is a specialist engineering firm with comprehensive knowledge across Upstream Oil & Gas, LNG (liquefied natural gas), Gas Transmission, CSG (coal seam gas), Water Utilities and Power Generation. Europe The Service Solutions activities acquired from Hochtief in Germany represent nearly €700 million in acquired revenue for SPIE. Led by Facility Management (revenue of €600 million, of which 15% outside Germany), these activities include Energy Solutions and Building Technology & Service Solutions. SPIE acquired two companies in the United Kingdom during the year: Alard, an electrical engineering contractor operating in key industrial, commercial, educational and retail sectors, and Electricity Network Solutions Ltd (ENS), a company that builds and refurbishes overhead electrical lines for the owners of distribution and transmission networks. Devis, a group with a solid presence in northern Belgium, has 300 employees and annual sales of €65 million. SPIE Belgium and Devis are a perfect match in terms of their geographic coverage and customer portfolios in the market for new HVAC installations and maintenance services. In the Netherlands, SPIE acquired KPN’s Infrastructure Saint-Fons Métallurgie (SFM) near Lyon, France also joined Services & Projects (IS&P) unit during the year. With SPIE in 2013. Specialised in noble metal boilermaking in 600 employees and annual sales of more than €100 million, France’s Rhône-Alpes region, SFM serves clients in fields IS&P has become SPIE Nederland’s new SPIE-Integrated including chemicals, pharmaceuticals, oil and petrocheConnectivity Solutions (SPIE-ICS) division. micals, the food industry and the environment. 30 SPIE GmbH is involved in energy management and facility management. A DESIRE FOR RESPONSIBLE INTEGRATION SPIE’s acquisition approach places great importance on taking time to explain, moving forward step by step and Acquisitions: respecting each company’s culture in accordance with change in revenue acquired (€m) the principles of sustainable development. The Group has €921m successfully carried out 84 acquisitions since July 2006 using this method. ■ Oil & Gas and Nuclear In integrating newly acquired companies, SPIE takes a customised, collaborative approach that aims to treat ■ Europe exc. France newcomers as equals. In the Netherlands, for example, ■ France SPIE Nederland identifies and appoints an integration manager to coordinate exchanges between the acquired company and the Group on the basis of an integration programme that is part of the SPIE quality system and is monitored in accordance with ISO 9001. Different events are organised to help bring new teams on board, including working breakfasts and nationwide presentation tours to explain the Group’s strategy. In Germany, the integration of Hochtief’s Service Solutions activities was a major challenge in 2013, first with the crea€169m tion of SPIE GmbH, and second with the transfer of some €125m 3,800 employees to other Group subsidiaries. A 12-member integration committee comprising executives and employee representatives was set up to address these issues. Half of the members came from the German unit and the other 2011 2012 2013 half from the subsidiaries involved in the process. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 31 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: INVESTORS SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE SPIE’s capital is held by three main shareholders and by nearly 15,000 employees. Investment funds CD&R/Ardian/CDPQ 100% SPIE 2011 corporate mutual fund & managers’ companies Luxembourg holding companies 10.4% 89.6% Clayax Acquisition France 100% French holding companies 100% SPIE SA 100% Operating subsidiaries The three main shareholders are: www.cdr-inc.com www.ardian-investment.com www.lacaisse.com 32 European advertising campaign announcing SPIE’s 2013 results. At SPIE, employee share ownership is a powerful part of our corporate culture. Nearly 15,000 employees are SPIE shareholders through the corporate mutual fund and around 400 managers own shares through managers’ companies. Read the press release about our 2013 results. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 33 34 All stakeholders in customers innovative solutions To meet the world’s changing needs, SPIE leverages extensive expertise and a wide range of technologies and services. We also forge close, long-term partnerships with our customers. 38 44 50 56 Smart city e-fficient Energies Industry buildings services SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 35 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS 4 STRATEGIC SEGMENTS WITH OPERATIONS IN FOUR FAST-GROWING, STRATEGICALLY RELATED MARKET SEGMENTS, SPIE IS HELPING TO ENHANCE ITS CUSTOMERS’ PERFORMANCE AND FACILITATING TECHNOLOGY CONVERGENCE IN SUPPORT OF THE GREEN ECONOMY. Smart city e-fficient buildings A new vision of urban living Enhanced building performance Developing targeted solutions to meet Taking a new approach to building growing needs in the areas of energy development that focuses on integrated performance, eco-mobility, smart energy performance, comfort and buildings and sustainable living occupant needs. environment improvements. 36 Energies Industry services A balanced energy mix A competitive advantage Providing solutions for all segments Offering best-in-class technical services of the energy industry to support to all areas of industry, thanks to highly international operators throughout specialised teams and the efficient their facilities’ life cycle and smooth transfer of skills and expertise. the global energy transition. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 37 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS SMART CITY OBJECTIVES Enhance urban wellbeing Develop sustainable mobility A new model for urban and regional development Support the energy transition tailored to the challenges of improving the living environment and ensuring the wellbeing of residents. REINVENTING OUR CITIES Committed to meeting the “smart city” challenge, SPIE offers a wide range of innovative solutions that take into account economic, social and environmental issues. They include urban equipment fitted with communication systems, positive energy buildings, very high-speed telecommunications infrastructure and sustainable mobility solutions. Urban living Public buildings --Intelligent public transport --Services for occupants --Electric vehicles --User comfort --User information systems --Energy performance --Road infrastructure --Communications and other networks --Video surveillance --Safety and security --Intelligent lighting --Health and environment --Monument lighting --Tourist trails Digital solutions --Wireless communication SMART CITY --Very high-speed wired communication Energy transition --Renewable energies --Cogeneration --Smart grids Read the Smart City brochure SMART CITY CHALLENGES POPULATION DYNAMICS GREENHOUSE GASES (GHG) LOW-CARBON CITIES EU objective: 68% 79% 27Mtoe of Europeans live in urban areas of Europe’s greenhouse gas emissions (million tons of oil equivalent) avoided by 2020 come from energy use Source: European Union – Source: European Union – Cohesion Policy 2014-2020 Source: CDC Climat – Key Figures on Climate 2014 Energy Efficiency Directive 2012/27/EU 38 The City of Bordeaux Municipal authorities in Bordeaux are committed to the sustainable development of the city’s public buildings and infrastructure. SPIE has been providing facility management services to the city for many years, to maintain and optimise numerous public facilities. In the area of digital solutions, SPIE is participating in several major projects in Bordeaux, including the city’s new administrative building, the support system for the municipal call centre and the installation of interactive whiteboards in local schools, which is part of the “Bordeaux Cité Digitale” project. AN INTEGRATED, COMPREHENSIVE APROACH TO URBAN DEVELOPMENT In its Cohesion Policy 2014-2020, the European energy performance is another area where Commission highlighted the need to promote significant progress can still be made. The a more comprehensive approach to urban city of Annemasse in eastern France, for examdevelopment that includes all of the relevant ple, has adopted a SPIE solution that will stakeholders. By ensuring that the various reduce energy use in its main public buildings Annemasse receives solutions to the challenges of urban living are by 25% and lower greenhouse gas emissions a Marianne d’Or more effectively coordinated, through new by 29%. As a result, the city received France’s award for sustainable communication, transport and energy infraMarianne d’Or award for sustainable develdevelopment. Read the press structure, this approach will facilitate the opment in 2013. release. emergence of smart cities. Now more than ever, the challenge for transport operators is to move towards a compre——Improving the living environment hensive monitoring system for sustainable As the movement of people and goods around mobility. To achieve this, SPIE develops proven our cities increases, the optimal management transport solutions and management systems of energy resources is clearly a priority. Public that are compatible with complex traffic flows. lighting, for example, can account for up to Operators therefore have access to sophisti30% of urban energy use. SPIE offers solutions cated traffic prediction and monitoring tools that reduce energy consumption while also and, thanks to an open data architecture, to improving operations and developing new multiple data sources. Solutions such as the services, such as lighting that enhances buildproactive management of traffic lights and ings and video surveillance systems. Building real-time information for travellers are helping SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 39 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS At the Futuroscope theme park in Poitiers, SPIE teamed up with Located near the Swiss border in eastern France, the city of Annemasse received Philips Color Kinetics to create a supercharged ambience for this a Marianne d’Or award for sustainable development in recognition of its first energy giant dance floor, by installing 80 LED cubes that are programmed performance contract with SPIE. to react to the rhythm of the music. to make travel smoother and more reliable. SPIE also supports the development of multimodal transport solutions, by installing electric vehicle charging infrastructure and setting up self-service bicycle systems. ——Changing the urban development paradigm By designing eco-neighbourhoods, reorganising healthcare facilities, creating state-ofthe-art service hubs and more, SPIE is contributing to a new version of city living Perched on a cliff top overlooking the Atlantic Ocean, the magnificent Vila Vita Parc resort based on urban development plans that in Portugal commissioned SPIE to completely overhaul its heating, ventilation, encourage the spread of intelligent buildings. air conditioning and electrical systems. Innovations in home automation, lighting and air conditioning are providing building occupants with a new degree of comfort, while information and communication systems are enhancing the efficiency of urban activity. In 2013, SPIE presented its solutions at the Innovative City Convention in Nice, where particSPIE presents its ipants from around the world exchanged ideas solutions for efficient and sustainable cities. on how technology can be used to transform Read the press release. our cities. Outside the urban environment, 40 SPIE helps to upgrade roads, railways, waterways and airports. In 2013, SPIE contributed to the Eastern European high-speed rail project by leveraging its expertise in overhead line power supply to adjust the network’s voltage to a potential speed of 350 km/h. SPIE’s teams are also participating in numerous projects to reconfigure electrical systems and deploy very high-speed telecommunications infrastructure for both mobile and fixed networks, including optical fibre-to-the-home (FTTH). ——Developing people-sensitive cities In line with the EU’s Beyond GDP initiative, SPIE is helping to shift the urban planning focus towards creating a more pleasant living SPIE is marshalling all of its expertise in high-voltage installations and traction power networks to equip environment in better alignment with resi31 tram stations and 7 electrical substations for Greater Besançon’s first tram line. dents’ needs. Intelligent networks organised around sophisticated facilities provide a backbone of services – such as public information, video surveillance, tourist trails, monument lighting and telehealth solutions – that make Driving Sustainable our cities friendlier, more attractive places to live while providing greater freedom and flexMobility Across ibility. Examples include interactive whiteboards, which give students and teachers Europe B access to a wealth of resources that improve ringing together 25 partners learning, and telemedicine services, which in 8 countries, OPTICITIES enable patients to be treated effectively without is extending the Optimod’Lyon having to travel to hospital. urban mobility concept to a total of six European cities – Birmingham in the UK, Gothenburg in Sweden, Madrid in Spain, Turin in Italy, Wroclaw in Poland and Lyon in France. Launched in 2013 for a three-year period, the programme focuses on improving urban mobility by trialling the latest innovations in intelligent transport systems. By facilitating multimodal transport solutions, optimising urban networks and creating fully integrated systems that Gus and Marie assist authorities in making important explain sustainable mobility in this decisions, SPIE is helping European cities episode of “Let’s to meet the new challenges associated go to the future”. with urban mobility. Watch the video. SPIE’s Telecom Services department is helping Orange Watch the MySPIE to maintain service quality and animated video consistency as it deploys its on electric vehicle 4G mobile network across France. charging stations. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 41 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS FRAC CENTRE IN ORLÉANS CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL FOR WALES France United Kingdom Dubbed “Les Turbulences”, the futuristic building that houses the region’s Created as part of the Welsh government’s Designed for Life initiative, art collection features a bold and innovative media façade, which serves the new Children’s Hospital for Wales offers the highest standards as a backdrop for interactive, real-time light displays inspired by artistic in medical technology, patient comfort and occupant safety. themes and weather data. SPIE helped to achieve this major technical and From implementing electromechanical systems to installing medical environmental feat, primarily by installing the HVAC system and some equipment, SPIE’s teams contribute to the hospital’s level of excellence. 12,000 light-emitting diodes (LEDs). “LES TERRASSES DU PORT” France Some 300 SPIE employees were needed to build and manage all of the technical installations at Marseille’s new waterfront shopping centre, Les Terrasses du Port. Offering 190 food and retail outlets spread over 10 levels, this ultra-modern, 61,000-square-meter building is expected to attract around 15 million visitors per year. 42 BMW HENNO CYSOUW OPTIEK North-western Europe Netherlands In Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, BMW and electric mobility To meet growing demand for sustainable, energy-efficient lighting, service provider The Mobility House have chosen SPIE as their exclusive SPIE has forged a partnership with Minderwatt®, a Dutch company that partner to install BMW i3 charging points for private customers. This specialises in this area. The solution deployed at Henno Cysouw Optiek, innovative system will enable BMW owners to charge their electric vehicles for example, has reduced its carbon emissions by 80%, thanks to the at the location of their choice in just six hours, reducing the average replacement of around 100 halogen lamps with a LED lighting system. charging time by an estimated 60%. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 43 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS e-FFICIENT OBJECTIVES Improve energy efficiency Create connected BUILDINGS buildings Enhance user comfort Technology and services converge to create a new generation of intelligent buildings. OPTIMISING BUILDING PERFORMANCE To develop, coordinate and maintain building systems, from offices to housing complexes, SPIE offers to simplify and secure their day-to-day use, tailor them more effectively to users’ needs and enhance the efficiency of their financial and technical management. User comfort and occupant services --High-performance electrical and HVAC systems --Home and building automation Safety and security --Concierge services --Fire protection --Lifts and moving walkways --Video surveillance --Access to very high-speed networks --Access control --Management of common areas Health and environment --Cleaning and maintenance Communications and --Sterilisation other networks --Cold chain management --Fluid distribution and e-FFICIENT --Data security --IT infrastructure management BUILDINGS --Water and waste treatment --Telemedicine Energy efficiency --Energy-efficient equipment --Hypervision and centralised/building technical management solutions --Energy use monitoring e-FFICIENT BUILDING CHALLENGES HOUSING AND SERVICES ENERGY PERFORMANCE BUILDING MANAGEMENT A target of 40% < 50kWh/sq.m/year 75% of Europe’s energy consumption relates to the heating, by 2020 of a building’s life cycle costs relate to technical cooling and lighting of buildings management and maintenance Source: European Commission – Press Release IP/08/733 Source: European Union – Directive 2010/31/EU Source: Observatoire Économique de l’Achat Public (OEAP) 2010 44 Belgium’s third-largest office building owner and manager, Cofinimmo, has entrusted SPIE with the operation and maintenance of technical installations in 13 of its buildings. COMPREHENSIVE ECOSYSTEMS FOR BUILDING EFFICIENCY In addition to efficient HVAC and energy instalAdvances in technology have also inspired new lations, buildings also need effective connecenergy-related projects, where the aim is to tions to network infrastructure. To meet this reduce consumption through more efficient challenge, SPIE deploys a comprehensive management of energy installations. In Belecosystem of technologies and services taigium, for example, AGC Glass Europe commislored to the needs of both property managers sioned SPIE to work on a brand-new zero-energy and building occupants. building fitted with photovoltaic panels. One of Gus and Marie explain energy the building’s many innovations is a centralised efficiency in this ——Developing active energy efficiency lighting control system that takes into account episode of “Let’s solutions the amount of natural light available and go to the future”. Watch the video. Improving building energy performance whether the offices are being used. remained a priority in 2013, as illustrated by increased customer compliance with BREEAM ——More effectively managing buildings and LEED standards as well as international and their facilities protocols like IPMVP, which provides a frameAcross a wide variety of industries, from bankwork for assessing energy savings. In France, ing and retail to transport and hospitality, SPIE for example, SPIE helped Unibail-Rodamco supports its customers throughout their buildto upgrade La Toison d’Or, Burgundy’s largest ings’ life cycle, often via multi-site solutions. shopping centre and the first in Europe to Brussels-based Cofinimmo, for example, has obtain BREEAM In-Use certification. entered into a five-year contract with SPIE for SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 45 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS Staff at France’s Central Agency for Social Security (ACOSS) can now connect instantly with distant colleagues, thanks to a high-performance videoconferencing solution deployed throughout mainland France and its overseas departments. the guaranteed operation and maintenance commissioned SPIE to provide a sophisticated of all its technical installations in 13 office videoconferencing solution, in both mainland buildings. SPIE has also agreed to optimise France and its overseas departments, to shrink the existing systems, primarily to reduce its carbon footprint and reduce travel expenses. energy use over the long term. In addition, In the area of data centre management, the More about SPIE SPIE offers Total Facility Management contrend towards IT infrastructure realignment Communication’s videoconferencing tracts that include comprehensive services continued during the year, making data centre solution, VideoCloud. for the building’s occupants. One example is reliability and security mission-critical. In the Read the press Syngenta’s site near London, where SPIE Greater Paris region, for example, Bouygues release. deploys security officers and provides services Telecom has entrusted SPIE with the such as garden maintenance and logistics. multi-technical and multi-service management of three data centres to ensure superior busiInformation and communication technology ness continuity and ISO 50001-compliant energy – such as voice/data/video networks, security management standards. systems, personal and vehicle access control, room surveillance and data centre manage——Enhancing the wellbeing of building ment – also help to make buildings and their occupants occupants more efficient. That’s why France’s The presence of sensors and actuators sigCentral Agency for Social Security (ACOSS) nificantly changes how buildings are used, 46 The Importance of Interoperability T o work efficiently together, equipment and infrastructure components must comply with the same set of standards and guidelines. A founding member of the Smart Buildings Alliance for Smart Cities, SPIE helped to prepare two interoperability labels in 2013: • Ready to Grid (R2G): Parameters and variables are transmitted so that an application can receive energy data to enhance a building’s energy efficiency and demand response in its given environment. • Ready to Services (R2S): A label that enables services to be developed via various applications, including maintenance, asset management and asset optimisation. Built in the Paris suburb of Suresnes for Cogedim, this 250-unit residential complex meets the latest standards in urban wellbeing, offering a comfortable layout with interior gardens and a tree-lined walkway, as well as high-quality electrical installations provided by SPIE. driving a shift from technical management to the overall management of systems and instalSPIE optimises the energy lations. This type of technology can be used to efficiency of 200 public buildings control a wide range of environmental factors, in France’s Rhône department. Read the press release. including lighting, temperature and air quality as well as CO2 and humidity levels. EDF Energy and SPIE UK team up These new functions are giving building occuto reduce the amount of energy used pants more and more freedom to interact with by buildings under construction their environment. Just outside Paris, the Atypik or renovation. Read the press release. building fitted out by SPIE offers residents a wide range of home automation services. Using a touch screen or smartphone, they can measure and manage their energy use, control lights and shutters, manage access control and make use of videophone services. Designed to make everyday tasks quicker and easier, these technologies are particularly useful for people who are elderly or disabled. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 47 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT France Covering a surface area of 278,000 square metres, the European Parliament’s prestigious site in Strasbourg has been considerably renovated to accommodate an increasing number of MEPs. A long-time partner of the institution, SPIE recently worked on the site’s voice/data/video networks and has now been asked to upgrade the lighting in its auditoriums. AGC GLASS EUROPE INCITY Belgium France AGC Glass Europe’s new zero-energy headquarters in Belgium benefits from The 43-story Incity office building in Lyon will be the first in France to have advanced technology, including a centralised lighting control system that HQE®, BREEAM®, Excellent and BBC certification. With a net floor area of takes into account the amount of natural light available and whether the around 42,000 square metres, the building offers an extremely modular offices are being used. The services provided by SPIE included voice/data layout that optimises the use of natural light. SPIE’s electrical engineering wiring, fire detectors, and access control and anti-intrusion systems. contributions will help to enhance occupant wellbeing and organise workspaces in new ways. 48 SIEMENS REAL ESTATE BANQUE DE FRANCE Germany France Recently recognised with a “Best Quality Award”, SPIE GmbH’s teams have To build an energy-efficient, environmentally responsible data centre, been delivering a wide range of integrated services to Siemens for about a France’s central bank called on SPIE’s HVAC expertise. Armed with a decade. Cooperation between the two companies has now been stepped up, state-of-the-art data centre comprising four 500-square-meter rooms, with a new Total Facility Management contract covering more than 60 sites. Banque de France intends to take up its place as the main supplier of IT resources within the European System of Central Banks (ESCB). SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 49 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS ENERGIES OBJECTIVES Deliver performance and cost control Reduce environmental impact A wide range of resources, capabilities and services to support Diversify the energy mix energy operators at every stage of their operations. FACILITATING THE ENERGY TRANSITION Committed to achieving a balanced, diversified energy mix, SPIE offers technologies and services that improve the way energy is produced, processed and transported, by securing facilities, reducing environmental impacts and driving productivity gains. Renewable energies Oil & gas --Photovoltaic solar power --Well services and geosciences --Wind power --Project engineering and management --Biomass --Operating support --Hydropower --Skills development --Geothermal energy ENERGIES Power transmission Nuclear power and distribution --New sites --Electrical networks --Projects at existing sites --Transformer sub-stations --Maintenance --Gas networks --Operating assistance --Storage sites --Dismantling --LNG terminals ENERGY CHALLENGES ENERGY MARKET GREENHOUSE GASES EU TARGETS FOR 2013 33% 400ppm 40%  reduction in carbon emissions growth in global energy demand by 2030 (parts per million) of carbon dioxide and at least 27% of the energy mix Source: Institute for Sustainable Development and in the atmosphere in 2013 from renewable sources International Relations (IDDRI) Source: UN – World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) Source: European Parliament, 2013 Environment Committee 50 TenneT For the Netherlands’ national transmission system operator, reconfiguring its high-voltage power lines required SPIE’s extensive expertise. In addition to creating stronger foundations for utility tower No.10, the project also involved building temporary utility poles for the 380-kV power line to ensure service continuity. PRESENT ACROSS ALL SEGMENTS OF THE ENERGY INDUSTRY In a fast-changing energy market, SPIE benconcentrated solar power plant. Inaugurated efits from recognised expertise in renewable in 2013, Shams 1 has a rated capacity of energies, oil and gas and nuclear power, and 100 MW and comprises more than 258,000 in gas and electricity distribution networks. parabolic trough collectors spread over Its diverse capabilities enable SPIE to support 2.5 square kilometres. energy producers and operators throughout the lifecycle of their operations, from the In other areas, such as biomass and district Gus and Marie explain the energy design and advisory phases through to facility heating networks, SPIE has pursued its growth mix in this episode maintenance. strategy based on optimising the use of natural of “Let’s go to resources. In France, for example, sawmill the future”. Watch the video. ——Increasing reliance on renewable company Archimbaud commissioned SPIE to energies install a new production line so that it can SPIE’s involvement in the energy industry has produce wood pellets for biomass boilers. been boosted by the sharp increase in regional SPIE also works regularly on major hydrocontracts for such projects as wind farms and power projects, such as the Pracana and geothermal power facilities, and by the Veiros dams in Portugal and the underground ramp-up in building-block projects to increase hydropower plant in Chamonix, France. Around production capacity. In Abu Dhabi, for example, 400 dams in France will be upgraded in the SPIE played a large part in the construction coming years to increase the country’s hydroand commissioning of the world’s biggest power output by 10%. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 51 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS Designed specifically for loading and unloading LNG tankers, the Zeebrugge terminal in Belgium A key role for serves as an LNG gateway for the whole of North-western Europe. Terminal operator Fluxys tasked SPIE with increasing the terminal’s gas transmission capacity, primarily via a new open networks in the rack vaporiser (ORV), a type of heat exchanger that vaporizes the LNG before injecting it into the transmission network. energy transition E nergy transmission and distribution networks play a vital role in the energy transition. The aim is to more effectively capture the energy provided by renewable sources, by strengthening or reconfiguring power lines and exploring new avenues in power storage and demand-side management. SPIE’s commitment to upgrading electricity networks helps to drive innovation in these areas. By 2030, gas transmission networks may also be useful for storing renewable energies; surplus electricity could be used to produce hydrogen, which could then be injected directly into the gas transmission network. Built by Hyundai Heavy Industries for Total Nigeria, the 16,000-tonne OFON2 offshore oil platform has undergone pre-delivery testing and validation by SPIE in the port city of Ulsan, South Korea. Once the platform has been delivered to its final location, 100 kilometres off the coast of Nigeria, SPIE will perform all of the tasks necessary to prepare the platform for operation. Consult the dedicated website for SPIE Oil & Gas Services. 52 ——Tapping into the fast-growing oil and The dismantling of EDF’s Superphénix reactor, located in the closed Creys-Malville nuclear power gas market plant on the Rhône river, is a complex operation requiring SPIE’s full range of capabilities in SPIE continued to enjoy strong growth in interelectromechanical engineering, from ventilation and electricity to piping and soldering. national oil and gas markets during the year, benefiting in particular from the redeployment of its operations in the Middle East and more specifically in Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Iraq. For its new refinery in western Saudi Arabia, YASREF chose SPIE to manage the commissioning process and to train some 400 local technicians. Already solidly positioned in West Africa, SPIE stepped up its development in Congo, Nigeria and Angola in 2013. It also started up operations in Chad, where it signed a comprehensive operation and maintenance contract with Petrochad for two onshore production sites. In the Asia-Pacific region, SPIE continued to develop its services offering in the areas of technical assistance, maintenance engineering and commissioning. In Myanmar, one of the oldest oil producing countries in the world, Total called on SPIE’s teams for their expertise in maintenance and integrity engineering. In Australia, SPIE is leveraging its 2013 acquisition of Plexal Group to speed its growth in a region characterised by major projects in offshore gas production in Western Australia and in natural gas development in Queensland. generated new projects, such as improving ——Capitalising on the expanding nuclear fire detection for the UP3 plant at AREVA’s power segment site in La Hague and renovating 21 EDF gas In the nuclear power segment, SPIE benefited depots to better protect against such risks from a favourable market environment in as earthquakes and extreme winds. Orders SPIE improves the France thanks to post-Fukushima upgrades increased for the maintenance of valves, rotatcooling systems and preparations for EDF’s Grand Carénage ing machinery and hoisting equipment and for electrical programme, which is scheduled for deploydismantling operations continued at sites like equipment rooms in France’s nuclear ment in 2015. In the United Kingdom, SPIE Creys-Malville and Bugey in France, drawing on power plants. was selected to work on HVAC and electrical the expertise of the specialised SPIE DEN unit. Read the press systems for two EPR™ reactors at the Hinkley release. Point C facility. To adapt to changes in the segment, SPIE stepped up its organisation and resources, which now include a new training centre in Béligneux, eastern France. Significant progress was made during the year on projects to upgrade or maintain existing facilities. On the Flamanville 3 EPR project, for which SPIE was selected to work on the electrical installations, 46% of the electromechanical assembly has now been carried out. Stricter safety standards have also SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 53 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS VALECO France In southwest France, SPIE was asked by renewable energy developer and operator Valeco to build a photovoltaic plant designed to produce 13 gigawatt-hours of power per year, the annual consumption of 4,000 people. The project was completed in record time, with all the work carried out in just three months – from earthworks and water regulation to underground networks, electric wiring and video surveillance and monitoring systems. KRAMP EDF France France Dutch company Kramp decided to draw on SPIE’s geothermal expertise EDF’s Grand Carénage programme aims to adapt France’s nuclear power for its new site in Poitiers. The geothermal system supplies the building’s plants to post-Fukushima standards and extend their operating life beyond heating and cooling equipment, as well as an air treatment unit for the 40 years. The programme will mobilise SPIE’s skills and resources in ventilation system. Altogether, geothermal energy meets 60% of the site’s maintenance and upgrade work for around ten years, with particularly total energy needs, with a gas-fired boiler making up the shortfall. high standards in safety, security, radiation protection and availability. 54 YASREF OGN APACHE Saudi Arabia United Kingdom One of the largest oil facilities in Saudi Arabia, the new refinery in the The new oil platform built by UK-based OGN for US operator Apache is industrial city of Yanbu is designed to process 400,000 barrels of oil per day. designed to revitalise production from the Forties field, the largest UK oil Operator YASREF has entrusted SPIE with the commissioning and start-up field in the North Sea. While also carrying out the technical installation, of the refinery’s installations and with other services, such as training SPIE also helped to deploy an effective safety management plan throughout 400 local technicians and preparing plans to achieve compliance with the platform’s construction, which mobilised up to 1,000 people. the HSE management system. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 55 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS INDUSTRY OBJECTIVES Optimise industrial processes SERVICES Maintain facilities Boost competitiveness An offering that covers the entire value chain to enhance productivity, reduce costs and create new opportunities. ENSURING THE SUSTAINABILITY OF INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS Active right across the industrial value chain, SPIE combines cutting-edge expertise in each segment with a strong operational presence at the local level, enabling its teams to continuously improve customers’ performance by helping them to get the most out of the latest technology. Industrial buildings Electromechanical installations --Technical building management --Electrical: substations, panels, --Communications and other cabinets, etc. networks --Heating, ventilation and air --Safety, security and standard conditioning compliance --Mechanical: piping, fabrication, --Industrial facility management rotating machines, etc. INDUSTRY SERVICES Energy efficiency Industrial processes and automation --Energy exchange, recovery and storage --Industrial power --Cogeneration and renewable energies --Industrial information systems --Energy performance optimisation for --Robotics utilities and processes --Hydraulics and pneumatics --Control and supervision INDUSTRIAL CHALLENGES EUROPEAN INVESTMENT INDUSTRIAL UTILITIES SMART FACTORY 80bn A potential source of energy savings that could reach A market estimated to be worth over € to be invested by the EU in research and innovation 40% $ 246 bn between now and 2020 by 2018 Source: European Commission – “Horizon 2020” Source: ADEME, 2011 Source: Research and Markets, 2013 56 Audi Inaugurated in late 2013, the Audi plant in Münchsmünster, Germany, leverages the latest technology – including an automated aluminium die-casting foundry – to produce new automotive components. In addition to maintaining the plant’s technical systems and optimising the performance of its production and support processes, SPIE also provides various infrastructure and logistics-related services. EXCELLENCE IN EVERY INDUSTRIAL SECTOR An expert in designing, managing and upgradAnother major challenge for industrial opering industrial facilities to guarantee their ators is renovating facilities without interruptlong-term productivity, flexibility and safety, ing operations and without ever compromising SPIE deploys its capabilities across all induson safety. That’s exactly what SPIE did in 2013 trial sectors, leveraging synergies among its at the Coulport arms depot in Scotland, where specialised units and participating in innovait refurbished the depot’s Explosives Handling Aerospace – Automated drilling tive projects in Europe’s key industries. Jetty – a floating dock used to load and unload system developed strategic and conventional weapons for the by SPIE. ——Upgrading industrial facilities Royal Navy submarine fleet. The contract Watch the video. To ensure maximum flexibility and perforinvolved numerous tasks, including the renomance potential, SPIE undertakes to upgrade vation of traveling cranes, the installation of a building infrastructure in accordance with the new power distribution system and the renewal specific needs of each sector, from petrochemof external protective coatings. A detailed icals, automobiles and aerospace to agribusitechnical analysis was needed to manage the ness and pharmaceuticals. In 2013, SPIE’s various phases of implementation. teams in France helped to enlarge a building SPIE acquires that will house the new extra-wide-body Airbus French metal A350. The new structure will be less fuel-infabrication company SFM. tensive, more environmentally responsible Read the press and less expensive to operate. release. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 57 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS The Evian plant in France is the largest natural mineral water bottling plant in the world. Present at the site since 1988, SPIE is now taking part in the plant’s complete reconstruction to bring it in line with seismic safety standards, without interrupting production. A team of 20 SPIE employees are on the frontline to deliver innovative solutions in the areas of electrical and mechanical installations and industrial relocation. ——Optimising production and reducing costs To increase output from their production facilities, manufacturers are increasingly turning to breakthrough energy technologies, such as carbon capture, recycling, storage and development, intelligent energy networks, high-capacity power storage and cogeneration involving renewable energies. At the Villeroy & Boch site in Mettlach, Germany, SPIE is going to build and operate a high-performance electric power plant combining a cogeneration unit and a boiler to replace the power supply currently provided by a steam generator. The new power plant will reduce electricity costs by around 25% and carbon emissions by more than 5,000 tonnes a year. Just south of La Rochelle, at the site where Alstom builds trams and high-speed trains, SPIE is responsible for the maintenance of all hoisting equipment, including travelling Information and communication systems can and transfer cranes, lift posts and the shot-blasting machine. also play a key role in improving industrial performance. In agribusiness, for example, 58 For the routine maintenance of its petrochemical plant in Carling-Saint-Avold, Total relies on SPIE’s extensive expertise in power control and regulation. product traceability has become a priority throughout the European Union. For Bigard, one of Europe’s leading beef suppliers, SPIE The evolving developed a solution that draws on its teams’ expertise in mechanical engineering, automa“connected tion and industrial information systems. Radio frequency identification (RFID) technology is factory” A used to track and guide 2,000 trays on a closeds the era of “smart industries” loop system, with significant gains in time spent approaches, industrial facilities and process quality. are becoming increasingly connected and flexible. The aim is ——Managing industrial assets over to enable continuous, real-time the long term communication among the various tools Process safety and quality, operator empowand workstations across both production erment, installation reliability and regulatory and supply chains. Other benefits include compliance are all key aspects of industrial increased production flexibility, more facility management, to which SPIE adds its personalised products, improved expertise in energy production and site improvesimulation tools and further energy and ment. In Germany, for example, SPIE is helping raw material savings. SPIE’s offering Audi to sustainably manage the facilities at its in this area includes sophisticated new Münchsmünster plant, where construction electricity demand response services, work will continue until 2016. Responsible for such as dynamic curtailment, phasing maintaining technical systems, ensuring the out of semi-finished goods processing, seamless implementation of production and and actual elimination of demand support processes and providing services assothrough the removal of an energy need. ciated with the plant’s infrastructure and logistics, SPIE will leverage its blueFM™ system to continuously analyse and optimise the environmental impact of work flows and all technical solutions. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 59 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: CUSTOMERS PETROGAL Portugal At Petrogal’s refinery in Porto, SPIE’s maintenance contract covers both fixed and moving components, such as piping, metal structures, pumps and compressors, and hundreds of heat exchangers. Maintaining the exchangers entails dismantling, cleaning, repairing and reassembling the parts, with the help of a high-performance extractor, and performing pressure tests. AIRBUS GMS France France In Toulouse, SPIE’s mechanical engineering team is applying its expertise to The four dry docks at the Toulon Naval Base in southern France must be the assembly of the future A320neo, a fuel-efficient addition to the Airbus maintained in perfect condition for the repair and maintenance of large family. SPIE’s teams are responsible for designing and building the warships like the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle. After a assembly line, including all of the associated logistics and handling fire in the pump house, SPIE was commissioned to repair an electric pump equipment, in accordance with lean manufacturing principles. with a capacity of 22,000 cubic meters per hour, which is regularly used to drain the docks. 60 SHELL ARCELORMITTAL Netherlands France Oil major Shell is drawing on SPIE’s industrial and oil and gas expertise ArcelorMittal is investing in the complete refurbishment of blast furnace in the Netherlands, as part of an engineering, procurement and No. 2 at its Dunkirk steel plant, which is now its largest and most construction (EPC) contract that also includes commissioning services. productive facility in France. SPIE was tasked with renovating the SPIE’s contribution includes installation design, equipment supply, overall instrumentation and control systems and relocating the control room project management, test coordination and validation prior to start-up. to blast furnace No. 4. The steel giant aims to have three renovated blast furnaces by the end of 2015. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 61 All stakeholders in a commitment emplo to responsibility 64 72 Committed through A champion our convictions apprentice 62 Certain corporate commitments are stronger when they are shared. These may include worksite safety, a day-to-day concern for the environment and efforts to improve personal wellbeing. When these commitments are embraced by others and inspire new approaches, they become truly lasting. yees SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 63 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: EMPLOYEES COMMITTED THROUGH OUR CONVICTIONS Creating a company with I WE ARE A EUROPEAN GROUP a lasting commitment to SPIE is not only a company with a strong European presence, it’s also a group with a profoundly European identity shaped by its history as well a sustainable world is an as its commitments. objective that has for years ——Our governance is European guided all of SPIE’s In 2013, the new German subsidiary SPIE GmbH joined the Group, thereby strengthening a collegial governance system that develops the synergies operations by closely linking needed for growth. Each subsidiary is thus responsible for its markets, economic performance, while taking care to align its actions at Group level. Similarly, human resources are managed locally, within a framework of common principles social advancement and and key cross-cutting processes. environmental stewardship. ——We share the same values Much more than just slogans, the values of responsibility, local service and performance are expressed in all of our practices and serve to structure our organisation. To develop the spirit of independence and responsibility among new employees, SPIE Belgium introduced a SPIE Skills training programme in 2013. The programme teaches them about end-to-end project management 32,816 by closely combining organisational and human factors. ——SPIE, the leading European network in its industry employees Our network of European expertise is constantly nurtured in many different in Europe at ways by regional cultures and know-how. Skills-set clubs and committees 31 December 2013 ensure cross-fertilisation in such areas as service sector maintenance, telecommunications, health care and energy production. A large number of professional meetings are also organised to promote interaction within the Group. One example in 2013 was Services Day, held in Cergy, which brought together the leading European players in the field. Download these documents to your mobile phone: Diversity Sharing a Vision Guiding Safety Handbook on Ethical Charter. for the Future. Principles. Charter. Business Practices. 64 GLOBAL COMPACT: AN INTERNATIONAL COMMITMENT In 2003, SPIE pledged to support the United Nations Global Compact, which invites companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Principles Examples of application at SPIE Human Rights • Businesses should support • Deployment of the OHSAS 18001 (or equivalent) and respect the protection occupational health and safety management system. of internationally proclaimed human rights, within their • International business travel safety guide. sphere of influence. • National agreements in Africa and the Middle East to employ locals. • Make sure they are not complicit • Stress management agreements. in human rights abuses. • Supplier assessment studies with EcoVadis. Labour • Businesses should uphold the • A forum for social dialogue within the European Works freedom of association and the Council. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • A diversity committee that coordinates initiatives to prevent discrimination by: • The elimination of discrimination -improving employment opportunities for the disabled; in respect of employment and occupation. -increasing gender parity; • The elimination of all forms -providing work opportunities for the young as well of forced and compulsory labour. as for older employees; • The effective abolition of child labour. -promoting diversity. Environment • Businesses should support • Deployment of the ISO 14001 environmental standard. a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Training and awareness-building programmes on energy and climate issues. • Undertake initiatives to promote • Extension of the carbon footprint analysis programme. greater environmental responsibility. • Environmentally friendly management of the corporate vehicle fleet and eco-driving courses for employees. • Encourage the development • Commitment to purchasing 730 electric vehicles between and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 2011 and 2015. • Environmentally friendly digitisation and reprinting of corporate publications. • Environmental criteria used to assess suppliers. • Special training programmes at the SPIE Technology Institute. Anti-Corruption • Businesses are encouraged • Handbook on Ethical Business Practices. to combat all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. • Services Agreement Procedure. • Training in business ethics, with a special module on the Bribery Act in the United Kingdom. • Supplier assessment studies with EcoVadis. More about the Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 65 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: EMPLOYEES II SAFETY IS AN INDICATION OF PROFESSIONALISM 7 prizes awarded to SPIE At SPIE, safety extends well beyond technical measures. It is part of a managerial commitment that is at the heart of the Group’s performance. ——Preventing risks together at the SERCE – OPPBTP Safety is a top priority for SPIE, a sign of its teams’ professionalism and Safety Competition an integral part of the Group’s identity. It involves anticipating all hazardous situations, choosing the right equipment, monitoring procedures at every phase of a project, improving existing standards and involving employees. A new Safety Charter prepared by the General Management Committee was introduced in 2013 to strengthen this process and extend it to all stakeholders. ——Safety is a measurable reality With results that place it among the best in its business, SPIE is constantly Units with health and safety pursuing its objective of becoming an accident-free organisation by r­ egularly management systems certified measuring its performance in this area. The Group’s commitment has to OHSAS 18001/VCA/MASE earned it many prizes in Europe, such as a Silver Award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) in the UK and four awards standards received by SPIE Belgium in the industrial sector, including the highest (as a % of total workforce) prize given by Janssen Pharmaceutica. 74 75 76 77 80 79 ——Everybody is concerned One of the key principles of SPIE’s safety policy is that everyone can take action in this area. This means not only managers, other employees and temporary workers but also customers, partners and subcontractors. In 2013, SPIE reworked its Safety Passport, choosing a wider target group. To constantly improve its results, the Group is also developing partnerships 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 with specialised organisations like the Institute for a Culture of Industrial Safety (ICSI), which fosters a multidisciplinary approach. Lost-time injury rate (LTIR)(1) 12,8 4% 8% 8,26 7,24 6,95 7,51 6,89 6,50 SPIE UK won Silver at the RoSPA Occupational Health & Safety Awards. 2013 Prevention & Safety campaign. 2011 2012 2013 2013 LTIR(1) Industry (source: SERCE(2)) LTIR(1) SPIE excluding acquisitions including acquisitions (1) Number of accidents with lost time per million hours worked, including temporary employees. (2) France’s association of electrical and environmental engineering companies. 66 Creation of a training centre in Beligneux, France to strengthen At the Technology Institute, 14 SPIE Nederland technicians received training in measuring and controls. the safety and radiation protection culture in nuclear facilities and enhance employees’ technical skills. III EVERYONE MUST BE ALLOWED TO EXPRESS THEIR TALENT 400,000 SPIE sees itself as a community of entrepreneurs, all of whom are focused on improving in line with their abilities and to reaping the rewards of their commitment. hours ——Support for employee advancement of professional training Deeply committed to promoting people from within the organisation, SPIE offered in 2013 has set up special systems to provide employees with personalised ­support. Once they are hired, employees undergo an integration process that allows them to interact with members of the profession and tour a Group facility. Other examples include Company Resource Assessment and Development Committees (CEDRE) that meet once a year to identify high-potential employees and interviews with seniors to help them prepare for the second part of their career. More broadly, the Group encourages employees to change regions or functions as a way of constantly enhancing their skills and exploring new opportunities. ——Training as a means of achieving goals At SPIE, training is seen not as an obligation but as an investment in the SPIE Nucléaire future. Through its Technology Institute and Management School, the inaugurates its internal training Group allocates considerable resources to skills enhancement. centre. In 2013, SPIE Nucléaire opened a training centre near Lyon and SPIE Read the press Belgium received certification for an advanced training module on piping release. systems. Another example is the SPIE Talents programme, which provided young managers from various European countries with an introduction to international leadership. ——Motivated by an entrepreneurial spirit Some 15,000 employees are currently SPIE shareholders, thereby demonstrating their confidence in a Group that promotes an entrepreneurial spirit. Many levers exist for developing that spirit across the organisation. Health and Safety. Watch the video. Examples include training for local managers, who are well positioned to take initiative with their teams, and the Ambition Manager programme for senior executives. In addition, employee beneficiaries were paid a total of €10.9 million under discretionary profit-sharing agreements signed at subsidiary level in 2013. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 67 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: EMPLOYEES SPIE was honoured with awards at the SERCE-OPPBTP Safety Competition. IV OUR ACTIONS REFLECT OUR VALUES SPIE feels that its actions inspire and maintain trust. They determine the quality of its relations, both inside and outside the company. ——Assuming total responsibility 2 The Group’s social and environmental responsibility process is regularly assessed throughout the Group via internal systems as well as by ­independent experts. In 2013, SPIE commissioned Vigeo, Europe’s leading days social responsibility rating agency, to evaluate SPIE Sud-Ouest. The ­subsidiary received high marks for having recently obtained the ISO 26000 of training social responsibility standard, with aspects of its human resources and on the spirit of service integrated management system being noted for excellence. were included in all Technology Institute ——All company ambassadors sessions One of SPIE’s core principles is that employees are also company ­ambassadors, meaning that their behaviour reflects on the Group and its image. In the area of business ethics, SPIE published a new charter in 2013 that emphasises employees’ obligation to conduct all their activities with loyalty and integrity. The same approach is used to showcase the company. With schools, for example, an ambassador network comprised of former students promotes cooperative teaching programmes. ——Giving priority to social dialogue The quality of social dialogue is a key indicator of SPIE’s powerful corporate dynamic. During the year, the European Works Council played a major role in SPIE’s acquisition of the Services Solutions business of Germany’s Hochtief, demonstrating responsiveness and providing the backing needed to help close the deal in a very short timeframe. In addition, a large number of agreements were signed in 2013 with various subsidiaries in such areas as hiring the disabled, personnel planning and development, arduous working conditions and stress prevention. 68 V DIVERSITY IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR EVERYONE 80 Diversity is the key characteristic of the organisation as a European group made up of different cultures and skills sets. It’s also a development driver for all its employees. million ——Diversity supports our development disabled persons in SPIE uses diversity as a skills indicator that stimulates its performance the European Union and helps to strengthen its corporate values. Whether to improve an environment of trust or working conditions or to enhance the Group’s image, the benefits presented in the Diversity Charter are organised into four priority areas: hiring the disabled, promoting gender parity, balancing the age pyramid and integrating people from diverse backgrounds. ——Recognising differences creates strength Accepting individual differences is a sign of team excellence. This is especially true with regard to disabilities. Through its Diversity Committee, SPIE deploys a network of disability contacts in all subsidiaries to support their action plans, which include agreements with specialised organisations, customised training programs and support for Handisport activities Disability and Disability Month. In 2013, the Group signed a three-year partnership Awareness agreement with the French Association of Paralytics (APF) with the goal Month at SPIE. of tripling purchases from companies that hire people with disabilities. Read the press release. ——We share our cultures and skills sets With some 100 nationalities around the world and an exceptional variety of skills sets, diversity is a reality that is shared globally. In European countries, which are shaped by powerful regional specificities, SPIE ­promotes the sharing of best practices. In the global oil and gas markets, the Group plays a role in developing competencies in cooperation with its local partners. Whether in the areas of hiring, evaluation, needs analysis Partnership or customised training, some 300 senior advisors every year lead sessions with the French in every oil and gas-related field. Association of Paralytics. Read the press release. Partnership with the CAP-SAAA association, led by Ryadh Sallem, Signing of a partnership agreement with DSi to develop which organises France’s wheelchair basketball championship. employment opportunities for the disabled. Partnership with DSi. Read the press release. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 69 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: EMPLOYEES VI WE SUPPORT THE ENERGY TRANSITION 198 SPIE is implementing an environmental management system certified to ISO 14001 or equivalent standards that covers more than 80% of its operations. tonnes ——All our operations are concerned of commercial electrical SPIE takes into account environmental challenges at every link in the and electronic equipment value chain, especially with regard to energy efficiency, the carbon footprint waste collected in France and waste recycling. For example, to improve its purchasing policy for by Recylum materials, which account for more than half of the Group’s carbon ­emissions, SPIE contracted with Ecovadis, a specialised organisation, to conduct two audits in 2013. In the area of waste management, the Group continued to deploy its ISO 14001 program to ensure complete traceability and minimise impact through techniques to reduce, reuse and recycle waste. Units with environmental ——The environment is a source of innovation management systems certified Environmental stewardship requires advanced expertise, from Energy to ISO 14001 standards and Climate Plans to low-energy buildings and new industrial systems. (as a % of total workforce) On the leading edge of this commitment, SPIE also intends to set an example in its own facilities. In 2013, the Group began to rebuild its 66 66 68 77 ­headquarters in Parc Saint-Christophe, replacing it with a new 10,000 sq.m 65 60 office building that meets the strictest environmental performance ­standards and will be delivered in first-half 2015. Other examples include the many innovative green solutions that are recognised annually at the SPIE Innovation Awards. ——Supporting lasting, shared mobility 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 To reduce the environmental impact of travel, SPIE is constantly improving its vehicle fleet management practices, in particular by shifting to less polluting models. For instance, a total of 730 electric vehicles are set to be purchased by 2015. Other measures such as eco-driving lessons and carpooling programmes further strengthen this commitment. A player in Europe’s electric mobility sector, the Group is also continuing to expand in the promising EV charging infrastructure market. Chosen by such companies as BMW, Renault and La Poste, SPIE’s solutions were p ­ resented at the 2013 French Charging Infrastructure Convention (ANIC) in Nice. SPIE has a fleet of electric vehicles that extends across its entire network. The future SPIE headquarters, for delivery in 2015. 70 2nd SPIE Belgium Classic. 4th Apprenticeship Forum, which was attended by 208 apprentices. VII ALL ATTENTIVE TO THE WORLD AROUND US Working with its stakeholders, SPIE is helping to develop a fairer, more sustainable society. 2,508 people hired ——We act in favour of jobs SPIE supports local employment initiatives alongside associations, for on permanent contracts example by training and hiring disadvantaged young people, and also (CDI) in 2013 leads an ambitious apprenticeship policy. To host more than 1,000 apprentices a year, the Group has set up an extensive support system within the company that involves training some 150 tutors each year. A large number of partnerships are also organised with schools. For example, SPIE has decided to sponsor the 2014 graduating class of France’s Special Public Works School (ESTP). ——Being responsible means reaching out Leveraging its technical, human and financial resources, SPIE is involved in outreach initiatives around the world. In Belgium, for example, the Group presented a €15,000 cheque to the Red Cross so that around 50 disadvantaged children could go on holiday. For the second running of the SPIE Belgium Classic bicycle race, a €10,000 donation was made An outstanding to two charities: To Walk Again and Limerick. Outside Europe, the Group employer provided support for Electricians Without Borders to help victims of Typhoon SPIE ranks among Haiyan in the Philippines (where SPIE has hired some 300 locals). the companies preferred by employees and ——Promoting our cultural heritage recent graduates. Having proven its expertise on many outstanding sites in Europe – and Read the press recently at Marseille’s MuCEM museum – SPIE is recognised for its role release. in promoting our cultural heritage. The Group also lends a hand to other professional initiatives. For example, it helps the Louvre Museum to carry out its heritage, educational and social missions and supports cities in their artistic projects like the Folle Journée de Nantes, which every year organises a musical event that spotlights a major composer. In the area of corporate patronage, SPIE has for years helped to build the Royaumont Foundation’s reputation throughout Europe. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 71 SPIE AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS: EMPLOYEES A CHAMPION APPRENTICE The first days of any apprenticeship are always memorable. Everyone has their own story to tell, including Arthur, who dreams of becoming an engineer and business manager. Arthur: It’s not easy to find an interesting job. Arthur: This is it. I hope everything goes well… Philippe: Do like me and join a work/study programme at an engineering school. That changes everything. You’ll see. Anna: Hello. My name is Anna. I’m your tutor. Paul: Did you enjoy the tour? Arthur: Um, my name is Arthur. Arthur: Yes, a lot. I really wasn’t expecting Anna: And these are your fellow interns. such a warm welcome. Paul: Hello, Arthur. Paul: Well, you’ll have to get used to it. José: Come on. We’ll show you around. 72 The next day Arthur: Hi. Is this where I’m supposed to be? Anna: How do you feel? Anna: Wait a second. Not so fast. First, you have to read Arthur: Fine. I just have to get used to it. the safety guidelines. After that I’ll explain what you have to do, Anna: Clément, take it easy with him at first. and then you’ll need to put on your new work clothes. We’ll touch base again in two hours. Anna: So? What do you think? Clément: He’s doing pretty well but getting a little tired. That’s normal at first. Anna: OK. Put him on the CAD* software this afternoon. *Computer-Aided Design Later that day Anna: Seems like you’re enjoying yourself. What are you doing? Philippe: So how was it? Arthur: I’m optimising the environmental impact of an Arthur: I still can’t get over it. You should have seen me today! installation. Clément explained it all to me. It’s really cool. I was a real champion. Anna: OK, you can continue with that tomorrow. We still have to debrief. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 73 CSR REPORT EXTRA-FINANCIAL INDICATORS Committed to the green economy and guided by its core principles, SPIE deploys a corporate responsibility process that takes into consideration every stakeholder. Social 2013 2012 Scope Total workforce(1) 37,238 30,205 World Europe 32,816 25,934 Asia 1,067 867 Middle East 953 1,196 Africa 2,372 2,179 Workforce by business World Multi-technical regional services 27,890 21,257 SPIE Communications 3,332 3,232 SPIE Nucléaire 2,110 2,000 SPIE Oil & Gas Services 3,906 3,716 Workforce by job category World Operators 12,906 8,841 Administrative employees, technicians and supervisors 16,523 14,603 Managers 7,809 6,761 Employment New hires(2) 2,508 2,257 Europe % of workforce on permanent contracts 93% 94% Europe Average seniority 10 years 11 years Europe Diversity % of employees that are women 14% 11% Europe % of managers that are women 14% 15% Europe Average age 42 years 41 years Europe % of employees over 57 9% 7%(3) Europe % of employees under 26 10% 11% (3) Europe Number of nationalities represented in the Group 89 99 World % of employees with a disability 2.98% 2.68% France Training (1) Number Training outlays as a % of payroll 3.84% 3.5% Europe of employees on payroll at % of employees on work/study or apprenticeship contracts 4% 5% France 31 December, Career opportunities and employer appeal including acquisitions. Number of partnerships with schools and universities 49 33 World Social dialogue (2) New hires on permanent % of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement 99% 99% France contracts, Employee share ownership excluding acquisitions. Employee shareholders as a % of the workforce 37% 50% World (3) Revised Employee shareholders as a % of the workforce 62% 71% France 2012 figure. 74 Health and Safety at Work 2013 2012 Scope Occupational health and safety management system % of employees working under an OHSAS 18001-certified 78% 80% World or equivalent(1) system Accidents involving SPIE employees(2) World Total recordable injury rate(3) (at constant scope of consolidation) 10.4 11.7 Total recordable injury rate (including acquisitions in 2013) 9.9 12.2 Lost time injury rate (at constant scope of consolidation) 5.9 5.8 Lost time injury rate (including acquisitions in 2013) 5.7 6.5 Accidents involving SPIE employees and/or temporary workers World Total recordable injury rate (at constant scope of consolidation) 11.7 13.9 Total recordable injury rate (including acquisitions in 2013) 11.1 14.3 Lost time injury rate (at constant scope of consolidation) 6.9 7.0 Lost time injury rate (including acquisitions in 2013) 6.6 7.5 Fatal accidents 2 1 World 850,000 Environment 2013 2012 Scope tonnes Environmental management system % of employees working in ISO 14001-certified units 77% 68% World Total Waste management greenhouse gas % of permanent facilities with a waste storage and sorting area 89% 78% Europe emissions(6) Tonnes of waste electrical and electronic equipment collected 198.4 t 116.6 t France in tonnes of from customers in partnership with Recylum CO2 equivalent Energy use at permanent facilities (2011 carbon footprint Electricity used, in millions of kWh 36m kWh 39m kWh World analysis) Gas used, in millions of kWh 15m kWh 14m kWh World 210 g Corporate vehicle fleet Fuel used, in millions of litres 14.8m litres 17.5m litres France of CO2/€ Average carbon emissions from corporate vehicles on a long-term lease 135 g of 138 g of France CO2/km CO2/km Carbon Average carbon emissions from long-term lease vehicles added 120 g of 134 g of France emissions in to the fleet during the year CO2/km CO2/km grams of CO2 Number of electric and hybrid vehicles 184 106 Europe per euro of revenue Responsible Purchasing 2013 2012 Scope (2011 carbon footprint analysis) Supplier CSR audits % of total purchases from suppliers audited for CSR compliance 21% 23% World Solidarity purchasing Amount of purchases with protected sector (EA (4), ESAT…) €1.3m €1m(5) France (1) VCA in Belgium or the Netherlands. (2) Number of accidents per million hours worked. (3) Number of accidents with or without lost time, per million hours worked. (4) Entreprise Adaptée, which promotes the integration of disabled persons excluded from the workplace. (5) Revised 2012 figure. (6) Scope 1 and 2 direct and indirect emissions + emissions from purchases. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 75 ADDRESSES France Morocco SPIE SA SPIE Nucléaire SPIE Maroc Parc Saint-Christophe Parc Saint-Christophe – Route d’El Jadida PK 374 (par FRA-95863 Pôle Galilée Lissasfa), Km 13,5 – CERGY-PONTOISE CEDEX FRA-95865 Commune rurale Tel.: +33 (0)1 34 24 30 00 CERGY-PONTOISE CEDEX Oulad Azzouz www.spie.com Tel.: +33 (0)1 34 24 47 93 Province de Nouaceur www.myspie.eu Fax: +33 (0)1 34 24 47 40 MAR-20190 CASABLANCA Tel.: +212 5 22 65 92 00 SPIE Île-de-France Nord-Ouest Belgium Fax: +212 5 22 65 93 00 www.elecam.ma 28 bis, boulevard Ornano SPIE Belgium FRA-93287 Rue des Deux Gares 150-152 Poland SAINT-DENIS CEDEX Tel.: +33 (0)1 48 13 42 42 BEL-1070 BRUSSELS SPIE Polska Sp. z o.o Fax: +33 (0)1 48 13 45 99 Tel.: +32 2 729 61 11 Fax: +32 2 729 61 61 ul. Powsińska 64A SPIE Est www.spie-be.com PL-02-903 WARSAW 2, route de Lingolsheim Tel.: +48 22 858-8525 BP 70330 – Geispolsheim – Germany Fax: +48 22 842-0473 www.spie.com.pl Gare SPIE Deutschland FRA-67411 ILLKIRCH CEDEX Tel.: +33 (0)3 88 67 56 00 System Integration Portugal Fax: +33 (0)3 88 67 40 33 Ruschgraben 135 TecnoSPIE SA SPIE Sud-Est DEU-76139 KARLSRUHE Tel.: +49 721 9632 0 Rua D. Nuno Álvares Pereira, 4, avenue Jean-Jaurès Fax: +49 721 9632 168 nº. 4 e 4A TSA 70017 www.spie-de.com Bloco 1 e 2 3º Piso FRA-69551 FEYZIN CEDEX Parque Oriente Tel.: +33 (0)4 72 21 12 00 SPIE GmbH PRT–2695-445 BOBADELAFax: +33 (0)4 78 70 60 43 Alfredstraße 236 LOURES SPIE Ouest-Centre 45133 ESSEN Tel.: +351 21 448 12 00 Tel.: +49 (0)201 824-8032 Fax: +351 21 448 12 10 7, rue Julius et Ethel Fax: +49 (0)201 824-7969 www.spie-pt.com Rosenberg www.spie.de BP 90263 Switzerland FRA-44818 SAINT-HERBLAIN CEDEX Greece Tel.: +33 (0)2 40 67 06 06 SPIE Suisse Fax: +33 (0)2 40 63 48 78 SPIE Hellas S.A. 3, chemin des Léchères 4 Zalogou Str. & Mesogeion CHE-1217 MEYRIN SPIE Sud-Ouest Ave., 1st Floor Tel.: +41 22 719 88 88 70, chemin de Payssat 15343, Agia Paraskevi Fax: +41 22 719 88 89 ZI Montaudran – CS 34056 GR-ATHENS FRA-31029 Tel.: +30 216 9001 700 ext. 101 SPIE Schweiz AG TOULOUSE CEDEX 4 Fax: +30 215 530 77 23 Untere Rebgasse 7 Tel.: +33 (0)5 61 36 75 75 www.spie.gr CHE-4058 BASEL Fax: +33 (0)5 61 36 74 70 Tel.: +41 61 666 6822 Hungary Fax: +41 61 666 6821 SPIE Communications 53, boulevard Stalingrad SPIE Hungária Kft. United FRA-92247 MALAKOFF CEDEX Tel.: +33 (0)1 41 46 41 46 Váci út 76 Kingdom HU-1133 BUDAPEST Fax: +33 (0)1 41 46 41 47 Tel.: +36 1 505-8700 SPIE UK Head Office www.spiecom.com Fax: +36 1 505-8701 www.spie.hu 33 Gracechurch Street SPIE Oil & Gas Services LONDON Parc Saint-Christophe – Pôle Edison Netherlands EC3V 0BT Tel.: +44 020 7105 2300 FRA-95861 Fax: +44 020 7105 2446 SPIE Nederland www.spieuk.com CERGY-PONTOISE CEDEX Tel.: +33 (0)1 34 22 59 00 Huifakkerstraat 15 Fax: +33 (0)1 34 22 51 69 NLD-4815 PN BREDA www.spieogs.com Tel.: +31 76 544 54 44 Fax: +31 76 571 04 30 www.spie-nl.com Download SPIE maps. 76 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS We would like to thank everyone who helped to prepare this 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report. Particular thanks are due to the following people who agreed to take part in the special features and share their views: • Nathalie de Vries, Dutch architect and urban planner, cofounder of the MVRDV architecture firm. • Our employees: George Adams, 53 rue Delphine Ferrier, Fermin Hurtado de Jesús, Emile DECORPS Ana Margarida Fernandes, 69100 Manuela Schönnagel, Dion Vissers. Villeurbanne AGG PRINT Tél : 0810 244 763 BEEGREEN alain gilles group www.aggprint.com ALAIN GILLES GROUP N°2150546 printing © Cet exemplaire a été produit en impression numérique haute définition Design par AlainandGilles Group sur papier FSC ™ . production: Publication editor: Pascal Omnès. Project manager: Anne Lefèvre SPIE Corporate Communication Copywriting: VOCEM/Blaise de Obaldia. Photo credits: SPIE photo library, Philippe Bauduin, Yves Chanoit, Xavier Boymond, David Aubert, Lisa Ricciotti, Nicolas Dohr, Laurent Bagnis, ArcelorMittal media library, bc-bg.fr art department, Danone media library, iStock/360, iStock, Vincent Leloup, Pierre-Emmanuel Rastoin, Plainpicture/Ponton, Barbra Verbij, Provast, Rob ‘t Hart/Image Courtesy of MVRDV, MVRDV, all rights reserved. Illustrations: Geronimo/Comillus, Damien Vignaux/Colagene, Sonia Roy/Colagene, Camille Corbetto/Colagene. Published by SPIE Corporate Communication. This copy was printed on demand from a virtual version, which can be viewed online at www.spie.com, using high-definition digital printing techniques and 100% recycled Cocoon Silk paper. This eco-responsible printing service reduces the use of paper, energy and chemical products to a minimum by eliminating inventory and unused copies. SPIE – 2013 Annual and Sustainable Development Report 77 Ref: POD_SPIE_RA2013_en_rev002 www.spie.com SPIE SA Parc Saint-Christophe 95863 CERGY-PONTOISE CEDEX FRANCE Tel.: +33 (0)1 34 24 30 00 www.spie.com www.myspie.eu
