2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT From Executive Director Nicholas Assef Since its initial commitment to the United Nations Global Compact In 2014 the “LCC Flying Pigs” made it’s annual pledge for the MS Gong (‘UNGC’) in 2009, Lincoln Crowne & Company® (‘LCC®’) is pleased Ride and was proud to have been one of the top 15 fundraisers out Executive Director to confirm its continued support of the Ten Principles in the areas of 10,000. of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption and We have continued our support of various charitable organisations, remains commited to advocate, integrate, respect and support the naa@lcc.asia some of which include; importance of these Principles. T: +612 8288 8688 • Sydney Children’s Hospital (Gold & Silver) M: +61 424 222 444 In this our fifth annual Communication on Progress, we describe • Cancer Council of NSW actions to further the integration of the Global Compact and its • Cure For Life Foundation principles into our business strategy, culture, social responsibility and WWW.LCC.ASIA • Multiple Sclerosis Society of Australia daily operations. We are also committed to share this information • Variety Children’s Charity with our existing and prospective clients by adding this report to our • Blue Dragon Children’s Charity (Vietnam) business website. • Treasure House Children’s Home (Fiji) Relecting on 2014 ... • Australian Alopecia Foundation Our approach has been concentrated on philanthropic attention • Cambodian Children’s Charity locally by raising awareness for Alopecia Areata. I personally Looking forward I have recently become a member of Philanthropy contracted Alopecia Universalis; a serious and incurable medical Australia. My aim is for further collaboration between the condition where sufferers traumatically and without explanation philanthropic sector, government, corporates and community suddenly lose their scalp and body hair, as an adult. I established groups, in order to develop leverage & impact in a highly fragmented partnerships with various organisations including Variety, the area where considerable financial and intellectual resource is invested Children’s Charity, Alopecia Areata Australia Foundation (AAAF) and sub optimally. the 12ft Skiff Association aiming to build awareness and raise money for Alopecia Areata. My latest area of attention is cyberbullying and cyberslander and its associated self-harm impact, resulting from extreme depression, on both youth and adults alike. An alarming issue that faces all global Nicholas Assef citizens in today’s digitally connected world. WWW.LCC.ASIA | 17 June 2015 Practical actions and measurable outcomes Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should Principle’s 1 and 2 of the UNGC continue to provide LCC with a clear The UNGC’s principles are upheld by LCC in our ongoing work with guide on the importance of supporting and respecting the protection of children’s charities in both developed and developing nations. Through support and respect the internationally proclaimed human rights and in ensuring that the firm is our interactions with these organisations we continue to learn of protection of internationally not complicit in human rights abuses. unacceptable circumstances where children are forced into human trafficking, in direct conflict with Principle 1– “Businesses should proclaimed human rights; and LCC engages its employees and business partners to respect the support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Principle 2: Business should human rights.” LCC’s business continues to develop progressively on a cross border make sure that they are not basis and we engage with companies and individuals that have crossFor many years LCC has been working with the Blue Dragon Children’s Foundation in Vietnam. Our support helps funding the ongoing complicit in human rights border interests. As such these first two Principles remain of the utmost educations of victims of issues such as human trafficking and children importance. In our preliminary due diligence, LCC ensures that the abuses. company, its subsidiaries and the individuals within it engage in ethical who have been exploited in work practices. business practices and enforce human rights protections in their policies The UNGC’s human rights realted principles are further upheld in and procedures from the top down. LCC works heavily in the resources our committment to raising awareness of Alopecia Areata; a serious sector and with mid-cap companies in this space. Given certain sector and incurable medical condition where sufferers traumatically and participants issues with human rights lawsuits, LCC is careful to analyse without explanation suddenly lose their scalp and body hair. both the management’s business practices, as well as (where possible Over the 2014-15 period, LCC continued initiatives with various with client) operations at ground level such as at mine sites. In a region organisations including Variety, the Children’s Charity, Alopecia Areata where human rights abuses have traditionally been associated with Australia Foundation (AAAF) and the 12ft Skiff Association. Sufferers corrupt governments and businesses, LCC continues to evolve business of Alopecia Areata are prone to high levels of anxiety and depression practices, involving great care with whom it conducts business with. from the pschychological impacts of their condition. For children in particular losing their hair not only leads to self-esteem issues but bullying by other children. Gobal Compact 2014 | 3 Practical actions and measurable outcomes Labour Principle 3: Businesses LCC continues to evolve its business practices to ensure that it only deals with organisations that have a demonstrated positive action in should uphold the freedom of relation to Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the UNGC or alternatively whose association and the effective corporate leaders philosophically embrace those Principles where immediate evidence of positive action is not readily available. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Additionally LCC has during 2014 / 2015 reviewed its Employment Contracts for all staff in order to ensure that the firm’s hiring Principle 4: the elimination policy also furthers our commitment to ensuring fair practice and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and of all forms of forced and occupation in line with the Anti-Discrimination Act 1977. compulsory labour; Additionally, LCC has continued a ‘no securities trading policy’ to Principle 5: the effective ensure the highest ethical standards are maintained by all staff who handle and are enlisted with sensitive client information. abolition of child labour; and LCC is also vigilant of its client work practices to ensure, as far as Principle 6: the elimination possible, that no client LCC deals with breaches these principles. of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. WWW.LCC.ASIA | 17 June 2015 Practical actions and measurable outcomes Environment Principle 7: Businesses should LCC understands the importance of promoting greater hardware. We also recycle computer hardware that have reached environmental responsibility, and the development and diffusion their end of life wherever possible. LCC has implemented new support a precautionary of environmentally friendly technologies. Principles 8 and 9 of the printing measures where all staff are to print non-client facing approach to environmental UNGC provide LCC a good reference to these matters of global documents in “Greyscale/Toner SAVE Mode” as opposed to “Full Print sustainability. Internally we continue to operate cloud base file Quality Mode”. These printing measures have seen an 80% decrease challenges; management software which measurably reduces the amount of in printing costs while also lengthening the life of ink cartridges and Principle 8: undertake paper generation. The firm’s Staff Orientation Guide communicates toners. the importance of “paperless policies”, encouraging staff to utilise the initiatives to promote greater recyclable bin in-house whereby documents are destroyed of by a Our office location is in a building that is driven by it’s commitment to sustainability. Primarily building management focuses on improving environmental responsibility; third party. Documents are also scanned onto our cloud document sustainability performance through management of resource management system for future reference and filing, as opposed to and consumption. Their environmental strategy aims to minimise the hard copy filing. We also, wherever possible, request from third party overall environmental impact of operations, both in the development Principle 9: encourage the providers online invoices. The growing trend of communicating of new properties and in the management and operation of existing through digital channels and of organisation’s opting to charge development and diffusion customers for hard-copy invoices, has made this decision both an properties. of environmentally friendly effective environmental and economic one. We also use the same LCC’s office building has achieved a 4.5 star NABERS Energy rating approach for our invoicing methods via email. and a 3.5 star average NABERS Water rating following the completion technologies. of the three year DEXUS NABERS Energy and NABERS Water Rating Making sure that our workplace employs current technologies allows Improvement Program in 2012. a high level of energy efficiency. All computers are set to run with “sleep” and nightly “shut down” timers in place. This effectively cuts down on energy consumption. LCC maintains strict in-house policies on the recycling of e-waste. The firm uses a high grade printer from Konica, the agreement of which includes the re-cycling of used printer cartridges and printer Gobal Compact 2014 | 5 Practical actions and measurable outcomes Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should During 2014 LCC has continued to evolve a simple but mandatory LCC is a licensed financial services provider, holding a Financial risk assessment process for each potential client engagement where Services Licence and is therefore ASIC compliant. The Firm’s work against corruption in all its threshold questions must be answered in order to satisfy LCC that the Employment Contracts communicates a very strict no share trading forms, including extortion and client both engages in good corporate practice and has a business policy that all Employees must adhere to. Given the sensitive nature model that is consistent with UNGC standards. of our work, this is a fundamental requirement. Our core business bribery. involves dealing directly with Boards and Senior executives. The We have also strengthened our client engagement contracts UNGC directly addresses the role of corporate Boards in moving to reinforce the requirements of high standards of corporate their companies towards sustainable practice policies. LCC is then governance combined with requirements of transparency and challenged to ensure its ongoing commitment to the UNGC by anti-corruption practices in each and every client. In the Firm’s choosing to work with CEO’s, Boards of Directors and Shareholders engagement letters we go further to referring to our UNGC that promote a demonstrated respect for environmental, antiinvolvement and suggesting to clients that they should consider corruption, labour and human rights policies that are in line with the joining the initiative as well. UNGC. WWW.LCC.ASIA | 17 June 2015 Summation In this annual Communication on Progress, LCC has described, explained and discussed the importance of the initiatives, practical actions and steps we have taken to enhance our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact during 2014. This has involved analysis, due diligence, introduction of policies and procedures and philanthropic initiatives within the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We have incorporated the Ten Principles further into our corporate culture and firm identity through the continuation of support for various charitable organisations and initiatives supporting and working for children in our region suffering from incurable medical conditions, the plight of poverty, human rights abuses and lack of education. We continue to uphold ethical business practices and seek to work with individuals and organisations that also maintain and uphold these values. Our work across 2014 / 2015 has certainly been guided around the fundamental human right to equality and respect. This has been clearly demonstrated in LCC’s Charitable Initiatives. Gobal Compact 2014 | 7 About Lincoln Crowne & Company® LCC is a trusted, independent securities dealer specialising in the delivery of strategic Mergers & Acquisitions advice. As a boutique corporate finance firm, LCC has expertise in guiding Boards of Directors and Shareholders through complex Mergers & Acquisitions and Corporate Strategy Engagements. LCC’s approach to all engagements is based on both technical and economic fundamentals, and how these fundamentals translate into shareholder value. LCC’s core principles are based on the understanding that its purpose as a Firm is to deliver deal making expertise, innovative thinking, deep commercial and financial judgment, and clear independent advice. WWW.LCC.ASIA | 17 June 2015 LCC Community Focus LCC’S corporate social responsibility strategy has four focus areas; PHILANTHROPY lincolncrownefoundation.org The Lincoln Crowne Foundation is an extension of the Firm’s corporate social responsibility arm that director, Nicholas Assef initiated. The Foundation’s main purpose is to support and extend partnership development to grass roots charities. GOVERNANCE unglobalcompact.org We are governed by our commitment as a signatory to the UN Global Compact. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies to ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. ACADEMIA bond.edu.au LCC and Bond University has established a relationship around the importance of success, academic integrity and outstanding performance. To this end, LCC has sponsored various faculty awards in both the Business and Law Schools. SPORT lincolncrownesailing.com.au LCC has sponsored 12 and 16ft skiffs in Sydney, over numerous sailing seasons and championships. In partnership with Variety the Children’s Charity, Nicholas Assef proudly supported the Variety Port Jackson 12ft Skiff Championships. This event marked the launch of a series of projects committed to raising support for Alopecia Areata, which is a medical condition of which there is no known cure. Gobal Compact 2014 | 9 Lincoln Crowne & Company AUSTRALIAN OFFICE HONG KONG REP OFFICE Suite 1 Level 30, 20/F One International Finance Centre, Governor Phillip Tower, 1 Farrer Place, 1 Harbour View Street, Sydney NSW 2000 AUSTRALIA Central Hong Kong, HONG KONG T: +612 9262 2121 F: +612 8088 1239 T: +852 3960 6532 F: +852 3669 8008 WWW.LCC.ASIA
