Annual Report 2014 The Kemira Annual Report 2014 consists of four modules. By clicking the titles below, you can jump directly into each module with its own table of contents. TABLE OF Contents BUSINESS REPORT HIGHLIGHTS 2014 1 CEO STATEMENT 2 KEMIRA IN BRIEF 4 OUR BUSINESS: Paper 16 Oil & Mining 22 Municipal & Industrial 28 GRI REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS All forward-looking statements in this report are based on the management’s current expectations and beliefs about future events, and actual results may differ materially from the expectations and beliefs such statements contain. Highlights 2014 Suppliers Innovation Financial guidance and performance Target: ≥ 90% of supplier Target: Organic revenue growth: Operative EBITDA (EUR mill.): contracts with signed Code Innovation 0–5% approximately at the of Conduct for Suppliers, revenue share level of 2013 Distributors and Agents as 10% of total attachment by 2015 revenue 249.4 251.9 252.9 in 2016 93% 90% 10% 8% 7% 5% 36% 3% 3% 2% 0% 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 11 12 13 14 16 Employees Climate change Safety target: Performance Target: Achieve zero injuries management target: Kemira Carbon Index ≤ 80 by 2020 Kemira employees 8.5 covered by the global 7.1 The Kemira Carbon Index 109.3 101.8 89.2 80 5.8 Performance covers CO2 emissions of Management process 104.3 100 86.8 Scope 1 and Scope 2, > 95% by the end of excluding direct 2014 emissions from chemical 2012 2013 2014 95% processing, and is not Number of Total Recordable dependent on production Injuries (TRI) per million 56% structure or volumes. hours, Kemira + contractor, 1 year 2013 2014 09 10 11 12 13 14 20 rolling average. Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Telemaco Borba Tarragona (ES) coagulant Pulp chemical AkzoNobel Paper chemicals Kemira position paper and (BR) process site launched deliveries to paper chemical capacity expansion stakeholder contact chemical Montes del acquisition (IT) program as a response to expansion BASF AKD Plata (UY) (preliminary the European Commission EMEA Business emulsion announced Service Center started agreement) Kemira (SE) wins public consultation on acquisition water reuse opening (PL) ”energy smart completed company” prize New President & CEO Baseline study of water Oulu (FI) pulp chemicals Completion of formic Jari Rosendal started resources in Guangxi (CN), expansion acid business a joint Kemira and Stora Kemira chosen to supply Kemira recognized in CDP’s Nanjing (CN) divestment Enso community sodium chlorate to Klabin (BR) Nordic Climate Disclosure process chemical engagement & water Leadership Index site ramped up stewardship program 2 CEO STATEMENT AIMING AT clear targets After the recent restructuring phase, Kemira turns a new chapter towards growth. This is enabled by clear strategic focus, customer-driven innovation, responsible business practices and engaged professionals. When I started leading the team of highly & Industrial segment focuses on ensuring skilled Kemira experts in the beginning of the equally important cash generation. In May, I inherited a company whose financial Paper, changes in the customer industry and position is strong and stable, and well geared its geographic focus, changing consumption towards profitable growth. Our strategic patterns and the arising bio-economy create focus is clear: we provide application knownew opportunities for us. In Oil & Mining, we how and chemicals that improve our customaim to further strengthen our market position ers’ water, energy and raw material efficiency through better customer intimacy and conin water-intensive industries. Sustainability tinuous innovation. The business is cyclical aspects are deeply encoded in Kemira’s DNA by nature, and we are well prepared for the through this focus. possible implications, e.g. oil price fluctuaIn the past few years, we have restructions. In Municipal & Industrial, regulation tured our organization and way of working relating to water and sludge treatment is the towards more efficient and economical key market driver. settings. Now Kemira’s restructuring has Our customers in these segments are been largely accomplished and we can focus directly involved in the utilization of natural on reaching our targets: EUR 2.7 billion resources. Commitment to sustainable revenue and 15% operative EBITDA margin business is essential for our customers not level by end of 2017. only because their actions are subject to tight regulation and scrutiny, but also THREE STRONG BUSINESS SEGMENTS because sustainable business brings costOur three segments have clear strategic savings and competitive advantages for objectives in driving these targets. We expect them. Kemira participates in these value profitable, above-the-market growth from chains and is expected to demonstrate the Paper and Oil & Mining, while the Municipal same high commitment to sustainable busi3 2014 ness. We have set clear targets for our suspartner for our customers. We strive to tainability performance as described in our extend the concept of value beyond immediGRI report, and are aligning our activities to ate financial rewards. Sustainability aspects the Principles of the UN Global Compact. are included as a key feature in our offering and we have integrated sustainability checks TARGETING ABOVE-THEto all our new product development projects. MARKET GROWTH Innovation and growth do not happen unless In 2014, we reached EUR 2.1 billion (2.2) driven by motivated and able people and revenue and 11.8% (11.3%) operative EBITDA good leadership. This is why we invest in margin. Kemira’s organic revenue growth in Kemira people and have identified high 2014 was 3%, which was within our guidance employee engagement as one of our key for 2014 (0–5%). targets. The restructuring phase had an To reach our growth targets going forward, understandable impact on our employees but we will continue to invest in customer-driven the latest engagement surveys show that we innovation, capacity-building in growing are moving into the right direction – ready to business segments, continuous efficiency look ahead with an enthusiastic and positive improvements as well as selective acquisimindset. tions and expansion into selected emerging markets. OUTLOOK FOR 2015 AND BEYOND Growing business in the emerging markets Going forward, we expect our relevant market sets new demands on transparency and (EUR 19.2 billion in 2014) to grow to about inclusiveness, highlighting the importance of EUR 23 billion in 2020 (CAGR 3.0%). Through responsible business conduct throughout our strategic choices, we are well positioned the value chain. In 2014, we e.g. carried out to grow above-the-market. It is important an in-depth assessment of 49 core suppliers that we stay attentive to our customers’ and conducted a Human Rights Risk Assesschanging business requirements and open to ment. continuous learning and positive change. In The AkzoNobel paper chemicals acquisiour corporate responsibility target setting we tion, which we are looking forward to closing direct the development towards longer-term, in early 2015, further enhances our position more ambitious targets, which clearly measin APAC and in the packaging, board and ure the external impacts of Kemira’s operatissue applications. Successful integration of tions. We’re keeping our eyes firmly on the this business to our operations in 2015–2016 ball, working hard to hit our targets. is a high priority large-scale project for us. Jari Rosendal INVESTING IN INNOVATION, President and CEO EXPERTISE AND COMPETENCIES Kemira’s industry expertise in our three segments enables us to be an innovation 4 Kemira IN BRIEF Kemira is a global chemicals company that provides expertise, THE AMERICAS 39% application knowhow and EUR 848 million tailored formulations of 1,480 chemicals to improve its customers’ water, energy and raw material efficiency. We have organized our business along three segments: R&D Atlanta, USA Regional HQ PAPER Atlanta, USA Application knowhow and chemicals for pulp, paper, board and tissue production O&M management OIL & MINING Houston, USA Application knowhow and chemicals for oil, gas and metals recovery MUNICIPAL & INDUSTRIAL Application knowhow and chemicals for raw water, process water, waste water and sludge treatment 5 2014 Kemira has a business presence in 40 countries and our products are sold in more than ECONOMIC VALUE 100 countries. We employ approximately 4,250 professionals worldwide and have a CREATED: global manufacturing network of 59 sites. In 2014, Kemira distributed After our recent restructuring phase we are (EUR million) to: now focusing on growth, targeting EUR 2.7 →→ 111.8 shareholders & lenders billion revenue and an operative EBITDA →→ 33.4 society, corporate margin of 15% by the end of 2017. In 2014, income taxes we reached EUR 2.1 billion (2.2) revenue and (on cash basis) 11.8% (11.3%) operative EBITDA margin. The company is headquartered in Helsinki, Finland, and listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. M&I EMEA Kemira headquarters management Helsinki, Finland Frankfurt, Germany R&D Espoo, Finland ASIA PACIFIC 6% EUR 122 million 350 Regional HQ Shanghai, China R&D Shanghai, China O&M Oil & Mining M&I Municipal & Industrial EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA 55% Employees EUR 1,167 million R&D and technology centers 2,400 Funding model model Equity Liabilities Cash BUSINESS 1,163 605 119 EUR mill. EUR mill. EUR mill. Infrastructure Business Sales in units in 59 more than 40 manufacturing sites 100 countries countries Innovation KEY INNOVATIONS & TECHNOLOGIES: →→ Water treatment BUSINESS ACTIVITIES →→ Sludge treatment →→ Microbial Control →→ Scale control →→ Bleaching of pulp →→ Wet-end management Strategy Manufacturing →→ Retention control LEAN CULTURE Improving our customers’ →→ Dry & wet strength improvement water, energy and raw →→ Hydrofobation of paper & board MAIN TECHNOLOGIES: material efficiency. →→ Surface treatment of paper & board →→ Polymerization →→ Chemically enhanced oil recovery Targets: Revenue EUR technologies →→ Friction reduction 2.7 billion →→ Iron and aluminium →→ Rheology modification coagulants →→ Pellet binders →→ Chemical formulation →→ Sizing technologies BY 2017, EBITDA 15% SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS: →→ Peroxide technologies →→ Lifecycle approach in new product →→ Chlorate technologies Product portfolio development management, business →→ Product stewardship SUSTAINABILITY development and sales →→ Innovation revenue 10% of FOCUS AREAS: ORGANIZED PER total revenue by 2016 →→ Kemira Carbon Index SEGMENT Other key processes →→ Occupational safety (TRI) SOURCING →→ Local community involvement Sustainability focus areas: FINANCIAL CAPITAL & ASSETS →→ Kemira Code of Conduct for Suppliers, →→ Manage financial reporting + processes + controls Distributors and Agents →→ CAPEX EUR 145.1 million →→ Supplier sustainability assessment and →→ R&D spend EUR 28 million performance management RISK, COMPLIANCE, RESILIENCY HUMAN CAPITAL →→ UN Global Compact & Responsible Care Signatory Sustainability focus areas: →→ Corporate Governance →→ Employee engagement, performance →→ Kemira Code of Conduct and Compliance Program management, leadership development →→ Enterprise risk management INPUTS Relationships →→ Key accounts and suppliers People & know-how →→ Distributors & agents represent approx. 25% of sales 4,250 →→ Suppliers of recycled raw-materials professionals worldwide Raw materials and suppliers Innovation & Intellectual Property →→ Total materials purchased: 3.6 million tons →→ 25% recycled input materials 300 patent families →→ Partial backward integration into electricity, 250 1,300 patents AKD wax, ASA, monomers →→ 650 raw material suppliers R&D hubs in Finland, →→ 120 core suppliers (80% of direct material R&D experts China and USA spend) Services OUTPUTS →→ Application support with products →→ Process control & monitoring services Products & technologies: →→ Kemira Operon, waste water MARKET-LEADING POSITIONS treatment plant operation service (Market share) →→ Kemira LumiKem, real-time wastewater treatment monitoring NO. 1 in coagulants, sizing chemicals Other outputs Greenhouse gases, 1,000 tonnes 2 (Scope 1): 144 in polyacrylamides, NO. Total waste disposal 64,000 tonnes bleaching chemicals Wastewater treated, million m³: 2.2 Shareholders & lenders Customers →→ Revenue EUR 2.1 billion →→ Improved customer OUTCOMES →→ Operative EBITDA EUR processes and products 252.9 million →→ Water, energy and raw →→ EUR 111.8 million paid material efficiency in dividends and interest Society →→ Sustainable products & solutions expenses* →→ Income taxes: EUR 33.4 million* →→ Conservation of natural resources VALUE CREATED – Suppliers through use of recycled raw materials KEMIRA REVENUE SPLIT BY Payments to suppliers of raw and energy efficiency CUSTOMER BENEFIT: materials, goods and services →→ 17,000 million m³ purified water →→ Product quality or product EUR 1,683.5 million* with Kemira’s products yield optimization: 50% →→ 600 billion boxes for packaging, 150 →→ Process or energy Employees billion copies of magazines and efficiency: 20% catalogues, and 20 billion cartons of →→ Water quality or regulatory →→ Employee health & safety milk, juice or other liquids produced with compliance related to →→ Wages, salaries and social Kemira products in 2014 wastewater and sludge expenses EUR 283.3 million* →→ Continuously improved skills →→ 1500 million barrels oil equivalent treatment: 30% and competencies (MBOE) of oil and gas extracted in 2014 with Kemira products *on cash basis 8 value KEY PROCESSES CONTRIBUTING TO SUSTAINABLE CREATION Kemira’s strategy, commitment to international principles, and stakeholder expectations guide our corporate responsibility approach and target-setting. KEMIRA STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS, STRATEGY EXPECTATIONS GUIDELINES AND PRINCIPLES →→ Business and value →→ Customers →→ UN Global compact creation model →→ Investors & →→ Responsible Care lenders →→ Kemira Code of →→ Employees Conduct →→ Focus areas →→ Targets →→ KPI’s Responsible business practises Responsible Responsible Responsibility Sustainable products Responsibility towards supply chain manufacturing for employees and solutions the communities where we operate 9 2014 RISK, COMPLIANCE, RESILIENCY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES electronic training courses regarding the Trust, reputation and integrity have a signifiCode, competition law, insider information cant impact on our stakeholder relations and and anti-bribery. Non-compliance issues can ability to create value. The Kemira Complibe reported through our Ethics and Compliance Program and its core instrument, the ance Hotline and are governed by the ComKemira Code of Conduct, drive responsible pliance Committee. business practices throughout our organizaKemira's Risk Management focuses on tion. These elements are supported by subsystematic and proactive identification, ject-specific policies, standards and proanalysis and management of various risks cesses. We utilize online and classroom related to Kemira's business, such as strateeducational methods to ensure all Kemira gic, operational, hazard and financial risks. employees know how to act responsibly, e.g. INNOVATION SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS We provide expertise, application know-how WE AIM TO INCREASE and chemicals that improve our customers' OUR INNOVATION water, energy and raw material efficiency. In REVENUE FROM THE other words, sustainability aspects are a key CURRENT 8% TO 10% feature in our offering. OF TOTAL REVENUE Our main innovations, technologies and BY 2016. products are described in the Kemira business model. All our New Product Development (NPD) projects apply sustainability checks at different development gates. We push for solutions that improve sustainability compared to those already available on the market. 10 Product stewardship and regulatory compliance is essential for Kemira in order to VALUE CREATED ensure the continuity of our business. We KEMIRA REVENUE SPLIT BY perform compliance checks and product CUSTOMER BENEFIT: safety assessments on our chemical products and provide information on their safe →→ Product quality or product yield use. We ensure that all required registrations optimization: 50% are in place to comply with regulation, and →→ Process or energy that health and environmental matters as efficiency: 20% well as regulatory requirements are thor→→ Water quality or regulatory oughly considered in New Product Developcompliance related to ment projects. wastewater and sludge treatment: 30% Paper success story IMPROVING THE TISSUE INDUSTRY’S SUSTAINABILITY Kemira FennoClean™ INDUSTRY SOLUTION BENEFITS CHALLENGE Achieve cleanliness The tissue industry Efficient and Cleanliness, with improved needs a system less hazardous hygiene and nonsustainability. that keeps the disinfecting is toxicity of endprocess free from achieved with product. microbiological FennoClean. deposits without creating any Less harmful to harmful residuals. equipment and the environment than more hazardous biocides. 11 2014 INNOVATIONS FOR customer We are an innovation partner for our customers. This success requires good customer understanding and attentiveness to their needs. Kemira employs about 250 R&D experts in three innovation hubs in Finland, China and USA, and holds 300 patent families and 1,300 patents. The Kemira Innovation Community promotes a culture of innovation throughout the organization. 12 HUMAN CAPITAL Responsibility FOR EMPLOYEES WE EMPLOY APPROXIMATELY 4,250 PROFESSIONALS AROUND THE WORLD. 13 2014 and occupational health and safety – ensurOUR VALUES, CREATED ing the necessary know-how, strong leaderTOGETHER BY ALL KEMIRA ship, engaged people and safety in the workEMPLOYEES, GUIDE OUR place to enable successful business execuWAY OF WORKING: tion. Occupational safety is important to us not →→ We drive performance and innovation only because of the nature of our industry, →→ We are dedicated to customer success but because it is important to our internal →→ We care for people and the environment and external stakeholders. A strong culture →→ We succeed together for safety also lowers costs associated with workplace injuries. Our safety performance is measured by TRI frequency (Total Recordable Kemira’s responsibility for employees is Injuries per million work hours). At the end of managed through specific targets and pro2014, we reported 5.8 injuries. Our perforgrams for performance management, leadermance has been improving compared to ship development, employee engagement baseline year 2012. VALUE CREATED: IN 2014, KEMIRA DISTRIBUTED EUR 283 MILLION IN ECONOMIC VALUE TO ITS EMPLOYEES IN FORM OF SALARIES AND SOCIAL EXPENSES. (on cash basis) Open House at Kemira’s Helsingborg site Involvement with the local communities where we operate is one of Kemira’s corporate responsibility focus areas, because it has a positive impact on both community acceptance and employee engagement. The target is to engage all Kemira sites with over 50 employees (26 sites in 2014) in local community initiatives at least once during the period 2013–2015. One of such events locals were able to learn more about our in 2014 was the Helsingborg manufacturing chemicals manufacturing and the value site’s Open House in Sweden, where 1,100 Kemira is creating in the local community. 14 MANUFACTURING RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Our approach to reducing greenhouse gas Our Environmental, Health, Safety and Qualemissions is based on improving energy ity (EHSQ) vision consists of three elements: efficiency at manufacturing sites and on “Zero environmental harm”, “Zero harm to purchasing energy at lower emission levels. people”, and “Customer satisfaction”. We take In 2014, Kemira introduced a new climate matters of safety extremely seriously in all change target, the Kemira Carbon Index. Our our operations. Carbon Index was 86.8, compared to baseline Our global manufacturing network convalue 100 in 2012 (target ≤ 80 by the end of sists of 59 sites, of which 20 are multipur2020). pose sites, 30 produce coagulants, and 9 other commodities, such as sodium chlorate Manufacturing footprint globally (59 sites): and hydrogen peroxide. We have streamlined our product portfolio and reduced the number of sites in the last couple of years by implementing efficiency measures under the “Fit for Growth” restructuring program. We have also adopted LEAN manufacturing in order to continuously improve efficiency. As a result, our operative fixed costs in EMEA and NAFTA have decreased approximately 10% compared to baseline year 2012. Kemira’s management system for EHSQ activities is based on ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. By the end of 2014, Kemira had certified 83% of its sites according to these standards. Energy-efficiency is important to Kemira, as it brings both cost-savings and environmental benefits. Many of Kemira’s products Multipurpose (20) are energy intensive to produce, making it vital to constantly improve our efficiency. Coagulants (30) Other commodities (9) 15 2014 SOURCING RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN Kemira’s business is supply chain intensive: VALUE CREATED: IN 2014, our spend on raw materials and other purKEMIRA DISTRIBUTED chases is approximately 80% of our revenue. EUR 1,684 MILLION IN We have over 650 direct material suppliers, ECONOMIC VALUE TO ITS most of whom come from EMEA and North America. Of these, 120 are core suppliers, SUPPLIERS IN THE FORM who deliver 80% of our direct material spend. OF PURCHASES. (on cash basis) Our top three raw materials by spend are electricity, acrylonitrile and petroleum solvents and by volume ferrous sulphate, hydrorecycled or industrial by-products from chloric acid and sodium chloride (salt). 25% external partners. The Municipal & Industrial of all raw materials used by Kemira are business utilizes 60–70% recycled by-products from other industries, participating heavily in local by-product streams. Kemira drives responsibility in the supply chain through the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors and Agents, which all repeat suppliers with a substantial annual spend value are expected to sign. By the end of 2014, 93% of Kemira’s suppliers had signed the Code. Our Supplier Performance Management Program, comprising of supplier Performance Evaluations and Supplier Sustainability Assessments, helps in identifying any possible challenges relating to suppliers’ sustainability performance. In 2014, Kemira assessed 49 core suppliers. As a consequence, corrective actions are to be planned with 11 suppliers. 25% OF ALL RAW MATERIALS USED BY KEMIRA ARE RECYCLED OR INDUSTRIAL BY-PRODUCTS FROM EXTERNAL PARTNERS. 16 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE: PROFITABLE, ABOVE-THE-MARKET GROWTH →→ Leverage strong market position HOW? →→ Execute successful investment projects →→ Commercialize new products →→ Continue to evaluate bolt-on acquisitions PAPER RESULT 2014 Revenue Operative EBITDA 55% 1,170 EUR million of Kemira revenue 11.7 % #1–2 IN ALL REGIONS Business specifics Application know-how →→ Strategic commitment to the paper industry →→ Pulp, paper, board and tissue production →→ Application-driven approach →→ P ulping, bleaching, wet-end and coating →→ Offering adapted to regional requirements chemistry, water treatment →→ Innovation partner for paper industry 17 2014 THE ONLY PULP AND PAPER CHEMICALS SUPPLIER Customer segmentation Sales channel →→ Pulp Direct sales to pulp & paper producers. →→ Packaging & Board Serving all major players in the market globally. →→ Printing & Writing →→ Tissue & Specialties Products Competitive advantage Most comprehensive product →→ Application know-how portfolio in the business. →→ Product performance →→ Backward integration into DIFFERENTIATED PRODUCTS key raw materials (50%) Sizing, strength, surface treatment and process chemicals COMMODITY PRODUCTS (50%) Mainly bleaching & pulping chemicals Customer value Major raw materials IMPROVED: Acrylonitrile, olefins, cationic monomer, →→ Process efficiency crude tall oil, electricity, fatty acids, heavy →→ End-product features & quality fuel oil/natural gas, maleic anhydride, →→ Raw material, energy and water sodium chloride, sulfur efficiency: sustainable innovations 18 THE ONLY GLOBAL PULP AND PAPER CHEMICAL SUPPLIER Growth in pulp and paper chemicals is driven by higher volumes of packaging board and tissue grades. Kemira has unique expertise in applying chemicals and supporting pulp & paper producers to innovate and constantly improve their operational efficiency and end-product quality. This makes us the global market leader in paper chemistry. COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT The paper chemicals market has long been 600 BILLION BOXES FOR fragmented with no clear global leader. A PACKAGING, 150 BILLION group of international companies have held COPIES OF MAGAZINES strong positions in regional or product/ AND CATALOGUES, AND application specific market areas. Consider20 BILLION CARTONS OF ing Kemira’s strategic focus and long-term commitment to the pulp and paper industry, MILK, JUICE OR OTHER as well as the 2015 AkzoNobel paper chemiLIQUIDS WERE cal business acquisition, we are now in the PRODUCED WITH KEMIRA market leadership position. We have more PRODUCTS AND than doubled our pulp & paper revenues in SOLUTIONS IN 2014. the past 10 years. AkzoNobel business acquisition Kemira’s preliminary agreement on AkzoNobel’s paper chemical business, to be closed in early 2015, strengthens Kemira’s global leadership position in pulp and paper. The business includes products for retention, sizing, wet strength and coating. Over 50% of the revenues are related to the packaging board grades. The acquisition nearly doubles our Paper revenue in the APAC region. Six production sites and approximately 400 employees will be transferred to Kemira. The sites are located in Spain, Italy, South Korea, Thailand, Indonesia, and Australia. Ten sites remain as AkzoNobel sites with contract manufacturing to Kemira. 19 2014 2014 IN BRIEF →→ Kemira’s acquisition of BASF's global alkyl →→ We continued to work with Stora Enso on ketene dimer (AKD) emulsion business our joint project to promote responsible was closed in May. It strengthens our water management and community position in the paper wet-end chemicals engagement in Guangxi Province, market especially in continental Europe. Southern China. For more information, →→ Klabin selected Kemira as a supplier of please see the GRI report. sodium chlorate for its upcoming new 1.5 →→ Innovations launched in 2014 included e.g. million ton pulp mill in Paraná, Brazil. KemPrint™ (surface additive), 2nd →→ We signed a preliminary agreement to generation FennoBind™ (binders), and acquire AkzoNobel’s paper chemical FennoBond™ (strength) extended portfolio business. for packaging & board and tissue. →→ Our new paper chemicals site in Nanjing, China, received its final operating permits MARKET OUTLOOK and ramped up the production volumes. Paper segment has been growing above →→ We started pulp chemical deliveries to the market in 2013–2014 with a comMontes del Plata, the new Stora Ensopound annual organic growth rate Arauco 1.3 million ton pulp mill in Punta (CAGR) of 7% (estimated market growth Pereira, Uruguay. 2.0–2.5%). The estimated relevant →→ We announced a multimillion investment market is expected to grow to EUR 9.2 in a hydrogen peroxide plant in Oulu, billion by 2020 (8.0 billion in 2014), Finland, to meet the growing demand for mainly due to growth in demand for pulp chemicals. packaging & board as well as tissue. →→ We announced a multimillion EUR The majority of the growth is expected investment in a production line expansion from the emerging markets in South of process and functional chemistries at America and APAC. As the global leader San Giorgio site in Italy. in pulp and paper chemicals, and →→ An expanded production line for surface thanks to our strong application knowtreatment chemicals in Krems, Austria, how, Kemira is well positioned to serve was launched. the industry. 20 DRIVEN BY PAPER INDUSTRY transformation OPPORTUNITY →→ Rising demand for packaging & board and tissue grades due to economic development, rising standards of living, population growth and e-commerce CHANGES IN →→ Growing pulp production in SA and northern EMEA to support paper DEMAND FOR and board production growth PAPER INDUSTRY RISK PRODUCTS Stagnating /declining demand for printing & graphical paper grades due to digitalization and internet OPPORTUNITY DISRUPTIVE →→ Innovations by Kemira through long-term customer intimacy and co-creation INNOVATION IN →→ Supporting bio-economy: fiber use for purposes other than pulp and paper PULP AND PAPER RISK CHEMISTRY Reduced demand for current portfolio OPPORTUNITY →→ Kemira’s long-term commitment to pulp & paper industry CHANGES IN →→ Sustainability aspects emphasized in partner selection COMPETITIVE RISK ENVIRONMENT →→ Renewed interest in pulp & paper by competition →→ New players emerging from Asia OPPORTUNITY EXTERNAL PAPER INDUSTRY Growth in emerging markets through our global reach and leadership position FACTORS MIGRATING TO APAC AND SOUTH RISK AMERICA Mill closures in mature markets OPPORTUNITY Large customers looking for strategic supplier with a global footprint CONSOLIDATION IN THE CUSTOMER RISK BASE Consolidation in the customer base leading to mill closures especially in printing & writing OPPORTUNITY AVAILABILITY OF Attractive employer status thanks to market leadership position SKILLED PERSONNEL AND COMPETITION RISK FOR KEY TALENT →→ Challenge in differentiation & business growth if lacking qualified personnel →→ Key talent attracted by value chain players OPPORTUNITY OIL / ELECTRICITY →→ New energy-efficient technologies PRICE AND RAW →→ New raw material screening MATERIAL COSTS (UP/DOWN) RISK Increasing raw material prices increase costs 21 2014 →→ Business development focus on packaging & board and tissue customers →→ Improved geographical balance for serving printing & writing customers →→ Continuous pipeline of innovations to maintain PAPER technology leadership position →→ Comprehensive and diversified product portfolio →→ Close follow-up of competitive activity →→ Participation in further consolidation in the market →→ Investment in competencies and capacities MANAGEMENT Strengthening position in APAC APPROACH and South America →→ Long-term commitment and close customer relations in the pulp & paper industries →→ Careful analysis of customer mill cost position and identification of future winners →→ Focus on recruiting and maintaining key talent →→ Collaboration with educational institutes →→ Raw material formulas in customer pricing →→ Identification of alternative sources →→ Further backward integration 22 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE: PROFITABLE, ABOVE-THE-MARKET GROWTH →→ Invest in innovation, human capital and HOW? polymer production capacity →→ Strengthen & expand customer partnerships →→ Make selective acquisitions to broaden technological and business capabilities & OIL & MINING RESULT 2014 Revenue Operative EBITDA 18% 382 EUR million of kemira revenue 12.7 % #2 IN UNCONVENTIONAL OIL & GAS IN NORTH AMERICA Business specifics Application know-how →→ Application-driven approach →→ Oil & Gas: drilling & cementing, stimulation, oil sands, →→ Focus on fast innovation to solve chemically enhanced oil recovery and production critical customer challenges →→ Mining: iron ore, copper, gold recovery, white pigments 23 2014 GROWING BUSINESS TO THE OIL, GAS AND MINING INDUSTRY Customer segmentation →→ Oil & Gas →→ Mining →→ Other industries (excess capacity) Competitive advantage →→ Innovative chemicals & application Products knowledge DIFFERENTIATED PRODUCTS →→ 2nd largest manufacturer of (85%) Polymers, dispersants & antiscalants, polyacrylamides in the world biocides, emulsifiers, defoamers COMMODITY PRODUCTS (15%) Coagulants Customer value Major raw materials Acrylonitrile, acrylic acid, various monomers IMPROVED: →→ Process efficiency Sales channel →→ Yield →→ Oil & Gas and process additive applications: →→ Cost-efficiency sales mostly to pumpers, operators & →→ Water efficiency service companies →→ Energy efficiency →→ Mining: direct sales to operators →→ Compliance with →→ Distributors to other industries environmental regulation 24 GROWING BUSINESS PARTNER TO THE OIL, GAS AND MINING INDUSTRY Kemira provides a unique combination of application knowhow and innovative chemicals that improves process efficiency and yield in oil, gas and metals recovery. Our growth is driven by long-term demand for oil and gas, and the exploration of unconventional oil and gas sources. COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT The oil and gas chemicals market is competi1,500 MILLION BARRELS tive and new players are entering the market OIL EQUIVALENT (MBOE) driven by high but cyclical demand and OF OIL AND GAS profitability. Kemira is the world’s second largest producer of dry and emulsion polyEXTRACTED IN 2014 WITH acrylamides, used especially in horizontal oil KEMIRA PRODUCTS and gas drilling and stimulation, reducing energy consumption and improving process efficiency. Our strongest foothold is in the North American oil & gas polyacrylamide market, where our market share is close to 15%. In Mining, we have a particularly strong position in water treatment related business (for regulatory compliance), especially in EMEA. 25 2014 2014 IN BRIEF MARKET OUTLOOK →→ Tarjei Johansen was appointed as The segment grew 23% in 2014 com­ President of the Oil & Mining segment and pared to 2013, mainly due to increased the Americas region as of May 5, 2014. polyacrylamide sales volumes in the oil →→ Successful integration of the acquired 3F and gas industry in North America. The Chimica S.p.A. business continued until estimated relevant mar­ket for polyQ4/2014. 3F produces dry and emulsion acrylamides is expected to grow to EUR polyacrylamide polymers and related 4.5 billion by 2020 (2.3 billion in 2014). process chemicals. Global softness in the mining industry →→ We announced a multimillion EUR continues, but has shown some early investment to expand our dry signs of recovery in some regions in polyacrylamide capacity in Aberdeen, Africa. Chemically Enhanced Oil RecovUSA. ery (CEOR) and unconventional oil →→ The Oil & Mining global management team extrac­tion present longer term growth relocated to Houston, TX, to be close to opportunities in Oil & Mining segment’s key customers. relevant market. →→ 20% of revenues came from innovative products developed in the last three years. →→ Innovations launched in 2014 included e.g. KemFlow® A-4375 friction reducer, KemGuard® 2708 thermally stable antiscalant, and Superfloc® RH4832 rheology modifier. 26 cyclical DRIVEN BY OIL, GAS AND MINING OPPORTUNITY New technologies enabling the exploration of unconventional oil & gas sources, e.g. shale, oil sands CYCLICAL OIL & RISK GAS PRICES Declining oil & gas prices slowing down drilling & stimulation activity OPPORTUNITY Increasing demand for chemistries VARIABLE enabling water recycling and reuse METALS PRICES RISK Declining oil & gas prices reducing production and chemical usage OPPORTUNITY REGULATION Increased water treatment needs and demand for chemicals AFFECTING USE AND REUSE OF RISK WATER Tightening regulation impacting total cost and slowing EXTERNAL down mine development, drilling and stimulation activity FACTORS OPPORTUNITY Differentiation of Kemira from AVAILABILITY OF competition based on capability SKILLED PERSONNEL AND COMPETITION RISK →→ Challenge in differentiation & business FOR KEY TALENT growth if lacking qualified personnel →→ Key talent attracted by value chain players OPPORTUNITY RAW MATERIAL Improved cost-efficiency from backward integration AVAILABILITY RISK AND PRICE Loss of competitive pricing in a slow market could affect business profitability and growth OPPORTUNITY CEOR (chemically enhanced oil recovery) NEW TECHNOLOGIES & WAY OF EXTRACTING RISK Delays due to market volatility & geopolitical risks 27 2014 & More balanced product portfolio for upstream and downstream applications Innovative technologies to improve yield and reduce OIL & MINING customer cost of operations Close monitoring of regulatory policy & expansion into water treatment services MANAGEMENT APPROACH Focus on recruiting and maintaining key talent Tracking of prices for key raw materials, strategic purchase contracts, backward integration Working closely with end customers: lab work, pilot tests, field tests 28 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE: MAXIMIZE CASH FLOW →→ Leverage strong market position HOW? →→ Maintain aggressive cost controls & MUNICIPAL & INDUSTRIAL RESULT 2014 Revenue Operative EBITDA 27% 565 EUR million of kemira revenue 12.1% #1 IN EMEA #1 IN NORTH AMERICA Business specifics Application know-how →→ Regulation-driven business →→ Raw water treatment →→ Local business →→ Waste water treatment →→ Raw material backward integration →→ Sludge treatment →→ Large customer base 29 2014 MARKET IN RAW AND WASTE WATER TREATMENT Customer segmentation →→ Fragmented market: Sales channel →→ Municipal (private & public) →→ Industrial (e.g. food & beverage, chemicals Municipal Industrial and metals processing) 60% 40% Products Municipal: mainly direct sales →→ Only partner able to provide both Industrial: direct sales & distributors polymers and coagulants DIFFERENTIATED PRODUCTS Competitive advantage (25%) Polymers, antiscalants, →→ Reliability, speed and logistics flexibility defoamers, biocides →→ Deep application knowledge →→ Comprehensive portfolio COMMODITY PRODUCTS →→ Backward integration into other (75%) Coagulants industries' by-products through longSupply chain intensive: term partnerships →→ Managing high-volume streams to →→ High coverage manufacturing network fragmented customer base in mature markets Major raw materials Customer value →→ 60–70% recycled input materials: IMPROVED: participating in local, fast and flexible by→→ Water treatment process reliability product streams and efficiency: total water cycle →→ Acrylonitrile, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, management aluminium hydrate, iron ore, pickling liquor, →→ Regulatory compliance and beyond copperas (ferrous sulfate) 30 MARKET LEADER IN RAW AND WASTE WATER TREATMENT The market for Municipal & Industrial is driven by regulation. Kemira helps its customers in maximizing the efficient utilization of resources and minimizing waste with chemistry at every stage of water management. We are the global market leader in raw and wastewater treatment, and the only company that manufactures and supplies a comprehensive range of water treatment chemicals: polymers, coagulants, antiscalants, defoamers and water disinfectants. COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT Competitors for Kemira’s Municipal & Indus17,000 MILLION M³ trial segment in the mature markets consist PURIFIED WATER WITH of both large international players as well as KEMIRA’S PRODUCTS IN smaller local companies. The coagulants 2014 CORRESPONDING market is particularly fragmented and local TO THE ANNUAL WATER in nature, due to low product value and high share of transportation cost. Kemira’s market CONSUMPTION OF leadership in raw and wastewater treatment APPROXIMATELY 39% OF is based on high supply reliability, speed of EUROPE’S POPULATION. delivery and logistics flexibility due to our extensive production network for coagulants, as well as comprehensive product range and application support. 31 2014 2014 IN BRIEF MARKET OUTLOOK →→ As a consequence of declining Only modest growth can be expected in profitability, major efficiency measures the Municipal & Industrial segment’s have been implemented since 2012. The relevant market in Europe and North segment's fixed costs have decreased by America, as water treatment infrastruc22% during period 2012–2014 (including ture is already largely built and growth acquisitions and divestments). in demand is therefore restricted. The →→ The new coagulant manufacturing site in estimated relevant market is expected Dormagen, Germany reached its full to grow to EUR 2.9 billion by 2020 (2.5 planned capacity. billion in 2014). In case of stricter →→ We successfully started up production in regulation and enforcement regarding our new coagulant plant in Tarragona, water treatment, especially in emerging Spain. The plant is able to produce the markets, market outlook could change entire range of Kemira’s aluminum and significantly. iron-based coagulants that are used for drinking water and wastewater treatment. →→ The segment regained business in North America, especially in the municipal water treatment sector. →→ Antti Salminen was appointed President of the Municipal & Industrial segment and the EMEA region as of November 1, 2014 →→ We published a position paper and launched a stakeholder contact program as a response to the EU Commission public consultation on Water reuse. 32 Regulation -DRIVEN BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY →→ Increased demand for chemical treatment due to stricter regulation and enforcement →→ Regulatory developments expected to favor CHANGES IN the use of recycled raw materials REGULATION RISK Regulatory developments creating pressure to replace chemicals with other technologies in water treatment OPPORTUNITY WATER SCARCITY Increasing demand for chemistries DRIVING CHANGES IN enabling water recycling and reuse WATER SUPPLY AND RISK CONSUMPTION PATTERNS Reduced demand for standard commodity chemicals (e.g. coagulants) OPPORTUNITY NEW WATER TREATMENT Increasing demand for differentiated products and EXTERNAL TECHNOLOGIES AND technologies with enhanced application knowhow FACTORS METHODS RISK Reduced demand for standard commodity chemicals (e.g. coagulants) OPPORTUNITY CHANGES IN Strengthened market position THE COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE RISK New standard commodity chemical producers (e.g. coagulants) entering the market OPPORTUNITY Leverage advantages from strong market position and partnerships with key byproduct and raw material CHANGES IN producers THE AVAILABILITY AND PRICE OF RAW RISK →→ Decreasing raw material prices increase MATERIALS competition →→ Increasing raw material prices increase costs →→ Breaks in availability of key raw materials impact reliability of customer deliveries 33 2014 Proactive participation in & regulatory discussions relating to water treatment; working towards achieving higher water quality standards MUNICIPAL & INDUSTRIAL Proactive participation in water reuse solutions based on differentiated products and technologies →→ Innovation and marketing of differentiated MANAGEMENT products and technologies APPROACH →→ Monitoring and scouting for new technologies →→ Participation in market consolidation →→ Increasing by-product utilization →→ Increasing the utilization of by-products for coagulants →→ Balancing manufacturing assets along with sources of by-products →→ Internalization of critical raw materials manufacturing for polymers (e.g cationic monomers) TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI Report 2014 GRI REPORT 1 2014 TABLE OF 1 2 FOCUS AREAS OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 5 CONTENTS 2.1 2.2 Corporate responsibility at Kemira Sustainable products and solutions 5 9 2.3 Responsible business practices 11 2.4 Responsibility for employees 12 2.5 Responsible supply chain 14 2.6 Responsible manufacturing 16 2.7 Responsibility towards the local communities 20 3 PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURES 21 3.1 Economic performance indicators 21 3.2 Environmental performance indicators 23 3.3 Social performance indicators 33 3.3.1 Labor practices and decent work 33 3.3.2 Human Rights 40 3.3.3 Society 41 3.3.4 Product responsibility 44 4 REPORTING PRINCIPLES 46 4.1 Reporting framework 46 4.2 Reporting scope 46 4.3 Report profile 49 5 GOVERNANCE 50 6 ASSURANCE REPORT 54 7 GRI CONTENT INDEX 56 2 GRI REPORT 1. FOCUS AREAS OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Focus Areas Our corporate responsibility focus areas are defined based on feedback from our stakeholders and the significance of the economic, environmental and social impacts of our business activities. IMPACTS OF KEMIRA BUSINESS ACTIVITIES IN THE VALUE CHAIN INDIRECT IMPACT DIRECT IMPACT INDIRECT IMPACT KEMIRA Production of Upstream Kemira’s sales & Downstream Use of Kemira VALUE CHAIN input materials transportation manufacturing transportation products ACTIVITIES and energy Economic Payments to Payments to logistic Public sector: taxes Payments to logistic Benefits of using impact suppliers service providers Employees: wages service providers Kemira products Environmental GHG* Emissions GHG emissions GHG emissions GHG emissions GHG emissions impact (Scope 2 and 3) (Scope 3) (Scope1) (Scope 3) (Scope 3) Transportation Emissions into Transportation Emissions into safety water, waste safety water, waste (environmental risk (environmental risk due to spills) due to spills) Social Human rights, labor Transportation Process safety Transportation Workplace safety impact rights, workplace safety Employment safety through the safe safety (people safety) Workplace safety (people safety) use of chemicals * GHG = Greenhouse gas The key topics and concerns raised through our stakeholder engagement have been consistent over the past years, emphasizing the importance of responsible business practices, responsibility in the supply chain, responsibility of manufacturing operations, responsibility for employees, sustainable products and solutions, and responsibility towards the local communities where we operate. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FOCUS AREAS Responsible business practises Responsible Responsible Responsibility Sustainable products Responsibility towards supply chain manufacturing for employees and solutions the communities where we operate Corporate responsibility has a positive impact on Kemira's value creation. The development of sustainable products and solutions creates opportunities for revenue growth, and minimizing business risks and improving safety helps in cost avoidance. GRI REPORT 3 2014 STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS STAKEHOLDER SURVEYS Focus Areas Stakeholder expectations create the foundation for We regularly conduct stakeholder surveys to identify and identifying and defining the focus areas and respective understand the key topics and concerns of our stakeholdtargets of Kemira’s corporate responsibility. ers, e.g. shareholders, customers and employees. The first The identification of key stakeholders is based on two survey was conducted in 2010, and another one in the fall criteria at Kemira: 1) How our economic, environmental and 2013. In the fall 2014, we conducted a survey in our sales social performance impacts the assessments and deciorganization, in order to learn more about sustainability sions of these stakeholder groups, and 2) How the assesstopics emphasized by our customers and how to help our ment and decisions of these groups affect Kemira. sales engage with them on sustainability matters. Kemira business characteristics affecting stakeholder expectations include e.g.: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT • We are in the chemicals business, which also includes harmful and hazardous substances. Our approach to stakeholder engagement depends on • We operate in a business to business environment with different stakeholders and their expectations, and may no direct contact to consumers. include activities from information sharing to active • We are not ourselves directly involved in the utilization dialogue and collaboration on issues of mutual interest. of natural resources (e.g. minerals, fibers) in our More detailed information is provided in the following business. However, our customers in our three segtable. ments Paper, Oil & Mining and Municipal & Industrial do. • Our customers are sustainability leaders in their sectors. Kemira participates in these value chains and is expected to demonstrate the same high commitment to sustainable business. • Kemira shares are listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. A significant number of our investors represent Socially Responsible Investing (SRI). • Sustainable business conduct is an important employee engagement driver according to our employee surveys. • We have operations in many locations around the world. However, our units are generally small or mid-size and located in industrial areas such as chemical parks. Thus, they do not have a dominant position in their local communities, for example in terms of employment or environmental impacts. 4 GRI REPORT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Basis for identification and Kemira approach to Key topics and concerns Kemira stakeholders selection of stakeholders stakeholder engagement raised through stakeholder Focus Areas (G4-24) (G4-25) (G4-26) engagement (G4-27) Kemira response (G4-27) Shareholders and • Share of value creation • Regular events like • Integration of corporate • Kemira’s approach to lenders to investors and lenders Capital Markets Day, responsibility with corporate responsibility through dividends and roadshows, conference Kemira’s strategy and management interests payments calls and one-to-one business activities meetings. 280 events / • Potential business risks • Corporate responsibility • Shareholder expectations meetings in 2014 and opportunities related reporting and disclosure for return on investment, to corporate responsibility to analysts and indexes and for environmental & issues, transparency (e.g. CDP) social performance and governance Customers • Customers are the main • Direct customer • Product safety • Product stewardship source of value creation contacts by Kemira sales • Transportation safety • Transportation safety to Kemira organization • Reduction of the standards • Customer expectations • Exhibitions and trade environmental impact in • Sustainability checks and needs drive Kemira’s shows customers’ processes and in New Product product portfolio and • Product testing and plant products Development projects service models trials • Customer data requests regarding Kemira's sustainability performance Employees • Share of value creation • Voices@Kemira employee Key topics and concerns • Performance to employees through survey biennially and a based on the Voices 2013 management process and salaries and payments smaller scale employee survey: leadership development survey Pulse twice a year • Performance • Documented action-plans • Employee well-being and • Performance and management and to respond to Voices@ capabilities influence our Development Discussions rewarding Kemira employee survey operational performance twice a year • Learning and career findings and value creation • Kemira European Forum development • Internal skills • Town hall meetings development and training • Compliance & Ethics programs Hotline Suppliers • Share of value creation • Supplier performance • Kemira customers expect • Kemira Code of Conduct to suppliers through management program and responsibility throughout for Suppliers, Distributors payments for goods and supplier sustainability the supply chain and Agents services assessments • Working closely with core • Business ethics and • Supplier performance • Supplier responsibility suppliers to help them compliance management program and and performance meet Kemira expectations supplier sustainability influence Kemira’s value for performance and assessments creation capability and responsible business reduce business risk conduct. Corrective actions if needed Local communities • Share of value creation • Collaboration with local • Safety, environmental, • Transparency, continuous to society through communities at major social and economic and open dialogue with tax payments and sites to understand and responsibility and impact local communities employment address their concerns • Regular environmental • The safety and • Open door events at sites assessments environmental • Collaboration with performance of our schools and universities operations may impact • In 2014, approximately 85 local community community involvement acceptance and our activities were organized license to operate at 26 major Kemira sites Regulatory bodies, • Stakeholders with • Participation in the • Resource efficiency • Water reuse position trade associations, capability to influence or activities of industrial • Water quality and quantity paper decision makers and make political decisions trade associations • Chemical substances • Active participation in opinion leaders on environmental issues, • Subject-specific dialogue used in shale gas and CEFIC working groups climate change, and with regulatory bodies on enhanced oil recovery chemical legislation national and EU level • Chemical risks and affecting Kemira's • Maintaining relationships product stewardship business with selected non-profit organizations GRI REPORT 5 2014 2 MANAGEMENT MEMBERSHIPS APPROACH Management Approach Kemira is a member of Chemical Industry Federation of Finland (CIFF) and European Chemical Industry (CEFIC). Kemira’s CEO is a member of the CIFF and CEFIC Board. On a national level Kemira is, for example, a member of Cleantech Finland. 2.1 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT KEMIRA KEMIRA GROUP POLICIES Our corporate responsibility management approach LEGAL aims at identifying, understanding and managing • Business Agreement Policy (2013) the impacts of our business activities on the envi• Competition Law Compliance Policy (updated 2014) ronment, people and society. For us, corporate • Gifts, Entertainment and Anti-bribery Policy (2012) responsibility means being responsible in our own • Policy for Issuing and Maintaining Policies (2012) operations and contributing to sustainable develop• Group Related Party Policy (2012) ment throughout our value chain. • Kemira Subsidiary Governance Policy (2014) • Kemira Oyj Procuration Policy (2013) OUR COMMITMENTS AND POLICIES FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION • Capital Investment Policy (2013) Our corporate responsibility management approach is • Cash Management Policy (2012) based on the Kemira Code of Conduct that reflects the • Credit Management Policy (updated 2014) principles set out in the OECD Guidelines for Multinational • Acquisition and Divestment Policy (2014) Enterprises. In addition to ensuring responsible business • Approval Policy (2013) conduct in our own operations, we expect our suppliers and • Inventory Policy (2012) other business partners to maintain the same high stand• Risk Management Policy (updated 2014) ards of operation. These expectations are described in our • Tax Policy (updated 2014) Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Agents and Distributors. • Treasury Policy (updated 2014) Kemira became a signatory of the United Nations • Transfer Pricing Policy (updated 2014) Global Compact in March 2014. We are commited to respecting and promoting human rights, implementing SOURCING & SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT decent work practices, reducing our environmental impact • Sourcing & Procurement Policy (updated 2014) and working against corruption. • Transportation & Logistics Policy (2014) Kemira is also a signatory of Responsible Care, a voluntary initiative of the international chemical industry MANUFACTURING AND EHSQ that drives continuous improvement in health, safety and • EHSQ Policy (2013) environmental performance. • Maintenance Policy (2013) The Kemira Code of Conduct, together with internal policies and procedures, set the standards for expected R&D AND IP behavior within the company, and are integral elements of • Employee Invention Policy (updated 2014) the management approach of corporate responsibility. • Intellectual Property Rights Policy (2014) Kemira policies are reviewed every second year to evaluate the need for any updates or complementation. HUMAN RESOURCES • Compensation Approval Policy (2013) • Recruitment Policy (2013) • Global Travel Policy (2014) IT • Information Management Policy (2013) • IT Security Policies (2012) KEMIRA BECAME A SIGNATORY OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS • Communications Policy (2013) COMPACT IN MARCH 2014. • Sponsorship and Donation Policy (2013) 6 GRI REPORT TARGET SETTING AND PERFORMANCE IN 2014 Our corporate responsibility targets are discussed and approved by the Kemira Management Board. The Board of Management Approach Our corporate responsibility is managed through targetDirectors is informed about the responsibility targets and setting, following the principles of continuous improverelated performance, and approves the annual corporate ment. The KPI’s for each focus area are reviewed annually. responsibility report. FOCUS AREAS Focus area Topic KPI KPI target value KPI Status 2014 Sustainable products Innovation sales Share of innovation revenue 10% in 2016 8% and solutions of total revenue, % Sustainability aspects in New NPD projects apply 100% by the end of 2014 Achieved New Product Development the sustainability check at (NPD) process Gate 1, % Existing NPD projects apply 100% by the end of 2014 Achieved the sustainability check at Gates 2–4, % Responsible business Kemira Compliance Kemira Compliance Established by the end of Achieved practices Program Program established 2014 Responsibility for Employee engagement Employee engagement The index at or above the To be reported in 2015 employees index based on Voices@ external industry standard Kemira biennial survey by the end of 2015 Participation rate in 75–85% by the end of 2015 To be reported in 2015 Voices@Kemira, % Occupational health and Number of Total Recordable Achieve zero injuries 5.8 safety Injuries (TRI) (per million hours, Kemira + contractor, 1 year rolling average) Performance management Kemira employees covered > 95% by the end of 2014 Achieved: 95% by the global Performance Management process, % Leadership development People managers > 95% by the end of 2015 46.4% participated in global leadership programs at least once in period 2013–2015, cumulative % Responsible supply Code of Conduct for Supplier contracts with 90% by the end of 2015 93% chain Suppliers, Distributors and signed CoC-SDA as Agents (CoC-SDA) attachment, % Supplier sustainability Number of core, strategic 45 by the end of 2014 Achieved: 49 assessment and critical suppliers covered by Supplier sustainability assessment Responsible Water efficiency Baseline analyzed and By the end of 2014 Achieved, see the outcome manufacturing water efficiency program on pp.18 defined Climate change Kemira Carbon Index Kemira Carbon Index ≤ 80 86.8 performance by the end of 2020 (2012 = 100) Responsibility towards Participation in local Share of Kemira sites 100% by the end of 2015 92% the local communities community involvement with over 50 employees where we operate initiatives participated in local community involvement initiatives at least once in period 2013–2015, cumulative % GRI REPORT 7 2014 KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2014 Management Approach THE HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT Kemira signed the UN Global Compact in March 2014. We follow the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and existing national guidelines in implementing the Guiding Principles. We conducted a Human Rights Impact Assessment in 2014. The objective was to identify human rights risk areas in our value chain and potential gaps in our current management approach. Based on the results, potential risk areas in our value chain relate to our business relationships, chemicals safety, and expansion in emerging markets. We have prepared an action-plan with proactive measures to improve the integration of human rights into our current management approach. WATER STEWARDSHIP PROJECT IN GUANGXI, CHINA SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT PILOT Kemira and Stora Enso jointly launched a 3-year Supplier Sustainability Assessments were conducted by an Water Stewardship – Shared Value Creation project external third party company specialized in standardized in Guangxi, Southern China in 2013. The project aims supplier evaluation and auditing, following the principles of at responsible use of water resources in the local the UN Global Compact and Responsible Care. communities. It brings together Kemira’s expertise in water quality management, Stora Enso's knowledge WATER RISK ASSESSMENT of tree plantation management as well as Guangxi We conducted a water risk analysis in order to define communities’ practical knowledge and experience in potential risks posed by Kemira operations to local water local water issues. The project improves the protecresources and the environment, as well as potential risks tion and management of water resources, and to business due to water scarcity. The assessment was enhances awareness of matters relating to water. carried out at 54 sites globally by using the Global Water An extensive study of water use, supply and Tool (WBCSD) to identify hot spots, and the Local Water Tool quality in the villages around Stora Enso's plantato identify site-specific water risks. Based on the findings, tions was conducted in 2014. Close to 1,100 people, we concluded that water risks are not material for Kemira representing villagers, authorities and local NGOs, on a global level. However, we identified four sites where participated in the interviews. Based on the study, more detailed assessments are required in order to define Stora Enso and Kemira teams concluded that the management plan for the identified risks. water-related issues are important in rural Guangxi and that concerns relating to eucalyptus plantations GLOBAL MANAGEMENT PROCESS DEFINITION FOR still remain. Local concerns include the amount and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY quality of drinking water, sewage treatment, and We defined a management process for corporate responsiwater used for irrigation purposes. bility and public affairs as part of a Kemira process Kemira, Stora Enso, local villagers, and local architecture project. The process supports our organizacollaboration partners NGO Greenovation Hub and tional efficiency and collaboration by clarifying ownership Guangxi Marine Environmental Monitoring Central and accountability, leveraging best practices, enhancing Stationare will be working together in several pilot process management and continuous improvement projects, in order to find innovative solutions to the capabilities. water concerns raised in the study. One example is the Baimei village where people make their living from chicken farming. The village has one well, but despite of their best efforts, it is not giving enough water and the water quality is uncertain. The plan is now to build a second well, improve the productivity of both wells, and maintain better water quality. We will also ensure that the used water will be treated before it is released back to the nature. Other joint pilot projects in Guangxi include installing a new and bigger water reservoir, improving water availability, and wastewater treatment in both municipal and domestic sewage handling. 8 GRI REPORT EXTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY RATINGS AND MONITORING THE EFFECTIVINESS OF THE MANAGEMENT RECOGNITIONS APPROACH Management Approach Our approach to reducing Kemira’s impacts on the environCDP ment and society is to a large extent based on the systemFor the second consecutive year, we atic implementation of the ISO standard based managewere recognized for our disclosure of ment systems. Our Environment, Health, Safety and Quality information regarding climate change. (EHSQ) policy requires all Kemira companies and operaWe were among the companies featured in the Nordic tions to implement and maintain certified Environmental, Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI), scoring 97B Health, Safety and Quality management systems. (96B in 2013). Our high disclosure score (97/100) reflects In Europe, we have implemented a European Integrated the depth and quality of climate change data we have Management System, which brings our existing ERP disclosed. CDP’s Nordic Climate Disclosure Leadership processes, work procedures and responsibilities under one Index consists of companies graded within the top 10%. integrated management system. Similar work on a multisite management system is under way in North America. ROBECOSAM SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT We utilize extensive internal and external auditing and/or Kemira participated in the RobecoSAM corporate sustainassurance in order to monitor the effectiviness of our ability assessment for the second time in 2014 on a management approach. voluntary basis. However, our performance did not qualify us to be included in the RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook. The feedback gained from the process has helped us in identifying both our strengths and further improvement areas within corporate responsibility management. For example, customer relationship management and product stewardship are topics where further work is required to bring us at par with our well established management practices in environmental responsibility. ASSURANCES AND AUDITS Audit coverage of corporate responsibility areas in 2014 Assurance unit Economic Environmental Social Internal assurance Kemira Internal Audit • Evaluation of internal controls • Evaluation of internal controls • Reliability of financial reporting • Compliance with applicable laws • Effectiveness and efficiency of and regulations operations Supplier performance Supply Chain Management management program Environment, Health, Safety and Management system audits Management system audits Quality Site specific EHS audits Site specific EHS audits Product Stewardship and Product regulatory compliance at Regulatory Affairs manufacturing sites External assurance External certification partner for Assessing and auditing of Assessing and auditing quality, environmental and safety Environmental Occupational Health and Safety management systems Management Systems by ISO management systems by OHSAS 14001 18001 and quality management systems by ISO 9001 External service provider for legal Legal compliance audits Legal compliance audits compliance auditing External service provider for Assessing and auditing financial financial auditing statements External service provider for Assurance of the management Assurance of the management corporate responsibility reporting and performance of environmental and performance of social assurance performance according to GRI responsibility according to GRI GRI REPORT 9 2014 RESPONSIBILITIES AND RESOURCES 2.2 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS Management Approach Kemira’s Director, Corporate Responsibility, leads the overall development and management of corporate responsibility activities. We innovate for sustainable products and solutions that reduce the environmental footprint of our The Corporate Responsibility team is responsible for customers. This includes that all Kemira products • managing the company-wide process to identify are safe to use for our employees, value chain corporate responsibility priorities and targets partners and customers, and that appropriate • coaching and supporting the organization regulatory approvals and registrations, documenta• coordinating, monitoring and reporting corporate tion, and labeling are in place. responsibility related activities • establishing the processes, tools and metrics to ensure compliance with relevant external standards, guideGROWTH FROM SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS lines and expectations • engaging in stakeholder dialogue related to corporate Kemira provides expertise and tailored combinations of responsibility chemicals for the paper industry, oil, gas and mining, and • managing public affairs issues municipal and industrial water treatment. Kemira segments and functions are key resources in corpoThe use of our products and solutions benefits our customrate responsibility target implementation. The implementaers by: tion is supported and coordinated by the Corporate • Improving the properties and quality of the customer’s Responsibility Management Team, chaired by Director, end-product Corporate Responsibility. • Improving the operational efficiency of customer Members of the Corporate Responsibility Management processes and equipment Team represent the organizational units that are responsi• Enabling the treatment, cleaning and conditioning of ble for the implementation and business integration of the water: treating intake water for potable or process corporate responsibility targets. Team members are water use, re-use of water, sludge dewatering and responsible for the management and performance followcapturing other soluble solid contaminants up of target implementation in their respective organizational units, proposing target updates and KPI’s to Kemira’s The main product lines of Kemira comprise of polymers and Management Board, as well as for performance reporting. other process chemicals, sizing and strength, coagulants The team has regular monthly meetings with a scheduled and bleaching chemicals. annual agenda. Kemira is seeking growth from new products and Our corporate responsibility targets are annually applications. We aim to increase our innovation revenue to reviewed and approved by the Kemira Management Board. 10% of total revenue by 2016. The revenue target for 2016 The approved targets are presented to the Board of is EUR 250 million. In 2014, our innovation sales totaled Directors, which also approves the annual corporate EUR 164 million, which is approximately 8% (7%) of responsibility report. Target performance follow-up is Kemira’s revenue. By innovation sales we mean sales from conducted every quarter, and the results are reported to new products or products to new applications launched the Management Board and Kemira stakeholders in our within the past five years. interim reporting. SUSTAINABILITY EVALUATION INTEGRATED INTO NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS Our R&D and Technology function is responsible for all R&D activities in Kemira and coordinates the New Product Development (NPD) process activities across organizational units. Sustainability aspects covering economic, environmental, and social impacts are systematically evaluated in the NPD process. 10 GRI REPORT SUSTAINABILITY CRITERIA IN THE NPD PROCESS PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AT KEMIRA Management Approach At Kemira, product stewardship goes beyond regulatory Environmental impact Social impact Economic impact compliance, which in itself sets tight controls on the More efﬁcient use of Improved safety Economic value to manufacture and sale of chemicals. energy, water and raw and regulatory Kemira and Kemira’s One of the key principles of product stewardship for materials compliance of customers chemicals focuses on efficient risk assessment: identifying products and safety Less waste and of manufacturing the intrinsic properties of the substance, the use condiemissions processes tions and the potential exposure to that chemical. This analysis helps us in focusing our product and process development efforts in areas where our impacts on the The NPD process consists of development stages and safety and sustainability of the value chain are the greatdecision gates (1–5). Successful projects must demonest. This approach is also an integral element of the global strate high quality and business relevance from stage to chemical industry’s Responsible Care® initiative, which stage. The process offers a systematic approach for Kemira is committed to. evaluating and mitigating technical and market risks and Kemira’s customers are ambitious in their sustainabilunderstanding market potential. ity targets and follow several voluntary certification Sustainability reviews are required at every stage of the schemes, such as the EU Ecolabel, which set further NPD process to ensure that sustainability criteria are met. expectations on our offering. Product stewardship and The evaluation is conducted considering impacts on both chemical management are also impacted by public Kemira’s own operations as well as on customers’ prodiscussions and concerns. Kemira follows all these cesses. The NPD process also aims to identify more developments closely and takes an active approach to sustainable alternatives for raw materials. fulfilling the expectations of different stakeholders. In 2014, we reached our target to apply sustainability checks in all new NPD projects at Gate 1 and in existing PRODUCT REGULATORY COMPLIANCE NPD projects at Gates 2–4. The sustainability checks at The manufacturing and sale of chemicals is widely reguGates 1–4 are now based mostly on qualitative evaluation. lated around the world. Regulation is developing rapidly, We continue to develop the sustainability check towards setting new demands on compliance. more quantitative evaluation in order to be able to demonstarate the sustainability impacts with numerical benefits. There are various layers of regulations: 1) Regional and country specific inventories and substance registrations such as TSCA in USA (Toxic SUSTAINABLE INNOVATIONS DEVELOPED IN Substances Control Act), IECSC in China (China Existing 2014 INCLUDE E.G.: Chemical Inventory), and REACH Regulation in EU 2) Regulations related to hazard communication: clas• New biocide targeted to paper machine surfaces for sification, labeling, safety data sheets improved performance in biofilm control – thereby 3) Application specific chemical regulations such as food reducing total quantity of toxic chemistries needed and contact regulations, biocide regulations and off-shore improving operational efficiency in paper production chemicals notification schemes (Fennocide TR20) 4) Operational and site specific requirements related to • New thermally stable antiscalant, designed for scale e.g. environmental permits for operations, and workinhibition in oilfield steam flood applications, enables place health and safety regulations. heavy oil production in a field that would otherwise be shut-down and offers improved production yield A centrally managed Product Stewardship & Regulatory through reduction in downhole deposition, formation Affairs organization gives an opportunity to optimize the plugging and decreased maintenance and shutdown efforts to comply with all relevant regulations across the times of axillary equipment (KemGuard® 2708 globe. Key activities relating to regulatory compliance in 2014 included: • Preparations for the remaining EU REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) registrations continued, in order to meet the registration needs before the end of the third and final transitional registration deadline in 2018. • Registration work under the EU Biocidal Products Regulation continued. GRI REPORT 11 2014 • In China, the required Hazardous Chemicals RegistraGeneral Council, Chief Internal Auditor, and Director, Ethics tions were completed in 2014. and Compliance. Management Approach • Implementation of the United Nations Globally HarmoOur compliance training portfolio covers eLearning nized System (GHS) for classification and labeling of modules for Code of Conduct, Competition Law, Insider chemicals continued in several countries. We are information and Anti-Bribery. prepared to implement the new classifications with new safety data sheets and labels by 1st of June 2015 in EU (under CLP Regulations for chemical mixtures), KEMIRA CODE OF CONDUCT US and Brazil (chemical mixtures). The Kemira Code of Conduct sets guidelines for different aspects of business conduct in line with our values, the principles set out in the OECD Guidelines for Multinational FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE MATERIAL Enterprises and other norms and regulations. The current ASPECTS AND THE RESPECTIVE GRI-G4 INDICATORS Products and services (EN27, EN28) and revised Code was approved by the Board of Directors in Customer health and safety (PR1, PR2) December 2012, and its implementation began in the Product and service labelling (PR3, PR4) beginning of 2013. Marketing communication (PR6) Product compliance (PR9) Kemira policies and procedures complement the Code of Conduct. All our policies and procedures are regularly reviewed and updated. Kemira has zero tolerance for breaches of competition law and we do not tolerate any corruption or bribery. Environment, health and safety, and respect for human rights are also highlighted in the Code. Kemira does not 2.3 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS accept financial support to politicians, political parties or political organizations. The main channels for Kemira to PRACTICES contribute to public policy development are through relevant trade and industry associations. The management approach of Kemira’s responsible business practices is based on the development and implementation of compliance management. We CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING conduct our business ethically and in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and Kemira’s own All our employees are expected to comply with the Kemira policies throughout the organization. Code of Conduct. Training is organized to raise awareness of the Code’s requirements and of how to report noncompliance. Our target in 2013 was to train all Kemira KEMIRA GROUP COMPLIANCE PROGRAM employees on the Code. 90% of the employees completed the training in 2013. We have continued the training in 2014 The Kemira Code of Conduct, together with internal policies with a completion rate of 95%. All new employees are and procedures, sets the standards for expected behavior trained as part of the induction process, and all employees within the company. The Code requires compliance with are invited to repeat the training on a regular basis. All laws and regulations and adherence to company policies completed trainings are registered in the Kemira Learning by all Kemira employees. Management System. Our Ethics and Compliance management is organized The Code of Conduct is available in 21 languages and as part of the Legal function. It focuses on coordinating and distributed to all our employees. It can also be found at developing our compliance activities and promoting the www.kemira.com. principles of ethical business behavior. The Kemira Compliance Program was launched in 2014 to further develop compliance management at Kemira on a ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE HOTLINE continuous basis. Key achievements during the year included the establishement of a Compliance Committee, Kemira Ethics & Compliance Hotline was launched in 2013 definition of the process for handling non-compliance as a 24/7 service for employees to report any non-conformissues, and validation of the compliance training portfolio. ities with law or the Code of Conduct. Reporting can be The Compliance Committee reviews all non-compliance done anonymously either by calling the hotline or filling in a cases reported through the Ethics and Compliance Hotline web form. Awareness about the hotline has been promoted and other channels, and decides on the relevant resolution through employee communications. The hotline is mainprocesses. Members of the committee include the Group tained by an external service provider to enable anonymous contacting. 12 GRI REPORT In addition to the hotline, employees can report 2.4 RESPONSIBILITY FOR suspected non-conformities to their own line management, EMPLOYEES Management Approach Kemira's Ethics and Compliance or Internal Audit functions. In 2014, 22 notifications were received through the hotline, and all cases were handled and closed during the Kemira’s responsibility for employees focuses on year. safety, employee engagement, performance manAn email address sustainability@kemira.com is agement and leadership development. Our manageavailable for external enquiries and reporting of potential ment approach is aimed at ensuring a safe workmisconduct with respect to Kemira or its business partplace as well as the necessary know-how, strong ners. This information is available on our website as well as leaders and engaged people to successfully execute in the Kemira Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Agents and Kemira’s strategy. Distributors. SAFETY AT WORKPLACE FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE MATERIAL Kemira’s vision is “Zero harm to people”. We include both ASPECTS AND THE RESPECTIVE GRI-G4 INDICATORS Anticorruption (SO3, SO4, SO5) our own employees as well as contractors working at our Public policy (SO6) sites and facilities in our safety efforts and reporting. Anticompetitive behaviour (SO7) Kemira maintains a strong culture for safety through Compliance (SO8) (EN29 by EHSQ ,PR9 by PSRA) Grievance mechanism (EN34, LA16, HR12, SO11) committed management, skilled and well-trained employees, consistent incident and observation reporting and improvement actions addressing root causes. In 2014, we introduced seven internal standards with health, safety and environmental practises in our operations globally, e.g. Process Safety Standard, Transportation Standard, Facility Standard and Laboratory Standard. Our policy is to have all manufacturing sites certified in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety management system standard. By the end of 2014, 75% of Kemira’s manufacturing sites were covered by the OHSAS 18001 certification. Our safety performance is measured by TRI frequency (Total Recordable Injuries per million work hours) which includes fatalities, lost time injuries, restricted work cases and medical treatment cases involving both Kemira employees and contractors working for Kemira. The improving performance trend since 2012 is reflecting the positive development of our safety culture, systems and awareness. By the end of 2014, we reported 5.8 injuries per million work hours. Contractor work hours have been included in the TRI frequency in 2014. No fatalities have been associated with Kemira employees since 2005. TRI FREQUENCY PER MILLION WORKING HOURS Kemira personnel and Contractors 2014 5.8 2013 7.1 2012 8.5 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GRI REPORT 13 2014 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT and expanding the coverage of our global Performance Management process during 2014. Other key focus areas Management Approach Engaged employees are highly committed to their employer during the year included engaging teams and individuals in and motivated to perform. Kemira is regularly conducting Kemira’s strategy through quaterly business reviews, team employee surveys to gather employee feedback and meetings to discuss strategy and business results as well measure employee engagement. as senior management and CEO visits to local sites. The A comprehensive Voices@Kemira survey is conducted latest Pulse survey, conducted in Q4 2014, indicates an biennially. The survey focuses on employee engagement; improvement in all areas of employee engagement. what factors motivate Kemira employees to succeed. Other In 2014, 95% of all managers that had teams particiimportant themes include strategy and leadership, growth pating in the Voices@Kemira survey prepared an actionand development, performance management, corporate plan and started its implementation to address the responsibility, collaboration and communication, as well as development areas raised in the survey. Improving the Kemira values. A smaller scale employee survey Pulse employee engagement was one of the key priorities and is conducted twice per year. Kemira’s target is to have an bonus targets for Kemira’s top management in 2014. employee engagement index at or above the industry norm and a participation rate of 75–85% by the end of 2015. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Kemira’s Performance Management process covers both Employee engagement index at or above the external Performance and Development Discussions (PDD) and industry norm by 2015, participation rate 75–85% Performance Evaluation. The implementation of the 100 Performance Management process has enabled the 87 84 consistent and aligned target-setting throughout Kemira. 80 70 75 Strategic goals are converted to a strategic roadmap, which 69 translates into annual targets for each employee. 60 58 The PDDs are held twice a year between the manager and employee with focus on setting, following-up and 40 evaluating performance targets, discussing employee’s 20 career aspirations, identifying and agreeing upon short and long-term personal development needs and related 0 actions. 2009 2011 2013 Our target in 2014 was to have 95% employees covered by the global Performance Management process, including ■ Employee engagement index, % blue-collar employees at manufacturing sites. This target ■ Participation rate, % of total employees was achieved. In 2013, Kemira was implementing organizational restrucLEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT turing measures, which is presumably one of the reasons for a lower response rate and engagement index. The next Kemira’s Leadership Development programs aim at survey is due in 2015. developing capable leaders who are well-equipped to create and implement strategy and lead people. In 2014, we updated our program portfolio to address VOICES@KEMIRA SURVEY RESULTS the current demands for leadership; innovation leadership, leading a sustainable business, and leading and managing According to the Voices@Kemira 2013 survey, Kemira in a networked environment were some of the new themes employees find their jobs challenging and interesting, with included. good opportunities for career development. We have We strive to develop leaders within. This is enabled continued to focus on offering learning and career developthrough our talent management and succession planning ment opportunities for our employees through job rotation, process, which was expanded to cover all units in 2014. open job market, and by defining career paths. Additionally, One of the most effective ways to develop leadership the implementation of several online applications provides capabilities is on-the-job learning. We encourage job employees and managers with an easy access to developrotation across the organization through open job market, ment tools and processes. cross-functional resourcing reviews in management teams, Enhancing performance management, especially and communicating about the different professions at accountability for low performance was recognized as a Kemira. The job-rotation intensity has significantly development area. This has been addressed by developing increased at Kemira in 2014. 14 GRI REPORT Our target is to involve people managers in global 2.5 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN leadership programs at least once in the period 2013–2015. Management Approach By the end of 2014, 46.4% (cumulative 2013–2014) of our leaders had participated in one or more of our globally The environmental and social impacts of Kemira’s offered development programs. By the end of 2015 we aim supply chain can be influenced through supplier to have covered 95% of leaders respectively. selection, contract negotiation and supplier performance management. Our management approach is aimed at building a culture of responsibility in the PEOPLE PROCESS DEVELOPMENT supply chain management, developing responsible business practices in the supply chain, and minimizThe implementation of several online tools enabling the ing business disruption due to potential environconsistent execution of people processes such as talent mental or social issues. management, learning management, recruitment and compensation management were completed in 2014. With these online tools people managers and HR are able to KEMIRA’S SOURCING AND SUPPLY CHAIN manage people processes efficiently. For example the (G4-12) learning management tool enables an online training portfolio available to all employees and the management of Our Sourcing is globally responsible for strategic spend information relating to completed training activities. management and is independently organized from the operational supply chain management services. Sourcing activities cover the identification of suppliers, negotiation FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE MATERIAL and contract management as well as the management of ASPECTS AND THE RESPECTIVE GRI-G4 INDICATORS supplier relationships. Employment (LA1, LA2) Labor/Management Relations (LA4) Supply Chain Management provides supply chain Occupational health and safety (LA6) related services to all business segments, once the Training and education (LA9, LA10, LA11) supplier relationships are established by Sourcing. Supply Diversity and equal operation (LA12) Equal remuneration for women and men (LA13) Chain Management services cover customer service, Non-discrimination (HR3) logistics, supply chain planning, and procurement. The Freedom of association and collective bargaining (HR4) Human rights assessement (HR9) Supply Chain Management is organized in four regional units providing all the services within the respective region. The total spend of Kemira's direct and indirect sourcing was about EUR 1.7 billion in 2014. The total number of direct and indirect suppliers is about 13,000 including all sourcing categories on both global and local level. Geographically 82% of these supplies are from EMEA and NAFTA. KEMIRA HAS ABOUT 650 DIRECT MATERIAL SUPPLIERS. THE 120 CORE VENDORS MAKE 80% OF THE DIRECT MATERIAL SPEND. GRI REPORT 15 2014 SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT BY THE END OF 2014, 49 Management Approach Kemira’s practice to measure, analyse and drive its SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY suppliers’ performance towards continuous improvement ASSESSMENTS HAD BEEN and to alleviate potential risks is managed through the Supplier Performance Management program. We conduct CONDUCTED. supplier performance evaluations and rate our suppliers for the accuracy of price and quantity, delivery compliance and quality claims, in order to identify potential issues that need improvement. Supplier Sustainability Assessments have been DISCIPLINED MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLIER initiated as part of the Supplier Performance Management RELATIONS program. These assessments cover the most critical and risky suppliers based on segmentation by several criteria, The supplier relationship management at Kemira is built on including the value of the spend, technology and capability three pillars: supplier segmentation, commitment to fit with Kemira’s needs, as well as a set of risk factors. responsible business conduct, and supplier performance Supplier Sustainability Assessments are conducted by evaluation. an external third party company specialized in standardThe supplier selection criteria are based on cost ized supplier evaluation and auditing based on the princicompetitiveness, short-term operational excellence and ples of the UN Global Compact and Responsible Care. Our long-term business stability. All activities of any Sourcing target in 2014 was to assess 45 suppliers. Approximately personnel or anyone within Kemira committing to any 60 suppliers were invited to participate, covering mainly spend are governed by the Kemira Code of Conduct. direct material suppliers but also some service and Suppliers are expected to adhere to responsible business logistics providers. By the end of 2014, 49 supplier assessconduct by signing the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, ments had been conducted. Distributors and Agents. Kemira launched a Supplier Performance Evaluation (SPE) program in 2012. The evaluation covers multiple LOGISTICS OPERATIONS AND aspects of the supplier’s operations. We have also initiated TRANSPORTATION SAFETY a Supplier Sustainability Assessment as part of Supplier Performance Management program. Greenhouse gas emissions from our upstream and downstream transportation and distribution cover approximately 10% of our Scope 3 emissions. This is significantly more CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS, than Kemira’s Scope 1 emissions from our manufacturing. DISTRIBUTORS AND AGENTS (COC-SDA) The key measures to lower our environmental impact caused by transportation are the optimization of logistic All our suppliers must follow our Code of Conduct for operations and selection of logistics service providers that Suppliers, Distributors and Agents in their activities with are committed to using vehicles compliant with the latest Kemira. The CoC-SDA sets requirements e.g. for responsiemission standards and load optimization. Safety and ble business conduct, respect for human rights and environmental requirements are taken into account in environmental responsibility. Adherence to these principles logistics sourcing and contract negotiation. is to be confirmed in writing by all repeat suppliers with an annual spend value of EUR 200,000 for Indirect and EUR 500,000 for Direct Materials. Should a supplier refuse to FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE MATERIAL give such a confirmation and if Kemira cannot otherwise ASPECTS AND THE RESPECTIVE GRI-G4 INDICATORS Supplier assessment (EN32, LA14, HR10, SO9) confirm that the supplier adheres to acceptable ethical Emissions (EN17) – Scope 3 related to supply chain principles, an evaluation is performed by our Sourcing Transport (EN30) personnel to potentially cease all purchases from such a supplier. Our target is that by the end of 2015, 90% of repeat suppliers have signed the CoC-SDA when the purchase contract is made. By the end of 2014, 93% of Kemira’s repeat suppliers had signed the CoC-SDA. The effective tracking of CoC-SDA for supplier contracts and the timely resolution of non-compliance issues have been key activities in reaching the target. The signed CoC-SDAs are registered in the Kemira contract archive. 16 GRI REPORT 2.6 RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Management Approach The main environmental and social impacts of Kemira's manufacturing operations are through greenhouse gas emissions and process safety. In 2014, we focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, conducting a water risk assessment and ensuring the safety of our operations. CLIMATE CHANGE GENERATING ELECTRICITY WITH ZERO Kemira introduced a climate change target in January 2014. EMISSIONS IN BRADFORD We aim to reduce the Kemira Carbon Index by 20 percentKemira’s Bradford site has been taking steps to age points by the end of 2020 compared to the baseline reduce the financial and environmental implicayear 2012. Our key measures to lower greenhouse gas tions of its use of natural gas and electricity. A great emissions include improving energy efficiency at manufacdeal of work has been done to increase the energy turing sites and purchasing energy and primary fuels with a efficiency of the Bradford manufacturing operalower carbon footprint. Our strategy is to continue to tions, resulting in 20% reduction in energy condecrease the share of fossil fuels in our energy mix and to sumption per ton of production, compared to the improve our energy efficiency in order to both decrease our 2001 levels. environmental impact and to lower our operational costs. Solar Photovoltaic panels have also been Our energy efficiency and emission reduction measures installed on the roof of the Bradford warehouse to focus on the top 14 sites of our manufacturing network of enable the site to generate its own clean electricity. 59 sites (year end 2014). These 14 sites consume 90% of The system consists of 1000 solar panels, each energy and produce 95% of our CO2 emissions. rated to 250W, giving a total installed capacity of 250kW. The system is expected to generate an ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT (SCOPE 1) annual total of approximately 180MWh of electricity Energy efficiency improvement is important to us also due with zero emissions, reducing the CO2 emissions to the considerable effect of energy costs on our total related to the Bradford operations by in excess of spend. Our energy efficiency improvement measures in 75,000kg per year. 2014 included e.g. process lead-time improvements and investments in more energy efficient process equipment. Two energy intensive chlorate plants in Finland, Joutseno and Sastamala, were updated with modernized process equipment. PURCHASED ENERGY (SCOPE 2) In 2014, Kemira’s energy savings totaled EUR 1.2 Kemira’s operations in Finland are the biggest energy user million, and 1855 MWh as energy. Cumulative cost-savings in the Kemira group. These operations also use a significant since 2010 total EUR 8.4 million. These savings result from amount of electricity from renewable and low carbon 9 (cumulatively approximately 400) different completed sources. Kemira owns shares in energy production compainitiatives. nies PVO (Pohjolan Voima Oy) and TVO (Teollisuuden Voima Oy) and receives guarantee of origin certificates for hydro electricity. The issued guarantees are used by Kemira. GRI REPORT 17 2014 KEMIRA CARBON INDEX KEMIRA ENERGY EFFICIENCY INDEX Based on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Management Approach 120 120 109.3 104.7 101.5 100.9 104.3 101.8 100.0 98.8 98.7 100.0 100 100 89.2 86.8 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The Energy Efficiency index is the ratio of energy use and Kemira Carbon Index was defined to monitor our CO2 production normalized to 2012 for the top sites using 90% performance from both consolidated and individual of energy. The index is calculated for major sites that cover manufacturing site perspective. The Kemira Carbon Index > 90% of Kemira’s total energy use. The index is independcovers CO2 emissions of Scope 1 and Scope 2 excluding ent of the impact of changes in the production mix and direct emissions from chemical processing, and is not volumes. The index enables us to monitor energy efficiency dependent on production mix or volumes. from the consolidated perspective as well as locally at each site, reflecting the actual improvements we have achieved. KEMIRA ENERGY BALANCE FUEL Non-renewable 1,951 (1,769*) Non-renewable** 534 (3,774) HEAT Renewable** 2,147 (780) Output heat delivered off-site 1,317 (1,384) Electricity delivered off-site 110 (160) Non-renewable 3,878 (3,850) Renewable 1,940 (1,981) Non-renewable energy sources: coal, natural gas, oil and ELECTRICITY by-product hydrogen. Renewable energy sources: solar, wind, ocean, hydropower, biomass, geothermal resources, biofuels, and hydrogen derived from renewable resources. Nuclear 4,336 (4,246) * Data corrected due to more comprehensive data available in 2014. ** Changes due to site closures, divestments and acquisitions. One site using a lot of non-renewable heat was divested. 18 GRI REPORT WATER EFFICIENCY Four sites were selected for more detailed risk assessment based on two criteria: 1) Global Water Tool results: Management Approach Our target for water efficiency was set in 2012. We wanted If the site is in an area of extreme scarcity and 2) Kemira’s to analyze the baseline of our water usage in relation to water usage data: If the site is among the TOP 5 users of environmental impact and local water availability and to process water in general, or a user of high amounts of define a water efficiency program by the end of 2014. The ground water or municipal water. goal was to understand what kinds of water management The Local Water Tool results indicate that Kemira measures may be required on both global and local level. In operations pose a low risk to local water resources. 2013, we harmonized our water data collection from our However, water scarcity may pose a business discontinuity manufacturing sites and focused on data accuracy risk to Kemira operations at one manufacturing site. improvement and reporting. In 2014, a water risk assessKemira’s water usage was also benchmarked to other ment was conducted to define potential risks from Kemira companies in the chemical industry sector. Our water operations to local water resources and environment, and intensity is below the industry average when only process any potential risks to business due to water scarcity. water is taken into account but above the average when In Kemira's manufacturing, water is mainly used as cooling water in circulation is included. process water and cooling water. The assessment was Based on the findings, it can be concluded that water carried out at 54 sites globally by using the Global Water risks are not material for Kemira on a global level. However, Tool (WBCSD) to identify hot spots, and the Local Water Tool on a local level site specific approaches for managing to identify site specific water risks. water related risks are relevant. Water withdrawal and The Global Water Tool results show that three manufacdischarge will be included as new environmental aspects in turing sites are located in areas with extreme water the ISO 14001 management system. In addition, at the four scarcity (Annual Renewable Water Supply per Person <500 selected sites a detailed assessment will be conducted to m3/person/year). define the management plan going forward. KEMIRA WATER BALANCE million m3 Ground water 1.1 (0.4*) Reused at Wastewater from 0.0 (0.0*) another facility another organization 0.0 (0.1) Rain water 0.0 (0.1) COOLING Process water and cooling WATER ** water recycled back in the 96.7 same process Surface water 3.7 (1.5*) 23 (74.5*) (151) 2.9 (0.1) Municipal water 2.2 (2.2) Recycled in a different process, but within the same facility Other *** 0.5 (2.0) 1.6 (1.7) 0.5 (0.4) The data does not represent the complete water balance as water entering with the raw materials and exiting with the products as well as Own treatment evaporated water are excluded. * Data corrected due to more comprehensive data available in 2014. External treatment ** Cooling water is directly discharged or recycled as process water. *** Mainly treated water from another industrial facility. GRI REPORT 19 2014 MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS CERTIFIED MANUFACTURING SITES, % Management Approach Our approach to reducing Kemira’s environmental impacts 100 and improving the safety of our manufacturing operations 90 83 81 is based on the systematic implementation of the ISO 80 76 77 75 76 75 66 69 standard based management systems and the LEAN 70 59 culture 60 55 50 46 Our Environment, Health, Safety and Quality (EHSQ) 40 Policy requires all Kemira companies and operations to 30 implement and maintain certified Environmental, Health, 20 Safety and Quality management systems. 10 Our LEAN manufacturing culture aims at continuous 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 improvement to achieve more with less while providing increasing value to customers. Measures include e.g. the ■ ISO 9001 certification optimization of value chains and flows of information and ■ ISO 14001 certification improving production efficiency. ■ OHSAS 18001 certification CERTIFIED SITES BY THE END OF 2014 2014 ISO 9001 certification ISO 14001 certification OHSAS 18001 certification Manufacturing sites by region Total # of sites # % # % # % EMEA 32 30 94 28 88 27 84 North America 22 14 64 14 64 14 64 South America 3 3 100 2 67 2 67 APAC 2 2 100 1 50 1 50 Total 59 49 83 45 76 44 75 SAFETY AT MANUFACTURING SITES and culture. Training for standards is an important part of the implementation. Regular audits are also conducted to Kemira has continued to implement its EHSQ strategy follow-up the standard implementation. introduced in 2013. In 2014, our focus was on implementing the strategic roadmap towards becoming world-class in EHSQ. MANAGING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF We have also continued to introduce new EHS standOUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ards e.g. for process safety and transportation safety. We have provided training for our employees on the new EHS We conduct environmental impact assessments and standards in order to improve workplace safety. emission monitoring at every manufacturing site as defined by the regulatory requirements, the ISO 14001 management system and Kemira’s own internal standards. KEMIRA’S EHSQ VISION IS: Zero harm to people through health & safety excellence Zero environmental harm through environmental excellence FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE MATERIAL Customer satisfaction through operational excellence ASPECTS AND THE RESPECTIVE GRI-G4 INDICATORS Materials (EN1, EN2) Energy (EN3, EN5, EN6) Water (EN8, EN10) Emissions (EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21) The minimum requirements for Safety, Environment and Effluents and waste (EN22, EN23, EN24, EN25) Health protection, Incident reporting and management are Environmental expenditures and investments (EN31) described in the Kemira EHS standards that are approved Environmental compliance (EN 29) Local communities (SO2) by the Management Board. Local procedures are developed based on Kemira standards, local legislation, regulations 20 GRI REPORT 2.7 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE sites, people safety and wellbeing, water and chemistry. Kemira’s Group Sponsorship and Donation Policy (2013) LOCAL COMMUNITIES Management Approach provides guidance on the extent and purpose of acceptable cash donations. Kemira wants to promote positive interaction with Our community involvement target is to engage all the communities where we operate. Our focus is on Kemira sites with over 50 employees (26 sites in 2014) in ensuring that we have continuous dialogue with local community initiatives at least once in the period local communities to understand and to respond to 2013–2015 (cumulative %). By the end of 2014, 92% of their needs, concerns and expectations. In addition, Kemira’s sites had organized local events and activities, we want to provide opportunities for Kemira with some sites hosting multiple activities over the year. employees to participate in local community initiaActivities are selected according to local customs and tives, which also has a positive impact on employee requirements. Some examples of local activities are open engagement. house days for community residents at manufacturing sites, cooperation with local schools and universities, and Our community involvement activities are globally coordilocal charity work and donations. nated but locally planned and implemented. The Communication & Corporate Responsibility function is responsible for global guidelines, coordination and reporting while site management is responsible for the implementation of local FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE MATERIAL ASPECTS AND THE RESPECTIVE GRI-G4 INDICATORS activities. Local communities (SO1, SO2) Our global guidelines for the planning of local community events were updated in 2014. Kemira’s engagement themes relate to safety in the vicinity of our manufacturing EXAMPLES OF COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT USA, Columbus Finland, Helsinki Close cooperation with a local Sponsoring Gadolin chemistry class elementary school and a joint safety • Promoting chemistry to thousands of school kids and their teachers exercise with the local rescue Also Kemira’s own employees can visit the class with their children department • Introducing Kemira’s plant as a safe actor in the community China, Guangxi province Water stewardship project with Stora Enso • Promoting responsible water management through Brazil, Sao Paolo community engagement Donation to families that lost their homes in a fire in Saõ Paolo • Acting as a responsible partner in the community In 2014, approximately 85 community involvement activities were organized at 26 major Kemira sites. GRI REPORT 21 2014 3 PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURES ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 3.1 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE and donations. The economic value retained is reinvested in the company for capital investments, R&D and technolINDICATORS ogy development. The management approach to economic value generated and distributed is based on the Finnish Corporate MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Governance Code and the Limited Liability Companies Act, G4-EC1: DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED which states that the purpose of a company is to generate AND DISTRIBUTED profits for its shareholders, unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Association. Kemira has defined its midSustainable organic growth, financial stability and longterm financial targets as follows: revenue target EUR 2.7 term profitability are material to Kemira in order to be a billion and EBITDA level 15% by the end of 2017. The trusted business partner for customers and suppliers, a Group’s financial targets are translated into business goals reliable employer, an attractive long-term investment and a and performance measures per segment and further to responsible taxpayer. individual employee’s performance targets. Kemira reports Kemira generates economic value from expertise, and discloses its financial statements in accordance with products and solutions that help customers improve their the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). process efficiency, end-product quality and to treat water The overall responsibility for financial performance at for the desired quality and purity. Kemira distributes the group level belongs to the Board of Directors and CEO. generated economic value to various stakeholders. This Kemira has organized its global activities by three business includes suppliers and service providers through payments segments, which bear full profit and loss responsibility. The for raw materials and services, employees through comsegment heads are members of the Management Board. pensation and benefits, capital providers through diviFor detailed information, see Kemira Corporate Governance dends and interest payments, public sector through taxes Statement. and society through local community projects, sponsorship Stakeholder Economic value (on cash basis), EUR million 2014 2013 2012 2011 Direct economic value generated Customers Income from customers on the basis of products and services sold, and financial income 2,100.3 2,267.8 2,312.1 2,192 Economic value distributed Suppliers Payments to suppliers of raw materials, goods and services 1,683.5 1,686.2 1,736.5 1,654 Employees Employee wages and benefits 283.3 327.1 340.4 299.3 Shareholders & lenders Dividends, interests paid and financial expenses 111.8 112.8 113.8 101.4 Public sector Corporate income taxes 33.4 26.5 30.2 37.4 Economic value retained -11.7 115.2 91.2 99.9 Community investments were EUR 0.1 million in 2014 (EUR 0.33 million) through sponsoring and local community participation. 22 GRI REPORT PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS OF RAW REVENUE BY CUSTOMER LOCATION MATERIALS, GOODS AND SERVICES EMPLOYEE WAGES AND BENEFITS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 5% 6% 7% 37% 39% 55% 39% 54% 58% CORPORATE INCOME TAXES 1% 40% 59% ■ EMEA ■ Americas ■ APAC OUR APPROACH TO TAX G4-EC3: COVERAGE OF THE ORGANIZATION'S DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN OBLIGATIONS Business rationale: We are a responsible corporate citizen in all our operating countries. Kemira’s tax approach The coverage of Kemira’s defined benefit plans are supports responsible business performance. Our tax reported in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial approach is based on our corporate strategy and values, Statements 23: Defined benefit plans. Kemira has various the Kemira Code of Conduct and our tax policies. We target pension plans in accordance with local conditions and upfront certainty on our tax positions. We do not operate in practices. The percentage of salary contributed by tax haven countries for tax reasons. employee or employer to the benefit plan, and the level of Compliance: Our principle is to strictly follow and pay participation in retirement plans are defined according to taxes in accordance with all relevant tax rules and regulalocal legislation and practices. tions as well as international best practices in all regions where we operate. In addition to corporate income taxes, Kemira pays other taxes, including payroll taxes, social G4-EC4: FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED security contributions, property taxes, value added taxes, FROM GOVERNMENT customs duties, etc. Transparency and relationship with tax authorities: Financial assistance received from governments is We are transparent about our approach to tax. We seek to reported in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial develop and maintain good working relationships with the Statements 4: Operating expenses. Kemira received EUR tax authorities and aim at open and constructive dialogue 2.1 million (EUR 3.5 million) in government grants for R&D with them. Disclosures are made by observing applicable in 2014 in Finland. disclosure, documentation and reporting requirements such as IFRS. Transfer pricing: Kemira applies the arm’s length principle and targets an appropriate remuneration of the activities amongst related parties in accordance with internationally accepted standards, such as the OECD Guidelines. GRI REPORT 23 2014 3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Environmental performance indicators MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS G4-EN1: MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT OR VOLUME The main share of Kemira’s raw materials are non-renewable materials. The renewable materials used include starches, tall oil, and fatty acid derivatives. KEMIRA IS USING G4-EN1: MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT SIGNIFICANT AMOUNTS OF 2014 2013 2012 INDUSTRIAL BY-PRODUCTS Total materials purchased, million tonnes 3.6 3.9 3.6 AND RECYCLED MATERIALS Renewable materials used, FROM EXTERNAL PARTNERS million tonnes 0.059 0.059* 0.03 Non-renewable materials used, IN THE PRODUCTION OF million tonnes Share of renewable materials, % 3.6 1.6% 3.9 1.5%* 3.6 0.8% COAGULANTS. *) Data corrected due to more comprehensive information available in 2014 G4-EN2: PERCENTAGE OF MATERIALS USED THAT ARE RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS Kemira is using a number of raw materials classified as industrial by-products or recycled input materials in its production of water treatment chemicals. Materials considered as by-products or waste in various other industries can be an important raw material for us. These materials include e.g. scrap iron, ferrous sulphate and pickling bath liquor. G4-EN2: PERCENTAGE OF MATERIALS USED THAT ARE RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS 2014 2013 2012 Total materials purchased, million tonnes 3.6 3.9 3.6 Industrial by-product and recycled input materials from external partners, million tonnes 0.897 0.913* 0.938 Share of by-product and recycled materials, % 25% 23% 26% *) Data corrected due to more comprehensive information available in 2014 24 GRI REPORT MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-EN3;EN5; EN6: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION, ENERGY INTENSITY AND REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION Environmental performance indicators SUMMARY OF ENERGY INDICATORS: ENERGY CONSUMPTION , ENERGY INTENSITY AND REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION GRI-G4 indicator 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Purchased energy Fuel consumption, ktoe 47 42 49 56 54 Fuel consumption as raw material, ktoe 83 120 114 121 116 Purchased electricity, TJ 10,152 10,077 9,620 10,682* 10,404* Purchased heat, TJ 2,682 4,553 4,367 4,873* 4,726 Purchased energy by primary sources, TJ 1 27,703 29,487 29,284 32,122 Energy balance Purchased fuel as energy source, TJ EN3a-b 1,951 1,769* 2,028 2,345 2,261 Non-renewable 1,951 1,769* 2,028 Renewable 0 0 0 Purchased electricity, TJ EN3c 10,152 10,077 9,620 10,657 10,346 Non-renewable 3,878 3,850 3,472 Renewable 1,940 1,981 1,383 Nuclear 4,336 4,246 4,764 Purchased heat, TJ EN3c 2,682 4,553 4,367 4,873* 4,726 Non-renewable 534 3,774 3,572 Renewable 2,147 780 795 Total energy purchased, TJ EN3c 14,785 16,400* 16,015 17,874* 17,333 Total energy sold, TJ EN3d 1,427 1,544 1,619* 1,859 1,601 Output heat delivered off-site 1,317 1,384 1,519* 1,787 1,555 Electricity delivered off-site 110 160 100 72 46 Total energy consumption, TJ EN3e 13,358 14,856* 14,339 15,957 15,732 Energy intensity, TJ/1,000 t 2 EN5 3.0 3.1 3.1 3.2 Reduction of energy consumption, TJ 3 EN6 -1,498 503 -1,618 224 *) Data corrected due to more comprehensive information available in 2014 1) The amount of energy Kemira uses through the purchase of electricity, steam and heat. Energy delivered off-site is included. 2) Kemira has calculated the energy intensity by dividing total energy consumption with the annual production volume. The total energy consumption includes fuel used for energy, electricity, heating, cooling and steam. 3) The types of energy included in the reductions include: fuel used for energy, electricity, heating, cooling and steam. The basis for the energy reduction is energy consumption in one year period. The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The source for conversion factors used is the International Energy Agency (IEA). Where specific information has not been published on production efficiencies by energy source, expert estimates have been made based on historical data. Reduction in purchased heat in 2014 is mainly due to closures and divestments of sites. One site using a lot of non-renewable heat was divested. The increase in renewable heat is mainly due to the energy mix of acquired sites. GRI REPORT 25 2014 MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER G4-EN8: TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE Environmental performance indicators 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total water withdrawal used as a process water, million m3 7.5 6.3 6.7 7.8 Surface water 3.7 1.5 1.8 Ground water 1.1 0.4 0.8 Rainwater 0.0 0.1 0.0 Waste water from another organization 0.0 0.1 0.0 Municipal water supplies 2.2 2.2 3.5 Other (treated wastewater from other facilities) 0.5 2.0 0.6 Total water withdrawal used as a cooling water, million m3 96.7 151 138 161 163 Surface water 93.3 146 131 Ground water 0.3 2.0 3.0 Rainwater 0.0 0.0 0.0 Waste water from another organization 0.0 0.0 0.0 Municipal water supplies 0.2 1.0 0.0 Other (e.g. condensate of steam from another company) 2.9 3.0 4.0 Total water withdrawal, million m3 104 157 144 169 The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The figures presented are based on data collected from Kemira's sites. Reduction in water used as cooling water in 2014 is mainly due to the closure of one site using high amounts of cooling water. G4-EN10: PERCENTAGE AND TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization, million m3 25.9 74.6* 59.6* Water recycled back in the same process (1 23 74.5* 59.5* Water recycled in a different process, but within the same facility 2.9 0.1* 0.1* Water reused in another facility 0.0 0.0* 0.1* Total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water withdrawal used as reported under Indicator G4-EN8 25% 47%* 41%* *) Data restated for water recycled back in the same process due to more comprehensive information available in 2014. 1) Includes both process water and cooling water recycled back in the same process. The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The figures presented are based on data collected from Kemira's sites. Changes in 2014 are mainly due to closures and divestments of sites. All recycled and reused water was used within Kemira's manufacturing locations. See also graph Kemira water balance in the section Water efficiency. 26 GRI REPORT MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS SCOPE 1, SCOPE 2, SCOPE 3, TOTAL EMISSIONS, EMISSION INTENSITY AND ANNUAL CHANGE IN EMISSIONS Environmental performance indicators G4-EN15 DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1), G4-EN16 ENERGY INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2), G4-EN17: OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3) G4-EN18: GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS INTENSITY G4-EN19: REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS SUMMARY OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION INDICATORS: SCOPE 1, SCOPE 2, SCOPE 3, TOTAL EMISSIONS, EMISSION INTENSITY AND ANNUAL CHANGE IN EMISSIONS GRI-G4 Releases into air, CO2eq 1,000 tonnes indicator 2014** 2013** 2012 2011 2010 1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) EN-15 144 137* 147 180 182 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 2 EN-16 771 904 950 1,054 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 3 EN-17 5,040 5,130* 5,130* Total greenhouse gas emissions 4 5,955 6,171* 6,227* Greenhouse gas emissions intensity per 1000 tons of production 5 EN-18 1.3 1.3* 1.3* Change in greenhouse gas emissions EN-19 -217 -56* * Data corrected due to more comprehensive information available in 2014 ** In 2013 and 2014, all greenhouse gases are included in the calculations. In previous years, only CO2 emissions were reported 1) Greenhouse gas emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by Kemira (Scope 1 of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol) The source for the emissions factors used is GHG Protocol. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. 2) Greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, steam and heat that is consumed by Kemira (Scope 2 of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol) GHG emissions are calculated as CO2 equivalents which includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3. The sources for the emission factors used are the International Energy Agency (IEA), the UK government's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Motiva Ltd. and energy utility companies. As many utility companies often publish their specific emissions factors during Q2 or Q3 of each reporting year, previous years' factors have been used. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. 3) Greenhouse gas emissions from Kemira's value chain (Scope 3 of WRI/ WBCSD GHG Protocol). The calculation is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and a supporting guidance document Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. Scope 3 emissions have been calculated since 2012. GHG emission are calculated as CO2 equivalents which incluldes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3. The sources for the emission factors used include the guidance document for the Chemical Sector, the UK government's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), the International Energy Agency (IEA), Ecoinvent, CEFIC and ECTA. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. 4) Total greenhouse emissions including Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 5) Kemira has calculated the GHG emissions intensity ration per production volume (1000 tons). Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), indirect GHG emissions from energy consumption (Scope 2) and other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) are included. Changes in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are mainly due to divestments and acquisitions of manufacturing sites. Scope 3 emission restatement is due to Category 12: End-of-life treatment of sold products, which was extended to cover all products sold. If a product is not known to have a new lifecycle, it is always classified as waste. GRI REPORT 27 2014 G4-EN17: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM KEMIRA'S VALUE CHAIN CO2eq, 1000 tonnes 2014 2013 2012 Environmental performance indicators Category 1: Purchased goods and services 1,100 1,130* 1,120* Category 2: Capital goods ** ** ** Category 3: Fuel and energy related activities 240 220 220 Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution 120 130 150 Category 5: Waste generated in operations 70 50 50* Category 6: Business travel 10 10 10 Category 7: Employee commuting 10 10 10 Category 8: Upstream leased assets (leased offices) 10 10 20 Category 9: Downstream transportation and distribution 360 370* 370 Category 11: Use of sold products (1 0 0* 0* Category 12: End-of-life treatment of sold products (2 3,110 3,190* 3,180* Total 5,040 5,130 5,130 * Data corrected due to more comprehensive information available in 2014. ** Emissions of Category 2: Capital goods are included in Category 1: Purchased goods and services. 1) Category 11 emissions were estimated to be zero or close to zero, as Kemira does not sell combustible fuels, products that form greenhouse gas emissions during use, or products that contain greenhouse gases. 2) Category 12 was extended to cover all products sold. If a product is not known to have a new lifecycle, it is always classified as waste. The margin of error for Scope 3 calculations is +/16% SCOPE 3 BY LARGEST GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, CO2 EQ, 1000 TONNES SOURCES IN THE VALUE CHAIN (%) 6,000 2% 5,130 5,130 5,040 7% 5,000 7% 22% 4,000 3,000 2,000 950 904 771 1,000 147 137 144 62% 0 2012 2013 2014 ■ Purchased goods and services ■ Scope 1 ■ End-of-life treatment of sold products ■ Scope 2 ■ Downstream transportation and distribution ■ Scope 3 ■ Upstream transportation and distribution ■ Other Greenhouse gas emissions from Kemira's value chain (Scope 3) have been calculated since 2012. 28 GRI REPORT G4-EN20: EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (ODS) Environmental performance indicators Releases into air, tonnes 2014 2013 2012 Ozone-depleting substances 0 01 1) The data collection on ozone-depleting sunstances (ODS) from Kemira's sites was made for the first time for the year 2013. G4-EN21: NOX , SOX , AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS Releases into air, tonnes 1 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Nitrogen oxides (NO2) 2 206 185 190 242 273 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 3 86 122 116 153 168 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 4 661 682 742 665* 96 Volatile inorganic compounds (VIC) 5 59 65 94 100 79 Particulates 16 16 21 23 19 1) The figures presented are based on data collected directly from Kemira's sites. 2) Nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide calculated as NO2. 3) All sulphur compounds are calculated as SO2. 4) VOC is a sum of volatile organic compounds as defined in EU Directive 1999/13/EC. 5) Sum of ammonia, hydrogen chloride and six other simple inorganic compounds. * 2011 Increase due to sites included in Kemira's ownership in 2011. VOC was evaluated and corrected for 2011 in 2012. MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN22: TOTAL WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION (1 Water discharged, million m3 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Wastewater volume 2.2 2.1 2.4 2.5 1.2 External treatment 1.6 1.7 1.8 2.0 Own treatment 0.5 0.4 0.6 0.5 1) The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The figures presented are based on data collected from Kemira's sites. Releases into water, tonnes 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 15 16 21 28 58 Nitrogen (N) 2 2 2 3 4 Phosphorus (P) 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.7 0.5 Suspended solids 2.3 1.8 7 33 26 The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The figures presented are based on data collected from Kemira's sites. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. GRI REPORT 29 2014 G4-EN23: TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD Environmental performance indicators Waste, tonnes 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Hazardous wastes, total 41,686 41,296* 48,436 55,305 14,659 Off-site landfill (1 1,247 1,359 1,024 10,037 9,079 Off-site incineration 1,719 3,858 1,933 2,343 2,357 Off-site recycling 6,578 3,032 2,652 2,145 Other off-site treatment 31,670 33,081* 42,826 40,681 3,164 On-site incineration 473 29 1 99 On-site landfill 0 0 0 0 59 Non-hazardous wastes, total 22,189 26,300* 31,755* 33,394 35,500 Off-site landfill 10,451 13,432 11,107 12,238 Off-site incineration 810 5,674 1,482 1,451 Off-site recycling 7,418 4,556* 14,286 14,866 Other off-site treatment 3,068 2,538* 2,422* 2,617 On-site incineration 405 30 21 25 On-site landfill 37 70 2,437 2,197 Total waste disposal 63,875 67,596* 80,191* 88,699 50,159 1) The increases in 2010 and 2011 are mainly due to contaminated land remediation projects at sites. * Data corrected due to more comprehensive information available in 2014. The weight data of disposed waste is based on internal company records. The decrease in the amount of non-hazardous waste is mainly due to divestments and closures of sites. Decrease in off-site incineration of non-hazardous waste is due to more off-site recycling. G4-EN24: TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES SIGNIFICANT SPILLS G4-EN27: EXTENT OF IMPACT MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND There were four significant spills during 2014 with a total SERVICES volume of 59 tonnes. These spills were not reported in Kemira’s Financial Statements. The four spills had no The extent of the environmental impacts of our products is permanent or significant impact on the environment mitigated by developing products that reduce environmenbeyond the remediated soil. tal impacts in the use phase, deploying product stewardship programs throughout the product lifecycle, and by ensuring the safe transportation, handling, storage and G4-EN25: WEIGHT OF TRANSPORTED, disposal of our products in the value chain. IMPORTED, EXPORTED, OR TREATED WASTE Kemira’s business purpose is to enable customers to DEEMED HAZARDOUS UNDER THE TERMS OF improve their water, energy and raw material efficiency. THE BASEL CONVENTION (2) ANNEX I, II, III, The use of our products and solutions benefits our AND VIII, AND PERCENTAGE OF TRANSPORTED customers by: WASTE SHIPPED INTERNATIONALLY • Improving the properties and quality of the customer’s end-product The total amount of hazardous waste treated outside the • Improving the operational efficiency of customer country (shipped internationally) of the operating site was processes and equipment 0.6 tons in 2014, i.e. 0,001% (0,005%) of the total amount • Enabling the treatment, cleaning and conditioning of of hazardous waste (41,686 tonnes). water: treating intake water for potable or process water use, re-use of water, sludge dewatering and capturing other soluble solid contaminants We sell products that are mostly used in manufacturing processes as processing aids. Only in few cases, namely in paper and packaging board and in wastewater sludge, our products end-up as part of the end-product. 30 GRI REPORT Kemira products lower the environmental impacts of G4-EN28: PERCENTAGE OF PRODUCTS SOLD our customers’ manufacturing processes by improving the AND THEIR PACKAGING MATERIALS THAT ARE RECLAIMED BY CATEGORY Environmental performance indicators utilization rate of natural resources, reducing energy usage or by purifying water. We apply sustainability checks at every stage of the Kemira does not reclaim any sold products, whereas we New Product Development (NPD) process. The NPD process reclaim packaging material when possible. also aims to identify less hazardous and more sustainable Kemira’s liquid products are mainly transported in bulk alternatives for raw materials. units i.e. ISO-tank containers, tank trucks, and tank For more details on product stewardship see managerailroad wagons, which are owned by logistics service ment approach for Sustainable products and solutions and providers or leased by Kemira. When small volume packagperformance indicators PR1-PR4, PR6 and PR9. For ing is used we work to optimize packaging where it saves transportation safety see indicator EN30. packaging and transportations cost and also reclaim packaging materials when possible. WATER PURIFIED WITH KEMIRA PRODUCTS, million m3 When plastic or other reusable material is used in packaging, Kemira strives to reclaim the material. We are 20,000 also using a third party service provider to return packaging 18,000 from the customers’ sites for reuse. Packaging that is 16,000 returned to Kemira or to a third party is either reused or 14,000 processed for recycling. The reclaimed packaging materials 12,000 are Reconditioned Intermediate Bulk Container (IBC's) and 10,000 Recycled liquid packages. 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2000 2003 2006 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The volume of water purified with Kemira products is based on the share of product sales to water purification applications and using an experience based average chemicals dosage. G4-EN28: RECLAIMED PACKAGING MATERIALS 2014 2013 2012 Reconditioned IBC's * 12% 20% 22% Recycled liquid packages 3% 5% 4% * IBC=Intermediate Bulk Container Due to Kemira’s divestments, the usage of Reconditioned IBC's is lower in 2014 than in 2013. The usage of Reconditioned IBC’s was high in the sold and closed plants. GRI REPORT 31 2014 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Management Board in 2014. The standard applies globally G4-EN29:MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFIFICANT to all Kemira operations that are involved in the transportaFINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NON-MONETARY Environmental performance indicators tion of bulk and packaged goods. All facilities need to SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH comply with the requirements of this standard as a ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS minimum and any local/regional regulations or other legal requirements as applicable. Regular training of employees The monetary value of fines for non-compliance with involved in the handling and carriage of dangerous goods is environmental laws or regulations totalled EUR 96,000. One very important, as risk prevention and control can only be single event took place in 2013 but the fine was paid in optimized if employees have received proper training. 2014. There were no non-monetary sanctions in 2014. Our logistics service providers are expected to commit to the Kemira Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT and Agents. We also hold regular safety discussions with G4-EN30: SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL them and carefully inspect accidents and near misses. Our IMPACTS OF TRANSPORTING PRODUCTS regional EHSQ is responsibe for the training and monitoring AND OTHER GOODS AND MATERIALS of the implementation of the transportation standard, FOR THE ORGANIZATION’S OPERATIONS, while our logistics services and plant operations are AND TRANSPORTING MEMBERS OF THE responsible for the safety program implementation and WORKFORCE performance monitoring. Every transportation incident is analyzed for root causes and actions are taken to prevent Our management approach to reducing the environmental re-occurrence. impacts of product transportation is based on improving The disciplined management of logistics activities is transportation safety management and reducing the important in reducing environmental impacts through greenhouse gas emissions from transportation activities. greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions from the downKemira is fully committed to transportation safety and stream and upstream transportation of materials and the development of transportation safety culture to goods are 10% of our total Scope 3 emissions, while prevent chemical leakages into environment. Our EHS emissions from business travel and employee commuting Transportation Standard was approved by the Kemira are non-significant (<1%). G4-EN30: SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF TRANSPORTING PRODUCTS AND OTHER GOODS AND MATERIALS FOR THE ORGANIZATION’S OPERATIONS, AND TRANSPORTING MEMBERS OF THE WORKFORCE Scope 3 emissions related to transporting, CO2 eq (1, 1000 tonnes 2014 2013 2012 Total Scope 3 emissions 5,040 5,130 5,130 Total Scope 3 transport emissions 500 520 540 Upstream transportation and distribution 120 130 150 Downstream transportation and distribution 360 370* 370 Business travel 10 10 10 Employee commuting 10 10 10 Share of transport emissions, % 10% 10% 11% * Data corrected due to more comprehensive data available in 2014. 1) Scope 3 emissions have been calculated according to the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and a supporting guidance document Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. Sources for emissions factors used include: Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain, the UK government's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), CEFIC and ECTA. 32 GRI REPORT Our key measures to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions in Kemira travel policy sets guidelines for reducing the the value chain are logistics and load optimization and environmental impact from business travel. Internal Environmental performance indicators commitment to logistics service providers that use vehicles traveling between Kemira locations is reduced through the compliant with emission standards. European emission use of online meeting and collaboration tools. standards define the acceptable limits for exhaust emissions of new vehicles sold in the European Union. Kemira MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES AND encourages its logistics service providers to use at INVESTMENTS minimum Euro IV compliant vehicles, and starting from G4-EN31: TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION January 1, 2015, Euro V compliant vehicles. Euro IV and V EXPENDITURES AND INVESTMENTS BY TYPE compliant vehicles are new vehicles with more efficient engines using less diesel with lower emissions than Kemira reports environmental protection costs by environnon-classiefied vehicles. mental capital expenditure and by environmental operating Load optimization and full truck loads are preferred to costs. In 2014, our main investments were made in air and optimize transportation cost and lower emissions. Furtherwater treatment units. more, our tendering process guides the logistics service providers to look for back haul arrangements. G4-EN31: TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION EXPENDITURES AND INVESTMENTS BY TYPE EUR million 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Environmental capital expenditure 2.4 1.4 3.4 3.6 2.9 Environmental operating costs 11.7 11.8 14.2 12.7 12.8 Total 14.1 13.2 17.6 16.3 15.7 Environmental protection expenditures and investments, % of net sales 0.7% 0.6% 0.8% 0.7% 0.7% MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT If a supplier refuses to give such a confirmation and if G4-EN32: PERCENTAGE OF NEW Kemira cannot otherwise confirm that the supplier adheres SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING to acceptable ethical principles, an evaluation is performed ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA FOR IMPACTS ON by our Sourcing personnel to potentially cease all purSOCIETY chases from such supplier. By the end of 2014, 93% of Kemira’s repeat suppliers In selecting our suppliers, distributors and agents, we had signed the CoC-SDA. Approximately 100% of new expect them and their business partners to be committed suppliers within the threshold limits defined in the policy to ethical and sustainable business conduct, as well as were screened using social and environmental criteria. active support for its implementation within their sphere of See complementary information in the section Responinfluence. At the screening phase of new suppliers, the sible supply chain. vendor is asked if they accept Kemira’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors and Agents (CoC-SDA) according to MATERIAL ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS our New vendor creation process. G4-EN34: NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT Kemira’s CoC-SDA sets requirements for responsible ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS FILED, ADDRESSED, business conduct, respect for human rights and appropriAND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE ate working conditions, and environmental responsibility. MECHANISMS Kemira Group Sourcing & Procurement policy (2014) requires that all Kemira suppliers must follow our CoC-SDA There were in total three public complaints (e.g. relating to in their supply activities relating to Kemira. Adherence to dust, through-passage of trucks) about environmental these principles is to be confirmed in writing by all repeat impacts filed through formal grivance mechanisms, all of suppliers with an annual spend value exceeding EUR which were addressed and resolved during the reporting 200,000 for indirect and EUR 500,000 for direct materials. period. GRI REPORT 33 2014 3.3 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 3.3.1 L ABOR PRACTICES AND The employee distribution by region shows that 57% (58%) of Kemira’s total workforce are employed in EMEA, DECENT WORK and 31% (29%) in North America. The number of employees has decreased by 205 (182 of these in EMEA). Most of GENERIC DISCLOSURES: EMPLOYMENT STRUCTURE these reductions are due to divestments. G4-10: STRUCTURE OF EMPLOYMENT Workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or individuals other than Kemira employees do not constiAt the end of 2014, Kemira employed 4,248 people (4,453). tute any substantial part of our workforce. This figure includes employees who entered the Group through acquisitions and excludes employees of divested assets. TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES BY GENDER EMPLOYEES BY AGE BY REGION 2014 GROUP 2014 <30 12 74 North-America 1,299 MALES APAC 30–50 57 26 352 >50 31 SouthFEMALES America EMEA 184 2,413 G4-10: TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2010–2014 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total number of employees* 4,248 4,453 4,857 5,006 4,935 Females, % 26% 26% 25% 24% 32% Males, % 74% 74% 75% 76% 68% White collar, % 58% 58% Blue collar, % 42% 42% * at year end The GRI report headcount includes Kemira employees, whereas the headcount reported in the Financial Statements also includes six employees of divested business for whom Kemira offers payroll service. G4-10A: TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER 2014 2013 %, 2014 %, 2013 Total number of employees 4,248 4,453 Total permanent 4,133 4,350 97.3% 97.7% Total fixed-term 115 103 2.7% 2.3% Females total 1,110 1,164 Permanent 1,064 1,127 95.9% 96.8% Fixed term 46 37 4.1% 3.2% Males total 3,138 3,289 Permanent 3,069 3,223 97.8% 98.0% Fixed term 69 66 2.2% 2.0% 34 GRI REPORT G4-10B: TOTAL NUMBER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER 2014 2013 %, 2014 %, 2013 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Total permanent employees 4,133 4,350 Total full-time 4,099 4,314 99.2% 99.2% Total part-time 34 36 0.8% 0.8% Females total permanent 1,064 1,127 Full-time 1,037 1,102 97.5% 97.8% Part-time 27 25 2.5% 2.2% Males total permanent 3,069 3,223 Full-time 3,062 3,212 99.8% 99.7% Part-time 7 11 0.2% 0.3% G4-10D: TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER 2014 2013 %, 2014 %, 2013 Total number of employees 4,248 4,453 APAC 352 340 8.3% 7.6% EMEA 2,413 2,595 56.8% 58.3% North-America 1,299 1,281 30.6% 28.8% South-America 184 237 4.3% 5.3% Females total 1,110 1,164 APAC 99 93 8.9% 8.0% EMEA 687 739 61.9% 63.5% North-America 275 271 24.8% 23.3% South-America 49 61 4.4% 5.2% Males total 3,138 3,289 APAC 253 247 8.1% 7.5% EMEA 1,726 1,856 55.0% 56.4% North-America 1,024 1,010 32.6% 30.7% South-America 135 176 4.3% 5.4% G4-11: EMPLOYEES COVERED BY BARGAINING MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS G4-LA1: TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER The percentage of employees covered by collective BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION bargaining agreements by ‘significant locations of operation’ varies widely between regions, being lowest in North Total number of new hires in 2014 was 710 (431), out of America (USA 4%, Canada12%), which is characteristic to which 33% (33%) were female and 67% (67%) male. The the region. In many European countries all employees are new hires include summer trainee positions. Kemira’s new covered by collective bargaining agreements, especially in hiring reflects the same degree of diversity as in previous Northern Europe (Finland, Sweden) and Southern Europe years. (Spain, France, Italy). In Central and Eastern Europe the Kemira is reporting the employee turnover rate by total percentage varies (UK 37%, the Netherlands 67%, Germany and voluntary turnover. The total turnover rate was 17.3% 47%, Austria 100%, Slovenia 77%, Czech Republic 50%), in 2014 compared to 16.1% in 2013. The total turnover and for example in Poland there are no collective bargainincludes divestments. The turnover rate was impacted by ing agreements. In Brazil all employees are covered by a organizational changes driven by strategy implementation collective agreement, and in Uruguay, blue-collar employand related restructuring activities and redundancies in ees and administrative clerks are covered, representing 2013. The turnover rate in EMEA was 19.2% (17.1%). The 47% of employees. For APAC the data is not applicable as highest turnover rate was in South America (41.8% vs collective bargaining agreements are not a prevailing 32.9% in 2013) and lowest in North America (11.6% vs practice in the chemical industry. 10.1% in 2013). The voluntary turnover rate was 5.1% The definition used for ‘significant locations of opera(4.6%) in 2014 being highest below the age of 30 years (8.2 tion’ refers to countries where we have over 20 employees, vs 5.4% in 2013)%) and females (7.1% vs 5.5% in 2013). and which counted together total approximately 98% of all employees. In Kemira’s case there are 20 countries with over 20 employees. GRI REPORT 35 2014 G4-LA1A: NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES W/O AQUISITIONS BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Number of new hires % of total new hires SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2014 2013 2014 2013 Total new hires 710 431 100.0% 100.0% New hires by age group <30 291 201 41.0% 46.6% 30–50 348 196 49.0% 45.5% >50 71 34 10.0% 7.9% New hires by gender Females 236 141 33.2% 32.7% Males 474 290 66.8% 67.3% New hires by region APAC 60 42 8.5% 9.7% EMEA 418 239 58.9% 55.5% North-America 199 104 28.0% 24.1% South-America 33 46 4.6% 10.7% G4-LA1B: TOTAL TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Turnover Turnover, % 2014 2013 2014 2013 Total turnover 736 715 17.3% 16.1% Turnover by age group <30 96 77 18.6% 11.9% 30–50 428 357 17.6% 14.6% >50 212 281 16.3% 20.8% Turnover by gender Females 242 198 21.8% 17.0% Males 494 517 15.7% 15.7% Turnover by region APAC 44 62 12.5% 18.2% EMEA 464 445 19.2% 17.1% North-America 151 130 11.6% 10.1% South-America 77 78 41.8% 32.9% G4-LA1C: VOLUNTARY TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Voluntary turnover Voluntary turnover, % 2014 2013 2014 2013 Total voluntary turnover 218 205 5.1% 4.6% Voluntary turnover by age group <30 42 35 8.2% 5.4% 30–50 144 147 5.9% 6.0% >50 32 23 2.5% 1.7% Voluntary turnover by gender Females 79 64 7.1% 5.5% Males 139 141 4.4% 4.3% Voluntary turnover by region APAC 34 34 9.7% 10.0% EMEA 101 96 4.2% 3.7% North-America 68 57 5.2% 4.4% South-America 15 18 8.2% 7.6% 36 GRI REPORT G4-LA2: BENEFITS PROVIDED TO FULL-TIME MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS EMPLOYEES THAT ARE NOT PROVIDED TO G4-LA4: MINIMUM NOTICE PERIODS TEMPORARY OR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES, BY REGARDING OPERATIONAL CHANGES, SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SIGNIFIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION INCLUDING WHETHER THESE ARE SPECIFIED IN COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS Benefit programs in Kemira differ depending on regional and country specific practices. In most European countries Kemira follows all local laws and regulations and other the same benefits are offered to full-time and part-time agreements regarding notice periods. Notice periods and employees. Some exceptions apply, for example the the time period for the consultation process relating to sickness fund in Finland is available to full-time employees operational changes varies by country and region. with more than a one year contract. In APAC, temporary employees are eligible only to mandatory benefits as is the market practise. In North America the eligibility for benefits G4-LA6: TYPE OF INJURY AND RATES OF varies, in USA employees are eligible if they work at INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, minimum 20 hrs per week and in Canada 24 hrs. The AND ABSENTEEISM, AND TOTAL NUMBER OF benefits are the same for all eligible employees. Benefit WORK-RELATED FATALITIES, BY REGION AND BY practices are country specific and are not related to GENDER individual locations of operations. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operaKemira reports workplace safety both for own employees tion’ refers to countries where we have over 20 employees, and contractors working at Kemira sites. and which counted together total approximately 98% of all Since 2013, Kemira is reporting only TRI (Total Recordemployees. In Kemira’s case there are 20 countries with able Injuries per million working hours). The TRI frequency over 20 employees. includes fatalities, lost time injuries, restricted work cases and medical treatment cases of both Kemira employees and contractors working for Kemira. Kemira does not collect Incident data by gender. All injuries are treated in a similar way independent of gender. No fatalities have been associated with Kemira employees since 2005. Information regarding absenteeism is collected locally and not consolidated on Group level. We have started the process in order to enable data collection in 2015. G4-LA6: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Number of Lost Time Injuries per million working hours, LTA1(1 2.3 2.7 3.1 3.5 Total Recordable Injuries per million working hours, TRI(2 5.8 7.1 8.5 APAC 0 0 EMEA 6.1 9.2 NA 6.4 5.1 SA 5.9 7.4 1) Injuries causing an employee absence at least one day (LTA1),Kemira personnel. This figure was reported for the last time in 2012. 2) As of 2013, Kemira reports only TRI. TRI per million work hours = Lost Time Injuries (LTA1) + Restricted work cases + Medical treatment cases, 1 year rolling average. Injury numbers include Kemira personnel and Contractors. The Contractor work hours have been included in 2014. MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION In 2014, 14,700 training hours were registered in the G4-LA9: AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER Learning Management system, which now covers eLearnYEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER, AND BY ings, global training programs, and part of the local EMPLOYEE CATEGORY trainings. Countries currently registered in the system are e.g. Finland 5,800 hrs, UK 3,200 hrs, Spain 2,700 hrs, Kemira completed the implementation of a global Learning Sweden 1,000 hrs. The average hours of training do not Management System including a training register in the differ by gender. second half of 2014. Implementation has been carried out in phases, and the training register does not yet cover 100% of the organization. GRI REPORT 37 2014 G4-LA10: PROGRAMS FOR SKILLS • In 2014, Kemira’s training focus has been on profesMANAGEMENT AND LIFELONG LEARNING THAT sional training: SUPPORT THE CONTINUED EMPLOYABILITY OF SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS • A European wide sales skills training continued in 2014 EMPLOYEES AND ASSIST THEM IN MANAGING with approximately 135 participants. The goal of the CAREER ENDINGS modular program is to promote a proactive sales culture to support Kemira’s strategic goals. The A variety of skills development and training programs as program aims at e.g. increasing the participants’ well as leadership development programs (internal and pro-activeness regarding sales activities as well as external) is provided to all employees in order to support value selling and presentation technique skills. employee development. Leadership development is • Kemira has offered an extensive EHS(Q) related skills planned and organized globally by the Human Resources development program in 2014. Training has been function, while segments and functions are responsible for offered face-to-face and through webinars and the professional skills development. eLearning modules. Education on EHS standards Our development portfolio consists of: published in 2014 was conducted in all regions, in • An induction program to new hires in order to underseveral functions and on several organizational levels. stand the business, organization, company culture, For example, the crisis management procedure training policies (including the Kemira Code of Conduct), covered over 150 people. procedures and processes • In 2014, approximately 95% of employees had com• On-the-job training to enhance technical/ professional pleted Kemira’s Code of Conduct training. competencies • External and internal coaching and mentoring • Training aiming at validated certificates and diplomas G4-LA11: PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES in manufacturing RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND • External trainings for professional skills and leadership CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS, BY GENDER development. Employees can also be reimbursed for AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY further education costs partly or fully, and study leaves are available in many countries. All permanent employees, who are not absent for an • Outplacement services and support is available in most extended time period because of leaves, for example, are regions in case of redundancy. In some European covered by our global performance and development countries, outplacement and other support activities discussion (PDD) process. In 2014, the global PDD process are part of the local social welfare plan. In some cases covered both white collar and blue collar employees. transition assistance programs are also offered in Temporary employees' inclusion in the PDD process is connection with retirement. evaluated case-by-case, depending on the length of the contract. G4-LA11: PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER REVIEWS BY GENDER AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Employees, # PDD Coverage, % Performance and Development Discussion (PDD) 2014 2013 2014 2013 Total permanent employees not absent * 4019 4,281 PDD's by gender Employees covered in Global PDD process 3803 2,382 95% 56% Females covered in Global PDD process 977 816 95% 77% Males covered in Global PDD process 2826 1,566 94% 49% PDD's by employee category White collars covered in Global PDD process 2317 98% Blue collars covered in Global PDD process 1486 89% * All permanent employees, who are not absent for an extended time period because of leaves, for example, are covered by global performance and development discussion process. 38 GRI REPORT G4-LA12 COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYEE CATEGORY ACCORDING TO GENDER, AGE GROUP, MINORITY GROUP MEMBERSHIP, AND OTHER INDICATORS OF DIVERSITY SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The number of females in the Management Board and Board of Directors has remained the same in 2014 as in 2013. The percentage share of females in the total number of employees has remained the same in 2014 as in 2013. G4-LA12A: COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP Total % Management Board 2014 2013 2014 2013 Total 9 11 Females 2 2 22% 18% Males 7 9 78% 82% By age group <30 0 0 0% 0% 30–50 6 5 67% 45% >50 3 6 33% 55% Board of Directors Total 6 5 Females 2 2 33% 40% Males 4 3 67% 60% By age group <30 0 0 0% 0% 30–50 0 0 0% 0% >50 6 5 100% 100% G4-LA12B: BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP Total % 2014 2013 2014 2013 Total employees 4,248 4,453 100% 100% <30 515 646 12% 15% 30–50 2,435 2,453 57% 55% >50 1,298 1,354 31% 30% Females in total 1,110 1,164 26% 26% <30 172 205 15% 18% 30–50 705 710 64% 61% >50 233 249 21% 21% Males in total 3,138 3,289 74% 74% <30 343 441 11% 13% 30–50 1,730 1,743 55% 53% >50 1,065 1,105 34% 34% GRI REPORT 39 2014 MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR AND MEN PRACTICES G4-LA13: RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND G4-LA14: PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN BY THAT WERE SCREENED USING LABOR EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, BY SIGNIFIFICANT PRACTICES CRITERIA LOCATIONS OF OPERATION In selecting our suppliers, distributors and agents, we Kemira operates a global job structure that is applied to all expect them and their business partners to be committed white collar employees. The job structure describes job to ethical and sustainable business conduct, as well as families and the respective job roles with required qualifiactive support for its implementation within their sphere of cations and main responsibilities. The job structure links to influence. At the screening phase of new suppliers, the job grades, which define the salary range and the incentive vendor is asked if they accept Kemira’s Code of Conduct for opportunity for a specific job role. Factors impacting salary Suppliers, Distributors and Agents (CoC-SDA) according to increases include country-specific salary budgets, the our New vendor creation process. position of an employee in the salary range and employee Kemira’s CoC-SDA sets requirements for responsible performance. Incentive payouts are based on measured business conduct, respect for human rights and appropriachievement for pre-defined targets on the company, unit ate working conditions, and environmental responsibility. and individual levels. Kemira Group Sourcing & Procurement policy (2014) The job grade and salary data information allows requires that all Kemira suppliers must follow our CoC-SDA Kemira to evaluate, analyse and implement equal remuin their supply activities relating to Kemira. Adherence to neration. these principles is to be confirmed in writing by all repeat suppliers with an annual spend value exceeding EUR Average ratio of basic salary of women to men by country (1 200,000 for indirect and EUR 500,000 for direct materials. Finland 93% If a supplier refuses to give such a confirmation and if USA 94% Kemira cannot otherwise confirm that the supplier adheres Sweden 103% to acceptable ethical principles, an evaluation is performed Poland 93% by our Sourcing personnel to potentially cease all purCanada 94% chases from such supplier. UK 96% By the end of 2014, 93% of Kemira’s repeat suppliers China 93% had signed the CoC-SDA. Approximately 100% of new suppliers within the threshold limits defined in the policy 1) White collar employees, calculated as average of all job grades' were screened using social and environmental criteria. See average ratio. complementary information in the section Responsible The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’ supply chain. refers to countries where we have over 20 employees, and which counted together total approximately 98% of all MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE employees. In Kemira’s case there are 20 countries with MECHANISMS over 20 employees. The table above covers the data from G4-LA16: NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT the largest countries of operation. LABOR PRACTICES FILED, ADDRESSED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS There were no grievances about labour practices filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period, nor filed prior to the reporting period and resolved during the reporting period. 40 GRI REPORT 3.3.2 HUMAN RIGHTS IN 2014, KEMIRA CONDUCTED SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION A HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT G4-HR3: TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS ASSESSMENT TO IDENTIFY TAKEN KEY AREAS OF HUMAN There were no confirmed incidents of discrimination in RIGHTS RISKS IN OUR VALUE 2014. CHAIN AND GAPS IN OUR MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND CURRENT MANAGEMENT COLLECTIVE BARGAINING APPROACH FOR HUMAN G4-HR4: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS RIGHTS. IDENTIFIED IN WHICH THE RIGHT TO EXERCISE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MAY BE VIOLATED OR AT SIGNIFICANT RISK, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO SUPPORT THESE RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: ASSESSMENT G4-HR9: TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE Kemira respects the right of all employees to establish or OF OPERATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN SUBJECT join trade unions and other representative organizations. TO HUMAN RIGHTS REVIEWS OR IMPACT We are committed to respecting the International Labour ASSESSMENTS Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work as stated in the Kemira Code of Conduct. Kemira is committed to respecting and supporting fundaKemira is also a signatory of the UN Global Compact since mental human rights as defined by the United Nations March 2014. We expect our suppliers to respect these Universal Declaration of Human Rights and stated in the principles and commit to the Kemira Code of Conduct for Kemira Code of Conduct. Kemira became a signatory of the Suppliers, Agents and Distributors when conducting United Nations Global Compact in March 2014. Our business with us. employees’ awareness on human rights is enhanced by Kemira employees’ awareness on the their rights for providing all Kemira employees with training on the Code of freedom of association and collective bargaining is Conduct. Kemira expects its suppliers to respect these enhanced by training on the Code of Conduct, which is principles and to commit to the Kemira Code of Conduct for provided to all Kemira employees. Suppliers, Agents and Distributors when conducting In 2014, Kemira did not identify any violations of business with Kemira. freedom of association or collective bargaining in our own In 2014, Kemira conducted a Group level Human Rights operations. We also evaluated supplier related risks on Impact Assessment to identify key areas of human rights labor rights, and no evidence was found on suppliers risks in our value chain and gaps in our current managerestricting their employees’ opportunities to exercise ment approach for human rights. Our current management freedom of association and collective bargaining. As no approach was assessed against the Operational Principles risks for violations were identified, no support measures of the UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human were taken. Rights. For additional information, see focus area Responsible No evidence of infringing human rights was found. High business practices for the Code of Conduct training and for risk areas in our value chain arise from our business Kemira Ethics and Compliance Hotline as an internal relationships, product stewardship, and emerging market reporting channel for any violations on employee rights, expansion. Kemira’s greatest human rights risk lies in our and G4-11 for Employees covered by collective bargaining upstream and downstream business relationships, agreements. especially where our power of influence is limited. Our human rights risk exposure is increased because we operate with hazardous substances, which impact rights to health and workplace safety. Kemira’s expansion into emerging markets may increase exposure to human rights risk. Based on the key findings, an action plan is outlined to better integrate human rights into our current management approach. GRI REPORT 41 2014 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 3.3.3 SOCIETY G4-HR10: PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING HUMAN RIGHTS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CRITERIA MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-SO1: PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS In selecting our suppliers, distributors and agents, we WITH IMPLEMENTED LOCAL COMMUNITY expect them and their business partners to be committed ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, AND to ethical and sustainable business conduct, as well as DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS active support for its implementation within their sphere of influence. At the screening phase of new suppliers, the Kemira encourages initiatives at local level to support vendor is asked if they accept Kemira’s Code of Conduct for positive interaction with the communities where we Suppliers, Distributors and Agents (CoC-SDA) according to operate. Our community involvement target is to engage all our New vendor creation process. Kemira sites with over 50 employees (26 sites in 2014) in Kemira’s CoC-SDA sets requirements for responsible local community initiatives at least once in the period business conduct, respect for human rights and appropri20132015 (cumulative %). By the end of 2014, 92% of ate working conditions, and environmental responsibility. Kemira’s sites had organized local events and activities, Kemira Group Sourcing & Procurement policy (2014) with some sites hosting multiple activities over the year. requires that all Kemira suppliers must follow our Code of Globally, Kemira concentrates its sponsorships and CoC-SDA in their supply activities relating to Kemira. donations to education related programs in chemistry and Adherence to these principles is to be confirmed in writing technology, mainly addressed to children and youth. by all repeat suppliers with an annual spend value exceedLocally, Kemira participates in the local communities in ing EUR 200,000 for indirect and EUR 500,000 for direct many ways that relate to safety in the vicinity of our materials. If a supplier refuses to give such a confirmation manufacturing sites, people safety and wellbeing, and and if Kemira cannot otherwise confirm that the supplier education related to water and chemistry. adheres to acceptable ethical principles, an evaluation is See complementary information in the section Responperformed by our Sourcing personnel to potentially cease sibility towards the local communities. all purchases from such supplier. By the end of 2014, 93% of Kemira’s repeat suppliers had signed the CoC-SDA. Approximately 100% of new G4-SO2: OPERATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT suppliers within the threshold limits defined in the policy ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS were screened using social and environmental criteria. See ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES complementary information in the section Responsible supply chain. Most of Kemira’s manufacturing sites are located outside residential areas in industrial parks that are designed for MATERIAL ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE the purpose of industrial development. MECHANISMS A potential negative impact on the safety and environG4-HR12: NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT ment of local communities could take place in case of HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS FILED, ADDRESSED, accidental incidents involving a leakage of chemicals. AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE Kemira's EHSQ management approach includes MECHANISMS assessments and emission monitoring at every manufacturing site as defined by the regulatory requirements, ISO No grievances regarding human rights impacts were filed 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management systems and Kemira or addressed in 2014. internal EHS standards. Each Kemira site has programs and contingency plans in place to ensure the safety of surrounding communities. This is done in close cooperation with local environmental authorities. To enhance the safe use of chemicals, Kemira works in close cooperation with many local chemical agencies. Each Kemira site is classified for actual and potential negative impacts of operations (at the end of 2014, Kemira had 59 sites). A three-level ranking system defines our internal environmental requirements and audit frequency for each site: higher ranking meaning higher requirements. 42 GRI REPORT Environmental classification results 2014: organized in collaboration with site management and local • High-ranking sites: 28% (29%) HR and legal functions. Our target in 2013 was to train all SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS • Medium-ranking sites: 28% (27%) Kemira employees on the Code. The completion rate was • Low-ranking sites: 44% (44%) 90% in 2013, excluding employees who were in the scope of divested businesses. The training continued in 2014 with We proactively take preventive actions and mitigation a completion rate of 95%. measures for the operations that involve potential negative The Board of Directors has approved the Code. No impacts on the local communities. In addition to continuspecific training has been provided to the Board. ous safety and risk management work, Kemira focuses on a A specific anti-corruption online training course was continuous dialogue with local communities to understand prepared in 2014 and is ready for roll-out in the beginning and implement activities that respond to their needs, of 2015. concerns and expectations, and to provide opportunities for our own employees to participate in local community initiatives. G4-SO5: CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF For complementary information, see Safety at manuCORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN facturing sites. There were no confirmed incidents of corruption or public MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION legal cases regarding corruption in 2014. G4-SO3: TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS ASESSED FOR RISKS RELATED MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY TO CORRUPTION AND THE SIGNIFICANT RISKS G4-SO6: TOTAL VALUE OF POLITICAL IDENTIFIED CONTRIBUTIONS BY COUNTRY AND RECIPIENT/ BENEFICIARY In 2014, corruption risks at Kemira were evaluated through an internal audit survey and internal audits. The internal The Kemira Code of Conduct and the Kemira Group Gifts, audit survey was conducted globally and the results of the Entertainment and Anti-Bribery Policy prohibit any survey were taken into account in preparing the annual financial support to politicians, political parties or political audit plan. Based on the revenue generated in locations organizations. No financial or in-kind political contribusubject to audit, about 42% of the operations were tions paid by Kemira have come to Kemira's attention assessed for risks related to corruption. during 2014. The number of assessed operations is not relevant as Kemira evaluates corruption based on processes and they MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR may cover transactions in several locations. No material G4-SO7: TOTAL NUMBER OF LEGAL ACTIONS risks related to corruption were identified through the risk FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR, ANTIassessment. TRUST, AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES AND THEIR OUTCOMES G4-SO4: COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING In 2014, Kemira had no pending or completed legal actions ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND initiated under national or international laws designed for PROCEDURES regulating anti-competitive behavior, antitrust, or monopoly practices. Kemira was a defendant in three legal Kemira’s principles for anti-corruption are included in the proceedings in which damages were sought for violations Kemira Code of Conduct and in the Kemira Group Gifts, of competition law. One of these cases was resolved in Entertainment and Anti-Bribery Policy. Both documents are 2014. These proceedings are described in the Note 30 to available to all employees on Kemira intranet, and the Code the Consolidated Financial Statements: Commitments and of Conduct is also publicly available at www.kemira.com contingent liabilities, under heading Litigation. We expect our suppliers and other business partners to conduct their business with integrity and commit to Kemira MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Agents and Distributors G4-SO8: MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT (CoC-SDA) in their business activities with Kemira. The FINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NON-MONETARY CoC-SDA states that Kemira expects its business partners SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH to adhere to local legislation and avoid corruption in all its LAWS AND REGULATIONS forms. Employee awareness of our anti-corruption policy is No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for nonenhanced by Code of Conduct training. Training has been compliance with laws and regulations came to Kemira's provided to all employees in all regions either by an attention in 2014. This is based on the information availinteractive eLearning tool or as on-site classroom training able through our Group legal department, Group Finance GRI REPORT 43 2014 and Administration and the Environmental, Health, Safety and Quality organization. BY THE END OF 2014, 93% SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS OF KEMIRA’S CURRENT ON SOCIETY G4-SO9: PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS SUPPLIERS HAD SIGNED THAT WERE SCREENED USING CRITERIA FOR THE CODE OF CONDUCT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY SUPPLIERS, DISTRIBUTORS In selecting our suppliers, distributors and agents, we AND AGENTS. expect them and their business partners to be committed to ethical and sustainable business conduct, as well as active support for its implementation within their sphere of influence. At the screening phase of new suppliers, the vendor is asked if they accept Kemira’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors and Agents (CoC-SDA) according to our New vendor creation process. Kemira’s CoC-SDA sets requirements for responsible business conduct, respect for human rights and appropriate working conditions, and environmental responsibility. Kemira Group Sourcing & Procurement policy (2014) requires that all Kemira suppliers must follow our CoC-SDA in their supply activities relating to Kemira. Adherence to these principles is to be confirmed in writing by all repeat suppliers with an annual spend value exceeding EUR 200,000 for indirect and EUR 500,000 for direct materials. If a supplier refuses to give such a confirmation and if Kemira cannot otherwise confirm that the supplier adheres to acceptable ethical principles, an evaluation is performed by our Sourcing personnel to potentially cease all purchases from such supplier. By the end of 2014, 93% of Kemira’s repeat suppliers had signed the CoC-SDA. Approximately 100% of new suppliers within the threshold limits defined in the policy were screened using social and environmental criteria. See complementary information in the section Responsible supply chain. MATERIAL ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO11: NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT IMPACTS ON SOCIETY FILED, ADDRESSED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS There were no grievances about impacts on society filed through formal grievance mechanisms in 2014, nor grievances filed prior and resolved in 2014. 44 GRI REPORT 3.3.4 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-PR3: TYPE OF PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION REQUIRED BY THE SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY ORGANIZATION'S PROCEDURES FOR PRODUCT G4-PR1: PERCENTAGE OF SIGNIFICANT AND SERVICE INFORMATION AND LABELING, PRODUCT AND SERVICE CATEGORIES FOR AND PERCENTAGE OF SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT WHICH HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS ARE AND SERVICE CATEGORIES SUBJECT TO SUCH ASSESSED FOR IMPROVEMENT INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS Kemira has signed the ICCA (The International Council of Kemira’s product portfolio contains approximately 2,700 Chemical Associations) Responsible Care Initiative, which different products. All of them are documented and labeled forms the basis for our product stewardship activities. All according to legal requirements, including the identificaproducts are evaluated for product safety and regulatory tion of hazardous components and safe use information. compliance aspects prior to market launch. Our New Kemira provides Safety Data Sheets for all products, Product Development (NPD) process has regular sustainalthough in most jurisdictions Safety Data Sheets are ability, product safety and regulatory compliance reviews mandatory only for hazardous products. In addition to included at every stage of the process. Label and Safety Data Sheet information, more detailed Our management approach to improve the safety and information about the products and their raw materials is quality of our operations is based on the systematic provided upon request. implementation of certified Environmental, Health, Safety In 2014, the Kemira Product Stewardship & Regulatory and Quality management systems. The certification status Affairs team responded to approximately 450 customer for manufacturing sites in 2014 was 83% for ISO 9001, 76% requests on product safety and/or regulatory compliance for ISO 14001 and 75% for OHSAS 18001. every month on a global scale. Proactive measures are in place for the reduction of potential health hazards and relating to anticipated future legislation. For example, Kemira has defined action plans for substances that are suspected to have endocrine disrupting properties in order to look for safer alternatives and/or to define risk management measures to ensure the KEMIRA’S PRODUCT PORTFOLIO safe use of chemicals. CONTAINS APPROXIMATELY 2,700 DIFFERENT PRODUCTS. G4-PR2: TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND VOLUNTARY CODES CONCERNING THE HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES DURING THEIR LIFE CYCLE, BY TYPE OF OUTCOMES In 2014, Kemira did not record any cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes resulting in a fine, penalty or warning. In 2013, Kemira reported six incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes out of which four non-compliances have been resolved and completed and two cases are in progress in agreement with the relevant authorities. GRI REPORT 45 2014 G4-PR3: PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION PROVIDED Topic Product and service information provided SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The sourcing of components of the Only if requested by customers product or service Content, particularly with regard to As required by law, always in Safety Data Sheets (SDS) and on the Labels. substances that might produce an Additional information about chemicals in our products for voluntary certification/compliance schemes environmental or social impact such as ecolabeling is also provided to customers upon request and when applicable. Safe use of the product or service Safe use of a product or service is communicated in the SDS’s and on the Labels. Additional information about the use, dosage and application is provided to customers when applicable. Disposal of the product and When legally required, disposal of a product and environmental/social environmental/social impacts impacts are communicated in the SDS’s and on the Labels. G4-PR4: TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND G4-PR6: SALE OF BANNED OR DISPUTED VOLUNTARY CODES CONCERNING PRODUCT PRODUCTS AND SERVICE INFORMATION AND LABELING, BY TYPE OF OUTCOMES Kemira follows all relevant chemical laws and regulations, and thus does not sell any banned products. Kemira is Customer complaints, claims or non-conformities are proactive in mitigating health, safety, environment or image actively monitored, evaluated and corrected as required by related risks, for example concerning products subject to the quality management systems in use at Kemira. stakeholder questions or public debate. An action plan has In 2014, there were 115 (116 cases in 2013) incidents of been created and is being implemented on products customer complaints related to labeling. Main causes for containing suspected Endocrine Disruptors. Additionally, these were mostly found in warehousing (37 cases) and the following disputed products are being studied; proddistribution (27 cases). The most typical incident was that ucts containing genetically modified materials, nanomatea wrong label had been used in packaging. The handling of rials, disputed renewable materials or conflict minerals. 6 cases was not completed by year end. In 2014, there were 10 incidents related to nonMATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT COMPLIANCE compliance with regulations. Main causes for these were G4-PR9: MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT mostly found in logistic carriers (4 cases). All cases had a FINES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND different cause. The handling of all cases was completed REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PROVISION by year-end. AND USE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES There were no incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine, penalty or a warning. In 2014, Kemira did not record any regulatory non-compliances that would have resulted in fines. 46 GRI REPORT 4. REPORTING PRINCIPLES 4.2 REPORTING SCOPE Reporting Principles The Kemira GRI report 2014 is prepared in accordance with G4-13: SIGNIFICANT CHANGES DURING THE the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 REPORTING PERIOD Guidelines. The Business Report includes some of the General Standard Disclosures according to the GRI G4 At the end of 2014, Kemira had 59 (59) manufacturing sites. Guidelines. The Business Report reflects the principles set The environmental reporting scope included 63 (64) sites out in the International Integrated Reporting <IR> Frameaccording to Kemira consolidation rules. In 2014, Kemira work. The contents of these reports have been reviewed closed 4 manufacturing sites (Vaasa , Sausheim, Europoort, and approved by the Kemira Board of Directors in February old Tarragona) and ramped up 3 new sites (Dormagen and 2015. Contents related to our economic, environmental and Nanjing, new Tarragona). social performance have been independently assured by There were no significat changes in share capital Deloitte against the GRI principles for defining report structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and content and quality. The GRI report is intended to be read in alteration operations. For further information, please see context with other sections of the Kemira Annual Report the Consolidated Financial Statements: Note 33. 2014. There were no significant changes in the supply chain in terms of location of material and service suppliers or in the selection or termination of suppliers. 4.1 REPORTING FRAMEWORK G4-17: ENTITIES INCLUDED IN THE ORGANIZATION'S CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING FRAMEWORK STATEMENTS The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an international The reporting boundaries of this GRI report follow in main non-profit organization, and a Collaborating Centre of the part the reporting boundaries of Kemira’s Consolidated United Nations Environment Programme. GRI’s SustainFinancial Statements. More detailed description of the ability Reporting Framework enables companies and reporting boundaries and the completeness of the informaorganizations to measure, understand and communicate tion is provided in table Reporting scope (G4-19, G4-20, information regarding the economic, environmental and G4-21). The entities included in Kemira’s Consolidated social impacts caused by their business activities. A Financial Statements are listed in the Notes to the Consolisustainability report also presents the organization's dated Financial Statements 34; Group companies. governance model, and demonstrates the link between its strategy and commitment to a sustainable global economy. www.globalreporting.org G4-18: PROCESS FOR DEFINING REPORT CONTENT AND ASPECT BOUNDARIES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) FOR THE The definition of Material Aspects for Kemira’s reporting UN GLOBAL COMPACT was carried out in accordance with the GRI G4 Principles for defining report content. Kemira became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact in March 2014. The UN Global Compact is the 1. IDENTIFICATION world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative to The identification of the Aspects relevant to Kemira was respect and promote human rights, implement decent work based on the topics and concerns raised in stakeholder practices, reduce environmental impacts and work against surveys conducted in 2011 and in 2013. Stakeholders who corruption. This corporate responsibility report 2014 participated in the surveys represented employees, conveys our Communication on Progress (COP) for the UN shareholders and investors, customers, suppliers, nonGlobal Compact’s Ten Principles. GRI G4 indicators are governmental organizations and governmental authorities. used to report the actions taken to implement the Global Both internal and external stakeholders highlighted the Compact Principles as well as the outcomes of such importance of product safety and innovation, business actions. See the GRI Content Index. ethics and compliance, responsibility in the supply chain, www.unglobalcompact.org environmental topics such as greenhouse gas emissions and water efficiency, and employee development. GRI REPORT 47 2014 2. PRIORITIZATION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FOCUS AREAS AND The identified Aspects were prioritized against three MATERIAL ASPECTS Reporting Principles criteria, whether the Aspects were reflecting: • The top ten most important topics and concerns raised The results of the materiality assessment are mapped in by Kemira’s stakeholders the MATRIX where the y-axis maps the relative importance • The main sustainability topics for the global chemical of the Material Aspects to our stakeholders and the x-axis sector (GRI 2013, Sustainability Topics for Sectors: shows the relative significance of Kemira’s economic, What do stakeholders want to know?) environmental and social impacts. Similar types of Material • Kemira’s strategy from the perspective of either value Aspects with high importance are grouped together to creation or risk to Kemira indicate the focus areas of Kemira’s corporate responsibilAs a result of the prioritization, 36 Aspects out of the 46 ity. Aspects in the GRI subject list met most of the three criteria and were selected as Material Aspects for reportTraining and education Customer health and safety ing. Infl uence on stakeholder assessment and decisions Grievance mechanisms Compliance Products Public policy & services Anti-corruption Supplier assessment 3. VALIDATION Anti-competitive behavior Occupational health and safety Emissions Aspect boundaries for the identified Material Aspects were Transport Energy Local communities Water defined to reflect whether the impacts occur within or Labor/management relations Effluents and waste outside of the Kemira entities according to Kemira consoliEmployement Product & service labeling dation rules. Data collection practices for the identified Env. expenses & CAPEX Marketing communication Material Aspects were reviewed and defined. The list of Remuneration Non-discrimination identified Material Aspects, a detailed description of the Assessment of human rights Materials respective Aspect Boundaries and data collection pracFreedom of association Diversity & equal opportunities Economic and collective bargaining tices are presented in table G4-19–21. performance The identified Material Aspects provide a balanced representation of Kemira’s corporate responsibility focus Significance of the organization’s economic, environmental and social impacts areas, which are Responsible business practices, Responsible supply chain, Responsible manufacturing, ResponsiResponsibility focus areas bility for employees, Sustainable products and solutions Responsible business practices Responsible manufacturing Responsible supply chain Sustainable products and solutions and Responsibility towards the local communities where Responsibility for employees Responsibility towards the local we operate. communities where we operate 4. REVIEW Our corporate responsibility performance and targets have been discussed and approved by the Management Board in the end of 2012 and updated in January 2014 and December 2014. The Material Aspects identified in 2013 were deemed still valid in 2014. G4-19–21 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND ASPECT BOUNDARIES G4-20: Aspect G4-21: Aspect Identified Material Aspects boundaries within boundaries outside G4-19: Kemira Kemira Data collection practices CATEGORY: ECONOMIC • Economic performance Kemira operations* Data is extracted from the Kemira ERP system and collected from Kemira consolidated companies. Consolidation on the Group level. 48 GRI REPORT G4-20: Aspect G4-21: Aspect Identified Material Aspects boundaries within boundaries outside G4-19: Kemira Kemira Data collection practices Reporting Principles CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT • Materials Kemira operations Data is extracted from the Kemira ERP system and from R&D • Products and services covered by ERP** New Product Development process documentation. • Transport • Energy (scope1 and 2) Kemira Data is collected from each production site and consolidated on • Water manufacturing the Group level. • Emissions (scope 1 and 2) sites*** • Effluents and waste • Compliance • Environmental expenses and investments • Emissions (scope 3) Kemira value chain Data is collected from the Kemira ERP system and relevant from suppliers to organizational units. Default data and assumptions as in the customers WBCSD Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. • Supplier environmental Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool to track suppliers’ signature assessment for the Code of Conduct for SDA. Ecovadis database for supplier sustainability assessment. • Environmental grievance Kemira operations* External Kemira Compliance and Ethics Hotline. External notifications mechanism stakeholders from sustainability@kemira.com. Internal Audit reports. CATEGORY: SOCIAL Labor practices and decent work • Employment Kemira operations* HR data management system. • Labor/management relations Kemira is to some extent using supervised workers and • Occupational health and supervised employees of contractors, but the information is safety**** managed locally at respective sites and is not collected and • Training and education consolidated globally. • Diversity and equal opportunity • Equal remuneration for women and men • Supplier assessment for labor Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool to track suppliers’ signature practices for the Code of Conduct for SDA. • Labor practices grievance Kemira operations* External Kemira Compliance and Ethics Hotline. External notifications mechanism stakeholders from sustainability@kemira.com. Internal Audit reports. Human rights • Non-discrimination Kemira operations* Notifications through Compliance & Ethics Hotline and • Freedom of association and sustainability@kemira.com collective bargaining • Human rights assessment • Supplier human rights Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool to track suppliers’ signature assessment for the Code of Conduct for SDA. • Human rights grievance Kemira operations* External Kemira Compliance and Ethics Hotline. External notifications mechanism stakeholders from sustainability@kemira.com. Internal Audit reports. Society • Local communities Kemira operations* Data is collected from each region and from the Kemira legal • Anti-corruption archive files, and through notifications from Kemira Compliance • Public policy and Ethics Hotline. • Anti-competitive behavior • Compliance • Supplier assessment for Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool to track suppliers’ signature impacts on society for the Code of Conduct for SDA. • Grievance mechanism for Kemira operations* External Kemira Compliance and Ethics Hotline. External notifications impacts on society stakeholders from sustainability@kemira.com. Internal Audit reports. Product responsibility • Customer health and safety Kemira operations Data is extracted from the Kemira ERP system, from R&D • Product and service labeling covered by ERP** New Product Development process documentation and Kemira • Marketing communication legal archives. • Compliance SAD = Suppliers, Distributors and Agents * Kemira operations = All Kemira operations according to Kemira consolidation rules ** Kemira operations covered by ERP = All Kemira operations according to Kemira consolidation rules that are covered by the Kemira Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) *** Kemira manufacturing sites = All Kemira manufacturing sites according to Kemira consolidation rules **** Occupational health & safety: TRI number includes contractors working at Kemira sites GRI REPORT 49 2014 G4-22: EFFECT OF ANY RESTATEMENTS 4.3 REPORT PROFILE OF INFORMATION PROVIDED IN PREVIOUS REPORTS AND THE REASONS FOR SUCH Reporting Principles RESTATEMENTS G4-28: REPORTING PERIOD There is a major restatement for Scope 3 and for water The reporting period is from January 1 to December 31, recycled back in the same process. 2014. G4-23: SIGNIFICANT CHANGES FROM PREVIOUS G4-29: DATE OF THE MOST RECENT PREVIOUS REPORTING PERIODS IN THE SCOPE AND REPORT ASPECT BOUNDARIES Kemira's previous corporate responsibility report 2013 was There are no significant changes from previous reporting published on February 26, 2014. periods in the reporting scope and aspect boundaries. Kemira has been reporting its environmental performance since the early 1990s. Prior to the reporting year 2010, we used the Responsible Care Reporting Guidelines of the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) as a reporting framework. The first sustainability report prepared according to the GRI guidelines was published for the reporting year 2011. The reports for years 2003–2013 are available on Kemira’s website www.kemira.com. G4-30: REPORTING CYCLE Kemira's corporate responsibility report and financial statements are published annually by calendar year. G4-31: CONTACT POINT FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING THE REPORT For questions regarding the report or its contents, please contact Kemira Communications, Corporate Responsibility or sustainability@kemira.com. 50 GRI REPORT 5. GOVERNANCE G4-37: PROCESSES FOR CONSULTATION BETWEEN STAKEHOLDERS AND THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY ON ECONOMIC, Governance Complementary information on Kemira’s corporate governENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL TOPICS ance is available in the Corporate Governance Statement of the Annual Report 2014. As a listed company, Kemira can disclose information to the market in alignment with Kemira Oyj’s corporate governance, which is based on the rules of the Articles of Association, the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND (in Finnish: osakeyhtiölaki) and the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic. COMPOSITION Furthermore, Kemira complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2010, which is publicly available at G4-34: GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF THE www.cgfinland.fi. All information that is likely to materially ORGANIZATION, INCLUDING COMMITTEES OF influence the valuation of a listed company must be THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY published in such a manner that the information reaches all market participants simultaneously. Kemira’s governance structure is described in the CorpoKemira’s general meeting of shareholders is held at rate Governance Statement of the Annual Report 2014. least once a year. Shareholders have the right to demand a matter that falls within the competence of the general meeting by virtue of the Limited Liability Companies Act to G4-36: EXECUTIVE-LEVEL POSITIONS be included in the agenda. The shareholders also have the WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR ECONOMIC, right to ask questions from the members of the Board of ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL TOPICS Directors, the CEO and the auditor during the general meeting. The CEO is ultimately accountable for sustainability and Institutional and private shareholders engage directly overall performance with regard to the corporate responsiwith the CEO, CFO and Kemira’s Investor Relations. The bility targets and reports directly to the Board of Directors. Head of Investor Relations reports to the Chief Financial Responsibilities for the individual targets are shared Officer. In 2014, Kemira’s Investor Relations hosted between the members of the Management Board, as approximately 30 roadshow days and 250 individual outlined below. Segments and functions are responsible meetings with portfolio managers and other representafor implementation and driving performance. tives in several countries. The employee survey results are reported to the Areas of accountability Title Personnel and Remuneration Committee and to the Board Ethics and compliance Group General Counsel of Directors. Other topics relating to stakeholder relations Responsible sourcing, Climate Chief Financial Officer are reported to the Board of Directors only when material Change (Scope 2), Economic issues are revealed. impact (Tax policy, Dividend policy) EHSQ, Energy efficiency, Climate EVP, Projects & Manufacturing Change (Scope 1) Technology G4-38: COMPOSITION OF THE HIGHEST Employee related targets EVP, Human Resources GOVERNANCE BODY AND ITS COMMITTEES Innovation CTO, R&D and Technology Product stewardship President, Segment M&I & The composition of Kemira’s highest governance body and Region EMEA its committees is described in the Corporate Governance Local community engament SVP, Communications & Corp. Statement of the Annual Report 2014 in the Board of target Responsibility (reporting directly Corporate responsibility to CEO, not a member of the Directors section. Diversity matters regarding the Board of function Management Board) Directors are reported in indicator G4-LA12. G4-39: STATUS OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The tasks and duties of the Chairman are laid out in the Kemira Oyj's Charter of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors is a non-executive officer. GRI REPORT 51 2014 G4-40: NOMINATION AND SELECTION ROLE IN SETTING PURPOSE, PROCESSES FOR THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY AND ITS COMMITTEES, AND THE CRITERIA VALUES, AND STRATEGY Governance USED FOR NOMINATING AND SELECTING HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY MEMBERS G4-42: THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S AND SENIOR EXECUTIVES’ ROLES IN THE The 2012 Annual General Meeting (AGM) decided to DEVELOPMENT, APPROVAL, AND UPDATING establish a Nomination Board, consisting of shareholders OF THE ORGANIZATION’S PURPOSE, VALUE or representatives of shareholders, to prepare an annual OR MISSION STATEMENTS, STRATEGIES, proposal for the next AGM regarding the composition and POLICIES, AND GOALS RELATED TO ECONOMIC, remuneration of the Board of Directors. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS The Nomination Board consists of representatives of Kemira Oyj’s four largest shareholders, based on the The general meeting of shareholders, the Board of Direcsituation on August 31 preceding the AGM. The Chairman of tors and the Managing Director (President & CEO) are Kemira Oyj’s Board of Directors acts as an expert member. responsible for Kemira’s management and operations. The authority, composition and responsibilities of the Their tasks are defined based on the Finnish Limited Nomination Board are laid out in the Kemira Nomination Liability Companies Act and Kemira Oyj’s Articles of Board Charter. Association. Kemira complies with The Finnish Corporate GovernKemira Oyj’s Charter of the Board of Directors lays out ance Code www.cgfinland.fi and follows its recommendathat the Board of Directors shall establish the long-term tions for criteria used in selecting the members of the goals of the company and the main strategies for achieving Board, including independence, competence and diversity. them, approve the Annual Business Plan/Budget and define and approve key corporate policies in key management control areas like risk management, financial control, G4-41: PROCESSES IN PLACE TO AVOID AND financing, internal control, information security, corporate MANAGEGE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST communications, human resources, ethical values and environment. The Board of Directors approves the interim The main tasks and duties of the Board of Directors and reports and financial statements as well as the corporate Board Committees are defined in the Kemira Oyj’s Charter responsibility report. of the Board of Directors. The Managing Director (President & CEO) is responsible The Finnish Corporate Governance Code defines the for managing and developing the company and the Kemira evaluation of the independence of the Board of Directors Group in accordance with the instructions and rules issued and obliges the directors to provide the Board with sufby the Board of Directors. ficient information that allows the Board to evaluate their The Management Board is responsible for securing the qualifications and independence, and notify the Board of long-term strategic development of the company. The any changes in such information. Management Board also approves the company’s policies The Finnish Corporate Governance Code and Kemira and corporate responsibility targets. Oyj’s Charter of the Board of Directors define that the members of the Audit Committee and the Personnel and Remuneration Committee must be non-executive directors who are independent of the company. COMPETENCIES AND All Board members are independent of the company except Dr. Wolfgang Büchele who is the former CEO of PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Kemira. The Board members are also independent of the major shareholders of the company, except Chairman Jari G4-43: REPORT THE MEASURES TAKEN Paasikivi. Jari Paasikivi is the CEO of Oras Invest Oy, which TO DEVELOP AND ENHANCE THE HIGHEST owns over 10% of Kemira Oyj’s shares. GOVERNANCE BODY’S COLLECTIVE The related parties, transactions and disclosure of KNOWLEDGE OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL related parties and transactions are defined in the Kemira AND SOCIAL TOPICS Group Related Party Policy. Related party information is disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note The Board of Directors approves interim reports, including 32, as required by the International Financial Reporting quarterly status updates on corporate responsibility Standards (IFRS). targets, as well as the corporate responsibility report. The As stated in the company’s Code of Conduct, all Kemira Board is also informed about the results of the employee employees, as well as the Board of Directors, must recogsurveys, and regularly reviews Kemira’s EHSQ updates. nize and avoid conflicts of interest and must always disclose any potential or actual conflict of interest in accordance with applicable Kemira policies. 52 GRI REPORT G4-44: PROCESSES AND ACTIONS TAKEN WITH ROLE IN SUSTAINABILITY REGARD TO HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY'S PERFORMANCE REPORTING Governance Annual self-assessment of Board work and performance is G4-48: THE HIGHEST COMMITTEE OR POSITION laid out in the Kemira Oyj’s Charter of the Board of DirecTHAT FORMALLY REVIEWS AND APPROVES THE tors. The assessment covers issues and trends affecting ORGANIZATION’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AND the company, including governance of economic topics. The ENSURES THAT ALL MATERIAL ASPECTS ARE resulting action-plans are presented to the Nomination COVERED Board. Kemira’s corporate responsibility targets are approved by the Management Board and discussed annually with the Board of Directors. Performance against targets is publicly ROLE IN RISK MANAGEMENT reported in Kemira’s interim reports and the corporate responsibility report, which is part of the annual report. Kemira’s corporate responsibility report is approved by G4-45: HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY'S ROLE the Board of Directors and assured by an external partner. IN THE IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS, RISKS, AND OPPORTUNITIES ROLE IN EVALUATING ECONOMIC, Risks and opportunities are identified in Kemira's strategy, approved by the Board of Directors. Strategy review is a ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL continuous process at Kemira. Early warning signals are PERFORMANCE presented to the Board of Directors once a month, covering information on the markets relevant to the company. A risk report based on the findings of the annual Enterprise Risk G4-49: THE PROCESS FOR COMMUNICATING Management (ERM) process is annually presented to the CRITICAL CONCERNS TO THE HIGHEST Board of Directors. GOVERNANCE BODY Critical concerns are communicated either directly to the G4-46: THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY'S Board of Directors or through the Audit Committee, which ROLE IN REVIEWING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF reviews the effectiveness of internal controls and risk THE ORGANIZATION'S RISK MANAGEMENT management. The CEO is responsible for risk management PROCESSES FOR ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL reporting to the Board of Directors. AND SOCIAL TOPICS Our employees have an obligation to raise concerns about possible misconduct against our Code of Conduct or Board of Directors/Audit Committee has the oversight policies. The first point of contact is the direct or relevant responsibility for risk management and approves the line manager or the Kemira Ethics & Compliance function. Kemira Group Risk Management Policy and supervises the We also have an Ethics and Compliance Hotline operated implementation of risk management. by an external service provider. It is available 24/7 for all Kemira’s Internal Audit function reviews the results of Kemira employees to report suspected misconduct in their the risk assessment processes annually for audit planning mother tongue, either by phone or an online form. Any purposes. The risk management process is evaluated by reporting on non-compliance issues is treated confidenthe Internal Audit every three years. tially and anonymously by the Compliance Committee. Kemira’s Internal Audit reports all cases to the Audit Committee. G4-47: THE FREQUENCY OF THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S REVIEW OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS, RISKS, AND OPPORTUNITIES The tasks and duties of the highest governance body are laid out in the Kemira Oyj’s Charter of the Board of Directors. In 2014, the Board of Directors met 13 times. GRI REPORT 53 2014 G4-50: NATURE AND TOTAL NUMBER tives consist of an annual cash bonus plan and a long-term OF CRITICAL CONCERNS THAT WERE share-based incentive plan. Neither the Managing Director COMMUNICATED TO THE HIGHEST Governance nor the other members of the Management Board have a GOVERNANCE BODY AND THE MECHANISMS separate supplementary pension arrangement. A mutual USED TO ADDRESS THEM termination notice period of six months applies to the Managing Director. The Managing Director is entitled to a Litigations, if material, are reported in the Financial separate severance pay for 12 months if the company Statements in Note 30: Commitments and contingent decides to terminate his/her service contract for reasons liabilities, section Litigation . Litigation cases above the not depending on the Managing Director. The remuneration threshold value EUR 100,000 are periodically reported to fees and main principles of the performance-based the Audit Committee. All violations against the Code of incentive plans are described in the Management RemuConduct are reported to the Audit Committee. There were 7 neration Statement. reported cases in 2014. The Audit Committee reports the Kemira has a share-based incentive plan targeted to litigation and violation cases to the Board of Directors in the management and other key personnel. The shareeach meeting. Non-compliance issues reported by Kemira based incentive plan aims to align the goals of the shareemployees are treated by the Compliance Committee, holders and the strategic management in order to increase which reports to the Audit Committee. the value of the company, to motivate the strategic management and to provide them with competitive equity based incentives. REMUNERATION AND INCENTIVES G4-52: PROCESS FOR DETERMINING REMUNERATION G4-51: EXECUTIVE-LEVEL COMPENSATIONS The Annual General Meeting decides on the remuneration Kemira’s management remuneration is described in the of the Board of Directors based on a proposal presented by Management Remuneration Statement included in the the Nomination Board. Corporate Governance Statement, and published pursuant The Board of Directors determines the salaries, other to Recommendation n:o 47 of the Finnish Corporate remuneration and employment terms of the Managing Governance Code 2010. Director and other members of the Management Board. The targets set out in the annual cash bonus plan and BOARD OF DIRECTORS the long-term share-based incentive plan for the manageKemira’s Annual General Meeting decides on the remunerament are determined annually by the Board of Directors. tion of the Board of Directors for one term of office at a The Board of Directors may use external, independent time. According to the decisions of the Annual General remuneration consultants when needed. Consultants have Meeting 2014, the members of the Board of Directors are been used for example for defining the incentive plans paid an annual fee, a separate fee per meeting and travedescribed above. ling expenses. In addition, the 2014 Annual General Meeting decided that the annual fee shall be paid as a combination of the company’s shares and cash in such a G4-53: PROCESS FOR SEEKING STAKEHOLDER manner that 40% of the annual fee is paid with the Kemira VIEWS REGARDING REMUNERATION shares owned by the company or, if this is not possible, Kemira shares acquired from the securities market, and Shareholders’ views regarding remuneration are taken into 60% is paid in cash. The shares were transferred to the account in Kemira Oyj’s Annual General Meeting (AGM). The members of the Board of Directors within two weeks after AGM decides on matters within its competence under the the release of Kemira’s interim report January 1 – March Limited Liabilities Companies Act and the Articles of 31, 2014. The members of the Board of Directors are not Association, including the election of the Chairman, Vice eligible for any cash bonus plans, share-based incentive Chairman and other members of the Board of Directors and plans or supplementary pension plans of Kemira Oyj. The their remuneration, and the election of the auditor and the remuneration fees are documented in the Management auditor’s fees. Remuneration Statement dated March 12, 2014. MANAGING DIRECTOR AND THE MANAGEMENT BOARD The remuneration of the Managing Director (President & CEO), his Deputy and other members of the Management Board comprises of a monthly salary, benefits and performance-based incentives. The performance-based incen54 GRI REPORT 6 ASSURANCE REPORT engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe that Assurance Report the Responsibility Information has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. INDEPENDENT LIMITED We did not perform any assurance procedures on the prospective information, such as targets, expectations and ASSURANCE REPORT ambitions, disclosed in the Responsibility Information. Consequently, we draw no conclusion on the prospective G4-33: POLICY AND CURRENT PRACTICE WITH information. Our assurance report is made in accordance REGARD TO SEEKING EXTERNAL ASSURANCE with the terms of our engagement with Kemira. We do not FOR THE REPORT accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Kemira for our work, for this assurance report, or for the Information on the organization’s policy and current conclusions we have reached. practice with regard to external assurance can be found in A limited assurance engagement with respect to the Assurance statement. responsibility related data involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the Responsibility Information. The procedures performed depend on the practitioner’s judgment, but their nature is different from, and their TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF extent is less than, a reasonable assurance engagement. It does not include detailed testing of source data or the KEMIRA OYJ operating effectiveness of processes and internal controls and consequently they do not enable us to obtain the We have been engaged by Kemira Oyj (hereafter Kemira) to assurance necessary to become aware of all significant provide a limited assurance on Kemira’s corporate responmatters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance sibility information for the reporting period of January 1, engagement. 2014 to December 31, 2014. The information subject to the assurance engagement is the Kemira GRI Report and pages Our procedures on this engagement included: 2–5, 8–15 of the Kemira Business Report (hereafter: • Conducting interviews with senior management Responsibility Information). responsible for corporate responsibility at Kemira to gain an understanding of Kemira’s targets for corporate responsibility as part of the business strategy and MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY operations; • Reviewing internal and external documentation to Management is responsible for the preparation of the verify to what extent these documents and data Responsibility Information in accordance with the reportsupport the information included in the Responsibility ing criteria as set out in Kemira’s reporting principles and Information and evaluating whether the information the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core) of the presented in the Responsibility Information is in line Global Reporting Initiative. This responsibility includes: with our overall knowledge of corporate responsibility designing, implementing and maintaining internal control at Kemira; relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the • Conducting interviews with employees responsible for Responsibility Information that are free from material the collection and reporting of the Responsibility misstatement, selecting and applying appropriate criteria Information and reviewing of the processes and and making estimates that are reasonable in the circumsystems for data gathering, including the aggregation stances. The scope of the Responsibility Information of the data for the Responsibility Information; depends on Kemira’s Corporate Responsibility focus areas • Performing analytical review procedures and testing and as well as the reporting principles which are set out on data on a sample basis to assess the reasonability of pages 46–47 of the GRI Report. the presented responsibility information; • Performing site visits to selected sites in Finland and in the UK to review compliance to reporting policies, to AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY assess the reliability of the responsibility data reporting process as well as to test the data collected for Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance responsibility reporting purposes on a sample basis; conclusion on the Responsibility Information based on our • Assessing that the Responsibility Information has been engagement. We conducted our assurance engagement in prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reportaccordance with International Standard on Assurance ing Guidelines (G4 Core) of the Global Reporting Engagements (ISAE) 3000 to provide limited assurance on Initiative. performance data and statements within the Responsibility Information. This Standard requires that we comply with We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. GRI REPORT 55 2014 OUR INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCES IN CONCLUSION PROVIDING ASSURANCE TO KEMIRA Assurance Report On the basis of the procedures we have performed, nothing We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies which has come to our attention that causes us to believe that preclude us from taking financial, commercial, governance the information subject to the assurance engagement is and ownership positions which might affect, or be pernot prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with ceived to affect, our independence and impartiality and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core) of the from any involvement in the preparation of the report. We Global Reporting Initiative or that the Responsibility have maintained our independence and objectivity Information is not reliable, in all material respects, with throughout the year and there were no events or prohibited regard to the Reporting criteria. services provided which could impair our independence and objectivity. This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary Helsinki 10.2.2015 team including assurance and sustainability expertise with Deloitte & Touche Oy professional qualifications. Our team is experienced in providing sustainability reporting assurance. Jukka Vattulainen Lasse Ingström Authorized Public Authorized Public Accountant Accountant 56 GRI REPORT 7 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Content Index BR = Business Report GRI = GRI report GS = Corporate Governance Statement The report is prepared in accordance with the GRI-G4 Core option. FS = Financial Statements Communication on Progress (COP) of the UN Global Compact at Global AsR = Assurance Report Compact Active level using the GRI G4 reporting principles. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Standard disclosures (pp) Principles External Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization BR 2–3, 8 Commitment AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 about relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy to GC G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities BR 20,26,32 GRI 4–6, 46–48 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the reporting organization Kemira Oyj AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services BR 16–33 G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters Helsinki, Finland AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-6 Countries of operation BR 4–5 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form BR 4–5 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-8 Markets served with geographic breakdown BR 4–5 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization BR 4–5, FS AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 Balance Sheet G4-10 Workforce structure by emplyment type, gender and region GRI 33 Principle 6 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements GRI 34 Principle 3 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-12 Description of oranization's supply chain GRI 14–15 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period GRI 46, FS Note 33 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-14 Position regarding the precautionary principle and its application GS: Risk section G4-15 Adherance to charters, principles and other external initiatives GRI 5 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-16 Memberships of associations and advocacy organizations GRI 5 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial GRI 46 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 statements G4-18 Process for determining the report content GRI 46–47 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content GRI 47–48 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-20 Boundaries of material aspects within the organization GRI 47–48 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-21 Boundaries of material aspects outside the organization GRI 47–48 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, GRI 49 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and GRI 49 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 Aspect Boundaries GRI REPORT 57 2014 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Content Index Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Standard disclosures (pp) Principles External Assurance STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. GRI 3–4 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders GRI 3–4 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-26 Organization's approach to stakeholder engagement GRI 3–4 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder GRI 3–4 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 engagement and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for the information provided GRI 49 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report GRI 49 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-30 Reporting cycle GRI 49 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents GRI 49 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-32 GRI content index. Table identifying the location of the Standard GRI 58–63 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 Disclosures in the report G4-33 Policy and practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the GRI 55 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 report GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS GOVERNANCE Governance Structure and Composition G4-34 Governance structure of the organization GRI 50 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-36 Executive-level position with responsibility for economic, GRI 50 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 environmental and social topics G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest GRI 50 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees GRI 50 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-39 The role of the Chairman of the Board of Directors GRI 50 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body GRI 51 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of GRI 51 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 interest are avoided and managed Role in Setting Purpose, Values, and Strategy G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in GRI 51 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impact Competencies and Performance Evaluation G4-43 The measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance GRI 51 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-44 Process for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance GRI 52 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. 58 GRI REPORT GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Content Index Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Standard disclosures (pp) Principles External Assurance Role in Risk Management G4-45 The highest governance body’s role in the identification and GRI 52 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 The highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness GRI 52 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 of the organization's risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, GRI 52 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Role in Sustainability Reporting G4-48 The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves GRI 52 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered Role in Evaluating Economic, Environmental and Social Performance G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest GRI 52 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 governance body G4-50 The nature and total number of critical concerns that were GRI 53 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Remuneration and Incentives G4-51 The remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior GRI 53 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 executives. G4-52 The process for determining remuneration. GRI 53 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding GRI 53 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 remuneration ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior GRI 11–12 Principle 10 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and GRI 11–12 Principle 10 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about GRI 11–12 Principle 10 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GENERIC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH For Kemira's Description of Management Approach (DMA), please see: • Corporate responsibility, GRI pp. 5–9 • Focus areas, GRI pp. 5–20 • Economic impact, GRI pp. 21–22 • Governance, GRI pp. 50–53 GRI REPORT 59 2014 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Content Index Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Performance indicators (pp) Principles External Assurance ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed​ GRI 21–22 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations GRI 22 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government​ GRI 22 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Material Aspect: Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume GRI 23 Principle 7, 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials GRI 23 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 Material Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization GRI 24 Principle 7, 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN5 Energy intensity GRI 24 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption GRI 24 Principle 8, 9 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 Material Aspect: Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source GRI 25 Principle 7, 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused GRI 25 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 Material Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) GRI 26 Principle 7, 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) GRI 26 Principle 7, 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) GRI 26–27 Principle 7, 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity GRI 26 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions GRI 26 Principle 8, 9 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) GRI 28 Principle 7, 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions GRI 28 Principle 7, 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination GRI 28 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method GRI 29 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills GRI 29 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed GRI 29 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention (2) Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and GRI 29 Principle 7, 8, 9 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 services G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are GRI 30 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 reclaimed by category Material Aspect: Environmental compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary GRI 31 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 60 GRI REPORT SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Content Index Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Performance indicators (pp) Principles External Assurance Material Aspect: Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and GRI 31 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Material Aspect: Overall environmental spend G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type GRI 32 Principle 7, 8, 9 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental GRI 32 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 criteria Material Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, GRI 32 Principle 8 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover GRI 34 Principle 6 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided GRI 36 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Material Aspect: Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including GRI 36 Principle 3 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 whether these are specified in collective agreements Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and GRI 36 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by GRI 36 Principle 6 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the GRI 37 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career GRI 37 Principle 6 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 development reviews, by gender and by employee category Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per GRI 38 Principle 6 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Material Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee GRI 39 Principle 6 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 category, by significant locations of operation Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices GRI 39 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 criteria Material Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and GRI 39 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms GRI REPORT 61 2014 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Content Index Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Performance indicators (pp) Principles External Assurance HUMAN RIGHTS Material Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions GRI 40 Principle 6 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 taken Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise GRI 40 Principle 3 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Material Aspect: Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to GRI 40 Principle 1 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 human rights reviews or impact assessments Material Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights GRI 41 Principle 2 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 criteria Material Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, GRI 41 Principle 1 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIETY Material Aspect: Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community GRI 41 Principle 1 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on GRI 41 Principle 1 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 local communities Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations asessed for risks related to GRI 42 Principle 10 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and GRI 42 Principle 10 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI 42 Principle 10 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 Material Aspect: Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ GRI 42 Principle 10 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 beneficiary Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, GRI 42 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 and monopoly practices and their outcomes Material Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary GRI 42 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for GRI 43 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 impacts on society Material Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and GRI 43 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 62 GRI REPORT SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Content Index Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Performance indicators (pp) Principles External Assurance PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which GRI 44 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and GRI 44 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization's GRI 44 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and GRI 45 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Material Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products GRI 45 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 Material Aspect: Product compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and GRI 45 AsR, GRI pp. 54–55 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services TABLE OF CONTENTS Corporate Governance Statement 2014 TABLE OF Contents CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2014 3 PERSONAL DATA 9 RISK MANAGEMENT 12 MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION STATEMENT 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 3 2014 Kemira Oyj’s Annual General Meeting was held in CORPORATE Helsinki on March 24, 2014. The meeting was attended by 611 shareholders either in person or by proxy, together GOVERNANCE representing around 55% of the shareholders’ votes. The documents related to the AGM are available on Kemira’s STATEMENT 2014 website www.kemira.com > Investors > Corporate governance > Annual General Meeting. GENERAL NOMINATION BOARD Kemira Oyj’s corporate governance is based on the Articles The 2012 Annual General Meeting decided to establish a of Association, the Finnish Companies Act and NASDAQ Nomination Board consisting of the shareholders or the OMX Helsinki Ltd’s rules and regulations on listed comparepresentatives of the shareholders to prepare annually a nies. proposal for the next AGM concerning the composition and The Company also complies with the Finnish Corporate remuneration of the Board of Directors. Governance Code, which is publicly available at The Nomination Board consists of the representatives www.cgfinland.fi. of the four largest shareholders of Kemira Oyj based on the This statement is presented separately from the annual situation on August 31 preceding the AGM, and the Chairreport by the Board of Directors. man of Kemira Oyj’s Board of Directors acts as an expert Kemira’s Audit Committee has reviewed the Corporate member. As of August 31, 2014, the members of the Governance Statement, and the Company’s Auditor, Nomination Board are Pekka Paasikivi, Chairman of the Deloitte & Touche Oy, has checked that the statement has Board of Oras Invest Oy, Kari Järvinen, Managing Director of been issued and that the description of the main features Solidium Oy, Risto Murto, President & CEO, Varma Mutual of the internal control and risk management related to the Pension Insurance Company, Timo Ritakallio, President & financial reporting process included in the statement is CEO, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company, and consistent with the Financial Statements. the Chairman of the Board Jari Paasikivi as an expert member. The Nomination Board met one time in 2014 with an MANAGEMENT BODIES attendance rate of 100%. The Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for Kemira’s manageBOARD OF DIRECTORS ment and operations. Their tasks are defined based on the Finnish Companies Act and Kemira’s Articles of AssociaCOMPOSITION tion. The AGM elects the Chairman, Vice Chairman and other members of the Board of Directors. In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors comprises SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING 4–8 members. On March 24, 2014, the Annual General Meeting elected six members (previously five) to the Board Kemira Oyj’s shareholders’ meeting, the Company’s highest of Directors. The AGM re-elected Winnie Fok, Juha Laakdecision-making body, is held at least once a year. The sonen, Jari Paasikivi and Kerttu Tuomas to the Board of Annual General Meeting (AGM) must be held each year by Directors and further elected Wolfgang Büchele and Timo the end of May. Lappalainen as new members to the Board of Directors. The AGM makes decisions on matters within its Jari Paasikivi was elected the Board’s Chairman and Kerttu competence under the Companies Act and the Articles of Tuomas was elected the Vice Chairman. Jukka Viinanen Association, such as the adoption of the financial statewas the Chairman of the Board of Directors until the 2014 ments and dividend payout, the discharge of Board AGM. members and the Managing Director and his Deputy from All of the Board members are independent of the liability, the election of the Chairman, Vice Chairman and Company except for Wolfgang Büchele who has been the other members of the Board of Directors and their emoluManaging Director of Kemira Oyj as of April 1, 2012 until ments, and the election of the auditor and the auditor’s April 30, 2014. The Board members are also independent of fees. significant shareholders of the Company except for the Notice to the shareholders’ meeting shall be released Chairman Jari Paasikivi. Jari Paasikivi is the CEO of Oras on the Company’s website no earlier than two months and Invest Oy and Oras Invest Oy owns over 10% of Kemira Oyj’s no later than three weeks before the meeting, however, at shares. The personal information concerning the members least nine days before the record date of the meeting. of the Board of Directors can be found in the section Additionally, if so decided by the Board of Directors, the Personal data and their holdings in section Insiders. Company may publish the notice to the shareholders’ meeting in one nationwide newspaper. 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT TASKS AND DUTIES BOARD COMMITTEES According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors is tasked with duties within its competence Kemira Oyj’s Board of Directors has appointed two commitunder the Companies Act. It has drawn up a written Charter tees: the Audit Committee and the Personnel and Remudefining its key duties and procedures. The following is a neration Committee. description of the essential contents of the Charter. The Board of Directors is in charge of corporate AUDIT COMMITTEE governance and the due organization of the Company’s The Audit Committee works in accordance with its Charter operations. It decides on convening and prepares the confirmed by the Board of Directors. It is tasked to assist agenda for the shareholders’ meeting and ensures the the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilipractical implementation of decisions taken thereby. In ties for financial reporting process, the system of internal addition, the Board of Directors decides on authorizations control, the audit process and Kemira’s process for for representing the Company. The Board of Directors’ key monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and the duties include matters which, in view of the scope and type Kemira Code of Conduct. The Committee reports to the of the Company’s operations, are uncommon or involve Board on each meeting. wide-ranging effects. These include establishing the The Audit Committee consists of three members Company’s long term goals and the strategy for achieving independent of the Company, out of which at least one them, approving the annual business plans and budget, member shall also be independent of significant sharedefining and approving corporate policies in key manageholders. elected by the Board of Directors from amongst its ment control areas, approving the Company’s organizamembers. After the 2014 AGM, the Board elected Juha tional structure and appointing the Managing Director, his Laaksonen as the Chairman and Jari Paasikivi and Timo Deputy and members of the Management Board. The Board Lappalainen as members of the Committee. Until the 2014 of Directors approves the Company’s capital investment AGM the Chairman of the Committee was Juha Laaksonen policy and major investments and divestments. It also and Jari Paasikivi was a member of the Committee. approves the group treasury policy and major long term The Audit Committee met 5 times in 2014 with an loans and guarantees issued by the Company. attendance rate of 100%. The Board’s duties include ensuring that the Company has adequate planning, information and control systems PERSONNEL AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE and resources for monitoring result and managing risks in The Personnel and Remuneration Committee (until March operations. The Board of Directors monitors and evaluates 24, 2014: the Compensation Committee) consists of three the performance of Managing Director, his Deputy and members out of which the majority must be independent of members of the Management Board and decides upon their the Company, elected by the Board of Directors from remuneration and benefits. The Board’s duty is to ensure amongst its members. The Board of Directors has approved continuation of the business operations by succession a Charter for the Committee, according to which the planning for key persons. The Board defines and approves Committee assists the Board of Directors by preparation of the main principles for the incentive bonus systems within matters related to compensation of Managing Director, his the Company. Deputy and the members of the Management Board, by The Board of Directors also manages other tasks within preparation of matters pertaining to the compensation its competence under the Companies Act. It is responsible systems and long-term incentive plans of the Company, by for the due organization of the supervision of the Compreparation of matters relating to appointment of Managpany’s accounting and asset-liability management. The ing Director, his Deputy and the members of the ManageBoard of Directors sees to it that the Company’s financial ment Board. The Committee also monitors succession statements give a true and fair view of the Company’s planning of the senior management and the senior manaffairs and that the consolidated financial statements are agement’s performance evaluation. prepared under the International Financial Reporting After the 2014 AGM, the Board elected Jari Paasikivi the Standards (IFRS) and the parent company’s financial Chairman and Kerttu Tuomas and Juha Laaksonen the statements under the acts and regulations in force in members of the Personnel and Remuneration Committee. Finland (FAS). The Board of Directors’ meetings discuss the Until the 2014 AGM, Jukka Viinanen was the Chairman and Company’s profit performance at monthly level. The Board Kerttu Tuomas and Jari Paasikivi were members of the of Directors discusses the Company’s audit with the Compensation Committee. auditor. The Board of Directors evaluates its performance In 2014, the Personnel and Remuneration Committee and working methods on an annual basis. met 4 times. The attendance rate at the meetings was In 2014, the Board of Directors met 13 times. The 100%. The Committee reports to the Board of Directors on attendance rate at the meetings was 97.3%. each meeting. REMUNERATION Remuneration of the Board of Directors is described in section Management Remuneration Statement. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 5 2014 MANAGING DIRECTOR OPERATIVE ORGANIZATION The Board of Directors appoints the Managing Director and Kemira Oyj has organized its business into three customer the Managing Director’s Deputy. Under the Articles of based segments. The Paper segment focuses on serving Association, the Managing Director is responsible for customers in the pulp and paper industry, the Oil & Mining managing and developing the Company in accordance with segment focuses on serving customers in the oil, gas and the instructions and regulations issued by the Board of mining industries and the Municipal & Industrial segment Directors, ensuring that the Company’s interests are served concentrates on serving customers in municipal and by the subsidiaries and associated companies under its industrial water treatment. ownership, and puts the decisions taken by the Board of The segments have a strategic leadership role as they Directors into effect. The Managing Director reports to the formulate their respective business strategies and guide Board on financial affairs, the business environment and the strategy implementation within the segment. other significant issues. The Managing Director also Operational business responsibilities within a segment functions as the Chairman of Kemira’s Management Board. are assumed by Regional Business Units (RBUs) having full Kemira Oyj's Managing Director (President and CEO) is Profit & Loss responsibility. The RBUs are the key business Jari Rosendal as of May 1, 2014, and the Deputy Managing decision making organs in the Company. As most business Director is Group General Counsel Jukka Hakkila. Until April decisions are taken on a regional level closer to customers, 30, 2014 the Managing Director was Wolfgang Büchele. The Kemira is able to respond rapidly to changes in market Managing Director and the Managing Director’s Deputy, environment. including their related parties, are not involved in any The RBUs are guided by policies and guidelines defined substantial business relationships with the Company. by global functions. Global functions are responsible for The personal information concerning the Managing developing policies, processes, guidelines and tools related Director and the Managing Director's Deputy is set forth in to their respective functional areas on a global basis. They section Personal data and their holdings can be found in oversee that such policies and processes are adopted and section Insiders. The financial benefits related to the implemented throughout the Company. Managing Director’s employment relationship are Functions also have representatives in each region. described in section Management Remuneration StateRegional functions ensure that the global policies are ment. implemented and adhered to in the regions. They are also responsible for supporting the business locally in the region. MANAGEMENT BOARD Geographically Kemira’s operations are divided into three business regions: Europe, Middle East and Africa Kemira's Management Board consists of Managing (EMEA) and Americas and Asia Pacific (APAC). The Region Director Jari Rosendal (President and CEO), Petri Helsky Heads provide operational support and co-ordination (President, Paper; as of January 1, 2015: President Paper within the region and steer all regional development and APAC), Tarjei Johansen (President, Oil & Mining and projects. They also have regional Profit & Loss responsibilAmericas), Antti Salminen (President Municipal & Indusity. trial and EMEA), Petri Castrén (CFO), Heidi Fagerholm (CTO), Eeva Salonen (EVP, HR) and Michael Löffelmann (EVP, Projects and Manufacturing Technology). In addition, the INTERNAL CONTROL following persons have acted as members of the Management Board during 2014: Hilton Casas de Almeida (PresiKemira maintains an internal control system to ensure the dent, South America, until March 31, 2014), Joe Chan effectiveness and efficiency of its operations, including the (President, APAC until December 31, 2014), Randy Owens reliability of financial and operational reporting and (President, Oil & Mining and NAFTA, until January 31, 2014), compliance with the applicable regulations, policies and Hannu Virolainen (President, ChemSolutions and EHSQ, practices. Internal control is an integral part of all of until March 31, 2014) and Frank Wegener (President, Kemira’s operations and covers all levels of the Group. The Municipal & Industrial and EMEA, until October 31, 2014). entire Group personnel are responsible for internal control The Managing Director is the Chairman of the Manageand its effectiveness is monitored by managers as part of ment Board and the Group General Counsel acts as its operative management. Secretary. Kemira’s corporate values, Code of Conduct and Group The Management Board is responsible for securing the level policies and procedures guide the corporate governlong-term strategic development of the Company. ance and internal control in the Group. The internal policies The personal information of the Management Board and the Kemira Code of Conduct have been communicated members are presented in section Personal data and their to all Group staff. The Group also provides training concernholdings can be found in section Insiders. The decisioning the main policies for people who need to know the making process and main principles of remuneration of the policies in question. Every employee has the right and duty members of the Management Board are described in to report any violations of the law, the Code of Conduct or section Management Remuneration Statement. Group policies. The main components of internal control are the management and organizational culture, risk assessment, 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT control activities, reporting and communication, as well as number of shares number of shares Insiders' shareholdings Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2013 monitoring and auditing. Board of Directors Büchele Wolfgang 100,957 99,657 Fok Winnie 5,200 3,900 INSIDERS Laaksonen Juha 7,327 5,702 Lappalainen Timo 1,300 not an insider As provided by the Finnish Securities Markets Act, Kemira Paasikivi Jari 209,066 130,655 Oyj’s insiders consist of insiders subject to disclosure Tuomas Kerttu 7,017 5,392 requirements, permanent company-specific insiders and project specific insiders. On the basis of their position, Former members of the Kemira’s insiders subject to disclosure requirements Board of Directors in 2014 comprise Board members, the Managing Director and the Viinanen Jukka not an insider 10,191 Deputy Managing Director, members of Kemira Oyj’s Management Board and the auditor or the chief auditor Members of the representing the independent firm of public accountants. Management Board Kemira Oyj’s permanent company-specific insiders Castrén Petri 2,500 500 comprise certain other position holders separately Chan Joe 0 0 specified by the Group General Counsel. Fagerholm Heidi 0 0 Kemira Oyj complies with the Insider Guidelines issued Helsky Petri 71,501 71,501 by the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd, according to which Johansen Tarjei 0 not an insider insiders should trade in Company shares at a time when Löffelmann Micahel 0 not an insider the marketplace has the fullest possible information on Rosendal Jari 10,000 not an insider circumstances influencing the value of the Company’s Salminen Antti 3,000 0 share. Accordingly, Kemira Oyj’s insiders may not trade in Salonen Eeva 26,589 26,589 Company shares for 30 days prior to the disclosure of the Company’s interim accounts or the release of the financial Former members of the Management Board in 2014 statements bulletin. In this regard Kemira has decided to Casas de Almeida Hilton not an insider 70,719 apply a longer period than that required by the Insider Owens Randy not an insider 72,570 Guidelines issued by NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd, according Virolainen Hannu not an insider 20,166 to which the period must be a minimum of 14 days. Wegener Frank not an insider 13,366 Kemira’s Legal function maintains Kemira Oyj’s insider register and updates information on the Company’s Deputy Managing Director insiders subject to statutory disclosure requirements to be Hakkila Jukka 57,856 57,856 entered in the public insider register of Euroclear Finland Oy. Kemira’s insider information is available in the webAuditor based service maintained by Euroland Investors. Vattulainen Jukka 0 0 The table below shows insider shareholdings of all insiders subject to disclosure requirements as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013. Shareholdings include personal shareholdings and the related-party INTERNAL AUDIT holdings as well as holdings in companies over which the shareholder exercises control. Up-to-date insider informaKemira Group’s Internal Audit function provides independtion as well as updated shareholding information can be ent appraisal and assurance for the review of operations found on the Company’s website at www.kemira.com > within the Group in order to support the management and Investors > Corporate governance > Insiders. the Board of Directors in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities. The purpose is to evaluate and contribute to the improvement of risk management, control and governance systems in the Group. The purpose, authority and responsibilities of the unit are defined in the Kemira Internal Audit Charter approved by the Audit Committee. Internal auditors have complete and unrestricted access to all Kemira activities. Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee and administratively to the Group General Counsel. Internal audit plans and findings are subject to regular review with the external auditors during the course of the year. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 7 2014 AUDIT cial functions support, monitor, instruct and offer training to the financial organizations of the regions and segments. Under the Articles of Association, the shareholders’ Group level financial functions are also responsible for the meeting elects an audit firm certified by the Finland Group’s internal financial reporting and support Segment Chamber of Commerce as the Company’s auditor. The audit Controllers in analyzing business processes. Financial firm appoints the Principal Auditor, who is an Authorized organization in the regions is responsible for the functionPublic Accountant certified by the Finland Chamber of ality of the financial functions’ processes and correctness Commerce. The auditor’s term of office continues until the of figures in their region. Controlling in segments operates next Annual General Meeting after the Auditor’s election. under the segments’ business management and analyzes The 2014 Annual General Meeting elected Deloitte & the business processes. Touche Ltd. as the Company’s auditor, with Jukka VattuThe Group’s IT function has a significant role both in lainen, APA, acting as the Principal Auditor. financial reporting and internal control, as reporting and In 2014, the audit fee paid globally to the auditor many control measures, such as process monitoring are (Deloitte) totaled EUR 1.4 million. In addition, a total of EUR based on IT solutions. 2.6 million was paid as fees for other services. The Internal Audit function including its tasks and areas of responsibility are described more specifically above under the heading Internal audit. MAIN FEATURES OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS RISK MANAGEMENT PERTAINING TO THE FINANCIAL REPORTING The Group’s financial administration is responsible for PROCESS managing risks related to financial reporting. The risks are identified, assessed and managed in connection with the GENERAL Group’s general risk management process and separately Kemira’s Board of Directors defines the main principles of as part of financial administration’s own operating prorisk management and approves the Group’s risk managecesses. ment policy. The business segments and functions are The Group’s financial administration assesses risks it responsible for identifying, assessing and managing risks has recognized related to financial reporting. In its risk involved in their activities. The Group’s Risk Management analysis, financial administration defines to which function function coordinates and supports risk management. or process risks are related and how the risks would affect Kemira’s internal control system covers all Group the Group’s financial reporting if those were to materialize. operations, including financial reporting. The internal The risk assessment is documented and made availcontrol activities are carried out in all organizational levels able to the persons concerned. The Group’s financial as part of the Group’s daily operations. administration and Risk Management are responsible for A more detailed description of risks and risk managerisk documentation being up-to-date and that the risks are ment can be found in section Risk Management and also reassessed regularly in connection with the Group’s on the Company’s website at www.kemira.com > Investors > strategy process. Corporate governance > Risk management. A general description of Kemira’s internal control system can be FINANCIAL REPORTING AND CONTROL found in section Internal control. Kemira follows uniform accounting and reporting principles The following describes how Kemira’s risk management based on the International Financial Reporting Standards and internal control work in connection with the financial (IFRS) in all its units. Kemira Group policies and Kemira reporting process to ensure that the financial reports Group Financial Manual define in detail the processes of published by the Company give essentially correct informaaccounting and financial reporting to be applied in all tion of the Company’s financial situation. Group companies. The purpose of the policies and Financial Manual is to ensure the reliability of financial reportROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES ing. Kemira’s Board of Directors ensures that the Company has The Group has a global Enterprise Resources Planning sufficient resources for risk management and control, and (ERP) system that ensures fast and reliable access to data. that the control has been arranged appropriately and that Subsidiaries report their figures from the ERP system to the financial statements provide correct and sufficient the Group, using a uniform Group reporting system. The information of the Company. The Board of Directors is financial organizations of the Group, segments and regions assisted by the Audit Committee in these tasks. check the correctness of the figures in the Group reporting The Managing Director handles the Company’s everyday system in accordance with the responsibility areas management in accordance with instructions and reguladescribed above. tions from the Board of Directors. The Managing Director is Proper control of financial administration, financial responsible for the Company accounting being lawful and reporting and accounting processes is a basic requirement that assets are managed reliably. for the reliability of financial reporting. The Group financial The CFO is responsible for the general control system of administration determines the appropriate control funcfinancial reporting. The areas of responsibility between tions, the objectives of each control function and how the financial administration of the Group, the regions and the effectiveness of the control functions is monitored and segments have been defined precisely. Group level financhecked based on a risk analysis it performs. The control 8 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT functions are described in the above mentioned risk MONITORING documentation and financial administration is responsible The functionality of internal control, risk management and for their practical implementation. reporting systems is constantly monitored as part of daily Financial reporting control is performed either continumanagement of the Company. Each segment, function and ously as part of the transactions of the company’s monitorregion is responsible for implementing internal control, its ing processes such as purchasing and sales processes, or efficiency and reliability of reporting within their area of alternatively monthly or annually as part of the reporting responsibility. The Group financial administration monitors process. the functionality and reliability of the financial reporting process at Group level. The financial reporting processes COMMUNICATION are also monitored by the Internal Audit function. The personnel of Kemira’s financial administration regularly arranges internal meetings and trainings for different personnel groups and exchanges information and experiences concerning for instance reporting and monitoring practices in connection with these meetings. The main instructions and regulations concerning financial reporting, internal control and risk management are available to all employees on the Company intranet. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 9 2014 PERSONAL DATA Further information on the Board of Directors and the Management Board is available on www.kemira.com. BOARD OF DIRECTORS JARI PAASIKIVI KERTTU TUOMAS WOLFGANG BÜCHELE WINNIE FOK b. 1954 b. 1957 b. 1959 b. 1956 –– Finnish citizen –– Finnish citizen –– German citizen –– British citizen –– M.Sc. (Econ.) –– B.Sc. (Econ.) –– Dr. rer.nat. –– B.Comm. –– Chairman of the Board –– Vice Chairman of the –– Member of the Board –– Member of the Board –– Independent of the Board –– Managing Director of –– Independent of the Company –– Independent of the Kemira Oyj 1 April 2012– Company and its –– CEO of Oras Invest Oy, Company and its 30 April 2014 significant shareholders which owns over 10% of significant shareholders –– Independent of the Kemira Oyj's shares Company's significant shareholders Former members of the Board in 2014: JUKKA VIINANEN b. 1948 M.Sc. (Tech.) Chairman of the Board until March 24, 2014 JUHA LAAKSONEN TIMO LAPPALAINEN b. 1952 b. 1962 –– Finnish citizen –– Finnish citizen –– B.Sc. (Econ.) –– M.Sc. (Eng.) –– Member of the Board –– Member of the Board –– Independent of the –– Independent of the Company and its Company and its significant shareholders significant shareholders 10 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT PERSONAL DATA MANAGING DIRECTOR, DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR AND MEMBERS OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD JARI ROSENDAL JUKKA HAKKILA PETRI CASTRÉN HEIDI FAGERHOLM b. 1965 b. 1960 b. 1962 b. 1964 M. Sc. (Eng.) LL.M. LL.M., MBA D.Sc. (Chem.Eng.) Managing Director Group General Counsel CFO CTO Chairman of the Deputy Managing Director Management Board Secretary of the Management Board PETRI HELSKY TARJEI JOHANSEN MICHAEL b. 1966 b. 1971 LÖFFELMANN M.Sc. (Chem. Eng.) M. Sc. b. 1970 M.Sc. (Econ.) President, Oil & Mining and Ph.D. (Eng.). President, Paper Region Americas Executive Vice As of January 1, 2015 President,Projects and President Paper and Region Manufacturing Technology APAC As of November 1, 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 11 2014 PERSONAL DATA MANAGING DIRECTOR, DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR AND MEMBERS OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD Former members of the Management Board in 2014: HILTON CASAS DE ALMEIDA b. 1961 B.Sc. (Chemistry) President, South America until March 31, 2014 JOE CHAN b. 1956 Executive MBA (CEIBS) ANTTI SALMINEN EEVA SALONEN President, Region APAC b. 1971 b. 1960 until December 31, 2014 Ph.D (Eng.) M.A. (Edu.) President, Municipal & EVP, Human Resources RANDY OWENS Industrial and Region EMEA b. 1964 B.Sc. MBA President, Oil & Mining and NAFTA until January 31, 2014 HANNU VIROLAINEN b. 1963 M.Sc. (Econ.) M.Sc. (Agr.) President, ChemSolutions and EHSQ until March 31, 2014 FRANK WEGENER b. 1962 Ph.D (Technical Chemistry) President, Municipal & Industrial and Region EMEA until October 31, 2014 12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Some of Kemira’s risk treatment measures are perRISK MANAGEMENT formed centrally in order to generate cost benefits and ensure a sufficient level of protection. These include, for instance, hedging of treasury risks, as well as purchase and Effective compliance with and systematic execution management of insurance programs to provide cover for of Kemira’s risk management policy and principles liability, cargo, and property and business interruption proactively protect and help Kemira to reach the risks. desired aggregate risk level and ensure the continuity of Kemira’s operations. ABOUT KEMIRA’S RISKS RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY As in previous years, risk management was integrated into the strategy process in 2014. Risks were assessed against The key principles of Kemira’s risk management are defined defined strategic objectives of Kemira. Kemira’s key risks in the Kemira Group Risk Management Policy. In the policy, from different risk categories are described next. Despite a risk is defined as a potential event or circumstance, proactive risk management efforts, some of the risks may which, if it materializes, may affect Kemira’s ability to meet possibly materialize and significantly impact Kemira’s its strategic and operational objectives. In addition, Kemira ability to achieve its targets. has Group guidelines and other policies in place that specify management objectives, responsibilities, and risk limits in greater detail. CHANGES IN CUSTOMER DEMAND Kemira Oyj’s risk management is based on the Finnish Corporate Governance Code, the Kemira Code of Conduct Significant and rapid decline in the use of certain chemiand the company’s values. The principles of Kemira’s risk cals (e.g. chemicals for packaging and board production) or management are also in compliance with international risk in the demand of customers’ products or activity (e.g. management frameworks and standards such as ISO drilling of oil) could have a negative impact on Kemira’s 31000 (Risk Management – Principles and Guidelines). business. Significant decline in oil, gas, and metal prices In accordance with its risk management process, may shift customers’ activities in areas, which can be Kemira aims at systematic and proactive assessment and exploited with fewer chemicals. Also increased awareness treatment of risks placed under various risk categories, of and concern toward climate change and more sustainsuch as Strategy and planning, Operations and infrastrucable products may change customers’ demands, for ture, and Governance and ethics. The objective of the risk instance, toward water treatment technologies with lower management is to contribute to ensuring Kemira’s longchemical consumption, and this may have a negative term strategic development and to achieving Kemira’s impact on especially Kemira Municipal & Industrial strategic and operational targets by supporting decision segment’s ability to compete. On the other hand, cusmaking by taking uncertainty and its effects into account. tomer’s possible capacity expansions could increase the Kemira Oyj's Board of Directors defines the key princichemical consumption and challenge Kemira’s current ples applied in risk management. The Audit Committee production capacity. Failure from Kemira’s side to be approves the Group's risk management policy and assists prepared to meet and manage these changed expectations the Board in risk management supervision. The business could result in loss of market share. segments and functions are responsible for the risks In order to manage and mitigate this risk, Kemira involved in their activities and for the related risk managemonitors systematically leading indicators and early ment. The Group’s Risk Management function is in charge warning indicators that focus on market development. of developing and coordinating the risk management Kemira has also continued to focus on the sustainability of process and risk management networks within the Group. its business and is further improving the coordination and Internal Audit is responsible for monitoring and evaluating cooperation between Business Development, R&D, and the effectiveness of Kemira’s risk management system. Sales units in order to better understand the future needs and expectations of its customers. Timely capital investments as well as continuous discussions and follow-ups RISK MANAGEMENT IMPLEMENTATION with customers ensure Kemira’s ability to respond to possible increase in demands. Kemira’s geographic and At Kemira, each business segment and key functions customer-industry diversity also provides partial protecperform its overall risk management according to the risk tion against the risk of changed customer demands. management framework and process described in Kemira’s Risk Management Policy. Risks are identified, analyzed, and evaluated in a consistent manner. Risk management CHANGES IN LAWS AND REGULATIONS systems and methodologies suitable for the specific risks, situations, and organizational needs are applied. The Kemira’s business is subject to various laws and regularesults of the risk management process are reported tions, which have relevance in development and implemenregularly both internally and as a part of Kemira Oyj’s tation of Kemira’s strategy. Although laws and regulations external reporting. can generally be considered as an opportunity for Kemira, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 13 2014 certain new legislative initiatives supporting, for instance, HAZARD RISKS the use of biodegradable raw materials or biological water treatment, limiting the use of aluminum or phosphates, or Kemira’s production activities involve many hazard risks, relating to recovery or recycling of phosphorus, may also such as fires and explosions, natural catastrophes, have a negative impact on Kemira’s business. Significant environmental risks, as well as employee health and safety changes, for instance, in chemical, environmental or risks. Systematic focus on achieving set targets, certified transportation laws and regulations (e.g. REACH, EU management systems, efficient hazard prevention proSulphur Directive), may impact Kemira’s profitability grams, and competent personnel play a central role in through the increase in production and transportation managing these hazard risks. In addition, Kemira has costs. At the same time, such changes may also create new several insurance programs that protect the company business opportunities for Kemira. against financial impacts of hazard risks. Kemira is continuously following regulatory discussions in order to maintain the awareness of the contents and planned changes of the laws and regulations that may have INNOVATION AND R&D an impact, for instance, on its sales, production planning, and product development needs. Regulatory effects are Kemira’s Research and Development is a critical enabler for systematically considered in strategic decision making. organic growth and further differentiation. New product Kemira also actively participates in regulatory discussions launches contribute both to the efficiency and sustainwhenever possible and justified from the industry or ability of Kemira’s customers’ processes as well as to the business perspective. improved profitability. Both Kemira’s future market position and profitability depend on its ability to understand and meet current and future customer needs and market COMPETITION trends and its ability to innovate new differentiated products and applications. Failure to innovate or focus on Kemira operates in a rapidly changing and competitive new disruptive technologies and products may result in business environment, which represents a considerable non-achievement of growth and profitability targets. risk to meeting its goals. New players seeking a foothold in Innovationand R&D-related risks are being managed Kemira’s key business segments may use aggressive through efficient R&D portfolio management in close means as a competitive tool, which could affect Kemira’s collaboration between R&D and business segments. financial results. Major competitor consolidations are Kemira has further improved the coordination and coopconsidered to be risks that may result in the weakening of eration between Business Development, R&D, and Sales market position. units in order to better understand the future needs and Kemira is seeking growth in segments that are less expectations of its customers. Increased focus towards the familiar and where new competitive situations will prevail. development of more differentiated and sustainable In the long-term, completely new types of technology may products and processes has been continued through considerably change the current competitive situation. This innovation training for management, innovation contest risk is managed both at the Group and segment levels and the establishment of an internal Innovation Commuthrough continuous monitoring of the competition. The nity. Kemira is also continuously monitoring the sales of its company aims at responding to its competition with active new products and applications (launched into the market management of customer relationships and continuous within the last 5 years). development of its products and services to further differentiate itself from the competitors. ACQUISITIONS ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Acquisitions can be considered as an important driver in the accomplishment of corporate goals and strategies. Uncertainties in global economic and geopolitical developConsolidations are driven by, for instance, chemical ment are considered to include direct or indirect risks, such manufacturers’ interests in realizing synergies and estabas a continuation of low-growth period in the global GDP lishing footholds in new markets. and negative development in Ukraine, which could both Kemira’s market position may deteriorate if it is unable have unfavorable impacts on the demand for Kemira’s to find and take advantage of future acquisition opportuniproducts. Weak economic development may result in ties. Inorganic growth through acquisitions also involves customer closures or consolidations diminishing customer risks, such as the ability to integrate acquired operations base. Also, the liquidity of Kemira’s customers could and personnel successfully. If realized, this risk may result become weaker, resulting in increased credit losses for in a shortage in the set financial targets for such acquisiKemira. Unfavorable market conditions may also increase tions. the availability and price risk of certain raw materials. Kemira has Group-level dedicated resources to actively Kemira’s geographical and customer-industry diversity manage merger and acquisition activities. In addition, provides only partial protection against this risk. external advisory services are being used to screen potential mergers and acquisitions and help execute transactions and post-merger integration. Kemira has also 14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT developed its M&A procedures to better support and SUPPLIERS improve the execution of its business transactions in the future. The continuity of Kemira’s business operations is dependent on accurate and a good-quality supply of products and services. Kemira has currently numerous partnerships and PRICE AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS other agreements in place with third-party product and AND COMMODITIES service suppliers to secure its business continuity. Certain products used as raw materials are considered critical as Continuous improvement of profitability is a crucial part of the purchase can be made economically only from a sole or Kemira’s strategy. Significant and sudden increase in raw single source. In the event of a sudden and significant loss material, commodity, or logistic costs could place Kemira’s or interruption of such raw material supply, Kemira’s profitability targets at risk if Kemira is not able to pass on operations could be impacted, and this could have further such increase to product prices without delay. For instance, effects on Kemira’s ability to accomplish its profitability remarkable changes in oil and electricity prices could targets. Ineffective procurement planning, supply source materially impact Kemira’s profitability. selection, and contract administration, as well as inadChanges in the raw material supplier field, such as equate supplier relationship management, create a risk of consolidation or decreasing capacity, may increase raw Kemira not being able to fulfill its promises to customers. material prices. Also, material demand changes in indusKemira continuously aims to identify, analyze, and tries that are the main users of certain raw materials may engage third-party suppliers in a way that ensures security lead to significant raw material price fluctuations. Poor of supply and competitive pricing of the end products and availability of certain raw materials may affect Kemira’s services. Collaborative relationships with key suppliers are production if Kemira fails to prepare for this by mapping being developed in order to uncover and realize new value out alternative suppliers or opportunities for process and reduce risk. Supplier performance is also regularly changes. Raw material and commodity risks can be monitored as a part of the supplier performance manageeffectively monitored and managed with Kemira's centralment process. ized Sourcing unit. Risk management measures include, for instance, forward-looking forecasting of key raw materials and commodities, synchronization of raw material purTALENT MANAGEMENT chase agreements and sales agreements, strategic investment in energy-generating companies, and hedging a To secure the competitiveness and growth, as well as to portion of the energy and electricity spend. improve operative efficiency, it is essential to attract and retain personnel with the right skills and competences. Kemira is continuously identifying high potentials and key competencies for the future needs. By systematical development and improvement of compensation schemes, learning programs, and career development programs, Kemira aims to ensure the continuity of skilled personnel also in the future. More detailed information on financial risks and their management is provided in the Financial Statements, in section Management of financial risks. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 15 2014 The remuneration of the Board of Directors, 2014 2013 MANAGEMENT including the annual fee and fees per meeting Jari Paasikivi, Chairman (euroa) 86,733 (euroa) 56,710 REMUNERATION Wolfgang Büchele (since March 24, 2014) Winnie Fok 43,573 66,973 66,968 STATEMENT Juha Laaksonen Timo Lappalainen (since March 24, 2014) 57,916 42,973 56,710 Kerttu Tuomas, vice chairman 54,916 47,168 Jukka Viinanen (Chairman until March 24, 2014) 2,400 84,923 This Management Remuneration Statement is a Elizabeth Armstrong (until March 26, 2013) 7,200 description of the management remuneration in Total 355,484 322,678 Kemira Oyj and is published pursuant to Recommendation No. 47 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2010. REMUNERATION OF THE MANAGING DIRECTOR, THE DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR AND THE MANAGEMENT BOARD REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Remuneration of the Managing Director (President & CEO), The Annual General Meeting decides the remuneration of his Deputy and the other members of the Management the Board of Directors for one term of office at a time. In Board comprises a monthly salary, benefits and perfor2014, according to the decisions of the Annual General mance-based incentives. The performance-based incenMeeting, the members of the Board of Directors were paid tives consist of an annual cash bonus plan and a long-term an annual fee and a fee per meeting. share-based incentive plan. The main principles of the The annual fees were as follows: performance-based incentive plans are described below • Chairman EUR 74,000 per year, under the section Decision-making process and main • Vice Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit principles of remuneration. Committee EUR 45,000 per year and In 2014 the annual base salary of Managing Director • other members EUR 36,000 per year. Wolfgang Büchele was EUR 680,000 per year, including a A fee payable for each meeting of the Board of Directors car benefit and a mobile phone benefit. During his service and its committees was as follows: as Managing Director between January 1 and April 30, 2014 • EUR 600 for the members domiciled in Finland, he was paid in total EUR 448,261 including base salary, • EUR 1,200 for the members domiciled elsewhere benefits and a performance based cash bonus of EUR in Europe and 157,039. No performance based share incentive was paid • EUR 2,400 for the members domiciled outside to Wolfgang Büchele in 2014. of Europe. In 2014 the annual base salary of Managing Director The meeting fees were paid in cash. Jari Rosendal was EUR 567,000 per year, including a car Travel expenses were reimbursed according to Kemira’s benefit and a mobile phone benefit. During his service as travel policy. Managing Director between May 1 and December 31, 2014 In addition, the Annual General Meeting decided that he was paid in total EUR 360,000 including base salary and the annual fee shall be paid as a combination of the benefits. No performance based cash bonur or share company’s shares and cash in such a manner that 40% of incentive was paid to Jari Rosendal. the annual fee is paid with the Kemira shares owned by the Managing Director Jari Rosendal belongs to the scope company or, if this is not possible, Kemira shares acquired of the Finnish Employee’s Pension Act (TyEL), which from the securities market, and 60% is paid in cash. The provides pension security based on years of service and shares are transferred to the members of the Board of earnings as stipulated by law. The retirement age of the Directors within two weeks after the release of Kemira’s Managing Director is 63. interim report January 1 – March 31, 2014. Neither the Managing Director, his Deputy nor the The following amounts of shares were paid on May 5, members of the Management Board have a separate 2014 as part of the annual fee decided by the Annual supplementary pension arrangement. General Meeting 2014: A mutual termination notice period of six months • the Chairman received 2,671 shares, applies to the Managing Director. The Managing Director is • the Vice Chairman and Chairman of the entitled to an additional severance pay of 12 months’ salary Audit Committee 1,625 shares and in case the company terminates his service. • the other members 1,300 shares. There are no special terms or conditions associated with owning these shares. The members of the Board of Direcrtors are not eligible for any cash bonus plans, share-based incentive plans or supplementary pension plans of Kemira Oyj. 16 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Remuneration paid to the Managing Director, Salary PerformancePerformanceTotal Total Deputy Managing Director and other members and benefits based annual based 2014 2013 of the Management Board (EUR) bonus plan (EUR) share plan (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) Managing Director Wolfgang Büchele (until April 30, 2014) 291,222 157,039 448,261 964,566 Managing Director Jari Rosendal (since May 1, 2014) 360,000 360,000 Deputy Managing Director Jukka Hakkila * 178,810 41,059 219,869 161,557 Other members of the Management Board 3,325,949 567,509 3,893,458 2,472,568 * Jukka Hakkila is the Secretary but not a member of the Management Board DECISION-MAKING PROCESS AND MAIN applicable taxes will be deducted from the gross earning PRINCIPLES OF REMUNERATION and the remaining net value is delivered to the participants in Kemira shares. The Board of Directors decides the salaries, other remuShares earned under the plan must be held for a neration and the terms of employment of the Managing minimum of two years following each payment. In addition, Director, his Deputy and the other members of the Managethe participants must retain 50% of the shares earned ment Board. The Personnel and Remuneration Committee under the plan until their ownership of Kemira shares of the Board assists the Board of Directors by preparation based on shares earned under the share-based incentive of matters related to remuneration of the Managing programs of Kemira has reached a share ownership level Director, his Deputy and the members of the Management which in value equals at least their gross annual salary for Board and by preparation of matters pertaining to the as long as they remain participants in the plan. compensation systems and long-term incentive plans of The shares paid under the plan comprise treasury the company. shares held by the company and Kemira Oyj shares The cash bonus is determined based on the achieveacquired in public securities trading. Share acquisition and ment of the Kemira Group level and personal level perforshare issue authorizations are obtained from the Annual mance targets set by the Board of Directors for each General Meeting. financial year. The maximum bonus for the Managing In addition to the long-term share-based incentive plan Director is 60% of the annual gross salary, for the Managing targeted to the strategic management, Kemira had a Director's Deputy 50% and for the other members of the share-based incentive plan targeted to the other key Management Board 50–70% of the annual gross salary. In personnel. The participants of the plan targeted to the 2014, as regards the Kemira Group level performance strategic management were not eligible to participate in target, the cash bonus was determined on the basis of the the incentive plan targeted to the other key personnel. gross margin, EBIT and cash flow of Kemira Group. SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE PLAN FOR MANAGEMENT AND SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE PLAN FOR THE STRATEGIC KEY EMPLOYEES 2015–2017 MANAGEMENT 2012–2014 On December 15, 2014 the Board of Directors of Kemira Oyj The strategic management was eligible for a long-term decided to establish a new long-term share-based incenshare-based incentive plan which run during 2012–2014. tive plan directed to a group of key employees in Kemira. This long-term share-based incentive plan was established The aim of the new plan is to combine the objectives of the by the Board of Directors in February 2012. The particishareholders and the persons participating in the plan in pants of this plan were the Managing Director, the Deputy order to increase the value of Kemira, to commit the Managing Director and the members of the Management participants to Kemira, and to offer them a competitive Board. Earning of share rewards under the plan is condireward plan based on earning Kemira's shares. The new tional upon satisfaction of the earning criteria set by the plan replaces the share-based incentive plan targeted to Board of Directors. The earning criteria include both an the strategic management 2012–2014 as well as the internal and an external performance target. The internal share-based incentive plan targeted to the key personnel. target is divided into three one-year performance periods: The new Performance Share Plan includes three 2012, 2013 and 2014. Payment of the share reward performance periods: calendar years 2015, 2016 and 2017. depends on the achievement of the intrinsic value target, The Board of Directors of Kemira will decide on the Plan's which is calculated based on the development of EBITDA performance criteria and on the required performance and the development of the net debt. The program also levels for each criterion at the beginning of each perforincludes a three-year external goal, which is tied to the mance period. The potential reward of the Plan from the relative total shareholder return (TSR) performance during performance period 2015 will be based on the Kemira 2012–2014. As a guiding principle, reward will only be paid Group's revenue and on the Group's operative EBITDA based on excellent performance. margin. The value of the aggregate reward paid out in the The potential reward from the performance period 2015 course of the three-year share-based incentive plan may will be paid partly in Kemira's shares and partly in cash in not exceed 120% of Managing Director’s and 100% of the 2016. The cash proportion covers the taxes and tax-related other participants’ gross salary for the same period. The costs arising from the reward to the participant. As a rule, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 17 2014 no reward will be paid, if a participant's employment or tion is not yet fulfilled, the Board of Directors recommends service ends before the reward payment. that a member of the Management Board will hold 50 per The shares paid as reward may not be transferred cent of the net number of shares given on the basis of this during the restriction period, which will end two years from plan also after the end of the restriction period, as long as the end of the performance period. Should a participant's his or her shareholding in total corresponds to the value of employment or service end during the restriction period, as his or her annual gross salary. a rule, he or she must gratuitously return the shares given The Performance Share Plan is directed to approxias reward. mately 90 people. The rewards to be paid on the basis of The Board of Directors recommends that a member of the 2015 earning period of the Performance Share Plan the Management Board will own such number of Kemira's correspond to the value of an approximate maximum total shares that the total value of his or her shareholding of 585,000 Kemira Oyj shares and additionally the cash corresponds to the value of his or her annual gross salary proportion intended to cover taxes and tax-related costs. as long as the membership continues. If this recommendaTABLE OF CONTENTS Financial Statements 2014 AFTER THE RECENT RESTRUCTURING PHASE, KEMIRA TURNS A NEW CHAPTER TOWARDS GROWTH Our strategic focus is clear: we provide application knowhow and chemicals that improve our customers’ water, energy and raw material efficiency in water-intensive industries. Through our three strong segments Paper, Oil & Mining and Municipal & Industrial, we are targeting EUR 2.7 billion revenue and 15% operative EBITDA margin level by the end of 2017. Jari Rosendal President & CEO Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Tarragona (ES) coagulant Pulp chemical AkzoNobel Paper chemicals Kemira position paper site launched deliveries to paper chemical capacity expansion and stakeholder Telemaco Borba Montes del acquisition (IT) contact program as (BR) process BASF AKD Plata (UY) (preliminary a response to the chemical EMEA Business emulsion started agreement) Kemira (SE) wins European Commission expansion Service Center acquisition ”energy smart public consultation announced opening (PL) completed company” prize on water reuse New President & CEO Baseline study of water Oulu (FI) pulp Completion of Jari Rosendal started resources in Guangxi chemicals expansion formic acid business (CN), a joint Kemira and divestment Kemira recognized in Nanjing (CN) Kemira chosen to Stora Enso community CDP’s Nordic Climate process chemical supply sodium engagement & water Disclosure site ramped up chlorate to Klabin (BR) stewardship program Leadership Index VISIT KEMIRA ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ONLINE: www.kemira.com/investors 1 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 GROUP KEY FIGURES 16 Kemira Oyj Income Statement (FAS) 73 DEFINITIONS OF KEY FIGURES 19 Kemira Oyj Balance Sheet (FAS) 74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20 Kemira Oyj Cash Flow Statement (FAS) 75 Consolidated Income Statement (IFRS) 20 Notes to Kemira Oyj Financial Statements 76 Consolidated Statement of 1. THE PARENT COMPANY'S ACCOUNTING POLICIES Comprehensive Income (IFRS) 21 FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 76 Consolidated Balance Sheet (IFRS) 22 2. REVENUE 77 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow (IFRS) 23 3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME 77 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (IFRS) 24 4. COSTS 77 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 25 5. PERSONNEL EXPENSES AND NUMBER OF PERSONNEL 78 1. THE GROUP'S ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR 6. DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT 78 THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 7. FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSES 79 2. SEGMENT INFORMATION 35 8. EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS 79 3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME 38 9. INCOME TAXES 79 4. OPERATING EXPENSES 38 10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 80 5. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 39 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 81 6. DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT 40 12. INVESTMENTS 82 7. FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSES 41 13. INVENTORIES 82 8. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES 41 14. RECEIVABLES 83 9. INCOME TAXES 42 15. MONEY-MARKET INVESTMENTS – CASH EQUIVALENTS 84 10. EARNINGS PER SHARE 42 16. EQUITY 84 11. GOODWILL 43 17. APPROPRIATIONS 85 12. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 44 18. OBLIGATORY PROVISIONS 85 13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 45 19. NON-CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES 86 14. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS 46 20. CURRENT LIABILITIES 87 15. CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND 21. COLLATERAL AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 87 LIABILITIES BY MEASUREMENT CATEGORIES 47 22. SHARES AND HOLDINGS OF KEMIRA OYJ 88 16. INVENTORIES 50 SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS 89 17. RECEIVABLES 50 BOARD PROPOSAL FOR PROFIT DISTRIBUTION 92 18. NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD-FOR-SALE 50 AUDITOR’S REPORT 93 19. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 51 QUARTERLY EARNINGS PERFORMANCE 94 20. INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES 53 INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS 95 21. FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES 53 22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES AND ASSETS 54 23. DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS 55 24. PROVISIONS 57 25. TRADE PAYABLES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 57 26. CASH FLOW FROM DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARIES 58 27. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 58 28. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 59 29. MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL RISKS 61 30. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 66 31. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS AND LIABILITIES 67 32. RELATED PARTIES 68 33. CHANGES IN THE GROUP STRUCTURE 70 34. THE GROUP'S SUBSIDIARIES 71 35. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE 72 2 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 Revenue in 2014 decreased 4% to EUR 2,136.7 million FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, FULL YEAR 2014 (2013: 2,229.1) mainly due to divestments. Revenue in local currencies, excluding acquisitions and divestments Kemira Group’s revenue decreased 4% to EUR 2,136.7 increased 3% mainly due to continued sales volume growth million (2,229.1). Revenue in local currencies, excluding in Paper and Oil & Mining. Operative EBITDA was EUR 252.9 acquisitions and divestments increased 3%, mainly due to million (251.9) with an improved margin of 11.8% (11.3%). continued sales volume growth in Paper and Oil & Mining. Margin improved as a result of sales volume growth and Sales price changes had no material impact on revenues. margin dilutive divestments. The reported earnings per In the Paper segment, revenues increased 5% to EUR share increased to EUR 0.59 (-0.21) mainly as a result of 1,170.0 million (1,112.8). Revenue growth in local currenlower non-recurring charges than in the comparable cies, excluding acquisitions and divestments, was 6% period. Operative earnings per share decreased to EUR driven by higher sales volumes as well as somewhat higher 0.63 (0.70) mainly due to higher financing expenses. The sales prices. Sales volumes of sizing and strength chemiBoard of Directors proposes a cash dividend of EUR 0.53 cals increased, driven mainly by increased demand in the per share (0.53), equaling a total of EUR 81 million (81). packaging board industry. Pulp chemical deliveries to the Kemira’s dividend policy was revised. The revised policy new 1.3 million ton Montes del Plata pulp mill in Uruguay, aims at paying a stable and competitive dividend. The also contributed to higher sales volumes. Sales prices were previous policy aimed at paying a dividend that accounted higher, mainly due to the corresponding increase of raw for 40–60% of Kemira’s operative net income. material prices. In the Oil & Mining segment, revenues increased 23% to KEY FIGURES AND RATIOS EUR 382.2 million (311.5). Revenue growth in local currenEUR million 2014 2013 cies, excluding acquisitions and divestments, was 15% due Revenue 2,136.7 2,229.1 to strong sales volume growth in the Americas. The growth Operative EBITDA 252.9 251.9 in the Americas was supported by high demand of polyOperative EBITDA, % 11.8 11.3 acrylamides used in horizontal oil and gas drilling and EBITDA 252.9 141.9 stimulation. Sales price changes had a negligible impact on EBITDA, % 11.8 6.4 revenues. Operative EBIT 158.3 164.2 In the Municipal & Industrial segment, revenues Operative EBIT, % 7.4 7.4 decreased 14% to EUR 564.7 million (659.4). Revenue in EBIT 152.6 42.6 local currencies, excluding acquisitions and divestments EBIT, % 7.1 1.9 decreased by -7% due to lower sales volumes and sales Share of profit or loss of associates 0.2 -1.1 prices in the Americas and EMEA. Financing income and expenses -30.7 -39.0 Following its strategy to shift focus towards growing Profit before tax 122.1 2.5 differentiated product lines, Kemira finalized the integraNet profit 95.8 -25.9 tion of three acquisitions in 2014: 3F polymer business, Earnings per share, EUR 0.59 -0.21 Soto Industries paper chemical business and BASF AKD Operative earnings per share, EUR 0.63 0.70 emulsion business. The impact of these acquisitions was Capital employed* 1,427.7 1,493.0 3% or approximately EUR 70 million on the Group’s revOperative ROCE* 11.1 10.9 enues in 2014. In addition, Kemira divested several ROCE* 10.7 2.8 commodity product businesses at the end of 2013 and in Capital expenditure 145.1 197.5 the beginning of 2014. The divestments included an Cash flow after investing activities 75.2 195.7 aluminum and coagulant business in Brazil (closed on Equity ratio, % at period-end 51 51 December 11, 2013), chemical distribution business in Gearing, % at period-end 42 41 Denmark (closed on January 2, 2014), formic acid and its Personnel at period-end 4,248 4,453 derivatives business in Finland (closed on March 6, 2014) and some other small commodity businesses in Denmark, * 12-month rolling average Romania and Mexico. The impact of these divestments was Definitions of key figures are available at www.kemira.com > Investors > -9% or approximately EUR 200 million on the Group’s Financial information. Definition of Capital employed has been changed revenues in 2014. Currency exchange had a -1% impact. and the respective numbers for 2013 and 2014 have been restated. Geographically, the revenue was split as follows: EMEA Comparative 2013 figures are provided in parentheses for some financial results, where appropriate. Operative EBITDA, operative EBIT, 55% (57%), the Americas 39% (37%), and Asia Pacific 6% operative earnings per share and operative ROCE do not include (6%). According to Kemira’s strategy, mature markets are non-recurring items. important for all Kemira segments, whereas focus in the emerging markets is on selective expansion. In the emergBOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 3 2014 ing markets, Asia Pacific, especially China and Indonesia NON-RECURRING ITEMS are the key markets for paper chemicals. Brazil and EUR million 2014 2013 Uruguay are important markets for the bleaching chemiWithin EBITDA 0.0 -110.0 cals used in pulp industry. Oil & Mining is targeting expanPaper -27.3 -32.7 sion in selected countries in South America as well as in Oil & Mining -2.2 -8.1 the Middle East and Africa. Municipal & Industrial -6.8 -68.8 ChemSolutions 36.3 -0.6 Within depreciations, amortization and impairment losses -5.7 -11.6 REVENUE Paper -0.9 -8.1 EUR million 2014 2013 Δ% Oil & Mining 0.0 -2.8 Paper 1,170.0 1,112.8 5 Municipal & Industrial -4.8 -0.4 Oil & Mining 382.2 311.5 23 ChemSolutions -0.3 Municipal & Industrial 564.7 659.4 -14 Total -5.7 -121.6 ChemSolutions 19.8 145.4 Total 2,136.7 2,229.1 -4 The operative EBITDA increased slightly to EUR 252.9 million (251.9). Operative EBITDA in local currencies, EBITDA increased 78% to EUR 252.9 million (141.9). excluding acquisitions and divestments increased 2%, Non-recurring items affecting the EBITDA were EUR 0 mainly due to higher sales volumes. The positive impact million (-110.0), including a capital gain of EUR 37 million related to acquisitions was EUR 14 million and could related to the divestment of formic acid business and largely compensate for the divestment impact of EUR -17 capital gains of EUR 7 million related to other disposals. In million (see variance analysis below). The operative EBITDA addition, non-recurring items included approximately a margin improved to 11.8% (11.3%). Margin improved mainly EUR 20 million settlement related to an old alleged as a result of sales volume growth and margin dilutive infringement of competition law. Provisions and restructurdivestments. ing charges related to streamlining Kemira’s operations amounted to approximately EUR 30 million. VARIANCE ANALYSIS EUR million Jan-Dec Operative EBITDA, 2013 251.9 Sales volumes 19.1 Sales prices -1.8 Variable costs 5.4 Fixed costs -7.8 Currency exchange 3.0 Others, incl. acquisitions and divestments -8.8 Operative EBITDA, 2014 252.9 OPERATIVE EBITDA 2014 2013 2014 2013 EUR million EUR million Δ% %-margin %-margin Paper 137.2 131.1 5 11.7 11.8 Oil & Mining 48.4 32.7 48 12.7 10.5 Municipal & Industrial 68.1 68.3 0 12.1 10.4 ChemSolutions -0.8 19.8 -4.0 13.6 Total 252.9 251.9 0 11.8 11.3 4 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 The operative EBIT decreased 4% to EUR 158.3 million At the end of the period, interest-bearing liabilities (164.2) mainly due to higher depreciation related to totaled EUR 605 million (558 on December 31, 2013). acquisitions and new manufacturing sites in China and Fixed-rate loans accounted for 82% of the net interestEurope. bearing liabilities (60%). The average interest rate of the Income from associated companies was EUR 0.2 Group’s interest-bearing liabilities was 2.1% (1.5%). The million (-1.1). duration of the Group’s interest-bearing loan portfolio was Financing income and expenses totaled EUR -30.7 23 months (14 months). In May 2014, Kemira issued a million (-39.0). The comparable period was impacted by a senior unsecured bond of EUR 200 million. In addition, write-down of EUR 23 million related to the divestment of Kemira signed two EUR 50 million term loans in December, Kemira’s shares (39%) of the titanium dioxide Joint Venture 2014. New loans remained undrawn at the end of the Sachtleben GmbH. The changes of EUR -1.0 million (3.2) in review period. fair values of electricity derivatives and the currency Short-term liabilities maturing in the next 12 months exchange differences of EUR -1.3 million (2.5) had negative amounted to EUR 157 million, the commercial papers of impacts on the financing income and expenses. The which, issued in the Finnish market, represented EUR 10 overdue interest of approximately EUR 3 million on an old million and the short-term part of the long-term loans appealed tax verdict had a negative impact on financing represented EUR 86 million. Cash and cash equivalents expenses. Increased interest costs, partly related to an totaled EUR 119 million (102 on December 31, 2013). interest component of currency exchange hedging had At the end of the review period, the equity ratio was additional negative impacts. 51% (51% on December 31, 2013), while the gearing was Total taxes decreased to EUR 26.3 million (28.4), mainly 42% (41% on December 31, 2013). Shareholder’s equity due to tax-exempt capital gains. The tax rate, excluding increased to EUR 1,163.3 million (1,125.5 on December 31, non-recurring items decreased to 22.6% (24.9%). Income 2013). taxes increased to EUR 30.2 million (25.6). The Group's most significant transaction currency risks Net profit attributable to the owners of the parent arise from the Canadian dollar and the Swedish krona. At company increased to EUR 89.9 million (-31.6) and the the end of the year, the denominated 12-month exchange earnings per share to EUR 0.59 (-0.21). The comparable rate risk of the Canadian dollar had an equivalent value of period in 2013 was impacted mainly by a write-down of approximately EUR 41 million, 52% of which was hedged on EUR 23 million related to the divestment of Kemira’s shares an average basis. Correspondingly, the Swedish krona’s (39%) in the titanium dioxide Joint Venture Sachtleben denominated exchange rate risk was approximately EUR 34 GmbH. Earnings per share, excluding non-recurring items, million, 76% of which was hedged on an average basis. In decreased 10% to EUR 0.63 (0.70). addition, Kemira is exposed to smaller transaction risks in relation to the Brazilian real, Norwegian krona, Polish zloty, and the U.S. dollar with the total annual exposure in these FINANCIAL POSITION AND CASH FLOW currencies at approximately EUR 69 million, 38% of which was hedged on an average basis. Cash flow from the operating activities in January-DecemAs Kemira’s consolidated financial statements are ber 2014 decreased to EUR 74.2 million (200.3) mainly due compiled in euros, Kemira is also subject to a currency to foreign currency hedging settlements, higher working translation risk to the extent that the income statement capital and a settlement related to an old alleged infringeand balance sheet items of subsidiaries located outside ment of competition law. Cash flow after the investing Finland are reported in a currency other than euro. The activities decreased to EUR 75.2 million (195.7) including most significant translation exposure derives from the U.S. proceeds of EUR 122 million related to the divestment of dollar, the Swedish krona, the Canadian dollar, the Chinese formic acid business. The comparable period included renminbi, and the Brazilian real. A strengthening of these proceeds of EUR 98 million received from the divestment of currencies against the euro would increase Kemira’s shares in JV Sachtleben and EUR 81 million from the revenue and EBITDA through a translation effect. 10% divestment of the food and pharmaceuticals businesses. appreciation of the above mentioned currencies against 12-month rolling average net working capital ratio the euro would increase Kemira’s EBITDA by approximately decreased to 9.9% of the revenue (10.9% on December 31, EUR 15 million on an annual basis through the translation 2013). At the end of the period, Kemira Group’s net debt effect. increased to EUR 486 million (456 on December 31, 2013) as a result of lower cash flow and unfavorable currency exchange rates, especially related to the U.S. dollar. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 5 2014 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Capital expenditure, including the acquisition of BASF AKD Research and Development expenses totaled EUR 28.0 emulsion business and an EUR 4 million investment in million (32.1) in 2014, representing 1.3% (1.4%) of Kemira Pohjolan Voima (PVO) shares, decreased 27% to EUR 145.1 Group’s revenue. million (197.5) in 2014. Kemira’s Research and Development is a critical Capex (excl. the BASF AKD emulsion business acquisienabler of organic growth and further differentiation. New tion and investment in PVO shares) expenditure was EUR product launches contribute to the efficiency and sustain135.9 million (134.8) and can be broken down as follows: ability of customer processes, and to improved profitability. expansion capex 43% (52%), improvement capex 27% Both Kemira’s future market position and profitability (26%), and maintenance capex 30% (22%). Expansion depend on the company’s ability to understand and meet capex was lower due to completion of build-out activities current and future customer needs and market trends, and on greenfield sites in Dormagen, Germany; Nanjing, China on its ability to innovate new differentiated products and and Tarragona, Spain. A greenfield investment in a sodium applications. Revenue from differentiated products chlorate plant in Brazil amounted to EUR 6 million in 2014. increased 9% to EUR 1,029 million (942) in 2014, repreMaintenance capex increased mainly due to a triennial senting 48% (42%) of Kemira Group’s revenue. maintenance break at the Helsinborg site in Sweden during Kemira Group’s target is to increase the revenue from the second quarter in 2014. new products and products for new applications. The share In January-December 2014, the Group’s depreciation of innovation revenue (revenue from new products or from and impairments increased to EUR 100.3 million (99.3). products to new applications launched within the past five years) in the Group revenue increased to 8% (7%) in 2014. 6 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In 2015, Kemira will publish its Corporate Responsibility Report in connection with its Annual Report. The corporate responsibility report 2014 will be verified by a third party and prepared in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) framework. It deals with economic, environmental and social aspects defined material for Kemira, as well as reflects on Kemira’s performance in relation to the sustainability targets approved by Kemira’s Management Board. The performance targets are displayed in the table below. RESPONSIBILITY FOCUS AREAS KPI’S AND KPI TARGET VALUES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES Kemira Compliance program Kemira Compliance program → Established by the end of 2014 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors and Agents Supplier contracts with signed CoC-SDA as attachment → 90% by the end of 2015 Supplier sustainability assessment Number of core, strategic and critical suppliers covered by supplier sustainability assessment → 45 by end of 2014 RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMPLOYEES Performance management Kemira employees covered by the global Performance Management process → > 95% by the end of 2014 Leadership development People managers participated in global leadership programs at least once in period 2013–2015, cumulative % → > 95% by the end of 2015 Employee engagement Employee Engagement Index → Index at or above the external industry norm by the end of 2015 Participation rate in Voices@Kemira → 75–85% by the end of 2015 Occupational health and safety Number of Total Recordable Injuries (TRI) (per million hours, Kemira + contractor, 1 year rolling average) → Achieve zero injuries RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Water efficiency Baseline analyzed and water efficiency program defined by the end of 2014 Climate change Kemira Carbon Index performance → Index ≤ 80 by end of 2020 (baseline year 2012 = 100) SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS Sustainability aspects in New Product Development (NPD) process New NPD projects apply the sustainability check in Gate 1, 100% by the end of 2014 Existing NPD projects apply the sustainability check in Gates 2–4, 100% by the end of 2014 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE COMMUNITIES WHERE WE OPERATE Participation in local community involvement activities Kemira sites with over 50 employees participated in local community involvement initiatives at least once in period 2013–2015, cumulative % → 100% by the end of 2015 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 7 2014 HUMAN RESOURCES started a multi-million investment to expand its hydrogen peroxide plant in Oulu, Finland, in order to improve its At the end of the period, Kemira Group had 4,248 employcapabilities to serve the growing demand for pulp chemiees (4,453 on December 2013). Kemira employed 759 cals in the Nordics. people in Finland (961), 1,654 people elsewhere in EMEA In the Americas, revenues increased 7% to EUR 397.1 (1,634), 1,483 in the Americas (1,518) and 352 in Asia million (370.5) as a result of increased sizing, strength, Pacific (340). polymer and sodium chlorate sales volumes in North America, as well as the acquisition of Soto Industries (Q3 2013). In South America, pulp chemical deliveries to the SEGMENTS new Montes del Plata pulp mill in Uruguay compensated for the impacts of the divested coagulant business and the PAPER unfavorable currency exchange. In February, Kemira Paper has unique expertise in applying chemicals and announced a two-year, multimillion euro investment in supporting pulp & paper producers to innovate and Telêmaco Borba, Brazil to support paper and board constantly improve their operational efficiency. The production in South America by rolling out new technolosegment develops and commercializes new products to gies for surface sizing, strength properties and surface fulfill customer needs and to ensure the leading portfolio of treatment. In addition, in May, Kemira was selected as a products and services for paper wet-end, focusing on supplier of sodium chlorate to Klabin's new 1.5 million ton packaging and board, as well as tissue. Paper leverages its pulp mill in Paraná, Brazil. Kemira will build, own and strong pulp & paper application portfolio in North America operate a sodium chlorate plant, which is expected to begin and EMEA and builds a strong position in China, Indonesia production during the first half of 2016. and Brazil. In APAC, revenues increased 7% to EUR 97.0 million (90.7) mainly due to increased sales volumes. During the EUR million 2014 2013 year, Kemira ramped-up its new production site in Nanjing, Revenue 1,170.0 1,112.8 China. Production includes ASA sizing chemicals, defoamOperative EBITDA 137.2 131.1 ers and polymers. Operative EBITDA, % 11.7 11.8 Operative EBITDA increased 5% to EUR 137.2 million EBITDA 109.9 98.4 (131.1), mainly due to higher sales volumes and favorable EBITDA, % 9.4 8.8 pricing. Acquisitions also had a small positive impact on Operative EBIT 85.8 85.9 the operative EBITDA. Sales price changes could more than Operative EBIT, % 7.3 7.7 compensate for the somewhat higher variable costs. EBIT 57.6 45.1 Increased sales and marketing efforts drove higher fixed EBIT, % 4.9 4.1 costs. Operative EBITDA margin was 11.7% (11.8%). Capital employed* 881.2 859.8 Operative EBIT margin decreased to 7.3% (7.7%) as a result ROCE* 6.5 5.2 of EUR 6 million higher depreciations related to the Capital expenditure 83.0 75.5 acquisitions and the new manufacturing site in Nanjing, Cash flow after investing activities -10.1 58.2 China. * 12-month rolling average The Paper segment’s revenue increased 5% to EUR 1,170.0 million (1,112.8). Revenues in local currencies, excluding divestments and acquisitions, grew 6% due to sales volume growth, especially in polymers, sizing and strength agents, as well as in other differentiated process chemicals. Sales price changes had a small positive impact on revenues. Currency exchange had a -1% impact. Acquisitions had an impact of 2% and divestments an impact of -1% on the revenue. In EMEA, revenues increased 4% to EUR 675.9 million (651.5) mainly due to the acquisition of the BASF AKD emulsion business and the continued growth of sales volumes of differentiated product lines. During the year, Kemira invested in a production line expansion of process and functional chemistries at San Giorgio site in Italy. The investment strengthens Kemira’s position as a supplier for the tissue industry in the region. In addition, Kemira 8 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 OIL & MINING Operative EBITDA increased 48% to EUR 48.4 million O&M provides a unique combination of innovative chemi(32.7) as a result of the increased sales volumes and the cals and application knowledge that improves process positive impact of the 3F acquisition. Operative EBITDA efficiency and yield in oil, gas and metals recovery. The margin improved to 12.7% (10.5%). Operative EBIT margin segment uses its in-depth understanding of extraction improved to 7.8% (5.6%). processes to tailor solutions for water management and re-use. Expanding from its position in North America and MUNICIPAL & INDUSTRIAL EMEA, O&M continues to build a strong base for growth in M&I is a leading water chemicals supplier for raw and South America, Middle East, and Africa. wastewater applications in EMEA and North America, and aims to capture selected growth opportunities in emerging EUR million 2014 2013 markets. The segment enables its municipal and industrial Revenue 382.2 311.5 customers to improve their water treatment efficiency by Operative EBITDA 48.4 32.7 supplying them with competitive, high-performing products Operative EBITDA, % 12.7 10.5 and value adding application support. EBITDA 46.2 24.6 EBITDA, % 12.1 7.9 EUR million 2014 2013 Operative EBIT 29.9 17.4 Revenue 564.7 659.4 Operative EBIT, % 7.8 5.6 Operative EBITDA 68.1 68.3 EBIT 27.7 6.5 Operative EBITDA, % 12.1 10.4 EBIT, % 7.2 2.1 EBITDA 61.3 -0.5 Capital employed* 239.5 196.0 EBITDA, % 10.9 -0.1 ROCE* 11.5 3.3 Operative EBIT 43.3 45.8 Capital expenditure 26.3 69.8 Operative EBIT, % 7.7 6.9 Cash flow after investing activities 20.6 -60.0 EBIT 31.7 -23.4 EBIT, % 5.6 -3.6 * 12-month rolling average Capital employed* 309.4 350.9 ROCE* 10.2 -6.7 The Oil & Mining segment’s revenue increased 23% to EUR Capital expenditure 35.2 46.9 382.2 million (311.5). Revenue in local currencies, excluding Cash flow after investing activities 34.3 37.9 acquisitions and divestments increased 15% driven by * 12-month rolling average higher sales volumes. Currency exchange had a -1% impact. The acquisition of 3F had an impact of 10% and the divestment of the coagulant business in Brazil an impact of The Municipal & Industrial segment’s revenue decreased -1% on the revenue. 14% to EUR 564.7 million (659.4). Revenue in local currenIn the Americas, revenues increased 40% to EUR 287.1 cies, excluding acquisitions and divestments, decreased by million (204.8) mainly due to strong growth of sales 7%, due to lower sales volumes and sales prices. Acquisivolumes of polymers and other process chemicals used in tions had an impact of 3% and divestments an impact of downstream applications like drilling, extraction and -10% on the revenue. Currency exchange had a -1% impact. stimulation in the oil & gas industry. The acquisition of 3F, a In EMEA, revenues decreased 5% to EUR 383.9 million producer of dry and emulsion polyacrylamide polymers (405.0), mainly due to divestments and slightly lower sales also contributed substantially on the revenue growth. prices. Sales prices decreased largely in line with the Favorable pricing had a positive impact on revenues and related raw material prices, e.g. hydrochloric acid. Sales was supported by new innovative technologies like friction volumes remained close to the level of the comparable reducers and biocides. Friction reducers enable substanperiod. The acquisition of 3F had an impact of 5% on the tial performance improvements in the stimulation of oil & revenue. Currency exchange had a small negative impact gas wells. Currency exchange had a small negative impact on the revenue. In April, Kemira commenced production in on revenues in the region. During the year, Kemira relocated its new coagulant plant in Tarragona, Spain. Production its global Oil & Mining segment headquarters to Houston, focuses on aluminum and iron-based coagulants used for Texas. In addition, Kemira is investing in a new technical drinking water and wastewater treatment. The plant is service laboratory in the same area. The new headquarters utilizing by-products derived from Bayer MaterialScience’s increases Kemira’s visibility and presence in the oil and gas production as its raw material. The Tarragona plant, industry. The technical laboratory enables faster local together with a similar Dormagen (Germany) plant, is one of technical application service to Kemira’s customers. the largest coagulant manufacturing plants in EMEA. The In EMEA, revenues decreased 9% to EUR 95.1 million joint capacity of Tarragona and Dormagen is important for (104.6) as a result of lower sales volumes. Sales volumes Kemira in order to sustain its leadership position in the declined mainly due to soft demand for products used in municipal and industrial water treatment markets in extraction and water treatment in the mining industry. EMEA. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 9 2014 In the Americas, revenue decreased 32% to EUR 159.2 KEMIRA OYJ’S SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS million (234.3) mainly due to the divestment of coagulant businesses in Brazil and in Mexico. Excluding the impact of On December 31, 2014, Kemira Oyj’s share capital the divestments, revenues declined by some 15% as a amounted to EUR 221.8 million and the number of shares result of lower sales volumes and sales prices, especially in was 155,342,557. Each share entitles to one vote at the North America, as well as unfavorable currency exchange Annual General Meeting. rates. Sales volumes recovered towards the end of 2014 as The number of registered Kemira Oyj shareholders a result of increased sales and marketing efforts, as well as increased 8% to 33,164 registered shareholders in 2014 leveraging the offering of high quality raw water and (30,640 at the end of December 2013). Foreign shareholdwastewater treatment chemicals to municipal customers. ers held 18.9% of the shares (21.6%), including nominee Operative EBITDA remained at EUR 68.1 million (68.3), registered holdings. Households owned 16.1% of the despite the year-on-year comparison being negatively shares (14.9%). Kemira held 3,291,185 treasury shares impacted by several divestments. Operative EBITDA was (3,301,006) representing 2.1% (2.1%) of all company positively impacted by the “Fit for Growth”-related savings shares. Based on the decision of the Annual General and the implementation of other efficiency measures Meeting of Kemira Oyj on March 24, 2014, Kemira Oyj has which together drew fixed costs some 15% lower than in transferred 9,821 shares on May 5, 2014 to the members of the comparable period. Variable costs were lower mainly the Board of Directors as a part of the remuneration to the due to decreased raw material costs, which in turn were Board. lower due to cost synergies related to the acquisition of 3F Kemira Oyj’s share closed at EUR 9.89 on the NASDAQ and a decline in certain raw material prices. Sales prices OMX Helsinki at the end of December 2014 (12.16 at the declined largely in line with the related raw material prices. end of December 2013). Shares registered a high of EUR Operative EBITDA margin improved to 12.1% (10.4%). 12.27 and a low of EUR 9.11 in January-December 2014. Operative EBIT margin improved to 7.7% (6.9%). The average share price was EUR 10.87. The company’s market capitalization, excluding treasury shares, was EUR 1,504 million at the end of December 2014 (1,849 at the PARENT COMPANY’S FINANCIAL end of December 2013). In January-December 2014, Kemira PERFORMANCE Oyj’s share trading volume on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki increased 15% to 75 million (65). The average daily trading Kemira Oyj’s revenue decreased to EUR 1,228.1 million volume was 300,072 (259,748) shares. Source: NASDAQ (1,382.1) in 2014. EBITDA was EUR 34.0 million (23.8). OMX. EBITDA increased mainly due to lower variable and fixed In addition to NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, Kemira shares are costs. The parent company’s financing income and traded on several alternative market places or multilateral expenses were EUR -9.3 million (147.0). Financing income trading facilities (MTF), for example at BATS Chi-X and and expenses decreased mainly due to lower financial Turquoise. In January-December 2014, a total of 29 million income from Group companies. Net profit totaled EUR -1.3 (28) Kemira Oyj’s shares were traded on the alternative million (141.2). Capital expenditure totaled EUR 25.7 market places or 28% (30%) of the total amount of traded million (28.3), excluding investments in subsidiaries. shares. Source: Fidessa. The total amount of traded Kemira shares, including the trade on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and multilateral trading facilities increased by 12% in January-December 2014 compared to January-December 2013. 10 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 OWNERSHIP DECEMBER 31, 2014 Corporations 41.0% Financial and insurance corporations 8.1% General government 11.5% Households 16.1% Non-profit institutions 4.4% Non-Finnish shareholders incl nominee register 18.9% SHAREHOLDING BY NUMBER OF SHARES HELD DECEMBER 31, 2014 Number of Number of shares shareholders % of shareholders Shares total % of shares and votes 1–100 7,043 21.2 441,763 0.3 101–500 14,397 43.4 3,934,243 2.5 501–1,000 5,400 16.3 4,096,417 2.6 1,001–5,000 5,276 15.9 10,831,160 7.0 5,001–10,000 545 1.6 3,963,162 2.5 10,001–50,000 369 1.1 7,255,195 4.7 50,001–100,000 51 0.2 3,863,347 2.5 100,001–500,000 64 0.2 13,004,272 8.4 500,001–1,000,000 7 0.0 4,784,522 3.1 1,000,001 12 0.0 103,168,476 66.4 Total 33,164 100.0 155,342,557 100.0 LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS DECEMBER 31, 2014 Shareholder Number of shares % of shares and votes 1 Oras Invest Ltd 28,278,217 18.2 2 Solidium Oy 25,896,087 16.7 3 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 8,164,836 5.3 4 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 5,000,451 3.2 5 Nordea funds 4,255,825 2.7 6 Mandatum Life 1,704,647 1.1 7 Pohjola Fund Management 1,526,092 1.0 8 Danske Invest Funds 1,138,946 0.7 9 The State Pension Fund 1,090,000 0.7 10 Veritas Pension Insurance Company Ltd. 923,917 0.6 11 Sigrid Jusélius Foundation 730,000 0.5 12 Aktia Funds 620,148 0.4 13 Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 609,331 0.4 14 Kaleva Mutual Insurance Company 603,337 0.4 15 The Local Government Pensions Institution 426,482 0.3 Kemira Oyj 3,291,185 2.1 Nominee-registered and foreign shareholders 29,389,833 18.9 Others, total 41,693,223 26.8 Total 155,342,557 100.0 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 11 2014 SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE PLAN FOR MANAGEMENT AND The AGM 2014 authorized the Board of Directors to KEY EMPLOYEES decide upon the repurchase of a maximum of 4,500,000 On December 15, 2014 the Board of Directors of Kemira Oyj company's own shares (“Share repurchase authorization”). decided to establish a new long-term share-based incenThe Share repurchase authorization is valid until the end of tive plan targeted at a group of key employees in Kemira. the next Annual General Meeting. The Board has not The aim of the new plan is to combine the objectives of the exercised its authority by December 31, 2014. shareholders and the persons participating in the plan in The AGM 2014 also authorized the Board of Directors to order to increase the value of Kemira, to commit the decide to issue a maximum of 15,600,000 new shares and/ participants to Kemira, and to offer them a competitive or transfer a maximum of 7,800,000 of the company's own reward plan based on earning Kemira's shares. shares held by the company (“Share issue authorization”). The new Performance Share Plan includes three The Share issue authorization is valid until May 31, 2015. performance periods: calendar years 2015, 2016 and 2017. The share issue authorization has been used in connection The Board of Directors of Kemira will decide on the Plan's with the Board of Directors remuneration. performance criteria and on the required performance The AGM elected Deloitte & Touche Oy to serve as the levels for each criterion at the beginning of each perforcompany’s auditor, with Jukka Vattulainen, Authorized mance period. The potential reward of the Plan from the Public Accountant, acting as the principal auditor. performance period 2015 will be based on the Kemira Group's revenue and on the Group's operative EBITDA margin. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND The potential reward from the performance period 2015 GROUP STRUCTURE will be paid partly in Kemira's shares and partly in cash in 2016. The cash proportion is intended to cover taxes and Kemira Oyj’s corporate governance is based on the Articles tax-related costs arising from the reward to the particiof Association, the Finnish Companies Act and NASDAQ pant. As a rule, no reward will be paid, if a participant's OMX Helsinki Ltd’s rules and regulations on listed compaemployment or service ends before the reward payment. nies. Furthermore, the company complies with the Finnish The shares paid as reward may not be transferred Corporate Governance Code. The company’s corporate during the restriction period, which will end two years after governance is presented as a separate statement on the the end of the performance period. Should a participant's company’s website. employment or service end during the restriction period, as a rule, he or she must gratuitously return the shares given BOARD OF DIRECTORS as reward. On March 24, 2014, the Annual General Meeting elected six The Board of Directors recommends that a member of members (previously five) to the Board of Directors. Annual the Management Board will own such number of Kemira's General Meeting reelected Winnie Fok, Juha Laaksonen, shares that the total value of his or her shareholding Jari Paasikivi and Kerttu Tuomas and elected Wolfgang corresponds to the value of his or her annual gross salary Büchele and Timo Lappalainen as new members. Jari as long as the membership continues. If this recommendaPaasikivi was elected as the Board's Chairman and Kerttu tion is not yet fulfilled, the Board of Directors recommends Tuomas was elected as the Vice Chairman. In 2014, that a member of the Management Board will hold 50 per Kemira’s Board of Directors met 13 times with 97.3% cent of the net number of shares given on the basis of this attendance rate. plan also after the end of the restriction period, as long as Kemira Oyj’s Board of Directors has appointed two the total value of his or her shareholding corresponds to committees: the Personnel and Remuneration Committee the value of his or her annual gross salary. and the Audit Committee. The Personnel and Remuneration The Performance Share Plan is directed at approxiCommittee is chaired by Jari Paasikivi and has Juha mately 90 people. The rewards to be paid on the basis of Laaksonen and Kerttu Tuomas as members. In 2014, the the 2015 earning period of the Performance Share Plan Compensation Committee met four times with a 100% correspond to the value of an approximate maximum total attendance rate. The Audit Committee is chaired by Juha of 585,000 Kemira Oyj shares and additionally the cash Laaksonen and has Timo Lappalainen and Jari Paasikivi as proportion intended to cover taxes and tax-related costs. members. In 2014, the Audit Committee met five times with a 100% attendance rate. AGM DECISIONS CHANGES TO COMPANY MANAGEMENT On May 1, 2014, Jari Rosendal started as Kemira Oyj’s ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING President and Chief Executive Officer. Kemira Oyj’s Annual General Meeting held on March 24, On May 5, 2014, Tarjei Johansen started as President of 2014 confirmed the dividend of EUR 0.53. The dividend was the Oil & Mining segment and the Americas region. paid out on April 3, 2014. On November 1, 2014 Antti Salminen started as President of the Municipal & Industrial segment and EMEA 12 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 region and Michael Löffelmann started as Executive Vice ments as well as continuous discussions and follow-ups President of Projects & Manufacturing Technology. Both are with customers ensure Kemira’s ability to respond to members of the Management Board. possible increase in demands. Kemira’s geographic and On January 1, 2015, Joe Chan started as President, customer-industry diversity also provides partial protecChina. He reports to the President of Paper Segment and tion against the risk of changed customer demands. APAC region. On January 12, 2015, Kemira announced that Petri CHANGES IN LAWS AND REGULATIONS Helsky, President of Paper Segment and APAC region will Kemira’s business is subject to various laws and regularesign from his position to take up the position of CEO of tions, which have relevance in development and implemenMetsä Tissue Corporation. Petri Helsky will continue in his tation of Kemira’s strategy. Although laws and regulations current position and as a member of Kemira's Management can generally be considered as an opportunity for Kemira, Board up until the end of June 2015. Kemira has started the certain new legislative initiatives supporting, for instance, process of finding a successor to lead the Paper segment the use of biodegradable raw materials or biological water and the Asia Pacific region. treatment, limiting the use of aluminum or phosphates, or relating to recovery or recycling of phosphorus, may also STRUCTURE have a negative impact on Kemira’s business. Significant The acquisitions and divestments made during the year are changes, for instance, in chemical, environmental or discussed under segment information. transportation laws and regulations (e.g. REACH, EU Sulphur Directive), may impact Kemira’s profitability through the increase in production and transportation SHORT-TERM RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES costs. At the same time, such changes may also create new business opportunities for Kemira. At Kemira, risk is defined as an event or circumstance, Kemira is continuously following regulatory discussions which, if it materializes, may affect Kemira’s ability to meet in order to maintain the awareness of the contents and its strategic, operational, and financial goals in a sustainplanned changes of the laws and regulations that may have able and ethical way. Kemira’s risk management policy and an impact, for instance, on its sales, production planning, principles proactively protect and help Kemira to reach the and product development needs. Regulatory effects are desired aggregate risk level and ensure the continuity of systematically considered in strategic decision making. Kemira's operations. Kemira also actively participates in regulatory discussions whenever possible and justified from the industry or CHANGES IN CUSTOMER DEMAND business perspective. Significant and rapid decline in the use of certain chemicals (e.g. chemicals for packaging and board production) or COMPETITION in the demand of customers’ products or activity (e.g. Kemira operates in a rapidly changing and competitive drilling of oil) could have a negative impact on Kemira’s business environment, which represents a considerable business. Significant decline in oil, gas, and metal prices risk to meeting its goals. New players seeking a foothold in may shift customers’ activities in areas, which can be Kemira’s key business segments may use aggressive exploited with fewer chemicals. Also increased awareness means as a competitive tool, which could affect Kemira’s of and concern toward climate change and more sustainfinancial results. Major competitor consolidations are able products may change customers’ demands, for considered to be risks that may result in the weakening of instance, toward water treatment technologies with lower market position. chemical consumption, and this may have a negative Kemira is seeking growth in segments that are less impact on especially Kemira Municipal & Industrial familiar and where new competitive situations will prevail. segment’s ability to compete. On the other hand, cusIn the long-term, completely new types of technology may tomer’s possible capacity expansions could increase the considerably change the current competitive situation. This chemical consumption and challenge Kemira’s current risk is managed both at the Group and segment levels production capacity. Failure from Kemira’s side to be through continuous monitoring of the competition. The prepared to meet and manage these changed expectations company aims at responding to its competition with active could result in loss of market share. management of customer relationships and continuous In order to manage and mitigate this risk, Kemira development of its products and services to further monitors systematically leading indicators and early differentiate itself from the competitors. warning indicators that focus on market development. Kemira has also continued to focus on the sustainability of ECONOMIC CONDITIONS its business and is further improving the coordination and Uncertainties in global economic and geopolitical developcooperation between Business Development, R&D, and ment are considered to include direct or indirect risks, such Sales units in order to better understand the future needs as a continuation of low-growth period in the global GDP and expectations of its customers. Timely capital investand negative development in Ukraine, which could both BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 13 2014 have unfavorable impacts on the demand for Kemira’s integrate acquired operations and personnel successfully. products. Weak economic development may result in If realized, this risk may result in a shortage in the set customer closures or consolidations diminishing customer financial targets for such acquisitions. base. Also, the liquidity of Kemira’s customers could Kemira has Group-level dedicated resources to actively become weaker, resulting in increased credit losses for manage merger and acquisition activities. In addition, Kemira. Unfavorable market conditions may also increase external advisory services are being used to screen the availability and price risk of certain raw materials. potential mergers and acquisitions and help execute Kemira’s geographical and customer-industry diversity transactions and post-merger integration. Kemira has also provides only partial protection against this risk. developed its M&A procedures to better support and improve the execution of its business transactions in the HAZARD RISKS future. Kemira’s production activities involve many hazard risks, such as fires and explosions, natural catastrophes, PRICE AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS AND environmental risks, as well as employee health and safety COMMODITIES risks. Systematic focus on achieving set targets, certified Continuous improvement of profitability is a crucial part of management systems, efficient hazard prevention proKemira’s strategy. Significant and sudden increase in raw grams, and competent personnel play a central role in material, commodity, or logistic costs could place Kemira’s managing these hazard risks. In addition, Kemira has profitability targets at risk if Kemira is not able to pass on several insurance programs that protect the company such increase to product prices without delay. For instance, against financial impacts of hazard risks. remarkable changes in oil and electricity prices could materially impact Kemira’s profitability. INNOVATION AND R&D Changes in the raw material supplier field, such as Kemira’s Research and Development is a critical enabler for consolidation or decreasing capacity, may increase raw organic growth and further differentiation. New product material prices. Also, material demand changes in induslaunches contribute both to the efficiency and sustaintries that are the main users of certain raw materials may ability of Kemira’s customers’ processes as well as to the lead to significant raw material price fluctuations. Poor improved profitability. Both Kemira’s future market position availability of certain raw materials may affect Kemira’s and profitability depend on its ability to understand and production if Kemira fails to prepare for this by mapping meet current and future customer needs and market out alternative suppliers or opportunities for process trends and its ability to innovate new differentiated changes. Raw material and commodity risks can be products and applications. Failure to innovate or focus on effectively monitored and managed with Kemira's centralnew disruptive technologies and products may result in ized Sourcing unit. Risk management measures include, for non-achievement of growth and profitability targets. instance, forward-looking forecasting of key raw materials Innovationand R&D-related risks are being managed and commodities, synchronization of raw material purthrough efficient R&D portfolio management in close chase agreements and sales agreements, strategic collaboration between R&D and business segments. investment in energy-generating companies, and hedging a Kemira has further improved the coordination and coopportion of the energy and electricity spend. eration between Business Development, R&D, and Sales units in order to better understand the future needs and SUPPLIERS expectations of its customers. Increased focus towards the The continuity of Kemira’s business operations is dependdevelopment of more differentiated and sustainable ent on accurate and a good-quality supply of products and products and processes has been continued through services. Kemira has currently numerous partnerships and innovation training for management, innovation contest other agreements in place with third-party product and and the establishment of an internal Innovation Commuservice suppliers to secure its business continuity. Certain nity. Kemira is also continuously monitoring the sales of its products used as raw materials are considered critical as new products and applications (launched into the market the purchase can be made economically only from a sole or within the last 5 years). single source. In the event of a sudden and significant loss or interruption of such raw material supply, Kemira’s ACQUISITIONS operations could be impacted, and this could have further Acquisitions can be considered as an important driver in effects on Kemira’s ability to accomplish its profitability the accomplishment of corporate goals and strategies. targets. Ineffective procurement planning, supply source Consolidations are driven by, for instance, chemical selection, and contract administration, as well as inadmanufacturers’ interests in realizing synergies and estabequate supplier relationship management, create a risk of lishing footholds in new markets. Kemira’s market position Kemira not being able to fulfill its promises to customers. may deteriorate if it is unable to find and take advantage of Kemira continuously aims to identify, analyze, and future acquisition opportunities. Inorganic growth through engage third-party suppliers in a way that ensures security acquisitions also involves risks, such as the ability to of supply and competitive pricing of the end products and 14 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 services. Collaborative relationships with key suppliers are EVENTS AFTER THE REVIEW PERIOD being developed in order to uncover and realize new value and reduce risk. Supplier performance is also regularly PROPOSALS OF THE NOMINATION BOARD TO monitored as a part of the supplier performance manageTHE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2015 ment process. Kemira Nomination Board proposed to the Annual General Meeting of Kemira Oyj that six members be elected to the TALENT MANAGEMENT Board of Directors and that the present members Wolfgang To secure the competitiveness and growth, as well as to Büchele, Winnie Fok, Juha Laaksonen, Timo Lappalainen, improve operative efficiency, it is essential to attract and Jari Paasikivi and Kerttu Tuomas be re-elected as members retain personnel with the right skills and competences. of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Nomination Board Kemira is continuously identifying high potentials and key proposes Jari Paasikivi to be elected as the Chairman of competencies for the future needs. By systematical the Board of Directors and Kerttu Tuomas to be elected as development and improvement of compensation schemes, the Vice Chairman. learning programs, and career development programs, The Nomination Board proposed to the Annual General Kemira aims to ensure the continuity of skilled personnel Meeting that the annual fees paid to the members of the also in the future. Board of Directors would increase. The annual fee is A detailed account of the Kemira’s risk management proposed to be increased to EUR 80,000 from EUR 74,000 principles and organization is available on the company’s per year to the Chairman, to EUR 49,000 from EUR 45,000 website at http://www.kemira.com. An account of the per year to the Vice Chairman and the Chairman of the financial risks is available in the Notes to the Financial Audit Committee and to EUR 39,000 from EUR 36,000 per Statements 2014. year to the other members. A fee payable for each meeting of the Board of Directors and the Board Committees is proposed to remain unchanged. A fee payable for each OTHER EVENTS DURING THE REVIEW PERIOD meeting would thus be as follows; EUR 600 to members residing in Finland, EUR 1,200 to the members residing in On March 6, 2014, Kemira closed the divestment of formic rest of Europe and EUR 2,400 to the members residing acid business including the feed and airport runway outside Europe. Travel expenses are proposed to be paid de-icing product lines, which had formed the major part of according to Kemira's travel policy. the ChemSolutions segment. After the closure, the remainIn addition, the Nomination Board proposed to the ing sodium percarbonate business in ChemSolutions Annual General Meeting that the annual fee be paid as a segment was transferred to Paper segment and combination of the company's shares and cash in such a ChemSolutions segment was discontinued at the beginning manner that 40% of the annual fee will be paid with the of Q2 2014. The figures for Q1 2013-Q1 2014 have been company's shares owned by the company or, if this is not restated according to the new structure. possible, shares purchased from the market, and 60% will On July 8, 2014 Kemira announced a preliminary be paid in cash. The shares will be transferred to the agreement to acquire AkzoNobel's global paper chemicals members of the Board of Directors and, if necessary, business. The closing of the transaction is expected in the acquired directly on behalf of the members of the Board of first quarter of 2015 and is subject to the customary Directors within two weeks after the release of Kemira's closing conditions, including completion of employee Interim Report January 1-March 31, 2015. The meeting fees consultation proceedings and approvals of competition are proposed to be paid in cash. authorities in certain countries. At closing, AkzoNobel’s The Nomination Board has consisted of the following paper chemical business will be reported entirely in the representatives: Pekka Paasikivi, Chairman of the Board of Paper segment. The acquisition includes products for Oras Invest Oy as the Chairman of the Nomination Board; retention and sizing, as well as other paper chemicals, Kari Järvinen, Managing Director of Solidium Oy; Risto including wet strength and coating products. More than Murto, President and CEO of Varma Mutual Pension 50% of the business serves packaging board and tissue Insurance Company and Timo Ritakallio, CEO of Ilmarinen industries. The scope of the transaction includes 16 Mutual Pension Insurance Company as members of the manufacturing sites of which 6 sites and approximately Nomination Board and Jari Paasikivi, Chairman of Kemira's 400 employees will be transferred to Kemira.10 sites will Board of Directors as an expert member. remain as AkzoNobel sites with contract manufacturing to Kemira. Kemira will increase the capacity of its own paper chemical manufacturing sites during 2015–2016 in order to DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY (REVISED) realize expected production synergies. Kemira expects the capital expenditure required for the capacity increase to On December 31, 2014, Kemira Oyj’s distributable funds range between EUR 20–30 million. The production sites to totaled EUR 600,226,586 net profit, which accounted for be transferred to Kemira are located in Spain, Italy, South EUR -1,279,154 for the period. No material changes have Korea, Thailand, Indonesia, and Australia. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REVIEW 2014 15 2014 taken place in the company’s financial position after the In addition, Kemira expects its medium-term operative tax balance sheet date. rate to be in the range of 22%–25%. This rate excludes Kemira Oyj’s Board of Directors proposes to the Annual non-recurring items. General Meeting to be held on March 23, 2015 that a The basis for growth is the expanding market for chemidividend of EUR 0.53 per share totaling EUR 81 million shall cals and Kemira’s expertise that helps customers in water be paid on the basis of the adopted balance sheet for the intensive industries to increase their water, energy and raw financial year ended December 31, 2014. material efficiency. The need to increase operational Kemira revised dividend policy aiming to pay a stable efficiency in our customer industries creates opportunities and competitive dividend. for Kemira to develop new products and services for both current and new customers. Research and Development is a critical enabler of organic growth for Kemira, providing KEMIRA’S FINANCIAL TARGETS 2017 AND differentiation capabilities in its relevant markets. Kemira OUTLOOK 2015 will invest in innovation, technical expertise, and competencies in its selected focus areas. Kemira will continue to focus on improving its profitability and operative cash flow. The company will also continue to OUTLOOK FOR 2015 invest in order to secure future growth serving selected In 2015, Kemira will focus on profitable growth both water intensive industries. organically and inorganically. Kemira’s revenue in 2015 is expected to increase compared to 2014 and operative The company’s financial targets for 2017 are: EBITDA in 2015 to remain approximately at the same level • revenue EUR 2.7 billion or increase compared to 2014. The outlook excludes the • Operative EBITDA-% of revenue 15% impact of AkzoNobel paper chemical business (acquisition • gearing level <60%. expected to close in the first quarter of 2015). At closing, AkzoNobel paper chemical business is expected to add Kemira expects its capital expenditure-to-sales ratio to revenue of more than EUR 200 million on an annualized increase in the next few years from the 2014 level of 6.3%. basis. Helsinki, February 9, 2015 Kemira Oyj Board of Directors All forward-looking statements in this review are based on the management’s current expectations and beliefs about future events, and actual results may differ materially from the expectations and beliefs such statements contain. 16 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Group Key Figures GROUP KEY FIGURES FINANCIAL FIGURES 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 INCOME STATEMENT AND PROFITABILITY Revenue, EUR million 1) 2,137 2,229 2,241 2,207 2,161 Operating profit, EUR million 2) 3) 153 43 33 158 156 % of revenue 7 2 1 7 7 Share of profit or loss of associates, EUR million 1) 2) 0 -1 11 31 9 Finance income and costs (net), EUR million 1) 31 39 16 21 27 % of revenue 1 2 1 1 1 Interest cover 1) 2) 3) 8 4 11 12 10 Profit before tax, EUR million 1) 3) 122 3 29 168 138 % of revenue 6 0 1 8 6 Net profit for the period (attributable to equity owners of the parent), EUR million 1) 3) 90 -32 18 136 111 Return on investment (ROI), % 3) 4) 8 1 3 9 7 Return of equity (ROE), % 3) 8 -3 1 10 9 Return on capital employed (ROCE), % 3) 11 3 3 11 10 Research and development expenses, EUR million 1) 28 32 42 40 42 % of revenue 1 1 2 2 2 CASH FLOW Net cash generated from operating activities, EUR million 74 200 176 178 133 Disposals of subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, EUR million 146 193 30 137 -6 Capital expenditure, EUR million 145 198 134 201 107 % of revenue 7 9 6 9 5 Cash flow before financing, EUR million 75 196 72 115 169 Cash flow return on capital invested (CFROI), % 3) 4 10 8 8 6 BALANCE SHEET AND SOLVENCY Non-current assets, EUR million 1,613 1,501 1,682 1,846 1,862 Shareholders' equity (Equity attributable to equity owners of the parent), EUR million 3) 1,151 1,113 1,247 1,358 1,340 Total equity includes non-controlling interests, EUR million 3) 1,163 1,126 1,261 1,371 1,366 Total liabilities, EUR million 1,132 1,086 1,202 1,306 1,178 Total assets, EUR million 3) 2,296 2,211 2,462 2,677 2,544 Interest-bearing net liabilities, EUR million 486 456 532 516 536 Equity ratio, % 3) 51 51 51 51 54 Gearing, % 3) 42 41 42 38 39 Interest-bearing net liabilities per EBITDA 3) 1.9 3.2 3.0 2.0 1.9 PERSONNEL Average number of personnel 4,285 4,632 5,043 5,006 5,608 of whom in Finland 823 1,027 1,173 1,145 1,241 EXCHANGE RATES Key exchange rates at 31 Dec USD 1.214 1.379 1.319 1.294 1.336 SEK 9.393 8.859 8.582 8.912 8.966 BRL 3.221 3.258 2.704 2.416 2.217 1) The financial figures for 2010 are presented without the spin-off effect of Tikkurila. 2) Share of profit or loss of associates is presented after finance expenses. 3) Comparative figures for 2012 have been restated according to the revised IAS 19 `Employee Benefits´. 4) The financial figure for 2013 has been restated. Finance costs have been decreased by EUR 23 million related to a write-down of the associate company of Sachtleben. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Group Key Figures 17 2014 NET LIABILITIES AND FINANCIAL EXPENSES 1–2) CASH FLOW GEARING EUR million % EUR million % 700 7 250 100 600 535.6 532.0 6 200.3 195.7 515.8 200 177.7 176.3 80 486.1 168.6 500 456.3 5 400 4 150 133.1 60 115.3 300 3 100 40 71.8 74.2 75.2 200 2 50 20 100 1 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ■ Interest bearing net liabilities ■ Net cash generated from operating ■ Comfort zone ■ Net financial expenses (% share of activities ■ Interest bearing liabilities divided by interest bearing net liabilities) ■ Cash flow after investments equity 1) Excluding Tikkurila 2010. 2) Excluding write-down of associate company of Sachtleben in 2013. EARNINGS PER SHARE 1) DIVIDEND PER SHARE 2) OPERATING EXPENSES EUR EUR 1.0 0.89 0.6 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.8 0.73 0.5 0.48 15% 0.59 0.6 0.4 0.4 15% 0.3 0.2 0.12 0.2 0 0.1 70% -0.2 -0.21 -0.4 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1) Excluding Tikkurila 2010. 2) The dividend for 2014 is the Board of ■ Material and services Director's proposal to the Annual General ■ Personnel expenses Meeting. ■ Other expenses CAPITAL EXPENDITURE BY CHARACTER REVENUE BY REGION CAPITAL EXPENDITURE BY SEGMENT 6% 15% 24% 36% 46% 39% 18% 58% 40% 18% ■ Maintenance ■ Finland, domicile of the parent ■ Paper ■ Improvement company ■ Oil & Mining ■ Expansion ■ Europe, Middle-East and Africa ■ Municipal & Industrial ■ America ■ Asia Pacific 18 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Group Key Figures GROUP KEY FIGURES PER SHARE FIGURES 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 PER SHARE FIGURES Earnings per share, continuing operations, basic and diluted, EUR 1) 3) 5) 0.59 -0.21 0.12 0.89 0.73 Earnings per share, basic and diluted, EUR 1) 3) 5) 0.59 -0.21 0.12 0.89 4.23 Cash flow from operations per share, EUR 1) 3) 0.49 1.32 1.16 1.17 0.88 Dividend per share, EUR 1) 2) 3) 4) 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.48 Dividend payout ratio, % 1) 2) 3) 4) 5) 89.6 -255.0 455.1 59.4 65.7 Dividend yield, % 1) 2) 4) 5.4 4.4 4.5 5.8 4.1 Equity per share, EUR 1) 5) 7.57 7.32 8.20 8.94 8.83 Price per earnings per share (P/E ratio) 1) 3) 5) 16.72 -58.50 101.51 10.28 16.01 Price per equity per share 1) 3) 5) 1.31 1.66 1.44 1.03 1.33 Price per cash flow from operations per share 1) 3) 20.24 9.23 10.18 7.85 13.34 Dividend paid, EUR million 2) 4) 80.6 80.6 80.6 80.6 72.8 SHARE PRICE AND TRADING Share price, year high, EUR 3) 12.27 13.02 12.00 12.67 13.19 Share price, year low, EUR 3) 9.11 10.55 8.00 7.80 7.89 Share price, year average, EUR 3) 10.87 11.76 10.10 10.49 10.15 Share price at 31 Dec, EUR 3) 9.89 12.16 11.81 9.18 11.70 Number of shares traded (1,000) 75,018 64,937 88,346 109,013 115,850 % on number of shares 49 42 57 70 75 Market capitalization at 31 Dec, EUR million 1) 1,503.8 1,848.8 1,795.6 1,395.6 1,775.3 NUMBER OF SHARES AND SHARE CAPITAL Average number of shares, basic (1,000) 1) 152,048 152,039 152,037 151,994 151,697 Average number of shares, diluted (1,000) 1) 152,203 152,179 152,173 152,152 152,017 Number of shares at 31 Dec, basic (1,000) 1) 152,051 152,042 152,041 152,030 151,735 Number of shares at 31 Dec, diluted (1,000) 1) 152,373 152,091 152,090 152,030 152,055 Increase in number of shares (1,000) 9 1 11 295 247 Share capital, EUR million 221.8 221.8 221.8 221.8 221.8 1) Number of shares outstanding, excluding the number of treasury shares. 2) The total cash dividend payout during 2010 for the financial year 2009 was EUR 41.0 million (EUR 0.27 per share), in addition to the Tikkurila shares which were distributed as a dividend to a total amount of EUR 599.3 million (EUR 3.95 per shares). Kemira distributed a total of 37,933,097 shares in Tikkurila to its shareholders as dividend. The purchase price of Tikkurila's share was EUR 15.80. Each Kemira's four shares entitled one Tikkurila's share as dividend. The share figures based on dividend are calculated in accordance with cash dividend. 3) For 2010 rights offering restated. 4) The dividend for 2014 is the Board of Director's proposal to the Annual General Meeting. 5) Comparative figures for 2012 have been restated according to the revised IAS 19 `Employee Benefits´. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Defenitions of Key Figures 19 2014 DEFINITIONS OF KEY FIGURES PER SHARE FIGURES FINANCIAL FIGURES EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) INTEREST-BEARING NET LIABILITIES Net profit attributable to equity owners of the parent Interest-bearing liabilities – cash and cash equivalents Average number of shares EQUITY RATIO, % CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS Total equity x 100 Cash flow from operations, after change in net working Total assets – prepayments received capital and before investing activities GEARING, % CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS PER SHARE Interest-bearing net liabilities x 100 Cash flow from operations Total equity Average number of shares INTEREST COVER DIVIDEND PER SHARE Operating profit + depreciation, amortization and impairments Dividend paid Net financial expenses Number of shares at 31 Dec RETURN ON INVESTMENTS (ROI), % DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO, % (Profit before taxes + interest expenses + other financial expenses) x 100 Dividend per share x 100 (Total assets – non-interest bearing liabilities) 1) Earnings per share (EPS) RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE), % DIVIDEND YIELD, % Net profit attributable to equity owners of the parent x 100 Dividend per share x 100 Equity attributable to equity owners of the parent 1) Share price at 31 Dec CASH FLOW RETURN ON INVESTMENT (CFROI), % EQUITY PER SHARE Cash flow from operations x 100 Equity attributable to equity owners of the parent at 31 Dec (Total assets – interest-free liabilities) 1) Number of shares at 31 Dec RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE), % SHARE PRICE, YEAR AVERAGE Operating profit + share of profit or loss of associates x 100 Shares traded (EUR) Capital employed 1) 2) Shares traded (volume) CAPITAL TURNOVER PRICE PER EARNINGS PER SHARE (P/E) Revenue Share price at 31 Dec Capital employed 1) 2) Earnings per share (EPS) INTEREST-BEARING NET LIABILITIES/EBITDA PRICE PER EQUITY PER SHARE Interest-bearing net liabilities Share price at 31 Dec Operating profit + depreciation, impairments and reversal of impairments Equity per share attributable to equity owners of the parent NET FINANCIAL COST, % PRICE PER CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS PER (Net financial expenses – dividend income – exchange rate differences) x 100 SHARE Interest-bearing net liabilities 1) Share price at 31 Dec Cash flow from operations per share 1) Average SHARE TURNOVER, % 2) Capital employed = Property, plant and equipment + intangible Number of shares traded x 100 assets + net working capital + investments in associates Average number of shares 20 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Consolidated Income Statement (EUR million) CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT (IFRS) Year ended 31 December Note 2014 2013 Revenue 2 2,136.7 2,229.1 Other operating income 3 55.2 15.2 Operating expenses 4, 5 -1,939.0 -2,102.4 Depreciation, amortization and impairment 6, 11, 12, 13 -100.3 -99.3 Operating profit 152.6 42.6 Finance income 7 4.6 4.4 Finance expense 7 -34.0 -45.9 Exchange differences 7 -1.3 2.5 Finance costs, net 7 -30.7 -39.0 Share of profit or loss of associates 2, 8 0.2 -1.1 Profit before tax 122.1 2.5 Income tax expense 9 -26.3 -28.4 Net profit for the period 95.8 -25.9 Net profit attributable to: Equity owners of the parent 89.9 -31.6 Non-controlling interests 19 5.9 5.7 Net profit for the period 95.8 -25.9 Earnings per share for net profit attributable to the equity owners of the parent company (EUR per share) Basic and diluted 10 0.59 -0.21 The notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (EUR million) 21 2014 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (IFRS) Year ended 31 December Note 2014 2013 Net profit for the period 95.8 -25.9 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Available-for-sale financial assets 50.0 -27.0 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 1.2 -17.7 Cash flow hedges 3.4 -2.3 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements on defined benefit pensions -26.6 22.6 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 9, 19 28.0 -24.4 Total comprehensive income for the period 123.8 -50.3 Total comprehensive income attributable to Equity owners of the parent 118.3 -55.4 Non-controlling interests 19 5.5 5.1 Total comprehensive income for the period 123.8 -50.3 Items in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income are disclosed net of tax. The income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in Note 9. The notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Consolidated Balance Sheet (EUR million) CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (IFRS) As at 31 December Note 2014 2013 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Goodwill 11 485.6 471.9 Other intangible assets 12 76.3 75.3 Property, plant and equipment 13 706.2 644.5 Investments in associates 8 0.9 0.8 Available-for-sale financial assets 14, 15 293.7 233.6 Deferred tax assets 22 33.7 36.0 Other investments 9.2 9.2 Defined benefit pension receivables 23 7.5 29.8 Total non-current assets 1,613.1 1,501.1 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 16 197.3 169.9 Interest-bearing receivables 15, 17 0.1 0.5 Trade and other receivables 15, 17 343.7 320.9 Current income tax assets 22.4 11.2 Cash and cash equivalents 29 119.1 102.0 Total current assets 682.6 604.5 Non-current assets classified as held-for-sale 18 105.4 Total assets 2,295.7 2,211.0 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY 19 Equity attributable to equity owners of the parent Share capital 221.8 221.8 Other equity 928.9 890.7 Equity attributable to equity owners of the parent 1,150.7 1,112.5 Non-controlling interests 12.6 13.0 Total equity 1,163.3 1,125.5 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Interest-bearing liabilities 15, 20, 21 448.3 279.9 Other liabilities 15 21.4 21.4 Deferred tax liabilities 22 46.4 43.5 Defined benefit pension liabilities 23 73.1 73.8 Provisions 24 23.6 27.3 Total non-current liabilities 612.8 445.9 CURRENT LIABILITIES Interest-bearing liabilities 15, 20, 21 156.9 278.4 Trade payables and other liabilities 15, 25 327.7 302.6 Current income tax liabilities 17.9 13.6 Provisions 24 17.1 25.2 Total current liabilities 519.6 619.8 Liabilities directly associated with the assets classified as held-for-sale 18 19.8 Total liabilities 1,132.4 1,085.5 Total equity and liabilities 2,295.7 2,211.0 The notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow (EUR million) 23 2014 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW (IFRS) Year ended 31 December Note 2014 2013 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net profit for the period 95.8 -25.9 Adjustments for Depreciation, amortization and impairment 6, 11, 12, 13 100.3 99.3 Income taxes 9 26.3 28.5 Finance expenses, net 7 30.7 39.0 Share of profit or loss of associates 8 -0.2 1.1 Other non-cash income and expenses not involving cash flow -64.3 60.2 Operating profit before change in net working capital 188.6 202.2 Change in net working capital Increase (-)/decrease (+) in inventories -17.6 -3.5 Increase (-)/decrease (+) in trade and other receivables -7.1 14.1 Increase (+)/decrease (-) in trade payables and other liabilities 5.3 14.1 Change in working capital -19.4 24.7 Cash generated from operations 169.2 226.9 Interest and other finance cost paid -25.8 -27.7 Interest and other finance income received 3.0 8.4 Realized exchange gains and losses -39.0 19.0 Dividends received 0.2 0.2 Income taxes paid -33.4 -26.5 Net cash generated from operating activities 74.2 200.3 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchases of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 27 0.6 -58.6 Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets -4.6 -4.1 Purchases of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets -141.1 -134.8 Change in long-term loan receivables decrease (+)/increase (-) 0.6 -0.5 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 26 130.0 87.5 Proceeds from sale of associates and paid-in-capital from associates 0.0 97.7 Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale financial assets 9.7 2.8 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 5.8 5.4 Net cash used in investing activities 1.0 -4.6 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from non-current interest-bearing liabilities (+) 245.0 0.0 Repayment from non-current interest-bearing liabilities (-) -62.6 -95.1 Short-term financing, net increase (+)/decrease (-) -152.9 -32.6 Dividends paid -86.0 -85.1 Other finance items 0.1 -1.1 Net cash used in financing activities -56.4 -213.9 Net decrease (-)/increase (+) in cash and cash equivalents 18.8 -18.2 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec 119.1 102.0 Exchange gains (+)/losses (-) on cash and cash equivalents -1.7 -3.4 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 Jan 102.0 123.6 Net decrease (-)/increase (+) in cash and cash equivalents 18.8 -18.2 The notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 24 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (EUR million) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (IFRS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT Fair value and Unrestricted Share capital Total equity Exchange NonShare Treasury Retained other reserves controlling premium equity reserve differences shares earnings Total interests Equity at January 1, 2013 221.8 257.9 93.7 196.3 -23.1 -22.2 523.0 1,247.4 13.2 1,260.6 Net profit for the period -31.6 -31.6 5.7 -25.9 Other comprehensive income, net of tax -29.3 -17.1 22.6 -23.8 -0.6 -24.4 Total comprehensive income -29.3 -17.1 -9.0 -55.4 5.1 -50.3 Transactions with owners Dividends paid -80.6 -80.6 -4.5 -85.1 Returned treasury shares -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 Treasury shares issued to the Board of Directors 0.1 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments 0.2 0.2 0.2 Changes due to business combinations -0.5 1.3 0.8 -0.8 0.0 Transfers in equity 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 Other changes 0.1 0.1 0.1 Transactions with owners -0.4 0.0 -79.1 -79.5 -5.3 -84.8 Equity at December 31, 2013 221.8 257.9 64.0 196.3 -40.2 -22.2 434.9 1,112.5 13.0 1,125.5 Equity at January 1, 2014 221.8 257.9 64.0 196.3 -40.2 -22.2 434.9 1,112.5 13.0 1,125.5 Net profit for the period 89.9 89.9 5.9 95.8 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 53.4 1.6 -26.6 28.4 -0.4 28.0 Total comprehensive income 53.4 1.6 63.3 118.3 5.5 123.8 Transactions with owners Dividends paid -80.6 -80.6 -5.4 -86.0 Treasury shares issued to the Board of Directors 0.1 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 Changes due to business combinations 0.5 0.5 -0.5 0.0 Transfers in equity 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Transactions with owners 0.0 0.1 -80.2 -80.1 -5.9 -86.0 Equity at December 31, 2014 221.8 257.9 117.4 196.3 -38.6 -22.1 418.0 1,150.7 12.6 1,163.3 The notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 25 2014 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 2 1. THE GROUP’S ACCOUNTING Finnish accounting and corporate legislation, which POLICIES FOR THE supplement the IFRS regulations. 3 The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL in million euros and have been prepared based on histori4 STATEMENTS cal cost excluding the items measured at fair value that are 5 available-for-sale financial assets, financial assets and 6 The principal accounting policies applied in the preparaliabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and sharetion of these Consolidated Financial Statements are set based payments on the date of grant. 7 out below. These policies have been consistently applied to The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements 8 all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to 9 exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Group’s 10 GROUP PROFILE accounting policies. The areas which need a higher degree of judgment and significant to the Consolidated Financial 11 Kemira is a global chemicals company serving customers Statements are described below in section “Critical in water-intensive industries. The company provides accounting estimates and judgments”. 12 expertise, application know-how and chemicals that 13 improve its customers’ water, energy and raw material efficiency. Kemira’s three segments Paper, Oil & Mining and CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND 14 Municipal & Industrial focus on customers in pulp & paper, DISCLOSURES 15 oil & gas, mining and water treatment. The Group’s parent company is Kemira Oyj. The parent NEW AND AMENDED IFRS STANDARDS ADOPTED IN 2014 16 company is domiciled in Helsinki, Finland, and its regisThe following new and revised IFRSs have been adopted in 17 tered address is Porkkalankatu 3, FI-00180 Helsinki, these Consolidated Financial Statements. The application Finland. The parent company is listed on NASDAQ OMX of these new and revised IFRSs has not had any material 18 Helsinki. A copy of the Consolidated Financial Statements impact on the amounts reported for the current and prior 19 is available at www.kemira.com. but may affect the accounting for future transactions and The Board of Directors of Kemira Oyj has approved the events. 20 Financial Statements for publication at its meeting on • IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements. The February 9, 2015. Under the Finnish Limited Liability standard establishes control as the base for consolida21 Companies Act, the shareholders may accept or reject the tion. Additionally, the standard provides further 22 Financial Statements at the General Meeting of Shareholdguidance on how to apply principles of control when it ers held after their publication. The meeting also has the is challenging to assess. 23 power to make a decision to amend the Financial State• IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. The standard emphases 24 ments. the rights and obligations of the joint arrangement rather than its legal form in the accounting. The 25 arrangements are divided into two: joint operations and 26 BASIS OF PREPARATION FOR THE joint ventures. The standard requires joint ventures to CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS be accounted for using equity method of accounting. 27 Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer 28 The Group has prepared its Consolidated Financial Stateallowed. ments in accordance with IAS and IFRS (International • IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities. The 29 Financial Reporting Standards) and the related SIC and standard includes disclosure requirements for all forms IFRIC interpretations, issued by the IASB (International of interests in other entities, including joint arrange30 Accounting Standards Board). In the Finnish Accounting ments, associates, special purpose vehicles and other, 31 Act and the statutes under it, the International Financial off balance sheet vehicles. Reporting Standards refer to the endorsed standards and • IAS 27 (revised 2011) Separate Financial Statements. 32 their interpretations under the European Union Regulation The revised standard includes the requirements for 33 No. 1606/2002, regarding the adoption of the International separate financial statements that are left after the Financial Reporting Standards applicable within the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the 34 Community. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial new IFRS 10. 35 Statements also comply with the requirements of the • IAS 28 (revised 2011) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. The revised standard includes require26 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note ments for both joint operations and associates to be allows reporters to reflect risk management activities accounted by using equity method of accounting after in the financial statements more closely as it provides 1 IFRS 11 was issued. more opportunities to apply hedge accounting. The 2 • Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentastandard has not yet been endorsed by EU. tion. The amendment clarifies the conditions for net • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 3 presentation of financial assets and liabilities and (effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 4 introduces some additional application guidance. January 1, 2017). IFRS 15 establishes a single compre• Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets: Recoverhensive model for entities to use in accounting for 5 able Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets. The revenue arising from contracts with customers. Its core overall effect of the amendments is to clarify the principle is that an entity should recognise revenue to 6 disclosure requirements on those cash generating units depict the transfer of promised goods or services to 7 which have been subject to impairment. customers in an amount that reflects the consideration • Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognito which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange 8 tion and Measurement: Novation of Derivatives and for those goods or services. IFRS 15 will supersede the 9 Continuation of Hedge Accounting. The amendments current revenue recognition guidance including IAS 18 allow the continuation of hedge accounting under IAS Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and the related 10 39 when a derivative is novated to a clearing counterInterpretations. The standard has not yet been 11 party and certain conditions are met. endorsed by EU. • Amendment to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial State• Amendment to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements (effective 12 ments, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 for reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 13 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities. The amend2016). The amendments to IFRS 11 provide guidance on ment provides additional transition relief by limiting the how to account for the acquisition of an interest in a 14 requirement to provide adjusted comparative informajoint operation in which the activities constitute a tion to only the preceding comparative period. business as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations. 15 • Amendment to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial StateThe amendment has not yet been endorsed by EU. 16 ments, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities • Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements. The amendand IAS 38 Tangible Assets: Clarification of Acceptable 17 ment provides 'investment entities' (as defined) an Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation (effective for 18 exemption from the consolidation of particular subsidireporting periods beginning on or after January 1, aries and instead require that an investment entity 2016). The amendments to IAS 16 prohibit entities from 19 measure the investment in each eligible subsidiary at using a revenue-based depreciation method for items 20 fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS of property, plant and equipment. The amendments to 9 or IAS 39. IAS 38 introduce a rebuttable presumption that revenue 21 is not an appropriate basis for amortisation of an 22 APPLICATION OF NEW AND REVISED IFRSs IN ISSUE BUT NOT intangible asset. The amendments have not yet been YET EFFECTIVE endorsed by EU. 23 IASB has published the following new or revised standards • Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and interpretations which the Group has not yet adopted. and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants (effective for 24 The Group will adopt each standard and interpretation as reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 25 from the effective date, or if the effective date is other than 2016). The amendments define a bearer plant and the first day of the reporting period, from the beginning of require biological assets that meet the definition of a 26 the next reporting period after the effective date. The bearer plant to be accounted for as property, plant and 27 effects of these new and amended standards and interpreequipment in accordance with IAS 16, instead of IAS 41. tations are under investigation. The amendments have not yet been endorsed by EU. 28 • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective for reporting • Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee 29 periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018). IFRS 9 is Contributions (effective for reporting periods beginning a several phase project which aims to replace IAS 39 on or after 1 July 2014). The amendments to IAS 19 30 with a new standard. According to the finalised clasclarify how an entity should account for contributions 31 sification and measurement part of IFRS 9, financial made by employees or third parties that are linked to assets are classified and measured based on entity’s services to defined benefit plans, based on whether 32 business model and the contractual cash flow characthose contributions are dependent on the number of teristics of the financial asset. Classification and years of service provided by the employee. Retrospec33 measurement of financial liabilities is mainly based on tive application is required. 34 the current IAS 39 principles. The new impairment • Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 and 2011– model reflects an expected credit loss model, as 2013 (both effective for reporting periods beginning on 35 opposed to incurred credit losses model under IAS 39. or after 1 July 2014) and Annual Improvements to IFRSs The finalised general hedge accounting model of IFRS 9 2012–2014 (effective for reporting periods beginning on CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 27 2014 or after 1 January 2016). In the annual improvement controlling interests is stated as an individual item Note process the non-urgent but necessary amendments to separately from equity to the equity holders of the parent. 1 IFRS are collected and issued annually. The nature of Total comprehensive income shows separately the total the improvements depends on the standards, but they amounts attributable to the equity holders of the parent 2 do not have material impact on the consolidated and to non-controlling interests. The Group recognizes financial statements. negative non-controlling interests, unless non-controlling 3 • IFRIC 21 Levies (effective for reporting periods begininterests have a binding obligation to cover losses up to the 4 ning on or after January 1, 2014). The interpretation amount of their investment. provides guidance on when to recognise a liability for a If the parent company’s ownership interest in a subsidi5 levy imposed by a government. The interpretation has ary is reduced but the control is retained, the transactions 6 been endorsed by the EU on 14 June 2014. are treated as equity transactions. When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any retained 7 interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, and the 8 CONSOLIDATION difference is recognized in profit or loss. 9 SUBSIDIARIES ASSOCIATES 10 The Consolidated Financial Statements include the parent Associated companies are companies over which the Group company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are all entities exercises significant influence (voting rights generally 11 over which the Group has control. The Group controls an being 20–50 percent) but not control. Holdings in associentity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, ated companies are consolidated using the equity method. 12 variable returns from its involvement with the entity and If the Group’s share of an associate’s losses exceeds the 13 has the ability to affect those returns through its power carrying amount of the investment, the exceeding losses over the entity. The Group’s subsidiaries are presented in will not be consolidated unless the Group has a commit14 the Note 34. ment to fulfill obligations on behalf of the associate. The 15 Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on Group’s share of the associated companies’ net profit for which control is transferred to the Group. They are dethe financial year is stated as a separate item in the 16 consolidated from the date that control ceases. consolidated income statement after operating profit, in 17 All intra-group transactions are eliminated. Intra-group proportion to the Group’s holdings. The Group’s share of its shareholdings are eliminated by using the acquisition associates’ movements in other comprehensive income is 18 method. The consideration transferred for the acquisition recognized in Group’s other comprehensive income. The 19 of a subsidiary is defined as an aggregate of the fair values Group’s associates do not have such items for financial of the assets transferred, the liabilities assumed and the years 2013–2014. The Group’s associates are presented in 20 equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration the Note 8. transferred may include the fair value of any asset or 21 liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangeJOINT ARRANGEMENTS 22 ment. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and 23 liabilities assumed in a business combination are measobligations of each investor. The Group had no joint 24 ured at their fair values at the acquisition date. On an arrangements for financial years 2013–2014. acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognizes any 25 non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value 26 or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION the acquiree’s net assets. 27 The amount that exceeds that aggregate of consideraItems included in the financial statements of each of the 28 tion transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest Group’s entities are measured by using the currency of the in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any primary economic environment in which the entity operates 29 previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value (‘the functional currency’). The Consolidated Financial of the Group’s share of the net assets acquired is recorded Statements are presented in euro, which is the Group’s 30 as goodwill. If this is less than the fair value of the net presentation currency and the parent company’s functional 31 assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain currency. purchase, the difference is recognized directly in the In the Consolidated Financial Statements, the income 32 income statement. statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into euro 33 Net profit or loss for the financial year and other using the financial year’s average foreign currency comprehensive income attributable to the equity holders of exchange rates, and the balance sheets are translated 34 the parent and non-controlling interests are presented in using the exchange rates quoted on the balance sheet date. 35 the income statement and in the statement of comprehenRetranslating the net profit for the period and the other sive income. The portion of equity attributable to noncomprehensive income using different exchange rates in 28 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note the income statement and in the balance sheet causes a employee service in the current and prior periods. A translation difference recognized in equity in the balance defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined 1 sheet; the change in this translation difference is precontribution plan. 2 sented under other comprehensive income. Goodwill and Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of the pension benefit that an employee will receive on retire3 assets and liabilities that arise from the acquisition of a ment, usually dependent on one or more factors such as 4 foreign entity are accounted for as part of the assets and compensation and years of service. liabilities of the foreign entity, and translated into euro at The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect 5 the rate quoted on the balance sheet date. of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the Translation differences arising from net investment in defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting 6 foreign subsidiaries affecting equity are stated as an period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined 7 increase or decrease in other comprehensive income. When benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent the Group ceases to have control over a subsidiary, the actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The 8 accumulated translation difference is transferred into the present value of the defined benefit obligation is deter9 income statement as part of gain or loss on sale. mined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows In their day-to-day accounting, the Group companies using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that 10 translate foreign currency transactions into their functional are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will 11 currency at the exchange rates quoted on the transaction be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to date. In the Financial Statements, foreign currency denomthe terms of the related pension obligation. In countries 12 inated receivables and liabilities are measured at the where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market 13 exchange rates quoted on the balance sheet date, and rates on government bonds are used. non-monetary items using the rates quoted on the transacActuarial gains and losses arising from experience 14 tion date. Any foreign exchange gains and losses related to adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are business operations are treated as adjustments to sales charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive 15 and purchases. Exchange rate differences associated with income in the period in which they arise. 16 financing transactions and the hedging of the Group’s Past-service costs are recognized immediately in overall foreign currency position are stated in foreign income statements. 17 exchange gains or losses under financial income and For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contri18 expenses. butions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary 19 basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once 20 REVENUE RECOGNITION the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense when they are 21 Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration due. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to 22 received or receivable, and represents the total invoicing the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future value of products sold and services rendered less; sales payments is available. 23 tax, discounts and foreign exchange differences in trade The Group’s defined benefit plans are presented in the receivables as adjusting items. Note 23. 24 The revenue from sale of goods is recognized in the 25 income statement when the major risks and rewards related to the ownership of the goods have been transSHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 26 ferred to the buyer. 27 The Group has equity-settled share-based compensation plans for key personnel and management board members, 28 PENSION OBLIGATIONS under which the Group receives services from employees 29 as consideration for equity instrument of the Group. The The Group has post-employment schemes, including both potential rewards are provided partly in shares and partly 30 defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans in in cash. The potential reward provided in shares is recog31 accordance with the local conditions and practices in the nized as a personnel expense in the income statement and countries in which it operates. Pension plans are generally in the equity. Correspondingly, the rewards provided in cash 32 funded through contributions to insurance companies or a are recognized as a personnel expense in the income separate pension fund. statement and in liabilities. The total expense is recognized 33 A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under over the vesting period, which is the period over which the 34 which the group pays fixed contributions into a separate specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to Share-based compensation expense is determined on 35 pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufthe grant date based on the Group's estimate of the ficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to number of shares that are expected to vest at the end of CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 29 2014 the vesting period. Based on the vesting conditions, the authority on either the same taxable entity or different Note Group revises its estimates of the number of shares taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the 1 expected to vest based on the balance sheet date. It balances on a net basis. recognizes the potential impact of the revision to original 2 estimates in the income statement as a personnel expense, with the corresponding adjustment made to equity and INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND PROPERTY, PLANT 3 liabilities at fair value. AND EQUIPMENT 4 Notes 5 and 32 provide information on share-based payment arrangements for key personnel and management Goodwill arises from business combinations. Goodwill 5 board members. represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the 6 amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity 7 CURRENT AND DEFERRED INCOME TAX interest in the acquire over the fair value of the identifiable 8 net assets acquired. Goodwill is measured at cost less The Group’s tax expense for the period comprises current accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is tested for 9 tax, adjustments prior tax periods and deferred tax. Tax is impairment annually and whenever there is any indication 10 recognized in the income statement, except in the case it that an asset may be impaired. For this purpose, goodwill is relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income allocated to cash-generating units. 11 or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognized Development costs are capitalized as intangible assets in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. when it can be shown that a development project will 12 The current income tax charge is calculated based on generate probable future economic benefit, and the costs 13 tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance attributable to the development project can reliably be sheet date in the countries where the company and its measured. Capitalized development costs are presented as 14 subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. Mana separate item and amortized over their useful lives of a 15 agement periodically evaluates positions taken in tax maximum of eight years. Capitalized development costs returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax include material, labor and testing costs, and any capital16 regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes ized borrowing costs that are directly attributable to 17 provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts bringing the asset ready for its intended use. Other expected to be paid to the tax authorities. development costs that do not meet these criteria are 18 Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs 19 method, on temporary differences arising between the tax previously recognized as an expense are not recognized as bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts an asset in the subsequent periods. 20 in the Consolidated Financial Statements. However, Other intangible assets include for instance software deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise from and software licenses as well as customer relationships 21 the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transacand technologies bases acquired in business combina22 tion other than a business combination that at the time of tions. Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and intangible the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable assets (with definite useful lives) are measured at cost less 23 profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax accumulated depreciation and amortization and any 24 rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially impairment losses. The Group has no intangible assets that enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to have an indefinite useful life other than goodwill. 25 apply when the related deferred income tax asset is Land is not depreciated. Depreciation/amortization is 26 realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. calculated on a straight-line basis over the asset’s useful Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the life. The most commonly applied depreciation/amortization 27 extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be periods according to the Group’s accounting policies are: 28 available against which the temporary differences can be • Buildings and constructions 25 years utilized. • Machinery and equipment 3–15 years 29 Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differ• Intangible assets 5–10 years ences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associ30 ates, except for deferred income tax liability where the The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed 31 timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is at least at the end of each financial year. Gains and losses controlled by the Group and it is probable that the tempoon the sale of non-current assets are included in other 32 rary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. operating income and expenses, respectively. Borrowing 33 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset in costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construcsuch cases, when there is a legally enforceable right to tion of a qualifying asset are capitalized as part of the cost 34 offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and of the asset in question when it is probable that they will 35 when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities generate future economic benefit and the costs can be relate to the income taxes levied by the same taxation reliably measured. The costs of major inspections or the 30 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note overhaul of asset performed at regular intervals and FINANCIAL ASSETS, FINANCIAL LIABILITIES identified as separate components are capitalized and AND DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS 1 depreciated over their useful lives. 2 Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for When a financial asset or a financial liability is initially use and it ceases at the moment that the asset is derecogrecognized on the trade date, it is measured at cost, which 3 nized. equals the fair value of the consideration given or received. 4 The Group’s financial assets are classified for subsequent measurement as financial assets at fair value through 5 GOVERNMENT GRANTS profit or loss, loans and receivables issued by the Group, and available-for-sale financial assets. 6 Government grants for investments are recognized as a 7 deduction from the carrying amount of these assets. The CATEGORY FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MEASUREMENT grants are recognized in the income statement as smaller 8 Financial Currency forward contracts, Fair value depreciations over the asset’s useful life. Government assets at fair currency options, currency 9 grants for research activities are deducted from expenses. value through swaps, interest rate forwards, profit or loss interest rate futures, interest 10 rate options, interest rate swaps, electricity forwards, 11 LEASES natural gas derivatives, certificates of deposit, commercial 12 Leases involving tangible assets, in which the Group acts papers, units in mutual funds, embedded derivatives 13 as a lessee, are classified as finance leases if substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the Loans and Non-current loan receivables, (Amortized) cost 14 Group. receivables bank deposits, trade receivables and other Upon the commencement of the lease term, the finance receivables 15 lease assets are recognized at the lower of the fair value of Available-forShares, bond investments Fair value 16 the leased asset and the present value of the minimum sale financial lease payments. These assets and related rental obligaassets 17 tions are presented as part of the Group’s non-current 18 assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In respect of the finance lease contracts, depreciation on the leased assets FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH INCOME 19 and interest expenses from the related liability are shown STATEMENTS 20 in the income statement. Rents paid based on operating Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are leases are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease measured at fair value. Fair value is the amount for which 21 terms. an asset could be exchanged or loans paid between 22 When the Group is a lessor, it recognizes assets held knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transacunder a finance lease as receivables in the balance sheet. tion. These derivative contracts to which hedge accounting 23 Assets held under operating leases are included in PP&E. in accordance with IAS 39 is not applied are classified as Also the arrangements that are not leases in their legal financial assets held for trading. These are classified as 24 form but convey the rights to use assets in return for a financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. In the 25 payment or series of payments are treated as leases. balance sheet, these items are shown under prepaid expenses and accrued income and accrued expenses and 26 prepaid income. Any gains or losses arising from changes in 27 INVENTORIES fair value are recognized through profit or loss on the transaction date in financial items. 28 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net 29 realizable value. Costs are determined on a first-in first-out LOANS AND RECEIVABLES (FIFO) basis or by using a weighted average cost formula, Loans and receivables include non-current receivables 30 depending on the nature of the inventory. The cost of carried at amortized cost using the effective interest rate 31 finished goods and work in progress include the proportion method and accounting for any impairment. of production overheads of the normal capacity. The net 32 realizable value is the sales price received in the ordinary AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS course of business less the estimated costs for completing Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair 33 the asset and the sales costs. value if it is considered that fair value can be determined 34 reliably. Unrealized changes in fair value of financial assets available for sale are recognized in other comprehensive 35 income and presented under equity in the fair value reserve taking the tax effect into account. Accumulated changes in CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 31 2014 fair value are transferred to the income statement as a between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value Note reclassification adjustment when the investment is of estimated future cash flows from the receivable. This is 1 divested or it has been impaired to the extent that an discounted at the financial asset’s original effective impairment loss has to be recognized. Available-for-sale interest rate. For items measured at fair value, the fair 2 financial assets include non-listed companies, the sharevalue determines the amount of impairment. Impairment holdings in Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO) and Teollisuuden charges are recognized under financial items in the income 3 Voima Oyj (TVO) representing the largest investments. statement. 4 PVO and its subsidiary TVO comprise a private electricThe Group sells certain trade receivables to finance ity-generating group owned by Finnish manufacturing and companies within the framework of limits stipulated in the 5 power companies, to which it supplies electricity at cost. agreement. The credit risk associated with these sold 6 PVO Group owns and operates, among others, two nuclear receivables and contractual rights to the financial assets in power plant units in Olkiluoto in the municipality of question are transferred from the Group on the selling date. 7 Eurajoki. The Group has A and C series shares in TVO and A, The related expenses are recognized in the financial 8 B, C, G, H and M series shares in PVO. Different share series expenses. entitle the shareholder to electricity generated by different 9 power plants. The owners of each share series are responFINANCIAL LIABILITIES 10 sible for the fixed costs of the series in question in proporFinancial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at tion to the number of the shares, regardless of whether fair value through profit or loss and other financial liabili11 they use their power or energy share or not, and for variable ties. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss costs in proportion to the amount of energy used. include derivatives to which hedge accounting is not 12 Kemira Oyj’s holding in PVO Group that entitles to the applied. 13 electricity from completed power plants is measured at fair value based on the discounted cash flow resulting from the 14 CATEGORY FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MEASUREMENT difference between the market price of electricity and the 15 cost price. In the Financial Statements for 2014 the Group Financial Currency forward contracts, Fair value liabilities currency options, currency has adopted the revised PVO/TVO shares valuation model. at fair value swaps, interest rate forwards, 16 The forward electricity price quotations in Finland area through profit interest rate futures, interest or loss rate options, interest rate 17 published by the Nordic Electricity Exchange have been swaps, electricity forwards, used as the market price for electricity of the first five natural gas derivatives, 18 years and after this the development of the prices based embedded derivatives 19 on a fundamental simulation model of the Nordic electricOther Current and non-current (Amortized) cost ity market. The impact of inflation in the coming years is financial loans, pension loans, bond 20 taking into account in the price of electricity and the cost liabilities and trade payables prices. The cost prices are determined by each share 21 series. Future cash flows have been discounted based on 22 the estimated useful lives of the plants related to each DERIVATIVES share series, and hydro power includes terminal value. The The fair values of currency, interest rate and commodity 23 discount rate has been calculated using the annually derivatives, currency options and units in mutual funds as 24 determined average weighted cost of capital. well as publicly traded shares are based on prices quoted More information on PVO Group's fair value determinain active markets on the balance sheet date. The value of 25 tion is presented in Note 14. other financial instruments measured at fair value is 26 determined on the basis of valuation models using inforCASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS mation available in the financial market. 27 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, Changes in the value of forward contracts are calcu28 demand deposits and other short-term, highly liquid lated by measuring the contracts against the forward investments. Items classified as cash and cash equivalents exchange rates on the balance sheet date and comparing 29 have a maximum maturity of three months from the date of them with the counter values calculated through the purchase. Credit facilities in use are included in current forward exchange rates on the date of entry into the 30 interest-bearing liabilities. forward contracts. The fair value of interest rate derivatives 31 is determined using the market value of similar instruIMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS ments on the balance sheet date. Other derivatives are 32 The Group assesses any impairment losses on its financial measured at the market price on the balance sheet date. 33 instruments on each balance sheet date. An impairment of All of the derivatives open on the balance sheet date a financial asset is recognized when an event with a are measured at their fair values. As a rule, fair value 34 negative effect on the future cash flows from the investchanges from open derivative contracts are recognized 35 ment has occurred. For items measured at amortized cost, through profit or loss under financial items in the Consolithe amount of the impairment loss equals the difference 32 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note dated Financial Statements. The number of embedded flow hedge are recognized in other comprehensive income derivatives used by the Group is low. (including the tax effect) and presented under equity, 1 Other financial liabilities are initially recognized in the providing that they fulfill the criteria set for hedge account2 balance sheet at the initial value of received net assets ing and are based on effective hedging. The ineffective deducted with direct costs. Later, these financial liabilities portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is 3 are measured at amortized cost, and the difference recognized under financial items in the income statement. 4 between the received net assets and amortizations is Derivatives not fulfilling the hedge accounting criteria are recognized as interest costs over the loan term. recognized in financial items through profit or loss. 5 FAIR VALUE HEDGING 6 HEDGE ACCOUNTING Fair value hedges are related to the fixed rate bond loan. 7 Interest rate derivatives are used as instruments in fair According to IAS 39, hedge accounting refers to a method value hedging. The fair value of the hedging derivative 8 of accounting aimed at allocating one or more hedging contracts of change in fair value are recognized in the 9 instruments in such a way that their fair value offsets, in income statement and the hedged item's book value is full or in part, the changes in the fair value or cash flows of adjusted through profit or loss to the extent that the hedge 10 the hedged item. Hedge accounting is applied to hedging is effective. 11 the interest rate risk, commodity risk and fair value. Hedge effectiveness is monitored as required by IAS 39. 12 Effectiveness refers to the capacity of a hedging instruPROVISIONS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 13 ment to offset changes in the fair value of the hedged item or cash flows from a hedged transaction, which are due to Provisions for restructuring costs, personnel related costs, 14 the realization of the risk being hedged. A hedging relationenvironmental obligations, legal claims and onerous ship is considered to be highly effective when the change in contracts are recognized in the balance sheet when the 15 the fair value of the hedging instrument offsets changes in Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a 16 the cash flows attributable to the hedged items in the result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of range of 80–125 percent. Hedge effectiveness is assessed resources will be required to settle the obligation and a 17 both prospectively and retrospectively. Testing for hedge reliable estimate of the amount of this obligation can be 18 effectiveness is repeated on each balance sheet date. made. A restructuring provision is recognized when there is Hedge accounting is discontinued when the criteria for a detailed and appropriate plan prepared for it and the 19 hedge accounting are no longer fulfilled. Gains or losses implementation of the plan has begun or has been notified 20 recognized in other comprehensive income and presented to those whom the restructuring concerns. under equity are derecognized and transferred immediately The amount recognized as a provision is the present 21 in the income statement, if the hedged item is sold or falls value of the expenditure expected to be required to settle 22 due. However, gains or losses arising from changes in the the obligation on the balance sheet date using a pre-tax fair value of those derivatives not fulfilling the hedge rate that reflects current market assessments of the time 23 accounting criteria under IAS 39 are recognized directly in value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. the income statement. Contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 24 At the inception of a hedge, the Group has documented from past events and whose existence will be confirmed by 25 the existence of the hedging relationship, including the the occurrence of uncertain future events not wholly within identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item the control of the Group or a present obligation that it is 26 or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, the not probable that an outflow of resources embodying 27 objectives of risk management and the strategy for economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; undertaking hedging, as well as the description of how or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured within 28 hedge effectiveness is assessed. sufficient reliability. Contingent liability is disclosed in the 29 notes. CASH FLOW HEDGING 30 Cash flow hedging is used to hedge against variability in 31 cash flows attributable to a particular risk associated with NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND a recognized asset or liability in the balance sheet or a DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 32 highly probable forecast transaction. Interest rate and commodity derivatives are used as investment instruments Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale 33 in cash flow hedging. Interest rate and commodity derivawhen their carrying amount is to be recovered principally 34 tives are used as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges. through a sale transaction and a sale transaction and a Cash flow hedge accounting, specified in IAS 39 is applied sale is considered highly probable. Since the time of 35 by the Group to only selected hedging items. Changes in the classification, the assets are valued at the lower of carrying fair value of derivative instruments associated with cash amount and fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation on CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 33 2014 these assets discontinues at the time of classification. loss had been recognized. An impairment loss for goodwill Note Non-current assets classified as held for sale are disclosed is never reversed. 1 separately in the balance sheet. A discontinued operation is a component of the Group 2 that has either been disposed of, or is classified as held for EMISSIONS ALLOWANCES sale, and meets one of the following criteria: 3 • it represents a separate major line of business or The Group holds assigned emissions allowances, under the 4 geographical area of operations, EU emissions trading system, at its Helsingborg site in • it is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a Sweden and Oulu site in Finland. Carbon dioxide allow5 separate major line of business or geographical area of ances are accounted for as intangible assets measured at 6 operations, or cost. Carbon dioxide allowances received free of charge are • it is a subsidiary that has been acquired exclusively measured at their nominal value (zero). A provision for the 7 with a prospect of reselling. fulfillment of the obligation to return allowances is 8 recognized if the free-of-charge allowances are not The profit or loss of the discontinued operation is stated as a sufficient to cover actual emissions. The Group’s consoli9 separate item in the consolidated income statement and dated balance sheet shows no items related to emissions 10 statement of comprehensive income. Assets held for sale allowances when the volume of actual emissions is lower and related to other comprehensive income items are than that of the free-of-charge emissions allowances and 11 recognized in the balance sheet separately from other items. the Group has not bought allowances in the market. Note 31, Environmental risks and liabilities, provides information 12 on emissions allowances. 13 IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS 14 On each balance sheet date, the Group’s assets are TREASURY SHARES 15 assessed to determine whether there is any indication of an asset’s impairment. If any indication of impairment Purchases of own shares (treasury shares), including the 16 exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or the cashrelated costs, are deducted directly from equity in the 17 generating unit is calculated on the basis of the value in Consolidated Financial Statements. use or the net selling price. Annual impairment tests cover 18 goodwill and intangible assets not yet ready for use. 19 A cash-generating unit has been defined as a reportDIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION able segment. Goodwill impairment is tested by comparing 20 the reportable segment’s recoverable amount with its Any dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is not carrying amount. The Group does not have intangible deducted from distributable equity until approved by the 21 assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill. All shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 22 goodwill has been allocated to the reportable segments. The recoverable amount of a reportable segment is 23 defined as its value in use, which consists of the disEARNINGS PER SHARE 24 counted future cash flows to the unit. Estimates of future cash flows are based on continuing use of an asset and on Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit 25 the latest five-year forecasts by the business unit’s attributable to equity owners of the parent company by the 26 management. The annual growth rate used to extrapolate weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue cash flows subsequent to the forecast period is assumed during the period excluding ordinary shares purchased by 27 to be zero. Cash flow estimates do not include the effects Kemira Oyj and held as treasury shares. Diluted earnings 28 of improved asset performance, investments or future per share is calculated by the adjusting the weighted reorganizations. average number of ordinary shares plus diluted effect of all 29 An impairment loss is recognized, whenever the potential ordinary shares dilutive such as shares from the carrying amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit share-based payments. 30 exceeds its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is 31 recognized in the income statement. Note 11 provides more detailed information on impairment testing. NON-RECURRING ITEMS 32 If there has been a positive change in the estimates 33 used to determine an asset's recoverable amount since the Items that are material either because of their size or their last impairment loss was recognized, an impairment loss nature are considered as one-time items. Most commonly 34 recognized previously is reversed only to the extent that non-recurring items are sales of assets, write-downs and 35 the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying restructuring of the operations. Non-recurring items are amount that would have been determined if no impairment described in the board of directors´ review. 34 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS JUDGMENTS Determining pension liabilities under defined benefit 1 pension plans includes a number of actuarial assumptions, 2 Estimates and judgments are continuously evaluated and and significant changes in these assumptions may affect they are based on previous experience and other factors, the amounts of pension liabilities and expenses. Actuarial 3 such as expectations of future events that are expected to calculations include assumptions by the management, 4 be reasonable under the circumstances. such as the discount rate and assumptions of salary The Group makes estimates and assumptions concernincreases and the termination of employment contracts. 5 ing the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by See Note 23 for details on the calculation of the defined definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The benefit pension assumptions. 6 estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of 7 causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of PROVISIONS assets and liabilities within the next financial year are Recognizing provisions requires the management’s 8 addressed below. estimates, since the precise euro amount of obligations 9 related to provisions is not known when preparing the ESTIMATED IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL Financial Statements. 10 The impairment tests of goodwill and other assets include 11 determining future cash flows which, with regard to the DEFERRED TAXES most significant assumptions, are based on gross margin For the recognition of deferred tax assets on tax losses and 12 levels, discount rates and the projected period. Major other items, the management assesses the amount of a 13 adverse developments in cash flows and interest rates may probable future taxable profit against which unused tax necessitate the recognition of an impairment loss. More losses and unused tax credits can be utilized. Actual 14 information on goodwill impairment testing, as well as the profits may differ from the forecasts and in such a case the assumptions used in the sensitivity analysis is presented change will affect the taxes in future periods. 15 in Note 11. 16 ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE OF INVESTMENT IN PVO GROUP 17 The Group’s investments include non-listed shares, 18 holdings in PVO Group representing the largest of these. The Group’s shareholding in the company is measured at 19 fair value, based on the discounted cash flow resulting 20 from the difference between the market price of electricity and the cost price. Developments in the actual fair value 21 may differ from the estimated value, due to factors such as 22 electricity prices, the forecast period or the discount rate. More information on PVO Group's fair value determination 23 is presented in Note 14. 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 35 2014 2. SEGMENT INFORMATION The segments formulate their respective business strateNote gies and guide the strategy implementation within the 1 In 2013, the Group organized its business into four segsegment. They are also responsible for new business and ments being Paper, Municipal & Industrial, Oil & Mining and competence development. Operational business responsi2 ChemSolutions. In March 2014, Kemira closed the divestbilities within a segment are assumed by Regional Busiment of formic acid business which had formed the major ness Units (RBUs) having full P&L responsibility. The RBUs 3 part of ChemSolutions segment. After the closure, the are the key business decision making organs in the 4 remaining sodium percarbonate business in ChemSolutions company. As most business decisions are taken on a segment was transferred to Paper segment and regional level closer to customers, Kemira is able to 5 ChemSolutions segment was discontinued as of the respond rapidly to changes in market environment. The 6 beginning of Q2 2014. On April 2014, Kemira started its RBUs are guided by policies and guidelines defined by financial reporting according to the new organizational global functions. Global functions are responsible for 7 structure. Correspondingly comparative financials for 2013 developing policies, processes, guidelines and tools related 8 have been reclassified to reflect the new organizational to their respective functional areas (Supply Chain Managestructure. Kemira's reportable segments are as follows: ment, R&D, Finance and Administration, IT, Human 9 Resources, Communications and Public Affairs, Legal, and 10 EHSQ) on a global basis. They oversee such policies and PAPER processes that are adopted and implemented throughout 11 the company. Functions also have representatives in each The Paper segment provides customers in the pulp and region. Regional functions ensure that the global policies 12 paper industry with products and product packages that are implemented and adhered to in the regions. They are 13 improve their profitability, raw material and energy effialso responsible for supporting the business locally in the ciency, and promote sustainable development. region. 14 Geographically Kemira’s operations are divided into 15 three business regions: Europe, Middle East and Africa OIL & MINING (EMEA), the Americas and Asia Pacific (APAC). The region 16 heads provide operational support and co-ordination 17 The Oil & Mining segment offers a large selection of innovawithin the region and steer all regional development tive chemical extraction and process solutions for the oil projects. 18 and mining industries in which water plays a central role. Segment information is presented in a manner consis­ 19 Utilizing its expertise, the segment enables its customers tent with the Group’s internal organizational and reporting to improve their efficiency and productivity. structure. Segment information presented in revenue 20 consists only of income from external customers. There is no intersegments sales. Assets and liabilities dedicated to 21 MUNICIPAL & INDUSTRIAL a particular segment’s operations are included in that 22 segment’s total assets and liabilities. Segment assets The Municipal & Industrial segment offers water treatment include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, 23 chemicals for municipal and industrial water treatment. investments in associates, inventories and current non24 The strengths are high-level process know-how, compreinterest bearing receivables. Segment liabilities include hensive range of water treatment chemicals and reliable current non-interest bearing liabilities. 25 customer deliveries. 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note Municipal & 2014 Paper Oil & Mining Industrial ChemSolutions Group 1 Revenue 1,170.0 382.2 564.7 19.8 2,136.7 2 EBITDA 109.9 46.2 61.3 35.5 252.9 3 Operating profit 57.6 27.7 31.7 35.6 152.6 Finance costs, net -30.7 4 Share of profit or loss of associates 0.2 Profit before tax 122.1 5 Income tax expense -26.3 6 Net profit for the period 95.8 7 Depreciation and amortization -52.3 -18.5 -29.6 0.1 -100.3 8 Impairment 0.0 Capital expenditure 83.0 26.3 35.2 0.6 145.1 9 10 OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION Capital employed by segments (net) 927.3 254.3 309.1 1,490.7 11 12 Assets by segments 1,080.2 320.5 398.2 1,798.9 Investments in associates 0.5 0.4 0.9 13 Available-for-sale financial assets 293.7 Deferred income tax assets 33.7 14 Other investments 9.2 15 Defined benefit pension receivables 7.5 Other assets 32.7 16 Cash and cash equivalents 119.1 17 Total assets 2,295.7 18 Liabilities by segments 153.4 66.2 89.5 309.1 19 Interest-bearing non-current financial liabilities 448.3 Interest-bearing current financial liabilities 156.9 20 Other liabilities 218.1 21 Total liabilities 1,132.4 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 37 2014 Municipal & Note 2013 Paper Oil & Mining Industrial ChemSolutions Group Revenue 1,112.8 311.5 659.4 145.4 2,229.1 1 EBITDA 98.4 24.6 -0.5 19.4 141.9 2 Operating profit 45.1 6.5 -23.4 14.4 42.6 3 Finance costs, net -39.0 Share of profit or loss of associates -1.1 4 Profit before tax 2.5 5 Income tax expense -28.4 Net profit for the period -25.9 6 7 Depreciation and amortization -46.6 -15.3 -22.9 -4.8 -89.6 Impairment -6.9 -2.8 -9.7 8 Capital expenditure 75.5 69.9 46.9 5.2 197.5 9 OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION 10 Capital employed by segments (net) 849.3 230.3 311.1 1,390.7 11 Assets by segments 990.3 272.4 415.5 1,678.2 12 Investments in associates 0.6 0.2 0.8 Available-for-sale financial assets 233.6 13 Deferred income tax assets 36.0 14 Other investments 9.2 Defined benefit pension receivables 29.8 15 Other assets 16.0 16 Cash and cash equivalents 102.0 Non-current assets classified as held-for-sale 105.4 17 Total assets 2,211.0 18 Liabilities by segments 141.6 42.1 104.6 288.3 19 Interest-bearing non-current financial liabilities 279.9 Interest-bearing current financial liabilities 278.4 20 Other liabilities 219.1 21 Liabilities directly associated with the assets classified as held-for-sale 19.8 Total liabilities 1,085.5 22 23 INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS 24 Analysis of revenue by geographical area based on customer location 2014 2013 25 Finland, domicile of the parent company 317.9 329.2 26 Other Europe, Middle East and Africa 848.6 941.9 Americas 848.4 828.0 27 Asia Pacific 121.8 130.0 28 Total 2,136.7 2,229.1 29 Analysis of non-current assets by geographical area 2014 2013 30 Finland, domicile of the parent company 694.4 582.7 31 Other Europe, Middle East and Africa 406.8 435.2 Americas 374.1 337.4 32 Asia Pacific 92.7 76.3 33 Total 1,568.0 1,431.6 34 INFORMATION ABOUT MAJOR CUSTOMERS 35 The Group derives revenue from many significant customers. However, 10% or more of the Group's revenue is not derived from any single external customer in 2014 or 2013. 38 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME Note 2014 2013 1 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT 2014 2013 EXPENSES 2 Gains on sale of non-current assets 1) 48.5 3.6 Wages and salaries Rental income 1.3 3.3 3 Wages 220.9 255.3 Insurance compensation received 0.0 0.1 Emoluments of Kemira Oyj's CEO 4 Consulting 0.9 0.5 and the Board of Directors 32 1.2 1.3 Sale of scrap and waste 0.4 0.3 Share-based payments 5 -0.3 0.6 5 Income from royalties, know-how and Total 221.8 257.2 licenses 0.2 0.6 6 Other income from operations 3.9 6.8 Indirect employee benefit 7 Total 55.2 15.2 expenses Pension expenses for defined 8 1) In 2014, the gains on sale of non-current assets EUR 40.9 million benefit plans 23 -3.5 14.5 includes formic acid business and the Danish distribution business. In 2013, the gains on sale of non-current assets EUR 3.6 million Pension expenses for defined 9 included gain on sale of property and production facilities. contribution plans 15.2 21.9 10 Other employee benefit costs 50.7 39.9 Total 62.4 76.3 11 4. OPERATING EXPENSES Total employee benefit expenses 284.2 333.5 12 13 2014 2013 Change in inventories of finished goods 14 (inventory increase +/decrease -) 11.7 -1.5 2014 2013 Own work capitalized 1) -2.7 -2.1 15 Total 9.0 -3.6 NUMBER OF PERSONNEL 16 Average number of personnel by Materials and services geographical area 17 Europe, Middle East and Africa 2,463 2,625 Materials and supplies 18 Purchases during the financial year 1,322.4 1,432.1 Americas 1,474 1,668 Change in inventories of materials Asia Pacific 348 339 19 and supplies (inventory increase +/ Total 4,285 4,632 decrease -) 15.7 -10.6 20 External services 21.0 21.5 Personnel in Finland, average 823 1,027 Total 1,359.1 1,443.0 21 Personnel outside Finland, average 3,462 3,605 Total 4,285 4,632 22 Employee benefit expenses 284.2 333.5 23 Number of personnel at 31 Dec 4,248 4,453 Other operating expenses 24 Rents 35.1 37.8 Loss on sales of property, plant and 25 equipment 2.7 46.0 DELOITTE & TOUCHE OY'S FEES AND SERVICES Other expenses 2) 3) 248.9 245.7 Audit fees 1.4 1.3 26 Total 286.7 329.5 Tax services 0.4 0.0 27 Other services 4) 5) 2.2 1.1 Total operating expenses 1,939.0 2,102.4 Total 4.0 2.4 28 1) Own work capitalized comprises mainly wages, salaries and other 4) In 2014, other services include fees related mainly to the auditors 29 personnel expenses and changes in inventories relating to selfreports and statements for formic acid business divestment and fees constructed property, plant and equipment for own use. related to the AkzoNobel’s global paper chemicals business 30 2) In 2014, other operating expenses include research and development acquisition. expenses of EUR 28.0 million (32.1). Government grants received for 5) In 2013, other services include fees mainly related to the 3F 31 R&D were EUR 2.1 million (3.5). The extent of grants received reduces acquisition. research and development expenses. 32 3) In 2014, Kemira has signed an agreement with CDC Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA and CDC Holding SA (together CDC ) to 33 settle a lawsuit in Helsinki, Finland. The settlement concerns claims assigned to CDC based on which CDC claimed compensation for 34 alleged damages relating to the alleged old infringement of competition law in the hydrogen peroxide business during 1994– 35 2000. CDC has agreed to withdraw the damage claims and Kemira has paid to CDC a compensation of EUR 18.5 million and will compensate CDC for its legal costs. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 39 2014 5. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS three-year external goal, which is tied to the relative total Note shareholder return (TSR) performance during 2012–2014. 1 The value of the aggregate reward paid out in the SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE PLAN FOR KEY course of the three-year plan may not exceed 120% of the 2 EMPLOYEES CEO's and 100% of the other participants' gross salary for the same period. If the performance targets are achieved 3 In 2013, the Kemira Board of Directors decided to establish entirely, the maximum gross earning during the three-year 4 a share-based incentive plan aimed at the key employees plan is expected to be approximately 900,000 Kemira for the years 2013–2014, as part of the company's incenshares. The applicable taxes will be deducted from the 5 tive and commitment schemes. The delivery of share gross earning and the remaining net value is delivered to 6 rewards within the plan is subject to achieving the perforthe participants in Kemira shares. mance targets set by the Board of Directors. Payment is Shares earned through the plan must be held for a 7 tied to achieving the return on capital employed percentminimum of two years following each payment. In addition, 8 age (ROCE-%). the Management Board members must retain fifty per cent The value of the aggregate reward paid out in the plan of the shares obtained under the plan until their ownership 9 may not exceed 100% of the other participants' gross of Kemira shares based on shares obtained through 10 salary for the same period. If the performance targets are share-based incentive programs of Kemira has reached a achieved entirely, the maximum gross earning during the share ownership level which in value equals at least their 11 three-year plan is expected to be approximately 600,000 gross annual salary for as long as they remain participants Kemira shares. The applicable taxes will be deducted from in the plan. 12 the gross earning and the remaining net value is delivered The shares transferable under the plan comprise of 13 to the participants in Kemira shares. The shares earned Kemira Oyj's treasury shares or shares available for public through the plan must be held for a minimum of two years trading. 14 following each payment. In addition to the share-based incentive plan aimed at 15 The shares transferable under the plan comprise of the Management Board members, Kemira has a shareKemira Oyj's treasury shares or shares available for public based incentive plan aimed at other key employees, in 16 trading. which members of the Management Board will not partici17 For the share-based incentive plans 2013–2014 the pate. vesting periods have ended and the financial targets were For the share-based incentive plans 2012–2014 the 18 not achieved. vesting periods have ended and the financial targets were 19 not achieved. Share-based incentive plan 2010 20 Performance period 2010 Share-based incentive plan 2010 21 Lock-up period of shares 2 years Performance period 2010 Release date of shares 2013 Lock-up period of shares 2 years 22 Fair value of the reward paid as shares, EUR million 1.9 Release date of shares 2013 Fair value of the reward paid in cash, EUR million 2.6 Fair value of the reward paid as shares, EUR million 0.9 23 Realization on closing date, shares (1,000) 221 Fair value of the reward paid in cash, EUR million 0.9 24 Number of employees 64 Realization on closing date, shares (1,000) 78 Number of persons 9 25 26 SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE PLANS FOR 27 MANAGEMENT BOARD MEMBERS 28 In 2012, the Kemira Board of Directors decided to establish 29 a share-based incentive plan aimed at the management board members for the years 2012–2014, as part of the 30 company's incentive and commitment schemes. The 31 delivery of share rewards within the plan is subject to achieving the performance targets set by the Board of 32 Directors, which include both internal and external perfor33 mance targets. The internal target setting is divided into three one-year performance periods: 2012, 2013, and 2014. 34 Payment depends on achieving the set intrinsic value 35 targets calculated from the development of EBITDA and the development of the net debt. The program also includes a 40 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note The effect of share-based incentive plans Management 2014 2013 on operating profit Key employees Board Total Total 1 Share component 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 0.2 Cash component 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 0.4 2 Total 0.0 -0.3 -0.3 0.6 3 4 A NEW SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE PLANS FOR 2016. The cash proportion is intended to cover taxes and 5 MANAGEMENT BOARD MEMBERS AND KEY tax-related costs arising from the reward to the particiEMPLOYEES pant. As a rule, no reward will be paid, if a participant's 6 employment or service ends before the reward payment. 7 In 2014, the Kemira Board of Directors decided to establish The shares paid as reward may not be transferred a new Performance Share Plan. The Performance Share during the restriction period, which will end two years from 8 Plan includes three performance periods, calendar years the end of the performance period. Should a participant's 9 2015, 2016 and 2017. The Board of Directors of Kemira will employment or service end during the restriction period, as decide on the Plan's performance criteria and on the a rule, he or she must gratuitously return the shares given 10 required performance levels for each criterion at the as reward. 11 beginning of each performance period. The potential The Performance Share Plan is directed to approxireward of the Plan from the performance period 2015 will mately 90 people. The rewards to be paid on the basis of 12 be based on the Kemira Group's revenue and on the the 2015 earning period of the Performance Share Plan 13 Group's operative EBITDA margin. correspond to the value of an approximate maximum total The potential reward from the performance period 2015 of 585,000 Kemira Oyj shares and additionally the cash 14 will be paid partly in Kemira's shares and partly in cash in proportion intended to cover taxes and tax-related costs. 15 16 17 18 6. D EPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION 19 AND IMPAIRMENT 20 2014 2013 21 In 2014, no impairments of PP&E and intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets 22 In 2013, an impairment loss of EUR 9.6 million was Other tangible assets 12.4 9.4 recognized in relation to buildings and constructions, Development costs 3.8 3.9 23 machinery and equipment and other tangible assets. These Total 16.2 13.3 impairment losses were mainly related to the process 24 chemicals plant in Vaasa, Finland. Depreciation of property, plant and 25 equipment Impairment tests for goodwill are disclosed in Note 11. Buildings and constructions 16.4 12.8 26 Machinery and equipment 64.5 61.0 27 Other tangible assets 3.2 2.6 Total 84.1 76.4 28 29 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 30 Buildings and constructions 0.0 2.6 Machinery and equipment 0.0 6.8 31 Other tangible assets 0.0 0.2 32 Total 0.0 9.6 33 Total depreciation, amortization and impairment 100.3 99.3 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 41 2014 7. FINANCE INCOME AND 8. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES Note EXPENSES 1 2014 2013 2014 2013 Net book value at 1 Jan 0.8 122.8 2 Finance income Dividends received -0.1 0.0 3 Dividend income 0.2 0.2 Decreases 0.0 -120.9 Interest income Share of profit (+)/loss (-) 0.2 -1.1 4 Interest income from loans and Net book value at 31 Dec 0.9 0.8 receivables 1.1 0.7 5 Interest income from financial assets In 2013, Kemira Oyj and Rockwood Holdings Inc. signed an 6 at fair value through profit or loss 3.0 3.2 agreement according to which Rockwood buys Kemira’s Other finance income 0.3 0.3 share (39%) of Sachtleben. The transaction price of the 7 Total 4.6 4.4 deal was EUR 97.5 million and impacted Kemira's cash 8 flow positively in the first quarter of 2013. Kemira recogFinance expenses nized a write-down of EUR 23 million related to the 9 Interest expenses Sachtleben transaction. Interest expenses from other liabilities 1) -17.3 -11.3 10 Interest expenses from financial GROUP HOLDING % 11 assets at fair value through profit or loss -10.7 -6.6 Name 2014 2013 12 Other finance expenses 2) 3) -6.0 -28.0 FC Energia Oy (Finland, Ikaalinen) 34.0 34.0 Total -34.0 -45.9 FC Power Oy (Finland, Ikaalinen) 34.0 34.0 13 Haapaveden Ympäristöpalvelut Oy (Finland, Haapavesi) 40.5 40.5 14 Exchange gains and losses Honkalahden Teollisuuslaituri Oy Exchange gains and losses from (Finland, Joutseno) 50.0 50.0 15 financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss -37.0 11.7 16 Exchange gains and losses from loans SUMMARY OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, REVENUES AND and other receivables -0.4 -2.2 THE RESULT OF ASSOCIATES FOR THE PERIOD 17 Exchange gains and losses from other (TOTAL AMOUNTS) liabilities 36.1 -7.0 18 2014 2013 Total -1.3 2.5 Assets 22.4 23.1 19 Liabilities 20.5 21.4 Total finance income and expenses -30.7 -39.0 20 Revenue 6.9 5.5 Profit (+)/loss (-) for the period 0.3 0.2 21 Net finance expenses as a percentage of revenue 1.4 1.7 22 Net interest as a percentage of revenue 1.1 0.6 Related party transactions carried out with associates are disclosed in Note 32. 23 Change in Consolidated Statement of 24 Comprehensive Income from hedge accounting instruments 25 Cash flow hedge accounting: Amount recognized in the Consolidated 26 Statement of Comprehensive Income 3.4 -2.3 Total 3.4 -2.3 27 28 Exchange differences Realized -11.2 7.2 29 Unrealized 9.9 -4.7 Total -1.3 2.5 30 1) In 2014 includes delay interest costs from income taxes of 31 EUR 3 million. 2) Includes ineffective portion of electricity hedge EUR -1.0 million (3.2). 32 3) In 2013 includes a non-recurring write-down of EUR 23 million related to the divestment of Kemira's share (39%) in the titanium 33 dioxide associate Sachtleben. 34 35 42 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 9. INCOME TAXES 1 2014 2013 2 Current taxes -29.5 -25.4 Taxes for prior years -0.7 -0.2 3 Change in deferred taxes 3.9 -2.8 4 Total -26.3 -28.4 5 Total taxes decreased to EUR 26.3 million (28.4), mainly due to tax-exempt capital gains. Subsidiaries still have EUR 106.9 million (93.3) tax losses of which no deferred tax benefits have been recognized. 6 In addition, due to extensive international operations, the Group is involved in a number of pending corporate income tax 7 and indirect tax proceedings. 8 RECONCILIATION BETWEEN TAX EXPENSE AND TAX CALCULATED AT DOMESTIC TAX RATE 9 2014 2013 10 Profit before taxes 122.1 2.5 11 Tax at parent's tax rate 20% (24.5%) -24.4 -0.6 12 Foreign subsidiaries' different tax rate -3.0 -1.4 Non-deductible expenses and tax-exempt profits 7.4 -5.8 13 Share of profit or loss of associates 0.0 -0.3 14 Tax losses -4.6 -16.3 Tax for prior years -0.7 -0.2 15 Changes in deferred taxes related to prior years -1.0 1.8 16 Change in Finnish tax rate 0.0 -5.6 Total taxes -26.3 -28.4 17 18 THE TAX RELATING TO COMPONENTS OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 19 2014 2013 20 Tax charge (-)/ Tax charge (-)/ Before tax credit (+) After tax Before tax credit (+) After tax 21 Available-for-sale financial assets 62.5 -12.5 50.0 -41.1 14.1 -27.0 Exchange differences on translating 22 foreign operations 1.2 0.0 1.2 -17.7 0.0 -17.7 Cash flow hedges 4.3 -0.9 3.4 -3.2 0.9 -2.3 23 Remeasurements on defined benefit 24 pensions -32.6 6.0 -26.6 29.8 -7.2 22.6 Other comprehensive income 35.4 -7.4 28.0 -32.2 7.8 -24.4 25 26 27 10. EARNINGS PER SHARE 28 2014 2013 Earnings per share, basic 29 Net profit attributable to equity owners of the parent 89.9 -31.6 30 Weighted average number of shares 1) 152,048,098 152,038,834 Basic earnings per share, EUR 0.59 -0.21 31 32 Earnings per share, diluted Net profit attributable to equity owners of the parent 89.9 -31.6 33 Weighted average number of shares 1) 152,048,098 152,038,834 34 Adjustments for: Treasury shares possibly subject to emission in share-based payments 154,781 140,033 35 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 152,202,879 152,178,867 Diluted earnings per share, EUR 0.59 -0.21 1) Weighted average number of shares outstanding, excluding the number of treasury shares. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 43 2014 11. GOODWILL Note Dec 31, 2014 1 Note 2014 2013 Net book value of which goodwill Net book value at 1 Jan 471.9 522.5 Paper 893 330 2 Acquisition of subsidiary 27 -0.1 32.5 Oil & Mining 245 83 3 Additions 0.0 1.5 Municipal & Industrial 297 73 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.0 -41.1 Total 1,435 486 4 Transferred to non-current asset classified as held-for-sale 18 0.0 -35.8 5 Exchange differences 13.8 -7.7 Dec 31, 2013 6 Net book value at 31 Dec 485.6 471.9 Net book value of which goodwill Paper 827 322 7 In 2014, goodwill decreased by EUR 0.1 million which is Oil & Mining 225 82 8 related to the final adjustment of the purchase price of 3F Municipal & Industrial 303 68 Chimica S.p.A. Total 1,355 472 9 In 2013, goodwill increased by EUR 34.0 million, which 10 was related to 3F Chimica S.p.A and Soto Industries Inc acquisitions. Goodwill decreased by EUR 41.1 million due 11 to the sale of coagulant business to Bauminas Química KEY ASSUMPTIONS FOR IMPAIRMENT TESTING Ltda. A further net book value of EUR 35.8 million transOF GOODWILL 12 ferred to assets held-for-sale relates to goodwill of 13 ChemSolutions' formic acid business and Municipal & LONG-TERM GROWTH RATE Industrial's distribution business in Denmark. The long-term growth rate used is purely for the impair14 ment testing of goodwill. The assumptions of the long-term 15 growth rate were used based on the Group’s financial GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTS forecasts prepared and approved by the management 16 covering a five-year horizon. Forecasts for cash flow growth 17 The Group performed its annual impairment test for reflect the management's perception of developments in goodwill on September 30. Impairment tests for goodwill sales and cost items during the forecast period. The growth 18 are also carried out whenever changes in circumstances rate used to extrapolate cash flows subsequent to the 19 indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. five-year forecast period was assumed to be zero. The estimated value in use by all segments exceeded their 20 carrying values. As a result, no goodwill impairment was DISCOUNT RATE recognized in 2014 (2013: no impairment). The discount rates applied were based on the Group's 21 In March 2014, Kemira closed the divestment of formic adjusted weighted average cost of capital (WACC) before 22 acid business which had formed the major part of taxes. The risk-adjusted WACC rate was defined separately ChemSolutions segment. After the closure, the remaining for each cash-generating unit. The discount rates used in 23 sodium percarbonate business in ChemSolutions segment performing the impairment tests of the Group's reportable 24 has been transferred to Paper segment and ChemSolutions segments are presented in the table below. segment was discontinued as of the beginning of Q2 2014. 25 In 2014, goodwill has been allocated to three individual % 2014 2013 26 cash-generating units. The reportable segment has been Paper 6.3 7.5 defined as a cash-generating unit. The reportable segment Oil & Mining 7.3 7.7 27 represents the lowest level within the Group at which the Municipal & Industrial 5.6 6.9 28 goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The Group’s three reportable segments are Paper, Oil & 29 Mining and Municipal & Industrial. A summary of the SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS carrying amounts and goodwill to the Group’s reportable The sensitivity analyses were made under the assumption 30 segments is presented in the table below. that there would be a decline in the growth rate of cash 31 flows during and after the forecast period. A general increase in interest rates has also been taken into consid32 eration as well as a decrease in profitability. A decrease of 33 10% in the estimated cash flow or an increase of 2 percentage points in the discount rate would not result in any 34 impairment losses to be recorded on the reportable 35 segment level. 44 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 12. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 1 Internal generated Other intangible 2014 development costs assets Prepayments Total 2 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 47.2 166.1 8.9 222.2 3 Additions 11.7 4.3 16.0 Decreases and other changes 7.0 7.0 4 Exchange rate differences 1.1 0.3 1.4 5 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 47.2 185.9 13.5 246.6 6 Accumulated amortization at 1 Jan -37.9 -109.0 -146.9 7 Accumulated amortization relating to decreases and transfers -6.9 -6.9 8 Amortization during the financial year -3.8 -12.4 -16.2 Exchange rate differences -0.3 -0.3 9 Accumulated amortization at 31 Dec -41.7 -128.6 -170.3 10 Net book value at 31 Dec 5.5 57.3 13.5 76.3 11 12 13 Internal generated Other intangible 2013 development costs assets Prepayments Total 14 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 47.2 154.7 4.5 206.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries 20.8 20.8 15 Additions 3.9 4.5 8.4 16 Disposal of subsidiaries -0.1 -0.1 Decreases and other changes -0.1 -0.1 17 Transferred to non-current assets classified as held-for-sale 1) -12.0 -12.0 18 Reclassifications -0.2 -0.2 19 Exchange rate differences -1.1 0.1 -1.0 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 47.2 166.1 8.9 222.2 20 21 Accumulated amortization at 1 Jan -34.0 -111.9 -145.9 Accumulated amortization relating to decreases and 22 transfers 0.2 0.2 Amortization during the financial year -3.9 -9.4 -13.3 23 Transferred to non-current assets classified as held-for-sale 1) 11.2 11.2 24 Exchange rate differences 0.9 0.9 25 Accumulated amortization at 31 Dec -37.9 -109.0 -146.9 26 Net book value at 31 Dec 9.3 57.1 8.9 75.3 27 1) In 2013, other intangible assets amounting EUR 0.8 million were transferred to non-current assets classified as held-for-sale. These assets were used by the formic acid business within the ChemSolutions segment. See Note 18 for further details regarding the held-for-sale. 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 45 2014 13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Note 1 Other Prepayments Machinery property, and non-current 2 Buildings and and plant and assets under 2014 Land constructions equipment equipment construction 1) Total 3 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 54.5 374.2 1,086.0 34.5 140.4 1,689.6 Additions 0.8 7.8 82.7 4.3 28.9 124.5 4 Decreases -4.2 -15.1 -13.6 -1.0 -33.9 5 Other changes -0.4 -1.0 -0.3 -0.4 -2.1 Reclassifications 54.7 41.5 13.8 -110.0 0.0 6 Exchange rate differences -0.1 3.7 25.6 1.8 6.7 37.7 7 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 51.0 424.9 1,221.2 53.1 65.6 1,815.8 8 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan -8.5 -234.6 -783.5 -18.5 -1,045.1 Accumulated depreciation related to 9 decreases and transfers -0.3 14.6 14.2 0.9 29.4 10 Depreciation during the financial year -16.4 -64.5 -3.2 -84.1 Other changes 0.1 0.1 11 Exchange rate differences 1.6 -10.4 -1.1 -4.2 12 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec -8.8 -234.8 -844.1 -21.9 -1,109.6 13 Net book value at 31 Dec 42.2 190.1 377.1 31.2 65.6 706.2 14 1) Prepayment and non-current assets under construction mainly comprises of plant investments. 15 Other Prepayments 16 Machinery property, and non-current Buildings and and plant and assets under 17 2013 Land constructions equipment equipment construction 3) Total Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 50.6 392.7 1,136.5 32.9 111.0 1,723.7 18 Acquired subsidiaries 5.1 10.7 14.2 0.2 0.1 30.3 19 Additions 0.3 4.8 55.1 3.9 52.2 116.3 Disposal of subsidiaries -0.6 -3.0 -8.5 -4.0 -4.9 -21.0 20 Decreases -2.0 -4.4 -0.7 -1.5 -8.6 21 Transferred to non-current assets classified as held-for-sale 2) -0.1 -13.4 -86.6 -2.4 -3.5 -106.0 22 Other changes 0.3 0.1 -0.1 0.3 Reclassifications 0.5 -4.6 8.2 5.0 -8.8 0.3 23 Exchange rate differences -1.3 -11.0 -28.8 -0.5 -4.1 -45.7 24 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 54.5 374.2 1,086.0 34.5 140.4 1,689.6 25 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan -8.5 -235.0 -805.6 -18.7 -1,067.8 26 Accumulated depreciation related to decreases and transfers 1.5 4.8 0.5 6.8 27 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.8 2.2 0.1 3.1 Depreciation during the financial year -12.8 -61.0 -2.6 -76.4 28 Impairments -2.6 -6.8 -0.2 -9.6 29 Transferred to non-current assets classified as held-for-sale 2) 7.3 63.5 1.3 72.1 30 Other changes 0.1 0.1 Exchange rate differences 6.2 19.3 1.1 26.6 31 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec -8.5 -234.6 -783.5 -18.5 -1,045.1 32 Net book value at 31 Dec 46.0 139.6 302.5 16.0 140.4 644.5 33 2) In 2013, property, plant and equipment amounting EUR 33.9 million were transferred to non-current assets classified as held-for-sale. These assets 34 were used by the formic acid business within the ChemSolutions segment and the distribution business in Denmark. See Note 18 for further details regarding the held-for-sale. 35 3) Prepayment and non-current assets under construction mainly comprises of plant investments in China and Europe. 46 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note FINANCE LEASE ASSETS 1 Property, plant and equipment where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease includes the following amounts: 2 2014 2013 3 Cost – capitalized finance leases 6.0 6.2 4 Accumulated depreciation -1.8 -1.7 Net book value at 31 Dec 4.2 4.5 5 The Group leases buildings and constructions, machinery and equipment and other property, plant and equipment under 6 finance lease agreements. 7 8 9 14. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS 10 2014 2013 11 Net book value at 1 Jan 233.6 264.0 Additions 4.4 4.1 12 Decreases -6.8 -2.5 13 Change in fair value 62.5 -41.1 Reclassification 0.0 9.1 14 Net book value at 31 Dec 293.7 233.6 15 16 The available-for-sale financial assets include the shares in Pohjolan Voima Group; their valuation principles are described in more detail in Kemira Group's accounting policies. Kemira Oyj owns 4% of Pohjolan Voima Oy and 1% of Teollisuuden 17 Voima Oyj. The fair value of the shares is based on the discounted cash flow resulting from the difference between the 18 market price and the production cost of electricity. The discount rate used to calculate the net present value at the year-end is an annually defined weighted average cost of capital. The discount rate in 2014 was 4% (5%). A 10% decrease in the 19 electricity market future price would decrease the fair value of shares by approximately 16%. An increase of 1 percentage 20 point in the discount rate would decrease the fair value by approximately 14%. 21 22 2014 2013 The shares of Pohjolan Voima Group Class of shares Holding % Class of assets Fair value Fair value 23 Pohjolan Voima Oy A 5 hydro power 79.3 26.3 Pohjolan Voima Oy B 3 nuclear power 83.6 45.2 24 Pohjolan Voima Oy B2 7 nuclear power 13.9 81.2 25 Teollisuuden Voima Oyj A 2 nuclear power 91.2 48.6 Other Pohjolan Voima Oy and Teollisuuden Voima Oyj C, C2, G5, G6, H, M several several 24.1 24.4 26 Total 292.1 225.7 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 47 2014 15. CARRYING AMOUNTS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY Note MEASUREMENT CATEGORIES 1 Financial Total 2 assets Financial carrying at fair assets at fair amounts 3 Financial value value through by instruments through profit and loss Availablebalance 4 under hedge profit (fair value Loans and for-sale Other sheet Total fair 2014 Note accounting and loss hedging) receivables investments liabilities item value 5 Non-current financial assets 6 Investments Available-for-sale financial 7 assets 1) 14 293.7 293.7 293.7 Current financial assets 8 Receivables 2) 17 9 Interest-bearing receivables 0.1 0.1 0.1 10 Non-interest bearing receivables 11 Trade receivables 265.3 265.3 265.3 Other receivables 3) 4) 2.9 3.0 0.8 6.7 6.7 12 Total 2.9 3.0 266.2 293.7 565.8 565.8 13 Non-current financial 14 liabilities 15 Interest-bearing liabilities 20 Loans from financial 16 institutions 241.6 241.6 248.8 Bond 5) 202.1 202.1 208.2 17 Other liabilities 4.6 4.6 4.7 18 Other liabilities 21.4 21.4 21.4 Current financial liabilities 19 Interest-bearing liabilities 20 Loans from financial 20 institutions 85.5 85.5 88.1 21 Other liabilities 71.4 71.4 73.2 Non-interest bearing current 22 liabilities 25 Trade payables 135.2 135.2 135.2 23 Other liabilities 3) 8.4 1.4 29.8 39.6 40.5 24 Total 8.4 1.4 791.6 801.4 820.1 25 1) The available-for-sale financial assets include shares of the Pohjolan Voima Group. 2) The carrying amount represents the maximum credit risk. 26 3) Other receivables and liabilities are financial assets at fair value through profit and loss or financial instruments under hedge accounting. 4) Other receivables include electricity derivative transactions related to collateral of EUR 0.8 million paid to counterparties. 27 5) Includes hedge accounting adjustment of EUR 2.1 million. 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 48 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note Total Financial Financial carrying assets at assets at fair amounts 1 Financial fair value value through by instruments through profit and loss Availablebalance 2 under hedge profit and (fair value Loans and for-sale Other sheet Total fair 2013 Note accounting loss hedging) receivables investments liabilities item value 3 Non-current financial assets 4 Investments Available-for-sale financial 5 assets 1) 14 6.6 227.0 233.6 233.6 Current financial assets 6 Receivables 2) 17 7 Interest-bearing receivables 0.5 0.5 0.5 8 Non-interest bearing receivables 9 Trade receivables 255.0 255.0 255.0 10 Other receivables 3) 4.2 4.2 4.2 Total 10.8 255.5 227.0 493.3 493.3 11 Non-current financial 12 liabilities 13 Interest-bearing liabilities 20 Loans from financial 14 institutions 270.0 270.0 274.1 Other liabilities 9.9 9.9 10.0 15 Other liabilities 21.4 21.4 21.4 16 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 20 17 Loans from financial institutions 58.3 58.3 59.2 18 Other liabilities 220.1 220.1 221.0 19 Non-interest bearing liabilities 25 Trade payables 143.3 143.3 143.3 20 Other liabilities 3) 11.4 3.3 14.7 14.7 21 Total 11.4 3.3 723.0 737.7 743.7 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 49 2014 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Note 1 2014 Total 2013 Total FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 net Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 net 2 Available-for-sale financial assets 293.7 293.7 6.6 227.0 233.6 3 Currency investments 2.9 2.9 4.0 4.0 Interest rate instruments, hedge 4 accounting 3.0 3.0 0.0 Other instruments 0.0 0.2 0.2 5 Trade receivables 265.3 265.3 255.4 255.4 6 Total 271.2 293.7 564.9 6.6 259.6 227.0 493.2 7 Level 1: Fair value is determined based on quoted market prices. 8 Level 2: Fair value is determined by using valuation techniques. The fair value refers to the value that is observable from the 9 market value of elements of the financial instrument or from the market value of corresponding financial instrument; or the 10 value that is observable by using commonly accepted valuation models and techniques, if the market value can be measured reliably with them. 11 Level 3: Fair value is determined by using valuation techniques, which use inputs that have a significant effect on the 12 recorded fair value, and inputs are not based on observable market data. 13 LEVEL 3 SPECIFICATION Level 3 Level 3 14 Total net Total net 2014 2013 15 16 Instrument Net book value at 1 Jan 227.0 264.0 17 Effect on the Statement of Comprehensive Income 62.5 -41.1 18 Increases 4.4 4.1 Decreases -0.2 0.0 19 Net book value at 31 Dec 293.7 227.0 20 21 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 22 2014 Total 2013 Total 23 FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 net Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 net 24 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 461.7 461.7 284.1 284.1 Repayments from non-current interest25 bearing liabilities 88.1 88.1 59.2 59.2 Loans from financial institutions 63.2 63.2 57.2 57.2 26 Other liabilities 41.0 41.0 185.2 185.2 27 Currency instruments 1.4 1.4 3.3 3.3 Interest rate instruments 2.5 2.5 3.6 3.6 28 Other instruments 5.9 5.9 7.8 7.8 29 Trade payables 135.2 135.2 143.3 143.3 Total 799.0 799.0 743.7 743.7 30 31 32 33 34 35 50 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 16. INVENTORIES 18. N  ON-CURRENT ASSETS 1 CLASSIFIED AS HELD-FOR-SALE 2014 2013 2 Materials and supplies 67.6 52.6 ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD-FOR-SALE Finished goods 120.3 108.6 2014 2013 3 Prepayments 9.4 8.7 Goodwill 35.8 4 Total 197.3 169.9 Intangible assets 0.8 Property, plant and equipment 33.9 5 In 2014, EUR 1.6 million (2.6) of inventory value was Inventories 15.3 recognized as expense in order to decrease the book values Other current assets 19.6 6 of inventories to correspond with their net realizable value. Total 105.4 7 8 9 17. RECEIVABLES LIABILITIES DIRECTLY ASSOCIATED WITH THE ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD-FOR-SALE 10 2014 2013 Note 2014 2013 Trade payables 12.3 11 Interest-bearing receivables Other current liabilities 7.5 Loan receivables 0.1 0.5 12 Total 19.8 13 Trade and other receivables Trade receivables 29 265.3 255.0 The assets and liabilities related to sale of formic acid 14 Prepayments 4.4 4.3 business to Taminco (Allentown, Pennsylvania, USA) and Prepaid expenses and accrued hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid and sodium hydroxide 15 income 34.1 30.0 (caustic soda) in Denmark to Brenntag Group, have been 16 Other receivables 39.9 31.6 presented as held-for-sale in the Financial Statements Total 343.7 320.9 2013. 17 Kemira signed an agreement on December 23, 2013 to 18 In 2014, items that are due in a time period longer than one sell its formic acid business, including the feed and airport year include trade receivables of EUR 0.9 million (0.3), runway deicing product lines. The transaction included a 19 prepaid expenses and accrued income of EUR 0.5 million manufacturing asset for formic acid in Oulu, Finland, and 20 (2.0) and non-interest bearing receivables of EUR 10.1 approximately 160 employees, that were transferred to million (0.6). Taminco. The transaction was completed during the first 21 quarter of 2014. The agreed transaction price was EUR 140 22 million which was paid fully at closing. Sodium percarbonate, the remaining business within the ChemSolutions 23 segment, is staying within Kemira and is reported in the Paper segment. 24 Kemira sold its distribution business in Denmark and 25 certain assets in Copenhagen. The distribution business was part of Kemira's Municipal & Industrial segment. The 26 transaction was completed during the first quarter of 2014. 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 51 2014 19. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY UNRESTRICTED EQUITY RESERVE Note 1 The unrestricted equity reserve includes other equity type SHARE CAPITAL investments and the subscription price of shares to the 2 extent that they will not, based on the specific decision, be recognized in share capital. 3 Number of shares outstandShare 4 ing (1,000) capital January 1, 2013 152,041 221.8 EXCHANGE DIFFERENCES 5 Treasury shares issued to the Board of 6 Directors 8 The foreign currency translation differences arise from the Shares from the share-based translation of foreign subsidiaries' financial statements. 7 arrangement returned -7 Also, the gains and losses arising from net investment December 31, 2013 152,042 221.8 8 hedges in foreign subsidiaries are included in foreign currency translation differences, provided that hedge 9 Number accounting requirements are fulfilled. of shares 10 outstandShare ing (1,000) capital 11 January 1, 2014 152,042 221.8 TREASURY SHARES 12 Treasury shares issued to the Board of Directors 9 Kemira had 3,291,185 of its treasury shares in possession 13 December 31, 2014 152,051 221.8 on December 31, 2014. The average share price of treasury shares was EUR 6.73, and they represented 2.1% of the 14 Kemira Oyj has one class of shares. Each share entitles its share capital and the aggregate number of votes conferred 15 holder to one vote at the Annual General Meeting. On by all shares. The aggregate par value of the treasury December 31, 2014, the share capital was EUR 221.8 shares is EUR 4.7 million. 16 million and the total number of shares issued was 17 155,342,557 including 3,291,185 treasury shares. Under the Articles of Association of Kemira Oyj, the company does NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST 18 not have a minimum or maximum share capital or a par 19 value for a share. All issued shares have been fully paid. 2014 2013 Net book value at 1 Jan 13.0 13.2 20 Dividends -5.4 -4.5 SHARE PREMIUM Decreases -0.5 -0.8 21 Share of the profit for the period 5.9 5.7 22 The share premium is a reserve accumulated through Exchange rate differences -0.4 -0.6 subscriptions entitled by the management stock option Net book value at 31 Dec 12.6 13.0 23 program of 2001. This reserve is based on the old Finnish 24 Companies Act (734/1978), which will not change anymore. Kemira Group's 25 Name Holding % 26 FAIR VALUE RESERVES Aliada Quimica de Portugal Lda. (Portugal, Estarreja) 50.10 27 Kemifloc a.s. (Czech Republic, Přerov) 51.00 The fair value reserve is a reserve accumulated based on Kemifloc Slovakia S.r.o. (Slovakia, Prešov) 51.00 28 available-for-sale financial assets (shares) measured at Kemipol Sp. z o.o. (Poland, Police) 51.00 fair value and hedge accounting. 29 Kemira Cell Sp. z.o.o. (Poland, Ostroleka) 55.00 Kemira Chemicals India Private Limited 30 (India, Hyderabad) 99.99 OTHER RESERVES Kemwater ProChemie s.r.o. 31 (Czech Republic, Kosmonosy) 95.10 Other reserves originate from local requirements of 32 subsidiaries. On December 31, 2014, other reserves were 33 EUR 3.7 million (3.7). 34 35 52 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME IN THE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 1 NonFair value and Exchange Retained controlling 2 Year ended 31 December 2013 other reserves differences earnings Total interests Total equity 3 Net profit for the period -31.6 -31.6 5.7 -25.9 4 5 Other comprehensive income 6 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 7 Available-for-sale financial assets -27.0 -27.0 -27.0 8 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations -17.1 -17.1 -0.6 -17.7 9 Cash flow hedges -2.3 -2.3 -2.3 Items that will not be reclassified 10 subsequently to profit or loss: Remeasurements on defined benefit 11 pensions 22.6 22.6 22.6 12 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax -29.3 -17.1 22.6 -23.8 -0.6 -24.4 13 Total comprehensive income for the period -29.3 -17.1 -9.0 -55.4 5.1 -50.3 14 15 16 NonFair value and Exchange Retained controlling 17 Year ended 31 December 2014 other reserves differences earnings Total interests Total equity 18 Net profit for the period 89.9 89.9 5.9 95.8 19 Other comprehensive income 20 21 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 22 Available-for-sale financial assets 50.0 50.0 50.0 Exchange differences on translating 23 foreign operations 1.6 1.6 -0.4 1.2 Cash flow hedges 3.4 3.4 3.4 24 Items that will not be reclassified 25 subsequently to profit or loss: Remeasurements on defined benefit 26 pensions -26.6 -26.6 -26.6 Other comprehensive income for the 27 period, net of tax 53.4 1.6 -26.6 28.4 -0.4 28.0 28 Total comprehensive income for the period 53.4 1.6 63.3 118.3 5.5 123.8 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 53 2014 20. INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES 21. FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES Note 1 2014 2013 2014 2013 Interest-bearing current liabilities Maturity of minimum lease payments 2 Loans from financial institutions 85.5 58.3 No later than 1 year 0.9 1.0 3 Finance lease liabilities 0.8 0.9 1–5 years 0.8 1.2 Other current liabilities 70.6 219.2 Later than 5 years 0.7 0.8 4 Total 156.9 278.4 Total minimum lease payments 2.4 3.0 5 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities Present value of finance lease liabilities 6 Loans from financial institutions 241.6 270.0 Total minimum lease payments 2.4 3.0 Bond 202.1 Future finance charges on finance leases -0.2 -0.3 7 Finance lease liabilities 1.4 1.8 Present value of finance lease liabilities 2.2 2.7 8 Other non-current liabilities 3.2 8.1 Total 448.3 279.9 Maturity of the present value of finance 9 lease liabilities No later than 1 year 0.8 0.9 10 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities maturing in 1–5 years 0.8 1.1 11 2016 (2015) 36.9 93.5 Later than 5 years 0.6 0.7 2017 (2016) 60.8 34.3 Total present value of finance lease 12 2018 (2017) 75.8 60.3 liabilities 2.2 2.7 13 2019 (2018) 209.9 67.9 2020 (2019) or later 64.9 23.9 14 Total 448.3 279.9 15 Interest-bearing liabilities maturing in 16 five years or over a longer period of time Loans from financial institutions 64.9 23.2 17 Total 64.9 23.2 18 19 The foreign currency breakdown of non-current loans is disclosed in Note 29 Management of financial risks. 20 The Group's liabilities include neither debentures nor 21 convertible bonds. 22 Net liabilities 2014 2013 23 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 448.3 279.9 24 Interest-bearing current liabilities 156.9 278.4 Cash and cash equivalents -119.1 -102.0 25 Total 486.1 456.3 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 54 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES AND ASSETS 1 Recognized Recognized in other Exchange 2 Jan 1, in the income comprehensive Recognized Disposed differences and Dec 31, 2014 statement income in equity subsidiaries reclassifications 2014 3 Deferred tax liabilities 4 Depreciation difference and untaxed reserves 50.7 0.5 4.0 55.2 5 Available-for-sale financial assets 17.4 0.0 12.5 -0.1 29.8 Defined benefit pensions 7.2 0.7 -5.4 0.1 2.6 6 Fair value adjustments of net 7 assets acquired 1) 8.8 -1.0 -0.3 0.1 7.6 Other 5.7 -3.2 0.2 2.7 8 Total 89.8 -3.0 7.3 0.0 -0.3 4.1 97.9 9 Deferred tax assets deducted -46.3 -51.5 Total deferred tax liabilities in the 10 balance sheet 43.5 46.4 11 Deferred tax assets 12 Provisions 6.9 -1.9 -0.1 4.9 Tax losses 46.2 7.9 2.6 56.7 13 Defined benefit pensions 3.8 -0.5 0.3 0.6 4.2 Other 25.4 -4.6 -0.4 -0.2 -0.8 19.4 14 Total 82.3 0.9 -0.1 0.0 -0.2 2.3 85.2 15 Deferred tax liabilities deducted -46.3 -51.5 Total deferred tax assets in the 16 balance sheet 36.0 33.7 17 18 Recognized Recognized in other Exchange 19 Jan 1, in the income comprehensive Recognized Acquired differences and Dec 31, 2013 statement income in equity subsidiaries reclassifications 2013 20 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation difference and 21 untaxed reserves 49.6 3.1 -2.0 50.7 22 Available-for-sale financial assets 31.5 0.0 -14.0 -0.1 17.4 Defined benefit pensions 5.9 -2.7 5.1 -1.1 7.2 23 Fair value adjustments of net assets acquired 1) 3.5 -0.7 6.6 -0.6 8.8 24 Other 3.4 0.6 0.7 1.0 5.7 25 Total 93.9 0.3 -8.2 0.0 6.6 -2.8 89.8 Deferred tax assets deducted -54.8 -46.3 26 Total deferred tax liabilities in the balance sheet 39.1 43.5 27 28 Deferred tax assets Provisions 5.4 2.9 -1.4 6.9 29 Tax losses 44.1 3.3 -1.2 46.2 30 Defined benefit pensions 3.2 -0.7 1.3 3.8 Other 32.2 -8.0 1.1 0.1 25.4 31 Total 84.9 -2.5 1.1 0.0 0.0 -1.2 82.3 32 Deferred tax liabilities deducted -54.8 -46.3 Total deferred tax assets in the 33 balance sheet 30.1 36.0 34 1) The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are recognized at their fair values. The resulting deferred taxes affect goodwill. 35 The Finnish corporate tax rate change from 24.5% to 20% was enacted on December 17, 2013, and became effective on January 1, 2014. Deferred tax balances have been remeasured at 20% tax rate in the Financial Statements 2013 and 2014. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 55 2014 23. DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION AMOUNTS RECOGNIZED IN THE BALANCE SHEET – DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Note PLANS 1 2014 2013 Defined benefit obligations 375.2 423.8 2 The Group's main defined benefit plans are in Finland, Fair value of plan assets -309.6 -379.8 Sweden, Germany, UK, France, Norway and Canada. The 3 Net recognized assets (-)/liabilities (+) in defined benefit pension plan previously in force in the the balance sheet 65.6 44.0 4 Netherlands was changed to a defined contribution plan in 2014. Liabilities for defined benefit plans 73.1 73.8 5 Assets for defined benefit plans -7.5 -29.8 6 Net recognized assets (-)/liabilities (+) FINLAND of defined benefit plans in the balance 7 sheet 65.6 44.0 8 The Group's most significant defined benefit plan is in Finland through the Pension Fund Neliapila that takes care AMOUNTS RECOGNIZED IN THE COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 9 of part of some employees supplementary pension – DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS 10 benefits. The Pension Fund Neliapila covers employees, 2014 2013 whose employment has begun prior to 1.1.1991 in Kemira, 11 Service cost -5.0 12.4 meaning that the fund is closed for new employees. The Net interest cost 1.5 2.1 12 plan is a final average pay pension plan concerning Components of defined benefit costs supplementary pension benefits. Pension Fund Neliapila's recorded in the income statement 1) -3.5 14.5 13 obligations are total EUR 284.5 million (262.9) and the plan assets EUR 289.8 million (290.2). 14 Remeasurements on defined benefit The Pension Fund Neliapila's supplementary benefit is pensions 2) 3) 26.6 -22.6 15 old age pensions, disability pensions, survivors' pensions Defined benefit costs recognized in the and funeral grants. The aggregated pension benefit is 66% other comprehensive income 26.6 -22.6 16 of pension salary. To qualify a full pension the employee 17 must have a pensionable service of 25 years. The suppleTotal of components of defined benefit plans 23.1 -8.1 mentary pension benefits is the difference between 18 aggregated and compulsory pension benefits. Old-age 1) The service cost and the net interest cost for the period is included in 19 pension age is 65 years, but the employee is entitled to a the employee benefits expenses in the Consolidated Income pension benefit equivalent to pensionable service when Statement. 20 the employee's age is 60 years. Old-age pension is paid in 2) The remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans are included in full form of supplementary pension until the age of 63 and the Statement of Comprehensive Income as part of other 21 comprehensive income. The item has been disclosed net of tax and since then the statutory pensions reduce the supplemen22 the related income tax is disclosed in Note 9. tary pension. 3) In 2014, the change in actuarial gains/losses are mainly due to changes in economic assumptions in determining the actuarial items. 23 24 SWEDEN THE MOVEMENT IN THE DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION 25 The significant defined benefit pension plan is the ITP OVER THE PERIOD 26 2-plan for white-collar employees. To qualify for a full 2014 2013 pension the employee must have a projected period of 27 Defined benefit obligation at 1 Jan 423.8 454.5 pensionable service, from the date of entry until retirement Current service cost 2.6 5.7 28 age, of at least 30 years. The pension arrangements Interest cost 10.8 13.6 comprise normal retirement pension, complementary 29 Actuarial losses (+)/gains (-) on obligation 45.3 -9.9 retirement pensions and survivors' pension. In additional, Exchange differences on foreign plans -2.3 -3.6 30 Kemira must have a credit insurance from PRI PensionsgaEffect of business combinations and ranti Mutual Insurance Company for the ITP 2 -plan divestments -7.8 -18.3 31 pension liability. Swedish defined benefit obligations total Benefits paid -20.3 -24.9 EUR 46.8 million (44.6). 32 Curtailments and settlements -77.0 6.1 Past service cost 0.0 0.9 33 Other movements 0.1 -0.3 34 Defined benefit obligation at 31 Dec 375.2 423.8 35 56 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note MOVEMENT IN THE FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS OVER SENSITIVITY ANALYSES THE PERIOD 1 If the discount rate would be 0.5% lower, the defined 2014 2013 2 benefit obligation would increase by EUR 41.5 million in Fair value at 1 Jan 379.8 392.2 case all other assumptions were held constant. 3 Interest income 9.3 11.5 The sensitivity analysis is based on maintaining other Contributions 1.3 5.0 4 assumptions stagnant even through one assumption Actuarial losses (-)/gains (+) on plan assets 13.7 8.0 changes. In practice, this is unlikely to occur and changes 5 in some of the assumptions may correlate. When calculatExchange differences on foreign plans 0.4 -1.7 Effect of business combinations and ing the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to 6 divestments -6.3 -12.6 significant actuarial assumptions the same method has 7 Benefits paid -17.8 -22.7 been applied as when calculating the pension liability Settlements -70.7 0.0 recognized within the balance sheet. 8 Other movements -0.1 0.1 Expected contributions to the defined benefit plans for 9 Fair value of plan assets at 31 Dec 309.6 379.8 the year ended December 31, 2015, are EUR 3.5 million. 10 ANALYSIS OF PLAN ASSETS BY ASSET CATEGORY 11 2014 2013 12 Shares 129.9 129.9 Mutual funds, interest rate investments 13 and other assets 163.1 234.5 14 Kemira Oyj's shares 1.1 1.4 Property occupied by the Group 15.5 14.0 15 Total assets 309.6 379.8 16 The Finnish Pension Fund Neliapila, which has the most of 17 the defined plan’s assets, hold a significant proportion of 18 equities and high-yield corporate bonds which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term 19 while causing volatility and risk in the short term. In 20 Pension Fund Neliapila, the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability matching (ALM) frame21 work that has been developed to combine long-term 22 investments in line with the obligations under the pension scheme. 23 In Pension Fund Neliapila, a significant investment risk can be considered as market risk. Financial market cyclical 24 fluctuations due to market risk are managed by ensuring 25 that the investment position is sufficiently diversified. The actual return on plan assets of the Group's defined 26 benefit plan was EUR 23.0 million (19.5). 27 SIGNIFICANT ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS, % 28 2014 2013 29 Discount rate 1.5–4.0 3.0–4.8 30 Inflation rate 1.5–3.0 1.0–3.3 Future salary increases 2.0–3.3 1.0–3.5 31 Future pension increases 1.8–3.3 1.0–3.3 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 57 2014 24. PROVISIONS Note 1 Personnel Environmental related Restructuring and damage Other 2 provisions provisions provisions provisions Total Non-current provisions 3 At January 1, 2014 4.3 1.6 20.4 1.0 27.3 Exchange rate differences -0.2 -0.2 4 Additional provisions and increases in existing provisions 1.1 0.7 0.6 2.4 5 Used during the financial year -0.1 -1.1 -3.2 -4.4 Unused amounts reversed -0.1 -0.1 6 Reclassification -1.4 -1.4 7 At December 31, 2014 5.3 1.1 16.2 1.0 23.6 8 Current provisions 9 At January 1, 2014 10.9 11.9 1.8 0.6 25.2 Exchange rate differences -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 10 Additional provisions and increases in existing provisions 3.8 0.8 8.5 13.1 11 Used during the financial year -8.3 -9.0 -2.0 -19.3 Unused amounts reversed -3.2 -1.5 -0.3 -5.0 12 Reclassification 0.7 2.6 3.3 At December 31, 2014 3.1 4.4 9.4 0.2 17.1 13 14 2014 2013 15 Analysis of total provisions Non-current provisions 23.6 27.3 16 Current provisions 17.1 25.2 17 Total 40.7 52.5 18 19 In 2014, increase in provisions related mainly to the plant closures and environmental clean-up work in those plants. More information on environmental risks and liabilities can be found in Note 31. 20 In 2013, increase in provisions related mainly to the paper chemicals plant closure in Vaasa, Finland and the business service center established in Gdansk, Poland during 2013–2014. 21 22 23 25. TRADE PAYABLES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 24 2014 2013 25 Trade payables and other liabilities 26 Prepayments received 3.4 1.7 Trade payables 135.2 143.3 27 Accrued expenses 159.9 129.5 28 Other non-interest bearing current liabilities 29.2 28.1 Total 327.7 302.6 29 30 Accrued expenses Employee benefits 41.1 36.3 31 Items related to revenues and purchases 70.4 58.6 Interest 11.2 2.2 32 Exchange rate differences 1.5 3.6 33 Other 35.7 28.8 Total 159.9 129.5 34 35 58 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 26. CASH FLOW FROM DISPOSALS Mississippi). 3F products are used in retention and drain1 OF SUBSIDIARIES age in paper production, in drilling, extraction and stimulation in the oil & gas industry, in production optimization in 2 the mining industry as well as in wastewater treatment and 2014 2013 sludge dewatering. Disposal of subsidiaries 3 The following table summarizes the consideration paid Proceeds from the disposals 132.0 89.2 4 for 3F, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabiliCash and cash equivalents in disposed companies -2.0 -1.7 ties assumed recognized on the acquisition date. 5 Total cash flow on disposals of subsidiaries 130.0 87.5 Note 6 Consideration at October 1, 2013 7 Assets and liabilities disposed of Cash 59.5 subsidiaries 8 Net working capital 8.8 7.4 Recognized amounts of identifiable Property, plant and equipment and assets acquired and liabilities assumed 9 intangible assets -0.1 133.7 Technologies, customer relationships and 10 Other non-interest bearing receivables 0.2 0.8 other intangible assets 12 20.8 Non-controlling interests -0.6 Property, plant and equipment 13 30.3 11 Interest-bearing liabilities -3.8 -0.8 Inventories 8.8 Non-interest bearing liabilities -2.0 -7.3 Trade and other receivables 12.0 12 Total assets and liabilities of disposed Cash and cash equivalents 0.9 13 subsidiaries 2.5 133.8 Interest-bearing liabilities -26.0 14 Deferred tax liabilities -6.6 Provisions, trade payables and other payables -13.3 15 27. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Total identifiable net assets 26.9 16 Goodwill 11 32.4 17 59.3 2013: 18 On 1 July 2013, Kemira announced that it had acquired 3F Acquisition-related costs of EUR 1.6 million have been 19 Chimica S.p.A., a privately owned company, headquartered included in other operating expenses in the Consolidated 20 in Sandrigo, Italy, excluding a certain part of their assets Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2013. located in the US. Kemira acquired 100% of the share Had 3F been consolidated from 1 January 2013, the 21 capital of 3F amounting to EUR 59.5 million and obtained consolidated income statement would show pro forma 22 control of 3F. Goodwill of EUR 32.4 million arising from the revenue of EUR 72.5 million and operating profit of EUR 2.9 acquisition is attributable to acquired production capacimillion. The pro forma amounts are provided for compara23 ties from manufacturing sites in Italy and USA and the tive purposes only and do not necessarily reflect the actual expected synergy benefits. result that would have occurred, nor is it necessarily 24 3F produces dry and emulsion polyacrylamide polymers indicative of future results of operations of the combined 25 and related process chemicals. Their polymer production is companies. supported by backward integrated key intermediates, such 26 as bio-acrylamide and cationic monomers. The acquisition 27 includes two manufacturing sites in Italy (San Giorgio and Sandrigo) and one manufacturing site in USA (Aberdeen, 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 59 2014 28. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Note 1 NOMINAL VALUES 2014 2013 < 1 year > 1 year Total < 1 year > 1 year Total 2 Currency instruments 3 Forward contracts 304.7 304.7 604.8 604.8 4 Currency options 65.2 65.2 Bought 32.6 32.6 5 Sold 32.6 32.6 6 Interest rate instruments 7 Interest rate swaps 66.5 258.0 324.5 42.6 152.0 194.6 8 of which cash flow hedges 66.5 158.0 224.5 42.6 152.0 194.6 of which fair value hedges 100.0 100.0 9 10 Bond futures 10.0 10.0 of which open 10.0 10.0 11 Other instruments 12 Electricity forward contracts, bought (GWh) 538.4 965.2 1,503.6 521.2 929.3 1,450.5 13 of which cash flow hedges (GWh) 538.4 965.2 1,503.6 521.2 929.3 1,450.5 14 Nominal values of the financial instruments do not necessarily correspond to the actual cash flows between the counterpar15 ties, and individual items do not therefore give a fair view of the Group's risk position. 16 FAIR VALUES 2014 2013 17 Assets Liabilities Total Assets Liabilities Total gross gross net gross gross net 18 Currency instruments Forward contracts 2.9 -1.4 1.5 4.0 -3.3 0.7 19 20 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 Bought 0.0 0.0 0.0 21 Sold 0.0 0.0 0.0 22 Interest rate instruments 23 Interest rate swaps 3.0 -2.5 0.5 -3.6 -3.6 24 of which cash flow hedges -2.5 -2.5 -3.6 -3.6 of which fair value hedges 3.0 3.0 25 Bond futures 0.2 0.2 26 of which open 0.2 0.2 27 Other instruments 28 Electricity forward contracts, bought -5.9 -5.9 -7.8 -7.8 29 of which cash flow hedges -5.9 -5.9 -7.8 -7.8 30 31 32 33 34 35 60 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note FAIR VALUES 2014 2013 Assets gross Liabilities gross Assets gross Liabilities gross 1 < 1 year > 1 year < 1 year > 1 year < 1 year > 1 year < 1 year > 1 year Currency instruments 2 Forward contract 2.9 -1.4 4.0 -3.3 3 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 4 Bought 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 5 Sold 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 6 Interest rate instruments 7 Interest rate swaps 3.0 -0.8 -1.7 -0.5 -3.1 of which cash flow hedges 0.0 -0.8 -1.7 -0.5 -3.1 8 of which fair value hedges 3.0 9 Bond futures 0.2 10 of which open 0.2 11 Other instruments 12 Electricity forward contracts, bought 0.0 0.0 -3.1 -2.8 0.0 0.0 -4.3 -3.5 of which cash flow hedges 0.0 0.0 -3.1 -2.8 0.0 0.0 -4.3 -3.5 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 61 2014 29. M  ANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK Note RISKS 1 Foreign currency transaction risk arises from net currency flows denominated in currencies other than the domestic 2 The Group Treasury manages financial risks in accordance currency within and outside the eurozone. The Group's with the treasury policy in force. Approved by the Board of most significant transaction currency risks arise from the 3 Directors, the treasury policy defines treasury management Canadian dollar and the Swedish krona. At the end of the 4 principles. The Board of Directors approves the annual year the denominated exchange rate risk of the Canadian Treasury plan and the maximum permissible financial risk dollar had an equivalent value of approximately EUR 41 5 levels. million (30), the average hedging rate being 52% (42%). The 6 Financial risk management aims to protect the SEK denominated exchange rate risk had an equivalent Company from unfavorable changes in financial markets, value of approximately EUR 34 million (33), the average 7 thus contributing to securing the Company’s profit perforhedging rate being 76% (79%). Kemira is exposed to 8 mance and shareholders’ equity. Kemira employs various smaller transaction risks in relation to the Norwegian financial instruments within the set limits. The Group uses krona, Brazilian real, Polish zloty and U.S. dollar with the 9 only instruments of which market values and risks can be annual exposure in those currencies being approximately 10 monitored continuously and reliably. It uses derivative EUR 69 million. instruments only for hedging purposes, not for speculation. Kemira mainly uses forwards and currency options in 11 Management of foreign exchange and interest rate risk is hedging against foreign exchange risks. The table below centralized in the Group Treasury. shows an estimate of the largest group-level foreign 12 currency cash flow risks. 13 14 Transaction and translation exposure 2014 2013 SEK CAD USD Other SEK CAD USD Other 15 Operative cash flow forecast 1) -33.9 41.0 6.8 61.9 -33.5 30.4 4.6 49.5 16 Loans, net -16.1 315.5 53.8 17.6 1.0 241.6 61.1 Derivatives, transaction hedging 13.8 -22.0 0.0 -12.5 31.6 -19.1 -2.2 21.4 17 Derivatives, translation hedging 16.8 -74.4 -50.3 1.6 -1.0 -228.9 -68.7 18 Total -19.4 19.0 247.9 52.9 17.3 11.3 15.1 63.3 19 1) Based on 12 months operative cash flow forecast. 20 At the turn of 2014/2015, the foreign currency operative ratio. In accordance with the Group’s policy, Kemira must 21 cash flow forecast for 2015 was EUR 151 million of which take equity hedging measures if a change of +/5% in 22 32% was hedged (63%). The hedge ratio is monitored daily. foreign exchange rates causes a change of more than 1.5 In hedging the total cash flow risk, a neutral level is percentage points in the equity ratio. Long-term loans are 23 achieved when 50% of the forecasted net foreign currency primarily used for hedging of net investments in foreign 24 cash flow is hedged. A minimum of 30% and a maximum of subsidiaries. These hedges do not apply hedge accounting. 100% of the forecast flow must always be hedged. A 10% 25 fall in foreign exchange rates against the euro, based on 26 the average exchange rates, and without hedging, would INTEREST RATE RISK reduce EBITDA by about EUR 16 million. 27 Since Kemira's consolidated financial statements are In accordance with the treasury policy the Group’s interest 28 compiled in euros, Kemira is subject to currency translarate risk is measured with the duration which describes tion risk to the extent that the income statement and average repricing moment of the loan portfolio. The 29 balance sheet items of subsidiaries located outside duration must be in the range of 6–24 months. The Group Finland are reported in some other currency than the euro. may borrow in either fixed or floating rate and use both 30 Most significant translation risk currencies are the US interest rate swaps and interest rate options as well as 31 dollar, the Swedish krona, the Canadian Dollar, Chinese forward rate agreements and interest rate futures in order Renminbi and the Brazilian real. to meet the goal set under the related policy. 32 Kemira's main equity items denominated in foreign The duration of the Group’s interest-bearing loan 33 currencies are in the Swedish krona and US dollar. The portfolio was 23 months at the end of 2014 (14 months). objective is to hedge the balance sheet risk by maintaining Excluding the interest rate derivatives, the duration was 20 34 a balance between foreign currency denominated liabilities months (7 months). At the end of 2014, 82% of the Group’s 35 and assets, currency by currency. In hedging the net entire net debt portfolio, including derivatives and pension investment in its units abroad, Kemira monitors the equity loans, was fixed (60%). The net financing cost of the Group 62 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note was 5.2% (2.7%). This figure is attained by dividing yearly Financial assets and liabilities with fixed interest rate net interest and other financing expenses excluding are exposed to price risks arising from changes in interest 1 exchange rate differences and dividends by the average rates. Financial assets and liabilities with floating interest 2 interest bearing net debt figure for the corresponding rate of which changes alongside market interest rates, are period. The most significant impact on the net financing exposed to cash flow risks due to interest rates. 3 cost arises from variation in the interest rate levels of the The table below shows the time for interest rate fixing 4 euro and the US dollar denominated debt. On the balance of the loan portfolio. sheet date the average interest rate of loan portfolio was 5 approximately 2.1%. 6 7 Time to interest rate fixing at Dec 31, 2014 <1 year 1–5 years > 5 year Total 8 Floating net liabilities 91.5 91.5 9 Fixed net liabilities 116.5 248.1 30.0 394.6 Total 208.0 248.1 30.0 486.1 10 11 Time to interest rate fixing at Dec 31, 2013 <1 year 1–5 years > 5 year Total 12 Floating net liabilities 182.3 182.3 Fixed net liabilities 43.0 207.0 24.0 274.0 13 Total 225.3 207.0 24.0 456.3 14 15 As a consequence of treasury policy, the Group’s average as hedging instruments. Currency and regional price risks 16 interest rate is generally higher than short-term market connected with hedges are hedged by making agreements interest rates when low rates prevail and, on the other in Finland, mainly in HELEUR amounts and in Sweden, 17 hand, lower than market interest rates when high rates mainly in MALSEK amounts. The majority of outstanding 18 prevail. If interest rates would rise by one percentage point electricity derivatives are treated in accordance with cash on January 1, 2015, the resulting interest expenses before flow hedge accounting, as discussed above. The forecast 19 taxes incurred by the Group over the next 12 months would for physical deliveries of the underlying asset, or pur20 increase by about EUR 0.5 million (1.4). During 2015, chases, are not recorded until the delivery period. A 10% Kemira will reprice 30% (46%) of the Group’s net debt change in the market price of electricity hedging contracts 21 portfolio, including derivatives. would impact the valuation of these contracts EUR +/-4.3 22 On the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding million (+/-5.1). interest rate derivatives related to cash flow hedging with a 23 market value of EUR -2.5 million (-3.6) and fair value hedging with market value of EUR 3.0 million. All interest CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY RISK 24 rate swaps are used to hedge the Group’s loan portfolio, 25 and are accounted for in accordance with the principles of The Group’s treasury policy defines the credit rating hedge accounting set out in IAS 39. The Group’s accounting requirements for counterparties of investment activities 26 policies section describes the Group policy regarding and derivative agreements as well as the related invest27 hedge accounting. One percentage point increase in ment policy. The Group seeks to minimize its counterparty interest rates would have a positive impact in market risk by dealing solely with counterparties that are financial 28 valuation of interest rate swaps of EUR 0.4 million (1.4) in institutions with a good credit rating as well as by decen29 equity (before taxes). tralizing agreements among them. The Group Treasury approves the new banking relation30 ships of subsidiaries. At present, there are 11 approved 31 PRICE RISK financial institution counterparties used by the Group Treasury, all of which have a credit rating of at least A, 32 The price of electricity varies greatly according to the based on Standard & Poor’s credit rating information. The market situation. Kemira Group takes hedging measures maximum risk assignable to the Group’s financial institu33 with respect to its electricity purchases in order to even out tion counterparties on the balance sheet date amounted to 34 raw material costs. In line with its hedging policy, the Group EUR 125.1 million (106.2). Kemira monitors its counterparty hedges its existing sales agreements in such a way that the risk on a monthly basis by defining the maximum risk 35 hedges cover the commitments made. The company associated with each counterparty, based on the market primarily uses electricity forwards on the power exchange value of receivables. For each financial institution, Kemira CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 63 2014 has defined an approved limit. Credit risks associated with insurance company loans as well as a short-term domestic Note financing transactions did not result in credit losses during commercial paper program, with the objective of balancing 1 the financial year. the maturity schedule of the loan portfolio and maintaining The counterparty risk in treasury operations is due to a sufficiently long maturity for long-term loans. 2 the fact that a contractual party to a financing transaction In accordance with the Group Treasury policy, the is not necessarily able to fulfill its contractual obligations. average maturity of outstanding loans should always be at 3 Risks are mainly related to investment activities and the least 3 years. The Group must have committed credit 4 counterparty risks associated with derivative contracts. facilities to cover planned funding needs, the current The Group Treasury may invest a maximum of EUR 150 portion of long term debt, commercial paper borrowings 5 million in liquid assets in the commercial papers of Finnish and other uncommitted short-term loans in the next 12 6 companies. The maximum single investment is EUR 25 months. Moreover, the maturity profile of the long-term million for a period of up to six months. debt portfolio and refinancing should be planned so that a 7 Kemira has a Group wide credit policy in place. Prodmaximum of 30% of the total debt portfolio will mature 8 ucts are sold on open account only to companies the credit during the next 12 month period. The average maturity of information of which does not indicate payment irregularidebt at the end of 2014 was 4.0 years. 9 ties. The Group does not have any significant credit risk The Group has a EUR 600 million domestic commercial 10 concentrations because of its extensive customer base paper program enabling it to issue commercial papers with across the world. Credit limits apply to most customers a maximum maturity of one year. At the end of 2014 the 11 and are monitored systematically. In some cases, docuamount raised from commercial paper markets was EUR mentary payments are in use, such as letters of credit. The 10.0 million. Simultaneously the group had EUR 119.1 12 age distribution of trade receivables outstanding at the end million of outstanding liquid shortand long-term invest13 of 2014 is shown in the following table. ments. In addition, the Group has 5+1 year revolving credit facility of EUR 400 million. At the turn of the year 14 AGEING OF TRADE RECEIVABLES 2014 2013 2014/2015 the revolving credit facility was undrawn. The 15 Undue trade receivables 212.7 212.0 revolving credit facility represents a flexible form of both Trade receivables 1–90 days overdue 48.8 40.3 short-term and long-term financing with a predictable fee 16 Trade receivables more than 91 days structure. Kemira issued a senior unsecured bond of EUR 17 overdue 3.8 2.7 200 million in May 2014. The five year bond will mature in Total 265.3 255.0 May 2019 and it carries a fixed annual interest rate of 2.500 18 percent. In addition, Kemira signed two EUR 50 million 19 In 2014, impairment loss of trade receivables amounted to term loans in December 2014. New loans were undrawn at EUR 1.2 million (4.4). the end of the period. 20 In USA Kemira has an accounts receivable purchase facility worth USD 38 million, enabling Group companies in MATURITY SPLIT OF INTEREST-BEARING NET DEBT 21 the USA to sell certain account receivables to the counter22 party. The credit risk of the accounts receivables is trans0.0 ferred to the counterparty and 96.9% of the receivables 23 transferred are derecognized from the balance sheet. The -50.0 -37.8 -36.9 24 amount of outstanding receivables transferred, which also -60.8 -64.9 -75.8 reflects the carrying value of the receivables before the -100.0 25 transfer was EUR 26.5 million (17.8) at 31 December 2014. -150.0 26 The amounts recognized in the balance sheet at 31 December 2014 due to the continuing involvement are EUR 27 -200.0 0.8 million (0.6) in assets and EUR 0.2 million (0.2) in -209.9 28 liabilities. -250.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 29 LIQUIDITY AND REFINANCING RISKS 30 31 In order to secure its liquidity, the Group uses account overdrafts, money market investments and a revolving 32 credit facility. At the end of 2014 the Group’s cash and cash 33 equivalents stood at EUR 119.1 million (102.0), of which short-term investment accounted for EUR 37.6 million 34 (14.4) and bank deposits EUR 81.5 million (87.6). 35 The Group diversifies its refinancing risk by raising financing from various sources. The Group has bank loans, 64 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note CAPITAL STRUCTURE MANAGEMENT The Board of Directors will propose a per-share dividend of EUR 0.53 for 2014 (EUR 0.53), corresponding to 1 The Group’s long-term objective is to maintain a gearing a dividend payout ratio of 90% (-255%). Kemira dividend 2 ratio below 60%. To calculate the gearing ratio, interestpolicy aims at paying a stable and competitive dividend. bearing net liabilities (interest-bearing liabilities less cash 3 and cash equivalents) are divided by shareholders’ equity. 2014 2013 4 The new revolver credit facility agreement contains a Interest-bearing liabilities 605.2 558.3 covenant according to which the company gearing must be Cash and cash equivalents 119.1 102.0 5 below 100%. Interest-bearing net liabilities 486.1 456.3 Besides gearing, certain other bilateral loan agreeEquity 1,163.3 1,125.5 6 ments contain a covenant according to which the Company Total assets 2,295.7 2,211.0 7 represents and warrants that its financial status will remain such that the consolidated shareholders’ equity is Gearing 42% 41% 8 always at least 25% of the consolidated total assets Equity ratio 51% 51% 9 (equity ratio). 10 11 12 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 13 2014 2013 14 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Cash and cash equivalents 81.5 81.5 87.6 87.6 15 Money market investments 37.6 37.6 14.4 14.4 16 Total 119.1 119.1 102.0 102.0 17 Money market investments are short-term. 18 NON-CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND AMORTIZATIONS OF NON-CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LOANS 19 Currency 20 Dec 31, 2014 Maturity 21 Fair value Book value 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020– EUR 433.0 417.4 76.2 24.6 24.5 17.4 209.9 64.8 22 USD 112.8 112.5 8.9 8.9 36.3 58.4 23 Other 4.0 4.0 0.4 3.6 Total 549.8 533.9 85.5 37.1 60.8 75.8 209.9 64.8 24 25 Currency Dec 31, 2013 Maturity 26 Fair value Book value 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019– 27 EUR 195.1 190.5 25.8 76.4 24.3 24.3 16.5 23.2 USD 136.3 135.9 32.3 10.3 8.9 33.0 51.4 28 Other 10.0 10.0 0.2 6.8 3.0 29 Total 341.4 336.4 58.3 93.5 33.2 60.3 67.9 23.2 30 The figures include the amortizations planned for 2015 (2014) excluding commercial papers and other current loans. 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 65 2014 CASH FLOW FROM ALL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Note Loan type 1 Dec 31, 2014 Maturity Drawn Undrawn 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020– 2 Long-term interest bearing liabilities 1) 331.6 100.0 85.5 36.8 60.5 75.5 9.6 64.6 3 financial expenses 1.8 0.8 1.3 1.6 0.2 1.4 4 Bond 200.0 200.0 financial expenses 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5 Revolving credit facility 400.0 6 financial expenses 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Finance lease liabilities 2.2 0.8 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 7 financial expenses 0.1 8 Commercial paper program 10.0 590.0 10.0 financial expenses 0.0 9 Other interest-bearing current loans 61.4 61.4 financial expenses 1.5 10 Interest-bearing loans total 605.2 1,090.0 167.1 43.9 68.1 83.4 216.1 67.2 11 Trade payables 135.2 12 Forward contracts 13 liabilities 304.7 304.7 assets -306.2 -306.2 14 Other derivatives 2) 8.4 3.9 3.6 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.2 15 Trade payables and derivatives total 142.1 2.4 3.6 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.2 16 Total 747.3 1,090.0 169.5 47.5 68.5 83.6 216.2 67.4 17 Guarantees 3.3 18 19 Loan type Dec 31, 2013 Maturity 20 Drawn Undrawn 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019– 21 Long-term interest bearing liabilities 336.4 45.0 58.3 93.5 33.2 60.3 67.9 23.2 financial expenses 0.9 1.4 0.5 0.9 1.0 0.3 22 Revolving credit facility 400.0 financial expenses 23 Finance lease liabilities 2.7 0.9 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.7 24 financial expenses 0.1 Commercial paper program 163.8 436.2 163.8 25 financial expenses 1.0 26 Other interest-bearing current loans 55.4 55.4 financial expenses 0.8 27 Interest-bearing loans total 558.3 881.2 281.2 95.2 34.0 61.5 69.1 24.2 28 Trade payables 143.3 29 Forward contracts liabilities 604.8 604.8 30 assets -605.5 -605.5 31 Other derivatives 2) 11.4 4.8 3.2 2.8 0.4 0.2 Trade payables and derivatives total 154.0 4.1 3.2 2.8 0.4 0.2 32 33 Total 712.3 881.2 285.3 98.4 36.8 61.9 69.3 24.2 Guarantees 3.1 34 1) Includes hedge accounting adjustment of EUR 2.1 million. 35 2) Interest rate swaps and electricity forwards. 66 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 30. COMMITMENTS AND Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA presents in its claim 1 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES a preliminary calculation of the alleged overcharge having been paid to the defendants as a result of the violation of 2 the applicable competition rules by the parties which have 2014 2013 assigned and sold their claim to Cartel Damage Claims 3 COMMITMENTS Hydrogen Peroxide SA. In the original summons such 4 alleged overcharge, together with accrued interest until Assets pledged December 31, 2008, was stated to be EUR 641.3 million. On behalf of own commitments 6.0 6.4 5 Thereafter Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA has delivered to the attorneys of the defendants an April 6 Guarantees 14, 2011 dated brief addressed to the court and an expert On behalf of own commitments 48.4 50.4 7 opinion. In the said brief the minimum damage including On behalf of others 3.3 3.1 accrued interest until December 31, 2010, based on the 8 expert opinion, is stated to be EUR 475.6 million. It is 9 further stated in the brief that the damages analysis of the Operating lease commitments – the Group as lessee expert does not include lost profit. 10 The process is currently pending in the Regional Court Minimum lease payments under 11 operating leases are as follows: of Dortmund, Germany. It has on April 29, 2013 decided to No later than 1 year 31.1 26.4 suspend the case and to asked a preliminary ruling on 12 jurisdiction from the Court of Justice of the European Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 74.7 63.3 Union. Kemira defends against the claim of Cartel Damage 13 Later than 5 years 87.1 76.6 Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA. 14 Total 192.9 166.3 Kemira Oyj has additionally been served on April 28, 2011 a summons stating that Cartel Damage Claims 15 Other obligations Hydrogen Peroxide SA had filed an application for 16 On behalf of own commitments 1.2 1.6 summons in the municipal court of Helsinki on April 20, On behalf of associates 0.6 0.7 2011 for violations of competition law applicable to the 17 hydrogen peroxide business claiming from Kemira Oyj as 18 maximum compensation EUR 78.0 million as well as THE MOST SIGNIFICANT OFF-BALANCE SHEET overdue interest starting from November 10, 2008 as 19 INVESTMENTS COMMITMENTS litigation expenses with overdue interest. The referred 20 violations of competition law are the same as those on Major amounts of contractual commitments for the basis of which CDC has taken legal action in Germany in 21 acquisition of property, plant and equipment on December Dortmund. The municipal court made on July 4, 2013 a 22 31, 2014 were about EUR 23.8 million (12.3) for plant decision which could not be appealed separately. In its investments. decision the municipal court considered to have jurisdic23 tion and that the claims made by the claimant were at least not totally time-barred. On May 19, 2014 Kemira 24 LITIGATION announced that it had signed an agreement with Cartel 25 Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA and CDC Holding SA On August 19, 2009, Kemira Oyj received a summons (together “CDC”) to settle the lawsuit in Helsinki, Finland. 26 stating that Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA Based on the settlement CDC withdrew the damages 27 had filed an action against six hydrogen peroxide manufacclaims and Kemira paid to CDC a compensation of EUR 18.5 turers, including Kemira, for violations of competition law million and compensated CDC for its legal costs. The 28 applicable to the hydrogen peroxide business. In its claim, settlement also includes significant limitations of liabili29 Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA seeks an ties for Kemira regarding the pending legal actions filed by order from the Regional Court of Dortmund in Germany to CDC entities in Dortmund, Germany (mentioned above) and 30 obtain an unabridged and full copy of the decision of the in Amsterdam, the Netherlands (mentioned below). 31 European Commission, dated May 3, 2006, and demands Kemira Oyj's subsidiary Kemira Chemicals Oy (former that the defendants, including Kemira, are jointly and Finnish Chemicals Oy) has on June 9, 2011 received 32 severally ordered to pay damages together with accrued documents where it was stated that CDC Project 13 SA has interest on the basis of such decision. filed an action against four companies in municipal court of 33 Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA has stated Amsterdam, including Kemira, asking damages for viola34 that it will specify the amount of the damages at a later tions of competition law applicable to the sodium chlorate stage after the full copy of the decision of the European business. The European Commission set on June 2008 a 35 Commission has been obtained by it. In order to provide fine of EUR 10.15 million on Finnish Chemicals Oy for initial guidance as to the amount of such damages, Cartel antitrust activity in the company's sodium chlorate CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 67 2014 business during 1994–2000. Kemira Oyj acquired Finnish 31. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS AND Note Chemicals in 2005. The municipal court of Amsterdam LIABILITIES 1 decided on June 4, 2014 to have jurisdiction over the case. The said decision may be appealed separately and Kemira 2 is making an appeal. Kemira defends against the claim of The bulk of Kemira’s business is in the chemical industry CDC Project 13 SA. our operations are governed by numerous international 3 As mentioned above the settlement between Kemira agreements and regional and national legislation all over 4 and CDC relating the Helsinki litigation also includes the world. The Group treats its environmental liabilities and significant limitations of liabilities for Kemira regarding the risks in the consolidated financial statements in accor­ 5 pending legal actions filed by CDC entities in Dortmund, dance with IFRS and observes the established internal 6 Germany and in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. However, environmental principles and procedures. Divestments and regardless of such limitations of liabilities, Kemira is acquisitions changed the Group's environmental liabilities. 7 currently not in a position to make any estimate regarding Provisions for environmental remediation totaled EUR 25.6 8 the duration or the likely outcome of the processes started million (22.2). The increase is mainly explained by addiby Cartel Damage Claims Hydrogen Peroxide SA and CDC tional clean-up work required by the authorities related to 9 Project 13 SA. No assurance can be given as to the site closures. The biggest provisions relate to site closures 10 outcome of the processes, and unfavorable judgments and the limited reconditioning of the sediment of a lake against Kemira could have a material adverse effect on adjacent to the Vaasa plant. 11 Kemira’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Due to its extensive international operations the 12 Group, in addition to the above referred claims, is involved EMISSION ALLOWANCES 13 in a number of other legal proceedings incidental to these operations and it does not expect the outcome of these The Group holds assigned emissions allowances under the 14 other currently pending legal proceedings to have materiEU Emissions Trading System in Sweden and in Finland 15 ally adverse effect upon its consolidated results or finansite. At Group level, the allowances showed a net surplus of cial position. 65,570 tons (a net surplus of 59,393 tons). 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 68 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 32. RELATED PARTIES 1 Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ventures and the Pension Fund Neliapila. Related parties 2 ability to control the other party, or exercise significant also include the members of the Board of Directors and the influence, or exercise joint control in making financial and Group's Management Boards, the CEO and his deputy and 3 operating decisions. The Group's related parties include their immediate family members. 4 the parent company, subsidiaries, associates, joint5 6 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS OF CEO, DEPUTY CEO AND MEMBERS OF MANAGEMENT BOARD 7 Wages, salaries Share8 and other based Severance benefits, Bonuses, payments, payments, 9 EUR EUR EUR 2) EUR 2014 2013 10 CEO Jari Rosendal (since May 1, 2014) 360,000 360,000 CEO Wolfgang Büchele (until April 30, 2014) 291,222 157,039 448,261 964,566 11 Deputy CEO Jukka Hakkila (since May 6, 2013) 1) 178,810 41,059 219,869 161,557 Deputy CEO Jyrki Mäki-Kala (until May 5, 2013) 141,349 12 Other members of management board 2,689,378 567,509 636,571 3,893,458 2,472,567 13 Total 3,519,410 765,607 636,571 4,921,588 3,740,039 14 1) Jukka Hakkila is not a member of the management board. 2) Share-based incentive plans for the management board are disclosed in Note 5. 15 16 In addition, in 2014, the employment of a member of A six-month period of notice applies to the Managing 17 management board was ended and he was allowed to Director. The Managing Director will receive severance pay 18 retain the right to defined benefit pension. EUR 1.7 million equaling his 12-month salary if the Company terminates pension expense was recognized as result of it. More the employment. 19 information on defined benefit pension plans is presented 20 in Note 23. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS' EMOLUMENTS 21 22 MANAGEMENT'S PENSION COMMITMENTS AND The Annual General Meeting decided on March 24, 2014, TERMINATION BENEFITS that the annual fee for the Board of Directors be paid as a 23 combination of the company's shares and cash in such a Jari Rosendal was appointed as Kemira Oyj's CEO as of May manner that 40% of the annual fee is paid with the com24 1, 2014. Former CEO Wolfgang Büchele left the position on pany's shares owned by the company or, if this is not 25 April 30, 2014 and joined another company. possible, shares purchased from the market, and 60% is CEO Jari Rosendal belongs to the Finnish Employees’ paid in cash. According to the decision, the shares will be 26 Pension Act (TyEL) scheme, which provides pension transferred to the members of the Board of Directors and, if 27 security based on the years of service and earnings as necessary, acquired directly on behalf of the members of stipulated by law. CEO’s retirement age is 63. CEO does not the Board of Directors within two weeks from the release of 28 have a supplementary pension arrangement. Kemira's interim report January 1 March 31, 2014. 29 The meeting fees are paid in cash and travel expenses are paid according to Kemira's travel policy. 30 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 69 2014 MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Note Cash Number of Share value, compensation, 2014 2013 1 shares EUR EUR Total, EUR Total, EUR Jari Paasikivi, Chairman (since March 24, 2014) 2,671 29,167 57,566 86,733 59,710 2 Kerttu Tuomas, Vice Chairman 1,625 17,745 37,171 54,916 47,167 3 Wolfgang Büchele (since March 24, 2014) 1,300 14,196 29,377 43,573 Winnie Fok 1,300 14,196 52,777 66,973 66,967 4 Juha Laaksonen 1,625 17,745 40,171 57,916 56,710 5 Timo Lappalainen (since March 24, 2014) 1,300 14,196 28,777 42,973 Jukka Viinanen, Chairman (until March 24, 2014) 2,400 2,400 84,923 6 Elisabeth Armstrong (until March 26, 2013) 7,200 Total 9,821 107,245 248,239 355,484 322,677 7 8 9 TRANSACTIONS CARRIED OUT WITH RELATED PARTIES The amount of contingent liabilities on behalf of associates 10 are presented in Note 30. 2014 2013 Related parties include the Pension Fund Neliapila, 11 Revenue which is a separate legal entity. Pension Fund Neliapila Associated companies 2.2 2.3 12 manages Kemira Oyj's voluntarily organized additional pension fund. Pension Fund Neliapila manages part of the 13 Purchases pension assets of the Group's personnel in Finland. The Associated companies 2.9 2.6 assets include Kemira shares representing 0.08% of the 14 Pension Fund Neliapila 1.1 1.1 company's outstanding shares. Total 4.0 3.7 15 No loans had been granted to the management at year-end of 2013 and 2014, nor were there contingency 16 Receivables items or commitments on behalf of key management Associated companies 0.0 0.2 17 personnel. 18 Liabilities Associated companies 0.2 0.3 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 70 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note 33. CHANGES IN THE GROUP STRUCTURE 1 2 ACQUISITIONS OF GROUP COMPANIES AND CHANGES IN THE HOLDINGS OF GROUP NEW SUBSIDIARIES ESTABLISHED COMPANIES WITHIN THE GROUP 3 4 • Kemira established a new company Kemira (Thailand) • Kemira 3F Chimica Spa merged into Kemira Italy S.p.A Co., Ltd. in Thailand on October 2, 2014. on May 1, 2014. 5 • Kemira established a new company Kemira Japan Co., • Kemira Chimica Srl merged into Kemira Italy S.p.A on Ltd. in Japan on October 3, 2014. May 1, 2014. 6 • 3F Chimica Deutschland GmbH merged into Kemira 7 Chemicals Germany GmbH on April 30, 2014. DIVESTMENTS OF GROUP COMPANIES 8 9 • Suomen Muurahaishappo Oy was sold on March 6, NAME CHANGES 2014. 10 • Kemira Indus Limited was sold on December 15, 2014. Former name 11 ZAO Kemira EKO 12 New name 13 ZAO Avers 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) 71 2014 34. THE GROUP'S SUBSIDIARIES Note 1 Kemira Group's Holding % City Country Kemira Oyj Helsinki Finland 2 Aliada Quimica de Portugal Lda. 50.10 Estarreja Portugal AS Kemivesi 100.00 Tallinn Estonia 3 Chesapeake Agro-Iron, LLC 100.00 Atlanta, GA United States 4 Clean Water Logistics, LLC 100.00 Atlanta, GA United States Corporación Kemira Chemicals de Venezuela, C.A. 100.00 Caracas Venezuela 5 Finnchem Canada Inc. 100.00 Ontario Canada 6 Finnchem USA, Inc. 100.00 Delaware United States Finnish Chemicals Corporation 100.00 Delaware United States 7 HTC Augusta Inc 100.00 Delaware United States Industry Park i Helsingborg Förvaltning AB 100.00 Helsingborg Sweden 8 Kemifloc a.s. 51.00 Přerov Czech Republic 9 Kemifloc Slovakia S.r.o. 51.00 Prešov Slovakia Kemipol Sp. z o.o. 51.00 Police Poland 10 Kemira (Asia) Co., Ltd. 100.00 Shanghai China 11 Kemira Argentina S.A. 100.00 Buenos Aires Argentina Kemira Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 100.00 Singapore Singapore 12 Kemira Cell Sp. z.o.o. 55.00 Ostroleka Poland 13 Kemira Chemicals (Nanjing) Co. Ltd 100.00 Nanjing China Kemira Chemicals (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 100.00 Shanghai China 14 Kemira Chemicals (UK) Ltd 100.00 Harrogate United Kingdom 15 Kemira Chemicals (Yanzhou) Co., Ltd 100.00 Yanzhou City China Kemira Chemicals AS 100.00 Gamle Fredrikstad Norway 16 Kemira Chemicals Brasil Ltda 100.00 São Paulo Brazil Kemira Chemicals Canada Inc. 100.00 Maitland Canada 17 Kemira Chemicals Germany GmbH 100.00 Frankfurt am Main Germany 18 Kemira Chemicals India Private Limited 99.99 Hyderabad India Kemira Chemicals NV 100.00 Aartselaar Belgium 19 Kemira Chemicals Oy 100.00 Helsinki Finland 20 Kemira Chemicals, Inc. 100.00 Atlanta, GA United States Kemira Chemie Ges.mbH 100.00 Krems Austria 21 Kemira Chile Comercial Limitada 100.00 Santiago Chile 22 Kemira Chimie S.A.S.U. 100.00 Lauterbourg France Kemira de México, S.A. de C.V. 100.00 Tlaxcala Mexico 23 Kemira Europe Oy 100.00 Helsinki Finland 24 Kemira Finance Solutions B.V. 100.00 Rotterdam Netherlands Kemira France SAS 100.00 Lauterbourg France 25 Kemira Gdańsk Sp. z o.o. 100.00 Gdansk Poland Kemira Germany GmbH 100.00 Leverkusen Germany 26 Kemira Germany Sales GmbH 100.00 Leverkusen Germany 27 Kemira GrowHow A/S 100.00 Fredericia Denmark Kemira Hong Kong Company Limited 100.00 Hong Kong China 28 Kemira Ibérica S.A. 100.00 Barcelona Spain 29 Kemira Ibérica Sales and Marketing S.L. 100.00 Barcelona Spain Kemira International Finance B.V. 100.00 Rotterdam Netherlands 30 Kemira Italy S.p.A. 100.00 San Giorgio di Nogaro Italy 31 Kemira Japan Co., Ltd 100.00 Tokyo Japan Kemira Kemi AB 100.00 Helsingborg Sweden 32 33 34 35 72 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (EUR million) Note Kemira Group's Holding % City Country 1 Kemira Kopparverket KB 100.00 Helsingborg Sweden Kemira Korea Corporation 100.00 Seoul South-Korea 2 Kemira KTM d.o.o. 100.00 Ljubljana Slovenia 3 Kemira Logistics, Inc. 100.00 Atlanta, GA United States Kemira Nederland Holding B.V. 100.00 Rotterdam Netherlands 4 Kemira New Chemicals Inc. 100.00 Savannah, GA United States 5 Kemira Operon Oy 100.00 Helsinki Finland Kemira Rotterdam B.V. 100.00 Rotterdam Netherlands 6 Kemira South Africa (Pty) Ltd 100.00 Weltevredenpark South Africa 7 Kemira Specialty Chemicals, Inc. 100.00 Atlanta, GA United States Kemira Świecie Sp. z o.o. 100.00 Swiecie Poland 8 Kemira Taiwan Corporation 100.00 Taipei Taiwan Kemira (Thailand) Co., Ltd 100.00 Bangkok Thailand 9 Kemira Uruguay S.A. 100.00 Montevideo Uruguay 10 Kemira Water Danmark A/S 100.00 Esbjerg Denmark Kemira Water Solutions Brasil -Produtos para 11 tratamento de agua Ltda. 100.00 São Paulo Brazil 12 Kemira Water Solutions Canada Inc. 100.00 Varennes Qs Canada Kemira Water Solutions, Inc. 100.00 Atlanta, GA United States 13 Kemwater Brasil S.A. 100.00 Camaçari Brazil Kemwater ProChemie s.r.o. 95.10 Kosmonosy Czech Republic 14 LA Water, LLC 100.00 Atlanta, GA United States 15 PT Kemira Indonesia 100.00 Jakarta Indonesia Riverside Development Partners, LLC 100.00 Atlanta, GA United States 16 Ruoholahden Kuusenkerkkä Oy 100.00 Helsinki Finland 17 Scandinavian Tanking System A/S 100.00 Copenhagen Denmark Water Elements Las Vegas, LLC 100.00 Atlanta, GA United States 18 Water Elements, LLC 100.00 Atlanta, GA United States 19 ZAO Kemira HIM 100.00 St. Petersburg Russia ZAO Avers 100.00 St. Petersburg Russia 20 21 22 23 35. E  VENTS AFTER THE BALANCE 24 SHEET DATE 25 The Group has no significant events after the balance sheet 26 date. 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Income Statement (EUR) 73 2014 KEMIRA OYJ INCOME STATEMENT (FAS) Year ended 31 December Note 2014 2013 Revenue 2 1,228,093,326.36 1,382,093,042.77 Change in inventories of finished goods 4 -5,762,341.10 -5,360,719.99 Other operating income 3 21,831,008.86 26,077,105.50 Materials and services 4 -833,680,854.67 -927,158,120.54 Personnel expenses 5 -37,542,887.25 -47,129,227.77 Depreciation, amortization and impairment 6 -30,841,745.64 -34,130,718.97 Other operating expenses 4 -338,951,246.02 -404,735,455.50 Operating profit/loss 3,145,260.54 -10,344,094.50 Financial income and expenses 7 -9,335,297.22 147,046,343.79 Profit/loss before extraordinary items -6,190,036.68 136,702,249.29 Extraordinary items 8 4,051,000.00 10,760,000.00 Profit/loss before appropriations and taxes -2,139,036.68 147,462,249.29 Appropriations 6 986,476.92 -474,630.03 Income tax 9 -126,594.21 -5,809,899.08 Net profit for the period -1,279,153.97 141,177,720.18 74 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Balance Sheet (EUR) KEMIRA OYJ BALANCE SHEET (FAS) As at 31 December Note 2014 2013 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets 10 86,731,162.78 100,964,301.36 Property, plant and equipment 11 29,134,666.18 27,739,469.56 Investments 12 Holdings in subsidiaries 1,570,433,661.40 1,521,871,906.66 Other shares and holdings 144,105,359.93 140,284,625.87 Total investments 1,714,539,021.33 1,662,156,532.53 Total non-current assets 1,830,404,850.29 1,790,860,303.45 CURRENT ASSETS Inventories 13 77,283,674.66 79,273,543.06 Non-current receivables 14 182,251,103.67 157,196,898.40 Current receivables 14 268,922,965.41 322,047,359.83 Money market investments – cash equivalents 15 22,910,617.10 2,785,859.04 Cash and cash equivalents 62,735,605.73 114,914,629.36 Total current assets 614,103,966.57 676,218,289.69 Total assets 2,444,508,816.86 2,467,078,593.14 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY 16 Share capital 221,761,727.69 221,761,727.69 Share premium 257,877,731.94 257,877,731.94 Fair value reserve -2,963,940.82 -5,079,068.12 Unrestricted equity reserve 199,963,876.20 199,963,876.20 Retained earnings 401,541,863.82 340,837,348.99 Net profit/ loss for the financial year -1,279,153.97 141,177,720.18 Total equity 1,076,902,104.86 1,156,539,336.88 Appropriations 17 8,981,935.22 11,319,859.13 Obligatory provisions 18 19,907,801.98 26,006,246.27 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities 19 382,904,000.19 290,130,674.23 Current liabilities 20 955,812,974.61 983,082,476.63 Total liabilities 1,338,716,974.80 1,273,213,150.86 Total equity and liabilities 2,444,508,816.86 2,467,078,593.14 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Cash Flow Statement (EUR) 75 2014 KEMIRA OYJ CASH FLOW STATEMENT (FAS) Year ended 31 December 2014 2013 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net profit for the period -1,279,153.97 141,177,720.18 Adjustments for Depreciation, amortization and impairment 30,841,745.64 34,130,718.97 Income taxes 126,594.21 5,809,899.08 Finance expenses, net 9,335,297.22 -147,046,343.79 Other non-cash income and expenses not involving cash flow 6,996,582.31 63,701,307.67 Operating profit before change in working capital 46,021,065.41 97,773,302.11 Change in working capital Increase (–)/decrease (+) in inventories 1,989,868.40 8,955,363.02 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in trade and other receivables 51,817,307.75 -47,197,356.58 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in trade payables and other liabilities -13,931,611.93 -5,033,556.25 Change in working capital 39,875,564.22 -43,275,549.81 Cash generated from operations 85,896,629.63 54,497,752.30 Interest and other finance cost paid -106,779,623.70 -47,766,225.86 Interest and other finance income received 9,156,578.72 11,609,335.19 Realized exchange gains and losses -12,148,327.45 8,679,990.78 Dividends received 9,167,120.63 228,906,770.99 Income taxes paid -1,725,829.42 -2,473,464.65 Net cash generated from operating activities -16,433,451.59 253,454,158.75 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisitions of subsidiaries -50,979,300.74 -24,218,481.57 Acquisitions of associated companies, and other shares -4,285,008.00 -4,084,808.00 Purchase of intangible assets -14,305,205.12 -16,146,329.32 Purchase of other plant, property and equipment -7,111,776.69 -8,107,154.15 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries and other shares 2,665,906.06 100,034,117.62 Proceeds from sale of other plant, property and equipment and intangible assets 1,211,546.01 3,245,955.74 Change in loan receivables, net increase (–)/decrease (+) -25,054,205.27 -13,485,092.74 Net cash used in investing activities -97,858,043.75 37,238,207.58 Cash flow before financing -114,291,495.34 290,692,366.33 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from non-current interest-bearing liabilities (+) 245,000,000.00 0.00 Repayment from non-current interest-bearing liabilities (–) -152,226,674.04 -35,245,666.37 Short-term financing, net increase (+)/decrease (–) 64,332,289.87 -131,411,404.02 Dividends paid -80,582,022.03 -80,577,701.47 Received group contribution 10,760,000.00 12,071,000.00 Net cash used in financing activities 87,283,593.80 -235,163,771.86 Net increase (+)/decrease (–) in cash and cash equivalents -27,007,901.54 55,528,594.47 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec 85,646,222.83 117,700,488.40 Exchange gains (+)/losses (–) on cash and cash equivalents -5,046,364.03 2,808,714.00 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 Jan 117,700,488.40 59,363,179.93 Net increase (+)/decrease (–) in cash and cash equivalents -27,007,901.54 55,528,594.47 76 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 1 NOTES TO KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 3 1. THE PARENT COMPANY'S INCOME TAXES 4 ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR The Group’s accounting policies are applied to income 5 THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS taxes and deferred tax assets and liabilities as permitted under Finnish GAAP. Deferred tax liability for the deprecia6 tion difference is stated in the notes to financial state7 BASIS OF PREPARATION ments. 8 The parent company’s financial statements have been 9 prepared in compliance with the relevant acts and regulaPROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND tions in force in Finland (FAS). Kemira Group’s financial INTANGIBLE ASSETS 10 statements have been prepared in accordance with the 11 International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and the The Group’s accounting policies are applied to property, parent company observes the Group’s accounting policies plant and equipment, and intangible assets. 12 according to FAS whenever it has been possible. Below are 13 presented mainly the accounting policies in which the practice differs from the Group’s accounting policies. In LEASE 14 other respects the Group’s accounting policies are observed. All leasing payments are treated as rental expenses. 15 16 PENSION ARRENGEMENTS FINANCIAL ASSETS, FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 17 AND DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS 18 The company’s pension liabilities are handled partly by pension insurance company and partly by Kemira’s own All financial assets (including shares) and liabilities are 19 pension fund. Contributions are based on periodic actuarial recognized at their acquisition value or their acquisition 20 calculations and are recognized in the income statement. value less write-downs, with the exception of derivative instruments, which are measured at their fair value. 21 Changes in the value of the financial assets and 22 SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE SCHEME FOR THE liabilities, including derivatives, are booked as a credit or PERSONNEL charge into income statement under financial income and expenses, with the exception of other derivatives used for The treatment of share-based schemes is described in the hedging purposes the efficient part of which is booked to Group’s accounting policies. In the parent company, fair value reserve. Inefficient part of other derivative share-based payments are recognized as an expense in the instruments used for hedging purposes is booked as a amounts of the payments to be made. profit or loss into the income statement. The valuation methods of derivative instruments are described in the Group's accounting policies and in Note 28 EXTRAORDINARY INCOME AND EXPENSES in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Extraordinary income and expenses consist of the Group contributions received and given, which are eliminated at the Group level. KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) 77 2014 2. REVENUE Note 1 2014 2013 2 Revenue by business segments 3 Paper 588,544,203.02 547,930,248.07 Oil & Mining 101,702,779.83 103,017,122.15 4 Municipal & Industrial 271,233,546.59 280,962,837.77 ChemSolutions 23,945,813.24 172,294,587.98 5 Intercompany revenue 195,293,331.33 242,908,678.23 6 Other revenue 47,373,652.35 34,979,568.57 Total 1,228,093,326.36 1,382,093,042.77 7 8 Distribution of revenue by geographical segments as a percentage of total revenue Finland, domicile of the parent company 30 29 9 Other Europe, Middle East and Africa 59 60 10 North and South America 6 5 Asia Pacific 5 6 11 Total 100 100 12 13 3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME 14 15 2014 2013 16 Gain on the sale of property, plant and equipment 1,211,546.01 3,245,955.74 17 Gain on the sale of shares 2,920,101.65 0.00 Rent income 922,592.75 1,586,042.33 18 Intercompany service charges 7,212,890.98 7,113,950.16 19 Other income from operations 9,563,877.47 14,131,157.27 Total 21,831,008.86 26,077,105.50 20 21 22 4. COSTS 2014 2013 Change in inventories of finished goods 5,762,341.10 5,360,719.99 Materials and services Materials and supplies Purchases during the financial year 827,383,214.87 916,581,217.93 Change in inventories of materials and supplies -2,374,453.15 1,213,163.11 External services 8,672,092.95 9,363,739.50 Total materials and services 833,680,854.67 927,158,120.54 Personnel expenses 37,542,887.25 47,129,227.77 Other operating expenses Rents 7,739,388.14 11,467,557.76 Intercompany tolling manufacturing charges 169,843,770.73 187,320,563.39 Intercompany service charges and royalties 82,930,098.01 119,731,979.36 Other expenses 78,437,989.14 86,215,354.99 Total other operating expenses 338,951,246.02 404,735,455.50 Total costs 1,215,937,329.04 1,384,383,523.80 78 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note DELOITTE & TOUCHE OY'S FEES AND SERVICES 6. D EPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION 1 2014 2013 AND IMPAIRMENT 2 Audit fees 521,196.81 418,055.00 2014 2013 3 Other services 2,197,120.22 1,094,508.00 Depreciation according to plan 4 and impairment In 2014, other services include fees related mainly to the Intangible assets 5 auditors reports and statements for formic acid business Intangible rights 4,834,291.44 3,635,828.84 divestment and fees related to the AkzoNobel’s global Other intangible assets 20,713,359.50 25,643,458.14 6 paper chemicals business acquisition. In 2013, other Property, plant and equipment 7 services include fees mainly related to the 3F acquisition. Buildings and constructions 362,066.25 794,455.99 In 2014, the costs included a net decrease in obligatory Machinery and equipment 4,914,283.63 4,037,497.88 8 provisions of EUR -6.1 million (personnel expenses EUR Other property, plant and 9 –3.0 million, rents EUR –0.5 million and other expenses equipment 17,744.82 19,478.12 EUR –2.6 million), and in 2013, the costs included a net Total 30,841,745.64 34,130,718.97 10 increase in obligatory provisions of EUR 8.8 million (personnel expenses EUR +2.6 million, rents EUR –0.4 million Change in difference between 11 scheduled and actual and other expenses EUR +6.6 million). depreciation (+ increase/ – 12 decrease) 13 Intangible rights -458,705.93 -325,625.61 Other intangible assets -149,716.43 1,616,655.07 14 5. PERSONNEL EXPENSES AND Buildings and constructions 19,287.23 -261,802.02 15 NUMBER OF PERSONNEL Machinery and equipment -393,164.36 -549,516.50 Other property, plant and 16 equipment -4,177.43 -5,080.91 2014 2013 Total -986,476.92 474,630.03 17 Emoluments of the Board of 18 Directors, the CEOs and his deputy 1) 1,383,613.83 1,590,150.01 19 Other wages and salaries 29,450,475.85 36,922,727.53 Pension expenses 5,726,009.18 6,452,577.08 20 Other personnel expenses 982,788.39 2,163,773.15 21 Total 37,542,887.25 47,129,227.77 22 1) The emolument of Kemira Oyj's CEOs was EUR 808,261 (964,566) including bonuses of EUR 157,039 (220,080). The emolument of Kemira Oyj's deputy CEO/deputy CEOs was EUR 219,869 (302,906) including bonuses of EUR 41,059 (83,511). Other transactions between related parties are presented in Note 32 in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2014 2013 Personnel at 31 Dec Paper 81 76 Oil & Mining 4 7 Municipal & Industrial 27 27 ChemSolutions 0 19 Other, of which 341 404 R&D and Technology 155 165 Total 453 533 Personnel, average 477 561 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) 79 2014 7. FINANCE INCOME AND 8. EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS Note EXPENSES 1 2014 2013 2014 2013 2 Extraordinary income 3 Dividend income Group contributions received 4,051,000.00 10,760,000.00 From the Group companies 8,991,145.63 228,752,265.99 Total 4,051,000.00 10,760,000.00 4 From others 175,975.00 154,505.00 Total extraordinary income and 5 Total 9,167,120.63 228,906,770.99 expenses 4,051,000.00 10,760,000.00 6 Interest income 7 From the Group companies 9,681,422.78 7,423,847.20 From others 3,146,732.00 3,202,488.25 Total 12,828,154.78 10,626,335.45 9. INCOME TAXES 8 9 2014 2013 Interest expenses 10 To the Group companies -1,912,944.65 -3,380,959.23 (income +, expense –) To others -17,699,696.98 -9,994,736.75 11 Income taxes, current year 0.00 -2,471,764.65 Total -19,612,641.63 -13,375,695.98 12 Income taxes, previous years 163,500.00 -1,700.00 Other finance income Deferred taxes 42,433.63 -3,336,434.43 13 From the Group companies 378,553.58 402,780.49 Other taxes -332,527.84 0.00 Total -126,594.21 -5,809,899.08 14 Total 378,553.58 402,780.49 15 Other finance expenses 16 From the Group companies -2,417,546.00 -80,190,383.53 From others -7,284,274.00 -1,937,072.14 17 Total -9,701,820.00 -82,127,455.67 18 Exchange gains and losses 19 From the Group companies 36,587,523.39 -17,242,373.28 From others -38,982,187.97 19,855,981.79 20 Total -2,394,664.58 2,613,608.51 21 Total finance income and 22 expenses -9,335,297.22 147,046,343.79 Exchange gains and losses Realized -12,148,327.45 8,679,990.78 Unrealized 9,753,662.87 -6,066,382.27 Total -2,394,664.58 2,613,608.51 In 2014, other finance expenses from the Group companies include impairment of subsidiary shares of EUR 2.4 million (80.2). 80 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 1 Prepayments and non-current 2 assets under Other intangible 2014 Intangible rights Goodwill construction assets Total 3 4 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 34,370,936.21 6,181,419.27 6,780,139.27 188,423,280.17 235,755,774.92 Additions 7,124,145.34 7,126,959.94 54,099.84 14,305,205.12 5 Decreases -1,497,105.36 -2,686,289.27 -4,183,394.63 6 Transfers 4,051,087.48 -4,092,087.48 41,000.00 0.00 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 44,049,063.67 6,181,419.27 9,815,011.73 185,832,090.74 245,877,585.41 7 8 Accumulated amortization at 1 Jan -16,294,169.33 -6,181,419.27 0.00 -112,315,884.96 -134,791,473.56 Accumulated amortization relating to 9 decreases and transfers 732,472.43 460,229.44 1,192,701.87 Amortization and impairment during the 10 financial year -4,834,291.44 -20,713,359.50 -25,547,650.94 Accumulated amortization at 31 Dec -20,395,988.34 -6,181,419.27 0.00 -132,569,015.02 -159,146,422.63 11 12 Net book value at 31 Dec 23,653,075.33 0.00 9,815,011.73 53,263,075.72 86,731,162.78 13 Prepayments 14 and non-current assets under Other intangible 15 2013 Intangible rights Goodwill construction assets Total 16 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 30,537,920.84 6,181,419.27 4,251,126.95 178,649,425.58 219,619,892.64 17 Additions 3,414,234.85 3,051,448.43 9,729,646.04 16,195,329.32 Decreases -10,447.04 -10,447.04 18 Transfers 429,227.56 -522,436.11 44,208.55 -49,000.00 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 34,370,936.21 6,181,419.27 6,780,139.27 188,423,280.17 235,755,774.92 19 20 Accumulated amortization at 1 Jan -12,668,787.53 -6,181,419.27 0.00 -86,672,426.82 -105,522,633.62 Accumulated amortization relating to 21 decreases and transfers 10,447.04 10,447.04 22 Amortization and impairment during the financial year -3,635,828.84 -25,643,458.14 -29,279,286.98 Accumulated amortization at 31 Dec -16,294,169.33 -6,181,419.27 0.00 -112,315,884.96 -134,791,473.56 Net book value at 31 Dec 18,076,766.88 0.00 6,780,139.27 76,107,395.21 100,964,301.36 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) 81 2014 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Note 1 Prepayments Other property, and non-current 2 Land and Buildings and Machinery and plant and assets under 2014 water areas constructions equipment equipment construction Total 3 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 357,207.18 25,579,284.49 86,253,218.58 567,573.82 4,705,746.62 117,463,030.69 4 Additions 832,000.00 4,904,900.86 5,043,235.75 10,780,136.61 5 Decreases -9,233.67 -8,527,735.02 -3,960,688.47 -12,497,657.16 Transfers 4,626,618.60 -4,626,618.60 0.00 6 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 1,179,973.51 17,051,549.47 91,824,049.57 567,573.82 5,122,363.77 115,745,510.14 7 Accumulated depreciation 8 at 1 Jan 0.00 -18,875,277.81 -70,403,303.69 -444,979.63 0.00 -89,723,561.13 Accumulated depreciation 9 relating to decreases and transfers 6,425,255.43 1,981,556.44 8,406,811.87 10 Depreciation and impairment during the financial year -362,066.25 -4,914,283.63 -17,744.82 -5,294,094.70 11 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec 0.00 -12,812,088.63 -73,336,030.88 -462,724.45 0.00 -86,610,843.96 12 13 Net book value at 31 Dec 1,179,973.51 4,239,460.84 18,488,018.69 104,849.37 5,122,363.77 29,134,666.18 14 Prepayments 15 Other property, and non-current Land and Buildings and Machinery and plant and assets under 2013 water areas constructions equipment equipment construction Total 16 17 Acquisition cost at 1 Jan 413,551.22 25,381,555.82 81,336,516.45 567,573.82 1,229,873.83 108,929,071.14 Additions 197,728.67 3,720,230.10 4,705,746.62 8,623,705.39 18 Decreases -56,344.04 -82,401.80 -138,745.84 19 Transfers 1,278,873.83 -1,229,873.83 49,000.00 Acquisition cost at 31 Dec 357,207.18 25,579,284.49 86,253,218.58 567,573.82 4,705,746.62 117,463,030.69 20 21 Accumulated depreciation at 1 Jan 0.00 -18,080,821.82 -66,402,307.39 -425,501.51 0.00 -84,908,630.72 22 Accumulated depreciation relating to decreases and transfers 36,501.58 36,501.58 Depreciation and impairment during the financial year -794,455.99 -4,037,497.88 -19,478.12 -4,851,431.99 Accumulated depreciation at 31 Dec 0.00 -18,875,277.81 -70,403,303.69 -444,979.63 0.00 -89,723,561.13 Net book value at 31 Dec 357,207.18 6,704,006.68 15,849,914.89 122,594.19 4,705,746.62 27,739,469.56 82 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 12. INVESTMENTS 1 Investments Group company in associated 2 2014 shares companies Other shares Total 3 Book value at 1 Jan 1,521,871,906.66 0.00 140,284,625.87 1,662,156,532.53 4 Additions 50,979,300.74 4,285,008.00 55,264,308.74 5 Decreases and transfers -84,093.94 -84,093.94 Impairments -2,417,546.00 -380,180.00 -2,797,726.00 6 Net book value at 31 Dec 1,570,433,661.40 0.00 144,105,359.93 1,714,539,021.33 7 Investments 8 Group company in associated 2013 shares companies Other shares Total 9 10 Book value at 1 Jan 1,582,549,112.46 98,987,988.91 136,249,905.46 1,817,787,006.83 Additions 24,218,481.57 4,084,808.00 28,303,289.57 11 Decreases and transfers -4,705,303.84 -98,987,988.91 -50,087.59 -103,743,380.34 12 Impairments -80,190,383.53 -80,190,383.53 Net book value at 31 Dec 1,521,871,906.66 0.00 140,284,625.87 1,662,156,532.53 13 Associated companies are disclosed in Note 8 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 14 15 16 13. INVENTORIES 17 2014 2013 18 Raw materials and supplies 22,568,316.21 20,193,863.06 19 Finished goods 50,663,105.55 56,425,446.65 20 Prepayments 4,052,252.90 2,654,233.35 Total 77,283,674.66 79,273,543.06 21 22 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) 83 2014 14. RECEIVABLES Note 1 2014 2013 2 Non-current receivables 3 Interest-bearing non-current receivables Loan receivables 4 Loan receivables from the Group companies 159,607,421.47 133,643,564.92 Loan receivables from others 0.00 350,000.00 5 Other non-current investments 2,294,308.65 2,294,308.65 6 Total interest-bearing non-current receivables 161,901,730.12 136,287,873.57 7 Interest-free non-current receivables 8 Deferred taxes 20,349,373.55 20,909,024.83 Total interest-free non-current receivables 20,349,373.55 20,909,024.83 9 10 Total non-current receivables 182,251,103.67 157,196,898.40 11 Current receivables 12 Interest-bearing current receivables Loan receivables from the Group companies 65,942,296.74 116,095,524.83 13 Total interest-bearing current receivables 65,942,296.74 116,095,524.83 14 Interest-free current receivables 15 Advances paid To the Group companies 18,240,121.02 18,240,121.02 16 To others 0.00 30,093.56 17 Total 18,240,121.02 18,270,214.58 Trade receivables 18 From the Group companies 32,169,987.28 24,285,788.94 19 From others 116,488,277.14 129,544,226.59 Total 148,658,264.42 153,830,015.53 20 Accrued income 21 From the Group companies 7,560,921.40 15,562,546.77 From others 15,607,117.91 6,659,439.89 22 Total 23,168,039.31 22,221,986.66 Other short-term interest-free receivables From the Group companies -2,363.13 0.00 From others 12,916,607.05 11,629,618.23 Total 12,914,243.92 11,629,618.23 Total interest-free current receivables 202,980,668.67 205,951,835.00 Total current receivables 268,922,965.41 322,047,359.83 Total receivables 451,174,069.08 479,244,258.23 2014 2013 Accrued income Interests 6,096,199.24 982,316.92 Taxes 1,351,783.69 0.00 Exchange differences 4,172,319.25 5,236,071.93 Group contributions 4,051,000.00 10,760,000.00 Other 7,496,737.13 5,243,597.81 Total 23,168,039.31 22,221,986.66 84 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 15. MONEY-MARKET INVESTMENTS – CASH EQUIVALENTS 1 2014 2013 2 Money-market investments 3 Carrying amount 22,910,617.10 2,785,859.04 4 Fair value 22,910,617.10 2,785,859.04 Difference 0.00 0.00 5 Money-market investments include company's short-term investments. 6 7 8 16. EQUITY 9 2014 2013 10 Restricted equity 11 Share capital at 1 Jan 221,761,727.69 221,761,727.69 Share capital at 31 Dec 221,761,727.69 221,761,727.69 12 13 Share premium at Jan 1 257,877,731.94 257,877,731.94 Share premium at 31 Dec 257,877,731.94 257,877,731.94 14 15 Fair value reserve at 1 Jan -5,079,068.12 -2,282,814.00 Fair value reserve at 31 Dec -2,963,940.82 -5,079,068.12 16 Total restricted equity at 31 Dec 476,675,518.81 474,560,391.51 17 18 Unrestricted equity reserve Unrestricted equity reserve at 1 Jan 199,963,876.20 199,963,876.20 19 Unrestricted equity reserve at 31 Dec 199,963,876.20 199,963,876.20 20 Retained earnings at 1 Jan 1) 482,015,069.17 421,370,378.27 21 Net profit for the period -1,279,153.97 141,177,720.18 22 Dividends paid -80,582,022.03 -80,577,701.47 Share-based incentive plan Shares given 108,816.68 94,400.16 Shares returned -49,727.97 Retained earnings and net profit for the period at 31 Dec 400,262,709.85 482,015,069.17 Total unrestricted equity at 31 Dec 600,226,586.05 681,978,945.37 Total equity at 31 Dec 1,076,902,104.86 1,156,539,336.88 Total distributable funds at 31 Dec 600,226,586.05 681,978,945.37 1) The company owns 3,291,185 treasury shares, the acquisition value of which totals EUR 22,154,179.13. Change in treasury shares EUR Number of shares Acquisition value/number at Jan 1, 2014 22,220,274.46 3,301,006 Change -66,095.33 -9,821 Acquisition value/number at Dec 31, 2014 22,154,179.13 3,291,185 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) 85 2014 17. APPROPRIATIONS Note 1 2014 2013 2 Appropriations 3 Appropriations in the balance sheets are as follows: Buildings and constructions 1,109,717.01 2,393,142.97 4 Machinery and equipment 4,426,525.32 4,825,018.76 Other property, plant and equipment 31,806.40 35,983.83 5 Intangible rights -397,285.16 104,825.49 6 Other non-current expenditures 3,811,171.65 3,960,888.08 Total 8,981,935.22 11,319,859.13 7 8 Change in appropriations Appropriations at 1 Jan 11,319,859.13 10,845,229.10 9 Business transfers -1,351,446.99 0.00 10 Change in untaxed reserves in income statement -986,476.92 474,630.03 Appropriations at 31 Dec 8,981,935.22 11,319,859.13 11 On December 31, 2014, deferred tax liabilities on accumulated appropriations were EUR 1.8 million (2.3). 12 13 18. OBLIGATORY PROVISIONS 14 15 2014 2013 16 Non-current provisions 17 Pension provisions 6,187,127.00 6,106,698.22 18 19 Other obligatory provisions Environmental and damage provisions 10,473,637.24 13,122,537.05 20 Restructuring provisions 1,109,513.20 1,564,265.20 21 Total other obligatory provisions 11,583,150.44 14,686,802.25 22 Total non-current provisions 17,770,277.44 20,793,500.47 Current provisions Other obligatory provisions Personnel related provisions 1,682,772.54 4,757,993.80 Restructuring provisions 454,752.00 454,752.00 Total current provisions 2,137,524.54 5,212,745.80 Total provisions 19,907,801.98 26,006,246.27 Change in obligatory provisions Obligatory provisions at 1 Jan 26,006,246.27 17,246,839.53 Decrease of provisions during the year -4,137,610.84 -5,491,908.33 Provisions reversed during the year -2,060,833.45 -260,346.93 Increase during financial year 100,000.00 14,511,662.00 Obligatory provisions at 31 Dec 19,907,801.98 26,006,246.27 86 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 19. NON-CURRENT INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES 1 2014 2013 2 Loans from financial institutions 161,480,632.19 193,707,306.23 3 Loans from the Group companies 0.00 75,000,000.00 4 Other non-current liabilities 221,423,368.00 21,423,368.00 Total 382,904,000.19 290,130,674.23 5 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities maturing in 6 2016 (2015) 32,740,584.95 82,835,584.95 7 2017 (2016) 32,740,584.95 32,835,584.95 2018 (2017) 23,826,696.07 32,835,584.95 8 2019 (2018) or later 293,596,134.22 141,623,919.38 9 Total 382,904,000.19 290,130,674.23 10 Interest-bearing liabilities maturing in 5 years or more 11 Loans from financial institutions 62,272,766.22 45,200,551.38 Loans from the Group companies 0.00 75,000,000.00 12 Other non-current liabilities 231,323,368.00 21,423,368.00 13 Total 293,596,134.22 141,623,919.38 14 Other non-current liabilities include EUR 200 million bond, which matures on May 27, 2019. 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) 87 2014 20. CURRENT LIABILITIES Note 1 2014 2013 2 Interest-bearing current liabilities 3 Loans from financial institutions 84,415,495.01 33,154,048.77 Other interest-bearing current liabilities 4 To the Group companies 663,613,458.90 497,616,799.80 To others 28,748,687.54 181,674,503.01 5 Total interest-bearing current liabilities 776,777,641.45 712,445,351.58 6 Interest-free current liabilities 7 Prepayments received 8 From the Group companies 136,764.13 136,764.13 From others 2,032,541.64 835,620.60 9 Total 2,169,305.77 972,384.73 10 Trade payables To the Group companies 45,289,257.81 49,583,889.32 11 To others 60,613,842.32 80,104,063.83 12 Total 105,903,100.13 129,687,953.15 Accrued expenses 13 To the Group companies 5,452,509.31 84,290,304.94 To others 57,736,220.20 48,817,748.37 14 Total 63,188,729.51 133,108,053.31 15 Total other interest-free liabilities 7,774,197.75 6,868,733.86 16 Total interest-free current liabilities 179,035,333.16 270,637,125.05 17 Total current liabilities 955,812,974.61 983,082,476.63 18 19 Accrued expenses Salaries 5,806,658.44 6,286,971.04 20 Interests and exchange differences 15,946,607.10 93,206,751.28 21 Other 41,435,463.97 33,614,330.99 Total 63,188,729.51 133,108,053.31 22 21. COLLATERAL AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 2014 2013 Guarantees On behalf of the Group companies For loans 284,877,246.00 311,044,261.00 For other obligations 48,391,309.00 70,109,579.00 On behalf of others 2,838,864.00 2,847,229.00 Total 336,107,419.00 384,001,069.00 Leasing liabilities Maturity within one year 4,917,200.00 5,228,278.00 Maturity after one year 16,686,243.00 21,000,189.00 Total 21,603,443.00 26,228,467.00 Environmental risks and liabilities are disclosed in Note 31 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 88 KEMIRA OYJ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Notes to Financial Statements (EUR) Note 22. SHARES AND HOLDINGS OF KEMIRA OYJ 1 Group Kemira Oyj Shares in subsidiaries holding % holding % 2 3 AS Kemivesi 100.00 100.00 Kemira Argentina S.A. 100.00 15.80 4 Kemira Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 100.00 100.00 5 Kemira Cell Sp. z.o.o. 55.00 55.00 Kemira Chemicals (Nanjing) Co., Ltd. 100.00 100.00 6 Kemira Chemicals (Shanghai) Co.,Ltd. 100.00 100.00 7 Kemira Chemicals (UK) Ltd. 100.00 100.00 Kemira Chemicals (Yanzhou) Co.,Ltd. 100.00 100.00 8 Kemira Chemicals Brasil Ltda 100.00 99.87 9 Kemira Chemicals Canada Inc. 100.00 100.00 Kemira Chemicals Germany GmbH 100.00 100.00 10 Kemira Chemicals India Private Ltd. 99.99 99.99 Kemira Chemie Ges.mbH 100.00 100.00 11 Kemira Chile Comercial Limitada 100.00 99.00 12 Kemira de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 100.00 100.00 Kemira Europe Oy 100.00 100.00 13 Kemira Germany GmbH 100.00 100.00 14 Kemira GrowHow A/S 100.00 100.00 Kemira Hong Kong Company Limited 100.00 100.00 15 Kemira Korea Corporation 100.00 100.00 16 Kemira KTM d.o.o. 100.00 100.00 Kemira Nederland Holding B.V. 100.00 100.00 17 Kemira Operon Oy 100.00 100.00 Kemira Świecie Sp. z o.o. 100.00 100.00 18 Kemira Water Danmark A/S 100.00 100.00 19 Kemira Water Solutions Brasil -Produtos para tratamento de agua Ltda. 100.00 100.00 PT Kemira Indonesia 100.00 75.00 20 Ruoholahden Kuusenkerkkä Oy 100.00 100.00 21 22 Shares and shareholders 89 2014 SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS SHARES AND SHARE CAPITAL approximately 28% (30%) of the total amount of traded shares executed on-book. (Source: Fidessa) On December 31, 2014, Kemira Oyj’s share capital The total amount of traded Kemira shares, including amounted to EUR 221.8 million and the number of shares trade on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and multilateral trading was 155,342,557. Each share entitles to one vote at the facilities increased 12% in 2014 compared to 2013. general meeting. Kemira Oyj’s shares are registered in the Up-to-date information on Kemira’s share price is book-entry system maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. available on the company’s website at www.kemira.com/ investors. SHAREHOLDERS DIVIDEND POLICY AND DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION At the end of 2014, Kemira Oyj had 33,164 registered shareholders (30,640). Foreign shareholding of Kemira Oyj Kemira dividend policy aims at paying a stable and comshares decreased 13% during the year and was 18.9% of petitive dividend. the shares (21.6%), including nominee-registered holdings. The company’s Board of Directors will propose to the Households owned 16.1% of the shares (14.9%). At Annual General Meeting that a per share dividend of EUR year-end, Kemira held 3,291,185 treasury shares 0.53 (0.53) totaling EUR 81 million (81) be paid for the (3,301,006), representing 2.1% (2.1%) of all company financial year 2014, accounting for a dividend payout of shares. A list of Kemira’s largest shareholders is updated about 84% (76%) of the operative net income. The Annual monthly and can be found on the company website at General Meeting will be held March 23, 2015. The dividend www.kemira.com/investors. ex-date is March 24, 2015, dividend record date March 25, 2015, and payout April1, 2015. In 2014, a dividend of EUR 0.53 per share was paid for LISTING AND TRADING the financial year that ended December 31, 2013. The dividend record date was March 27, 2014, and the payment Kemira Oyj’s shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. (EUR 81 million in total) date April 3, 2014. The trading code for the shares is KRA1V and the ISIN code is FI0009004824. Kemira Oyj’s share closed at EUR 9.89 at the NASDAQ BOARD AUTHORIZATIONS OMX Helsinki at the end of 2014 (2013:12.16). The share price decreased 19% during the year while OMX Helsinki The Annual General Meeting on March 24, 2014 authorized Cap index increased 6%. STOXX Chemicals (Europe), the Board of Directors to decide upon repurchase of a chemical sector benchmark index for Kemira increased 5% maximum of 4,500,000 company's own shares (“Share in 2014 (2013: 15%). Shares registered a high of EUR 12.27 repurchases authorization”). Shares will be repurchased by (13.02) and a low of EUR 9.11 (10.55). The average share using unrestricted equity either through a tender offer with price of Kemira decreased 8% and was EUR 10.87 (11.76). equal terms to all shareholders at a price determined by Kemira’s market capitalization, excluding treasury the Board of Directors or otherwise than in proportion to shares, was EUR 1,504 million at the end of the year 2014 the existing shareholdings of the company’s shareholders (2013: 1,849). in public trading on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd (the In 2014, Kemira Oyj’s share trading volume on NASDAQ “Helsinki Stock Exchange”) at the market price quoted at OMX Helsinki increased 15% to 75 million (2013: 65) the time of the repurchase. The price paid for the shares shares. Share turnover value increased 7% and was EUR repurchased through a tender offer under the authorization 809.6 million (757.2). The average daily trading volume was shall be based on the market price of the company’s shares 300,072 (259,748) shares. On NASDAQ OMX Helsinki stock in public trading. The minimum price to be paid would be exchange, the total trading volume increased 22% in 2014 the lowest market price of the share quoted in public to EUR 116.2 billion (95.3). trading during the authorization period and the maximum In addition to NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, Kemira shares are price the highest market price quoted during the authorizatraded on several alternative market places or multilateral tion period. trading facilities (MTF), for example at BATS Chi-X and Shares shall be acquired and paid for in accordance Turquoise. In 2014, a total of 29 million (28) Kemira Oyj with the Rules of the Helsinki Stock Exchange and Euroshares were traded at alternative market places, i.e. clear Finland Ltd. Shares may be repurchased to be used in implementing or financing mergers and acquisitions, 90 Shares and shareholders developing the company’s capital structure, improving the of the company’s share-based incentive plan. The subliquidity of the company’s shares or to be used for the scription price of new shares shall be recorded to the payment of the annual fee payable to the members of the invested unrestricted equity reserves. The consideration Board of Directors or implementing the company’s sharepayable for company's own shares shall be recorded to the based incentive plans. In order to realize the aforemeninvested unrestricted equity reserves. The Board of tioned purposes, the shares acquired may be retained, Directors will decide upon other terms related to the share transferred further or cancelled by the company. The Board issues. The share issue authorization is valid until May 31, of Directors will decide upon other terms related to share 2015. The share issue authorization has been used in repurchases. The share repurchase authorization is valid connection with the Board of Directors remuneration. until the end of the next Annual General Meeting. The Board had not exercised its authorization by December 31, 2014. The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide to MANAGEMENT SHAREHOLDING issue a maximum of 15,600,000 new shares and/or transfer a maximum of 7,800,000 company's own shares held by the The members of the Board of Directors as well as the company (“Share issue authorization”). The new shares President and CEO and his Deputy held 396,108 (December may be issued and the company’s own shares held by the 31, 2013: 311,478) Kemira Oyj shares on December 31, company may be transferred either for consideration or 2014, or 0.25% (0.20%) of all outstanding shares and voting without consideration. The new shares may be issued and rights (including treasury shares and shares held by the the company's own shares held by the company may be related parties and controlled corporations). Jari Rosendal, transferred to the company’s shareholders in proportion to President and CEO, held 10,000 shares on December 31, their current shareholdings in the company, or by display2014. Board members are not covered by the share-based ing the shareholders’ pre-emption right, through a directed incentive plan. Members of the Management Boards, share issue, if the company has a weighty financial reason excluding the President and CEO and his Deputy, held a to do so, such as financing or implementing mergers and total of 103,590 shares on December 31, 2014 (274,911), acquisitions, developing the capital structure of the representing 0.07% (0.18%) of all outstanding shares and company, improving the liquidity of the company’s shares voting rights (including treasury shares and shares held by or if this is justified for the payment of the annual fee the related parties and controlled corporations). Up-topayable to the members of the Board of Directors or date information regarding the shareholdings of the Board implementing the company’s share-based incentive plans. of Directors and Management is available at Kemira’s The directed share issue may be carried out without website at www.kemira.com/investors. consideration only in connection with the implementation Shares and shareholders 91 2014 LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS DECEMBER 31, 2014 % of shares and Shareholder Number of shares votes 1 Oras Invest Ltd 28,278,217 18.2 2 Solidium Oy 25,896,087 16.7 3 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 8,164,836 5.3 4 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 5,000,451 3.2 5 Nordea funds 4,255,825 2.7 6 Mandatum Life 1,704,647 1.1 7 Pohjola Fund Management 1,526,092 1.0 8 Danske Invest Funds 1,138,946 0.7 9 The State Pension Fund 1,090,000 0.7 10 Veritas Pension Insurance Company Ltd. 923,917 0.6 11 Sigrid Jusélius Foundation 730,000 0.5 12 Aktia Funds 620,148 0.4 13 Etera Mutual Pension Insurance Company 609,331 0.4 14 Kaleva Mutual Insurance Company 603,337 0.4 15 The Local Government Pensions Institution 426,482 0.3 Kemira Oyj 3,291,185 2.1 Nominee-registered and foreign shareholders 29,389,833 18.9 Others, total 41,693,223 26.8 Total 155,342,557 100.0 SHAREHOLDING BY NUMBER OF SHARES HELD DECEMBER 31, 2014 Number of % of shares and Number of shares shareholders % of shareholders Shares total votes 1 –100 7,043 21.2 441,763 0.3 101 – 500 14,397 43.4 3,934,243 2.5 501 –1,000 5,400 16.3 4,096,417 2.6 1,001– 5,000 5,276 15.9 10,831,160 7.0 5,001 –10,000 545 1.6 3,963,162 2.6 10,001 – 50,000 369 1.1 7,255,195 4.7 50,001 –100,000 51 0.2 3,863,347 2.5 100,001 – 500,000 64 0.2 13,004,272 8.4 500,001 –1,000,000 7 0.0 4,784,522 3.1 1,000,001 – 12 0.0 103,168,476 66.4 Total 33,164 100.0 155,342,557 100.0 92 Board proposal for profit distribution BOARD PROPOSAL FOR PROFIT DISTRIBUTION On December 31, 2014, Kemira Oyj’s distributable funds totaled EUR 600,226,586 of which net profit for the period accounted for EUR -1,279,154. No material changes have taken place in the company’s financial position after the balance sheet date. The Board proposes to the Annual General Meeting that distributable funds would be allocated as follows: • Distributing a per-share dividend of EUR 0.53 for the financial year, or a total of EUR 80,587,227. • Retaining EUR 519,639,359 under unrestricted equity. Helsinki, February 9, 2015 Jari Paasikivi Kerttu Tuomas Chairman Vice Chairman Winnie Fok Juha Laaksonen Wolfgang Büchele Timo Lappalainen Jari Rosendal CEO Auditor's Report 93 2014 AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF statements and the report of the Board of Directors. The KEMIRA OYJ procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, We have audited the accounting records, the financial including the assessment of the risks of material misstatestatements, the report of the Board of Directors, and the ment, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk administration of Kemira Oyj for the financial period assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant 1.1.–31.12.2014. The financial statements comprise of the to the entity’s preparation of financial statements and report consolidated income statement, statement of comprehenof the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in sive income, balance sheet, cash flow statement, stateorder to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the ment of changes in equity and notes to the consolidated circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an financial statements, as well as the parent company's opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal income statement, balance sheet, cash flow statement and control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriatenotes to the financial statements. ness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS evaluating the overall presentation of the financial stateAND THE PRESIDENT AND CEO ments and the report of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit statements that give a true and fair view in accordance opinion. with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as for the preparation of OPINION ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL financial statements and the report of the Board of STATEMENTS Directors that give a true and fair view in accordance with In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the true and fair view of the financial position, financial financial statements and the report of the Board of performance, and cash flows of the group in accordance Directors in Finland. The Board of Directors is responsible with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as for the appropriate arrangement of the control of the adopted by the EU. company’s accounts and finances, and the President and CEO shall see to it that the accounts of the company are in OPINION ON THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL compliance with the law and that its financial affairs have STATEMENTS AND THE REPORT OF THE BOARD been arranged in a reliable manner. OF DIRECTORS In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY the Board of Directors give a true and fair view of both the Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial consolidated and the parent company’s financial perforstatements, on the consolidated financial statements and mance and financial position in accordance with the laws on the report of the Board of Directors based on our audit. and regulations governing the preparation of the financial The Auditing Act requires that we comply with the requirestatements and the report of the Board of Directors in ments of professional ethics. We conducted our audit in Finland. The information in the report of the Board of accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Good Directors is consistent with the information in the financial auditing practice requires that we plan and perform the statements. audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and the report of the Board of DirecOTHER OPINIONS tors are free from material misstatement, and whether the We support that the financial statements should be members of the Board of Directors of the parent company adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding and the President and CEO are guilty of an act or negligence the treatment of distributable funds is in compliance with which may result in liability in damages towards the the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the company or have violated the Limited Liability Companies Board of Directors of the parent company and the PresiAct or the articles of association of the company. dent and CEO should be discharged from liability for the An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit financial period audited by us. evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial Helsinki, 9 February 2015 Deloitte & Touche Oy Authorized Public Audit Firm Jukka Vattulainen Authorized Public Accountant 94 Quarterly Earnings Performance (EUR million) QUARTERLY EARNINGS PERFORMANCE (The figures are unaudited) 2014 2013 1–3 4–6 7–9 10–12 Total 1–3 4–6 7–9 10–12 Total Revenue Paper 1) 280.4 282.0 300.6 307.0 1,170.0 267.9 278.0 283.7 283.2 1,112.8 Oil & Mining 92.0 97.6 95.9 96.7 382.2 76.3 79.9 76.8 78.5 311.5 Municipal & Industrial 137.7 138.6 145.0 143.4 564.7 164.8 178.0 164.2 152.4 659.4 ChemSolutions 1) 19.8 19.8 51.9 33.4 29.0 31.1 145.4 Total 529.9 518.2 541.5 547.1 2,136.7 560.9 569.3 553.7 545.2 2,229.1 EBITDA Paper 1) 30.7 7.5 34.0 37.7 109.9 29.1 17.3 30.6 21.4 98.4 Oil & Mining 8.9 11.2 11.7 14.4 46.2 8.0 5.4 8.0 3.2 24.6 Municipal & Industrial 2.6 16.1 21.5 21.1 61.3 13.0 16.8 9.8 -40.1 -0.5 ChemSolutions 1) 35.5 35.5 11.0 2.1 2.0 4.3 19.4 Total 77.7 34.8 67.2 73.2 252.9 61.1 41.6 50.4 -11.2 141.9 EBIT Paper 1) 19.4 -5.1 20.9 22.4 57.6 17.4 -0.7 19.3 9.1 45.1 Oil & Mining 4.5 6.7 7.2 9.3 27.7 4.3 1.8 4.3 -3.9 6.5 Municipal & Industrial -5.2 8.4 14.8 13.7 31.7 7.8 11.5 4.6 -47.3 -23.4 ChemSolutions 1) 35.6 35.6 9.7 0.7 0.8 3.2 14.4 Total 54.3 10.0 42.9 45.4 152.6 39.2 13.3 29.0 -38.9 42.6 Finance costs, net -5.3 -8.5 -6.6 -10.3 -30.7 -24.7 -4.2 -2.4 -7.7 -39.0 Share of profit or loss of associates 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 -1.2 0.1 0.1 -0.1 -1.1 Profit before tax 49.0 1.5 36.3 35.3 122.1 13.3 9.2 26.7 -46.7 2.5 Income tax expense -5.9 0.3 -9.3 -11.4 -26.3 -10.5 -5.5 -10.4 -2.0 -28.4 Net profit for the period 43.1 1.8 27.0 23.9 95.8 2.8 3.7 16.3 -48.7 -25.9 Net profit attributable to: Equity owners of the parent 41.9 0.2 25.3 22.5 89.9 1.8 2.2 14.5 -50.1 -31.6 Non-controlling interests 1.2 1.6 1.7 1.4 5.9 1.0 1.5 1.8 1.4 5.7 Net profit for the period 43.1 1.8 27.0 23.9 95.8 2.8 3.7 16.3 -48.7 -25.9 Earning per share, basic, EUR 0.28 0.00 0.16 0.15 0.59 0.01 0.02 0.09 -0.33 -0.21 Earning per share, diluted, EUR 0.28 0.00 0.16 0.15 0.59 0.01 0.02 0.09 -0.33 -0.21 Capital employed, rolling 1,427.7 1,493.0 Return on capital employed (ROCE), % 10.7% 2.8% 1) On March 2014, Kemira closed the divestment of formic acid business which had formed the major part of ChemSolutions segment. After the closure, the remaining sodium percarbonate business in ChemSolutions segment was transferred to Paper segment and ChemSolutions segment was discontinued as of the beginning of Q2 2014. Information for investors 95 2014 INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS FINANCIAL REPORTS IN 2015 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Kemira will publish three interim reports in 2015. Kemira's Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday, April 24, 2015: Interim report for January–March March 23, 2015 at 1.00 p.m. in Finlandia Hall, MannerheiJuly 22, 2015: Interim report for January–June mintie 13 e, Helsinki, Finland. A shareholder who on the October 23, 2015: Interim report for January–September record date of the Annual General Meeting, March 11, 2015, is registered in the company’s shareholders’ register The interim reports and related presentation material are maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd, is entitled to attend available on Kemira’s website at www.kemira.com/ and participate in the Annual General Meeting. investors. Furthermore, Kemira's press releases, Annual Registration to the Annual General Meeting begins on Reports (incl. Corporate Responsibility Report and FinanFebruary 26, 2015 and registration instructions will be cial Statements) and other investor information are also published on that day as a stock exchange release and at available on the website. On the site, visitors can register to Kemira’s web site at www.kemira.com > Investors > receive press releases by email and order the company’s Corporate Governance > Annual General Meeting > Annual Financial Statements. Financial Statements can also be General Meeting 2015. ordered from Kemira Oyj, Group Communications, Kemira will release a stock exchange release on the tel. +358 10 8611. Annual General Meeting’s decisions immediately after the meeting. INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION The purpose of Kemira's investor communications is to provide capital markets with open and reliable information For dividend proposal, please see page 92. on the company and its operating environment in order to give market participants a factual overview of Kemira as an investment. CHANGE OF ADDRESS Kemira's investor communications aims to ensure that everyone operating in the markets has equal access to Kemira’s shareholders are kindly requested to report any sufficient and correct information concerning the company, change of address to the bank or brokerage firm in which and to ensure that information is disclosed consistently they have their book-entry account. This will also update and without delay. information in registers, maintained by Euroclear Finland Kemira Oyj is domiciled in Helsinki, Finland, and the Ltd, which Kemira uses to send mail to its shareholders. If company's shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. the book-entry account is held by Finnish Central SecuriKemira Oyj complies with the laws of Finland and the ties Depository Ltd, changes of address should be reported regulations of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and Finland's there directly. Financial Supervisory Authority. INVESTOR RELATIONS SILENT PERIOD Tero Huovinen, Vice President, Investor Relations Kemira observes a 30-day silent period before issuing tel. +358 10 862 1980 financial statements or interim reports. During the period, e-mail: tero.huovinen@kemira.com Kemira’s representatives do not comment on Kemira’s financial statements or interim reports for the ongoing reporting period the specific silent period relates to. The BASIC SHARE INFORMATION schedule for the silent period and publication of financial information and closed periods is displayed on Kemira’s Listed on: NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd website under Investors > Investor Calendar. Kemira’s Trading code: KRA1V Investor Relation function is responsible for keeping the ISIN code: FI0009004824 calendar up-to-date. Industry group: Materials Industry: Chemicals Number of shares on December 31, 2014: 155,342,557 Listing date: November 10, 1994 96 Information for investors SHARE PRICE 2010–2014 DIVIDEND PER SHARE 2) EUR 250 0.6 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.48 0.5 200 0.4 150 0.3 100 0.2 50 0.1 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2) The dividend for 2014 is the Board of Director's proposal to the ■ Kemira Oyj Annual General Meeting. ■ Nasdaq OMX Helsinki Ltd ■ EURO STOXX Chems MONTHLY TRADING VOLUME ON NASDAQ OMX HELSINKI 2010–2014 EARNINGS PER SHARE 1) Shares EUR 25,000,000 1.0 0.89 0.73 0.8 20,000,000 0.59 0.6 15,000,000 0.4 0.12 10,000,000 0.2 0 5,000,000 -0.2 -0.21 0 -0.4 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1) Excluding Tikkurila 2010 MARKET VALUE 2010–2014 OWNERSHIP DECEMBER 31, 2014 EUR million 2,500 2,000 19% 1,500 4% 41% 1,000 16% 500 12% 8% 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ■ Market value ■ Corporations ■ Total equity ■ Financial and insurance corporations ■ General goverment ■ Households ■ Non-profit institutions ■ Non-Finnish shareholders incl nominee register CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE TO OUR CUSTOMERS IN WATER INTENSIVE INDUSTRIES In 2014, Kemira’s innovations and technologies enabled the production of: • 600 BILLION BOXES FOR PACKAGING • 150 BILLION COPIES OF MAGAZINES AND CATALOGUES • 20 BILLION CARTONS OF MILK, JUICE OR OTHER LIQUIDS • 1,500 MILLION BARRELS OF OIL AND GAS (MBOE) • 17,000 MILLION M³ PURIFIED WATER KEMIRA REVENUE SPLIT BY CUSTOMER BENEFIT, % Product quality or yield Water quality or optimization regulatory compliance 30% related to wastewater and sludge treatment 50% 20% Process or energy efficiency Kemira Oyj Porkkalankatu 3 P.O. Box 330 FI-00101 Helsinki Finland Tel. +358 10 8611 Fax +358 10 862 1119 www.kemira.com Kemira is a global chemicals company serving customers in water-intensive industries. We provide expertise and tailored combinations of chemicals that improve our customers’ water, energy and raw material efficiency. We focus on pulp & paper, oil & gas, mining and water treatment.
