CSR REPORT 2014 PFA AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY – initiatives and results CONTENTS Introduction ................................................................................................................ 3 PFA overview and key figures 2014 ............................................................................ 4 About this report ........................................................................................................ 6 Corporate responsibility and ethics at PFA ................................................................... 8 Responsible corporate practice ................................................................................. 10 Responsible corporate culture.................................................................................... 12 Responsible value creation Responsible products and services ........................................................................... 16 Responsible investments ........................................................................................... 20 Green operations and green investments................................................................... 26 Relationships and dialogue An open dialogue is the foundation for insigth........................................................... 30 Customer dialogue focused on simplicity and trust..................................................... 32 PFA Brug Livet Fonden ............................................................................................... 34 CSR key facts and figures 2014 ............................................................................. 36 Employees and workplace conditions ....................................................................... 38 Investments and active ownership ............................................................................. 40 Environment and CO2 consumption ............................................................................ 41 Stakeholders and society ......................................................................................... 44 Focus areas for social responsibility in 2015 .............................................................. 47 The images in this report The images in this report show associations that received support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014. The images have been shot by photographer Jakob Dall. Front page: BørneLungeFonden Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.lunge.dk/børnelungefonden 2 PFA · CSR Report 2014 INTRODUCTION OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY JOURNEY These six years with targeted efforts have been a This is PFA’s sixth CSR report on our work journey characterized by growing expectations from with incorporating CSR in our ongoing the outside world of us and of what we can do for handling of tasks and development. our customers. When you work with integrating corporate responsibility into the business development, you set out on a journey without knowing A lot has happened since PFA in 2009 decided the final destination. Only with this realisation in to observe and propagate UN Global Compact’s the backpack, is it possible to create reliable, sus10 principles on human rights, labour rights, the tainable and responsible results. To a large extent, environment and anti-corruption. This affects the the driving force is the decision to still be able to way we run our business with regard to actively document that also our CSR contribution is making integrating CSR throughout PFA. And it also affects a difference. how we systematise our corporate responsibility efforts at an operational level. Like previously, the 2014 report presents PFA’s initiatives and results within corporate responsibility In relation to the outside world, we are happy to and ethics. The objective is to present a true and note that CSR matters are gaining an increasing fair view of our activities, our challenges and how foothold. The realisation that corporate responsiwe have handled them. bility is an important part of running a business in the 21st century is gaining ground and there is an We hope that you will enjoy reading our CSR increased focus on how PFA as a company, em­Report. ployer and investor contributes to society. Corporate responsibility is PFA’s travelling companion on our journey – both when it comes to develJon Johnsen oping products and to generating large long-term Group Executive Vice President and Acting CEO returns in a responsible manner. Likewise, we are always well-prepared and ready to present PFA’s qualified advice when we enter into dialogue with our customers and business partners. We will continue this journey and actively work on complying with and promoting UN Global Compact’s principles in the way we do business. PFA · CSR Report 2014 3 PFA OVERVIEW AND KEY FIGURES 2014 1,285 Employees (annual average) 11.8 % 384,000 Health insurance plans Staff turnover 3.3 % Sickness absence 77 Employee satisfaction 237,000 41 % Enquiries to the Health Centre and Claims Centre Women in management 25,000 E-mails to the Health Centre and Claims Centre DKK 519 BN Assets under management DKK 25.3 BN Payments DKK 22.1 BN Payouts 4 PFA · CSR Report 2014 114.6 TONS CO2 saved at headquarters and APPROX 1.1 BN Individual customers on operations 250,000 1,218 KG Reduction in food waste from Calls to the Advisory Services Centre the canteen 338,000 71,000 Visitors at My PFA (mitpfa.dk) launched at the end of June 2014 E-mails to the Advisory Services Centre 68,000 Pension consultations PFA · CSR Report 2014 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT Focus areas and prioritisation of the This report describes PFA’s work with contents of the report corporate responsibility and reports During 2014, PFA has entered into dialogue with on the most important initiatives and different stakeholders who have expectations results achieved in 2014. The general for various areas of PFA’s work with corporate framework is set by our policy for corresponsibility. In addition, PFA has participated in porate responsibility and ethics, which the Danish Council for Corporate Responsibility’s applies to the entire PFA Group. The meetings and debates throughout the year. Focus policy describes the objectives and has especially been on how PFA manages the cusprinciples that PFA bases its actions tomers’ money in a responsible way. Therefore, on as a company, employer, business this report focuses especially on the area of repartner and investor. sponsible investments and on giving a number of examples of how the policies, principles and the dialogue with companies are put into practice. The report applies to the whole of 2014 and covers the PFA Group with the exception of two The CSR Report 2013, “PFA and Corporate Reassociated companies. PFA Holding’s annual sponsibility Priorities and results”, described report, this CSR report with appendices and the six focus areas of PFA’s work with corporate CSR pages at pfa.dk all comply with the Danish responsibility in 2014. These focus areas will all Financial Statements Act regarding the reporting be addressed in this report. Below, you find a of the company’s corporate responsibility. These table that shows on which page each focus area also represent PFA’s Communication on Progress is described. report (COP) to the UN regarding PFA’s implementation of UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. 2014 focus area Page 8 PFA will review its corporate responsibility and ethics policy, and other policies and guidelines which form the framework for PFA’s CSR work. Page 10 B y means of internal communication, PFA will broaden awareness of the PFA whistleblower scheme. Page 11 PFA will resolve the challenges involved in small suppliers’ self-assessment. Page 13 PFA focuses on health initiatives in daily life and is, among other things, running a threemonth trial with an exercise programme using elastic bands to reduce the number of minor problems with back, neck and arms among the employees. These health initiatives are intended to improve job satisfaction and reduce sickness absence. Page 19 PFA will assess the partnership with Børn, Unge & Sorg (a Danish organisation which helps children and young adults who have lost a parent). Page 27 PFA will evaluate the success of its five-year climate partnership compared to the goal which was to reduce CO2 emissions by up to 30 % over five years. 6 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Danske Hospitalsklovne Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.danskehospitalsklovne.dk Report structure The report’s structure is based on the four basic principles on which our corporate responsibility and ethics policy is built. Each principle comprises several key areas and specific actions. The report mirrors the structure of the policy and the topics described illustrate how PFA’s work with CSR has progressed. The four basic principles of the policy make up PFA’s corporate responsibility model, which can be found on page 8. The last part of the report consists of PFA’s CSR-related key figures and data. The 2014 figures are compared with figures for the past two years in order to show how the results have developed. The 2014 figures and the figures for the past years will be included wherever relevant throughout the report. To get a complete overview of the figures and data related to the activities described, we refer to the tables at the back of the report. Data is regularly systematised, and PFA will continue to work on improving this area. PFA continues to base its reporting on indicators from GRI G3 Sustainability Guidelines and Financial Service Sector Supplement (FSSS), which cover the relevant areas in UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. It is PFA’s assessment that the report is at level C according to the GRI G3 assessment scheme. PFA has participated in a pilot project regarding peer review of the CSR report within the Global Compact Nordic Network and has taken into consideration the comments and reflections in this report. Contacts for the CSR report and PFA’s work with corporate responsibility are: Mette Vadstrup, CSR Manager, Corporate Communications & Public Affairs, mev@pfa.dk and Morten Jeppesen, Director of Corporate Communications & Public Affairs, mjp@pfa.dk PFA · CSR Report 2014 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND ETHICS AT PFA a business partner, employer, pension company and The objective of PFA’s corporate reinvestor. sponsibility and ethics policy is that its principles are integrated into PFA’s proEmbedding the policy for corporate jects and initiatives. responsibility and ethics PFA has continued to embed the policy for corporate responsibility and ethics within the four basic Revision of policy principles: responsible corporate practice, responsible In 2014, PFA’s Supervisory Board revised PFA’s policy corporate culture, responsible value creation, and for corporate responsibility and ethics as well as relationships and dialogue. Overall, PFA has initiated a the policy for responsible investments. These two wide range of activities and projects which are all part policies make up the overall framework for PFA’s of ensuring that PFA lives up to the overall principles work with corporate responsibility. The policies date and objectives in the policy. The activities are briefly back to 2011 and 2010 respectively. The purpose described and illustrated in the responsibility model of the revision was twofold: to update the policies on page 9. in the areas that had developed, including ensuring that the respect of human rights became even more Focus has been on PFA’s obligation to respect human pronounced, and to integrate PFA’s environmental rights and on converting this obligation to fit a Danish policy into both policies. company in a Danish context. PFA has thus revised its Code of Conduct, launched a new whistleblowing With the revision, PFA’s guidelines for responsible portal and taken further steps to strengthen the investments in government bonds have become part processes of responsible investments. of the policies and the respect of human rights is now specifically stated under the various relevant areas. Responsible corporate practice In addition, PFA’s Code of Conduct has also been During the year, a steering committee with focus included in the policy for corporate responsibility and on taxes has been established, and a project on ethics. preparation of a PFA tax policy has been initiated. The policy is expected to be adopted during 2015. Up until 2013, PFA had a separate environmental and climate change policy which set the framework Responsible corporate culture for implementing environmental considerations In three departments, PFA Fit at Work has been throughout the business. Including when making completed as a pilot project. Tools that support investments, purchasing and running the headquarter learning and strength-based management have office. The content of the policy is now integrated been developed, and PFA has participated in into the policy for corporate responsibility and ethics Landsforeningen Autisme’s (the Danish autism as well as the policy for responsible investments with association) ‘Project Opportunity’. the purpose of collecting the overall framework and thus facilitate the knowledge of PFA’s framework Responsible value creation for corporate responsibility. The contents of the PFA’s Responsible Investment Board has worked on environmental policy have not been changed. implementing the policy for responsible investments. A continued focus on sustainable operations and The respect of human rights have become significantly green investments, and PFA has renewed the more pronounced in PFA’s policy, and the revision climate partnership with Dong Energy. In relation to plays an important part in ensuring that human the health area, PFA has initiated new preventive rights are integrated in all of PFA’s actions, both as initiatives. 8 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Danske Hospitalsklovne Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.danskehospitalsklovne.dk PFA’s responsibility model Responsible products Responsible Sustainable investments operations Code of Responsible PFA Brug Conduct value creation Livet Fonden Responsible Corporate Antiresponsibility RelationCustomer corporate corruption and ethics ships and dialogue practice dialogue Tax policy Responsible Customer corporate culture trust Employee Health engagement Skills development Relationships and dialogue PFA Brug Livet Fonden chose that this year’s support should go to causes that help children in Denmark who have had a rough start to life. Customer trust and dialogue with critical customers have also been in focus. PFA has been in dialogue with media, ministries, agencies, NGOs, trade organisations etc. regarding issues that relate to pension, savings and health. PFA’s responsibility model PFA’s responsibility model is based on the four basic principles that form the basis of the policy for corporate responsibility and ethics. The basic principles illustrate the focus areas which PFA has chosen to focus on in 2014 in order to embed the policy. The outer circle of the model shows the themes that will be described in detail in this policy. The model can also be used to navigate throughout the entire report. PFA · CSR Report 2014 9 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE PRACTICE adopted in order to prevent the bank from being The objective of responsible corporate used for money laundering. This means that all practice is to ensure that PFA maintains companies in the PFA Group have internal guidepolicies and guidelines which uphold lines to prevent that the companies are used for fair and responsible corporate behavmoney laundering or terrorist financing. iour and ensure that PFA retains its reputation as a trustworthy company. In each company in the PFA Group, a person at management level has been assigned to ensure that PFA observes the Danish Act on Measures to Meeting the objective Prevent Money Laundering and Financing of TerDuring 2014, PFA has worked on meeting the rorism. The relevant employees regularly receive objective of responsible corporate practice in training by the Group’s compliance function in the various areas, including setting up a steering rules and the internal controls. PFA is aware of committee with focus on taxes, preparing a PFA the fact that banking operations entail a greater tax policy as well as evaluating and improving two risk of being used for money laundering than schemes: the whistleblower scheme and the Code pension savings do. Among other things, this is of Conduct for PFA’s suppliers. reflected in the training process. Special tax effort During 2014, we have not reported any suspicions As a company, employer and investor, PFA is comof money laundering to the Danish authorities. prised by a number of tax conditions within corporation tax, VAT, payroll tax, wage earner’s tax, New whistleblowing portal pension yield tax etc. One of the 2014 focus areas was to create greater awareness internally of PFA’s whistleblower The tax area is very complicated and in 2014 PFA scheme. This was done at the same time as PFA established a steering committee with focus on introduced a new whistleblowing portal. The portaxes. The steering committee has the complete tal makes it easier for the employees to report overview of all tax-related activities and condiserious cases and, at the same time, the possibiltions in PFA. Its purpose is to ensure that any tax ity of remaining anonymous has been a priority. legislation is timely and effectively implemented. The previous whistleblower scheme from 2012 has also allowed the employees to remain anonyIn May, the Committee on Corporate Governance mous, but the reporting was done by completing updated its recommendations. The update ina form by hand. cluded an addition to recommendation 1.1.2. that states that in certain cases it may be relevant for The purpose of whistleblowing is to provide an board of directors/supervisory boards to consider additional opportunity to expose illegal or iradopting a tax policy. Based on these recomresponsible conditions which contravene PFA’s mendations, PFA has prepared a tax policy which set of values or rules. For instance, this could be we expect to adopt during 2015. The purpose of matters which threaten PFA’s earnings or image. the tax policy is to collect PFA’s tax principles and Furthermore, the employees can report any violapractice and to formalise these in a policy. tions or potential violations of the financial regulations committed by the company. Guidelines to avoid money laundering In connection with the formation of PFA Bank No reports have been made through the PFA in 2014, internal guidelines were drawn up and whistleblower scheme in 2014. 10 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Neonatalstrik Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.neostrik.dk Bipartite Code of Conduct Therefore, PFA has formulated two parts of the In 2014, we continued to focus on embedding the Code of Conduct to use when entering into agreeuse of PFA’s Code of Conduct and a self-evaluation ments with suppliers. For critical suppliers who form when entering into agreements with supplisupply a key service which PFA depends on in order ers. We have had a good and constructive dialogue to service our customers, the existing practice that in order to clarify how the individual suppliers live includes signing the Code of Conduct and completup to their corporate responsibility. In the vast ing a self-evaluation form applies. For small supplimajority of cases, we have inquired about the ers that may not be critical but are important and supplier’s specific activities, depending on the supmake up a part of PFA’s value chain, the same explier’s size, products and supplier chain. pectations of proper and responsible conduct apply, and the suppliers undertake to comply with these Another focus area in 2014 was to make the proexpectations by signing a declaration of intent. cess in relation to small PFA suppliers more effective. It has not, in the same way as with larger In this way, PFA expects to make the process in suppliers, been of relevance to complete a selfrelation to small suppliers more efficient. The new evaluation form. During the year, PFA evaluated approach with the bipartite Code of Conduct is the self-evaluation form in relation to small supplilaunched in the beginning of 2015. ers and assessed various solutions. The purpose of a Code of Conduct is to state the expectations PFA has for its suppliers, and, through dialogue with the suppliers, get an overview of which processes they have that ensure that they live up to the expectations. The expectations for respect of human rights and proper conduct are the same regardless of the size of the supplier and the supplier contract. The focus has been on the process for how the suppliers undertake to comply with the principles in PFA’s Code of Conduct. Example of supplier dialogue In connection with contract negotiations with a large IT supplier, PFA, based on PFA’s Code of Conduct, initiated a positive and constructive dialogue on how the supplier acts responsibly during the various stages of the order. During the dialogue, PFA was presented the supplier’s policy and priorities regarding business ethics and human rights. PFA · CSR Report 2014 11 RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CULTURE The objective of responsible corResponsible porate culture is about creating a products Responsible Sustainable framework for employee and leaderinvestments operations ship development as well as skills deResponsible velopment and introducing initiatives Code of Conduct value creation PFA Brug Livet Fonden to improve the employees’ health. Responsible Corporate Antiresponsibility RelationCustomer corporate corruption and ethics ships and dialogue practice Meeting the objective dialogue In order to meet the objective of responsible corporate culture, PFA has worked on implementResponsible Tax policy Customer corporate culture trust ing PFA as a performance organisation, target figures and policy for women at management level, evaluating employee engagement measureEmployee Health engagement Skills ments, workplace assessments and carrying out development the project PFA Fit at Work in PFA. Qualifications and performance culture As PFA develops its performance culture, it is important that the employees possess the qualifications and tools necessary to thrive and be successful in such a culture. 12 PFA · CSR Report 2014 BørneLungeFonden Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.lunge.dk/børnelungefonden In support of the performance culture, PFA has PFA and health introduced regular performance dialogues. The One of the focus areas for 2014 was that PFA objective is clear short-term targets for the incarried out a six-month trial with an exercise dividual employee, feedback from the manager programme based on elastic band exercises to reto the employee with focus on a strength-based duce and prevent the employees’ minor problems approach and feedback from the employee to the with their back, neck and arms. This was done manager with a view to ensure the general condithrough the pilot project PFA Fit at Work, which tions. The engagement survey 2014 showed that was tested by three departments in PFA. The 87 per cent of the employees with PFA regularly elastic band exercises help prevent the negative have a performance dialogue and 70 per cent effects of sedentary work. The employees’ health say that the performance dialogues add value was measured before, during and after the proin the form of better performance, increased ject, and the results showed a reduction in minor engagement and personal skills development. disorders in shoulders, back and arms as well as a Furthermore, 78 per cent say that they have had higher level of job satisfaction and energy among the opportunity to acquire new skills and develop the employees. On this basis, it was decided that within the last year. the elastic band exercises will form part of the new health strategy for PFA in 2015. This means In total, PFA has held more than 150 internal that the elastic band exercises will become part seminars to develop the employees’ knowledge of the work day during 2015. and qualifications within a number of different areas, including human resource management, PFA has continues to cooperate with the Danish the advisory services process and project manCancer Society on the project “Fra bil til cykel” agement. Add to this a number of other minor (From car to bicycle). During the year, PFA has seminars and training programmes. improved the bicycle parking and shower facilities as well as continued to offer free bicycle service at the workplace. In 2013, a survey showed that approximately one in five employees regularly biked to and from work at PFA. The objective for 2014 was to increase the percentage of employees who ride their bike to work on a daily basis from 21.5 per cent to 30 per cent. The percentage reached 26 per cent in 2014. Seen in relation to the objective, this result is unsatisfactory, although, it is still a step in the right direction. PFA · CSR Report 2014 13 PFA continued to offer consultations to pregnant were discussed by PFA’s Samarbejdsudvalg (works employees. The consultations include work-related committee), and it was concluded in 2014 that the issues as well as personal, physical and mental figures are satisfactory and no further initiatives welfare. The objective is to avoid pregnancy-related are needed. physical pains and problems and thus reduce the number of pregnancy-related sick days to a miniIn 2014, the gender distribution at the three manmum. The number of pregnant employees accepting agement levels at PFA was as follows: 49 per cent the offer of consultations has increased, however, female team leaders, 38 per cent women senior the effect on pregnancy-related sickness absence managers, 14 per cent women directors. At yearis uncertain. The pregnancy consultations will be end, there were no women group executive vice evaluated during 2015. presidents and just 10 % female board members elected at the annual general meeting of PFA HoldMeeting the objective for the share ing and PFA Pension. Therefore, focus will continue of women in management to be on increasing the share of women in top manThe overall objective is for the share of women in agement. However, it is important to keep in mind PFA at management level to reach a minimum of 40 that the figures are easily influenced by just one per cent. PFA reached this objective in 2014 with new appointment or resignation. the total share of women in managerial positions reaching 41 per cent. The two previous years, the PFA’s policy and target figures for gender distribushare of women in management totalled 39 per tion on the Supervisory Board are from 2013. Here, cent. This indicates that the share of women in the target figures are stated for the share of wommanagement is more or less constant. Throughen on the supervisory boards of PFA’s companies in out the year, PFA has also focused on initiatives 2016 and 2017. For supervisory boards with three that help ensure that the recruitment process is members, the 2016 objective is that a least a third gender-neutral, that management has flexible workof the members should be women. This objective ing hours with regard to being available at specific was met at the end of 2014. For the Supervisory hours, etc. Furthermore, the equal pay statistics Board of PFA Holding, the objective is at least 30 The pilot project “PFA Fit at Work in PFA” The project lasted from January and until June and comprised three departments in PFA with a total of 189 employees at the beginning of the project. The project consisted in doing elastic band exercises for ten minutes three times a week. In order to measure the effect, measurements were carried out before, during and after the project period. 82 per cent of the respondents did the elastic band exercises regularly, and approximately 4 per cent did not participate. The figures are based on the participants’ own assessments and, among other things, showed: • An increase in the self-assessed working capacity: from 60 per cent to 75 per cent. • An increase in the self-assessed level of productivity: from 39 per cent to 53 per cent. • Heightened job satisfaction: from 49 per cent to 58 per cent. • Heightened self-assessed energy level: from 33 per cent to 41 per cent. • Heightened self-assessed physical health: from 33 per cent to 48 per cent. 14 PFA · CSR Report 2014 per cent women in 2017, and, for the Supervisory tion plans for each department in PFA – a job that Board of PFA Pension, the objective is that a third was previously rooted in the HR department. The of the members should be women in 2016. PFA will health and safety representatives are closer to local regularly report on whether the target figures are problems and may therefore be able to generate being met. new ideas concerning how to improve the working environment. Workplace assessment 2014 Every third year, PFA completes the statutory workImproved employee satisfaction place assessment (APV). In 2014, the assessment This year, PFA again saw an improvement in the was made during summer, by means of a questionemployee satisfaction. In 2014, PFA used the new naire. 82 per cent of the employees responded to method for calculation of employee satisfaction the questionnaire. Overall, the APV paints the same that was developed in 2013. It is a more simple picture as the latest assessment in 2011. During survey which especially focuses on PFA as a perforthe period, focus has been on temperature, air and mance organisation. In 2014, the response rate was light control, however, the employees’ assessment 87. The results show that employee satisfaction has shows that this area still holds challenges and that increased from 74 to 77 (out of 100). At the same the current conditions may have a negative influtime, the share of employees who would recomence on the sickness absence. The assessment mend others to apply for a job at PFA has gone up does not paint a clear picture as there are signififrom 75 to 77. cant differences in the assessments from department to department. However, it is clear that PFA’s PFA has many different activities for the employcurrent location (Marina Park), which was built in ees. Including initiatives with the purpose of involvthe early 1980s, no longer lives up to the requireing the employees in charity races, reduction of ments for indoor climate that an office building food waste etc. In addition, PFA has in 2014 worked should in 2014. with Landsforeningen Autisme (the Danish autism association) to make short information videos in On the positive side, the employees assess the order to bring attention to what it is like to live with physical workload to be moderate, their possibility autism. Through Project Opportunity, PFA has hired of influencing the planning of their work as good an employee with autism, who has carried out a and their engagement as high. number of tasks and been an integrated part of his team in PFA. The different initiatives where PFA In 2014, the health and safety representatives’ supports various challenges faced by society also job was to assist the managers with preparing accontributed to employee satisfaction. PFA · CSR Report 2014 15 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES The goal for responsible value creation Ansvarlige Responsible produkter entails that our products, advisory serproducts Responsible Ansvarlige Sustainable Bæredygtig vices and investment processes create investments investeringer operations drift value for our customers in a responsible Codeof of Ansvarlig Responsible way. Code Conduct Conduct værdiskabelse value creation PFA Brug PFA Livet Brug Livet Fonden Fonden Ansvarlig Responsible Corporate AntiForretningsRelationer Meeting the objective Antikorruption forretningscorporate responsibility ansvar og etik Relationog dialog Customer Kundedialog corruption praksis and ethics ships and dialogue practice With regards to creating responsible products and dialogue services, PFA has continued to work with simplifying our communication about pension and launched Skattepolitik Ansvarlig Responsible Tax policy Customer Kundetillid virksomhedskultur corporate culture a new digital platform. Value for the customers is trust also created through PFA’s efforts to prevent minor MedarbejderSundhed disorders and work-related injuries and help employEmployee engagement Health engagement Skills ees who are absent due to an illness return to their Kompetencedevelopment udvikling work. My PFA – the customers’ new overview PFA gives priority to providing the customers with an easy and simple overview of their pension plan figures. At the same time, PFA strives to give an exact indication of what the individual employee may expect when he or she retires. PFA believes that this creates value for the individual customer. In 2014, PFA launched My PFA a portal that collects individual figures, personal information and recommendations that are relevant to the individual customer. My PFA features a number of inspiring self-service tools and guides. In order to derive 16 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Hjerneskadeforeningen Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.hjerneskadet.dk maximum advantage from the portal, the customer research results could be verified, partly to collect must enter those figures which PFA does not have knowledge and data in order to better be able to access to. My PFA also comes as an app and is easily develop initiatives that match the customers’ needs. accessible. The purpose is to give the customers a The study verified the research results and, among platform where they can collect all of their informaother things, showed that the healthier the employtion, quickly and easily access the information and ees are, the higher they score their own productivity thus stay updated on how their savings and return level and their ability to carry out their job. develop. This help make pension-related topics an integrated part of the customers’ everyday life. My Based on the results from the health screening, PFA was launched at the end of June 2014 and has PFA develops solutions for the customers involvduring the first six months had 337,551 visitors. ing advice, analyses and a health strategy within This figure is significantly higher than the number of the areas: physical and mental health as well as visitors at the previous customer portal, My Pension, diet and lifestyle. The goal here is to create lasting which totalled 259,249 visitors during the first six changes and positive effects for the customer – to months of the year. the benefit of both the individual employee and the company. The effect of the efforts carried out Highly effective preventive measures during 2014 in cooperation with the customers At the end of 2013, PFA introduced health screenhas been measured. The results show an average ings for companies with a PFA pension plan. The improvement of the employees’ energy levels of 22 health screening provides a snapshot of the employper cent. At the same time, productivity levels have ees’ state of health. The screening is a tool for the gone up by 17 per cent and job satisfaction has employees and companies to help prioritise health increased by 26 per cent. The gathered data and exefforts and to derive maximum advantage from their perience from the area form part of the cooperation preventive health measures. During 2014, PFA carPFA has initiated with the large customers who want ried out a significant amount of health screenings to prepare an overall health strategy that focuses on and have, on this basis, obtained valid data that the individual’s health behavior. During 2015, PFA allows PFA to identify overall trends and challenges. will continue to focus on the cooperation on health The purpose was partly to see whether previous strategies with the customers. PFA · CSR Report 2014 17 PFA’s health screening The health screening is based on comprehensive online questionnaires that include questions related to diet, exercise, smoking, alcohol, sleep and the employee’s physical and mental well-being. Based on the scientifically founded questions, each employee receives a Health estimate from 1-100. The Health estimate is divided into the categories “healthy”, “less healthy” or “unhealthy”. The average Health estimate is 75 and PFA recommends a Health estimate of 70 or above. A total of 97 per cent of the employees who are evaluated to be ”healthy” or ”very healthy” assess their level of productivity to be “high” or “very high”. Among the respondents who live unhealthily, 17 per cent assess their level of productivity to be low or moderate. 72 per cent of the employees who are assessed to be “healthy” state that their working capacity is “very high”, while only 45 per cent of the unhealthy employees estimate their working capacity to be ”very high”. The working capacity is fundamental to the level of productivity. Overall, the employees that participated in the screening are relatively healthy, however, there is still a lot of room for improvement. The study shows that 59 per cent of the respondents do not live up to the recommendations regarding daily physical activity, 30 per cent state that they suffer from sleep difficulties and 35 per cent are overweight. Successful active claims handling ard solutions as all courses of illness are unique. In 2014, PFA continued to focus on helping sick Therefore, individual help and a process that can customers return to the job market through Acbe adjusted to match the customer’s current needs tive Claims Handling. The objective is to intervene are key. Active Claims Handling covers reactivation, effectively at an early stage in order to avoid preventive cases, grants and treatments. During long-term periods of sickness, which involves a 2014, PFA Active Claims Handling assessed 1,726 greater risk of the customer never returning to cases and engaged in dialogue with 410 customemployment. This creates value for the individual ers who received advice and guidance. The number customer, for the company and for society. Acof reactivations and preventive cases increased tive Claims Handling does not include any standsignificantly. Extract from an Active Claims Handling process In May 2013, a customer reported absent from work due to a blood clot in the brain. Through the Health Insurance, the customer was examined at Mølholm Private Hospital and also received psychological therapy granted by the Health Insurance. From October 2013, the customer made an agreement with his employer on returning to work a few hours per week simultaneously with the customer attending a rehabilitation programme provided by the local authority. The after-effects of the blood clot were not severe and the prognosis was therefore considered positive. Through Active Claims Handling, PFA therefore chose to grant payment of a neuropsychological examination and a subsequent check-up at Mølholm. Later, the customer was granted additional psychological therapy. PFA also granted payout of Loss of Occupational Capacity to the employer in order to help retain the customer at the workplace. The customer slowly increased the number of working hours, and, from the beginning of September 2014, he was able to work more than part time. Throughout the process, the customer has regained more than half of his occupational capacity, and the payouts of Loss of Occupational Capacity have therefore ceased. 18 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Advisory partnership in the event of 2013. PFA has informed of the possibilities of of critical illness and death advice and guidance for children and young adults. Every year many families have to deal with illness However, it has been difficult to measure the exact and death. PFA is in contact with many of these effect. Therefore, PFA has decided to continue with families as they either need payouts from a life the project for another year in order to gain more insurance or need to use their insurance against experience before making an overall evaluation. Critical Illness or Loss of Occupational Capacity. One of the focus areas for 2014 was to evaluate the PFA has two years of experience from the partnerpartnership with Børn, Unge & Sorg (Danish organiships with the Danish Cancer Society, Hjerteforesation which helps children and young adults who ningen, Hjernesagen and Scleroseforeningen. The have lost a parent) and to strengthen the partnerpartnerships consist in PFA offering a one-year ship with the Danish Cancer Society, Hjerteforeninmembership with one of the four organisations to gen (Danish heart association), Hjernesagen (Danish customers who receive payouts from their critical bran association) and Scleroseforeningen (Danish illness insurance within one of the areas covered by sclerosis association). the organisations. The purpose of the partnership is to ensure that the customers are offered support The purpose of PFA’s partnership with the Danish and guidance from experts and patients’ associaorganisation Børn, Unge & Sorg is to make PFA’s tions In 2014, 1269 customers were offered a memcustomers aware of the possibility of getting help bership with one of the four organisations. 38 per for children and young adults who face a serious cent chose to accept the offer of a membership. The illness or death in their family. In these situations, figure has increased compared to last year when 34 the children’s needs are often overlooked. The partper cent out of 834 customers accepted the offer. nership with Børn, Unge & Sorg began at the end Breakdown of memberships offered Scleroseforeningen Hjernesagen The Danish Cancer Society Hjerteforeningen PFA · CSR Report 2014 19 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS The objective is to ensure that PFA’s Responsible investment return is achieved with products Responsible Sustainable respect for human rights, the environinvestments operations ment and internationally recognised Responsible standards. Code of Conduct value creation PFA Brug Livet Fonden Responsible Corporate Meeting the objective Anticorporate responsibility RelationCustomer corruption and ethics ships and dialogue practice PFA’s policy and guidelines for responsible investdialogue ments set the framework for the work with responsible investments. It is an ongoing process where Responsible Tax policy Customer corporate culture trust decisions are made concerning the areas of contact that PFA is able and willing to be associated with when we make investments. In 2014, PFA’s Employee Health engagement Skills Responsible Investment Board made a number of development specific decisions that affect the development of responsible investments in PFA. The policy is based on international principles The UN principles and other international standards and conventions form the basis of PFA’s policy and guidelines for responsible investments. This means that PFA expects the countries and companies we invest in to comply with the widely recognised international conventions and norms. PFA is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and, through the work with responsible investments etc., PFA focuses on human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption in the screening process. PFA supports the six UN-backed principles for responsible investment, and the principles are an integrated part of PFA’s work with responsible investments. PFA withdrew from the organisation PRI last year following a long dialogue concerning management-related matters in PRI. The objective of the organisation PRI is to promote the UNbacked principles for responsible investment. As a responsible investor, PFA continues to work with translating the principles into everyday actions, just like PFA reports on challenges, progress and results of screenings and active ownership throughout this report and at pfa.dk. 20 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Gigtramte Børns Forældreforening Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.gbf.dk Behind the principles and processes with the screening and engagement company, In 2014, PFA saw an increased interest in how the GES. Among other things, PFA’s share portfolio is principles and companies’ corporate responsibility screened for compliance with international convenare integrated into the investment and screening tions that are covered by the UN Global Compact’s processes. When we assess a company, a number 10 principles on respect for human rights, labour of different elements are included in the overall rights, the environment and anti-corruption. An investment analysis, including valuation of the important element in the screening is the dialogue company, the industry and the countries in which with the company to establish whether the compathe company operates. The analysis also includes ny has violated international standards or not. This an assessment of the challenges faced by the process also involves other stakeholders than the industry, specific ethical dilemmas within an area company in question and may therefore take time and how the company responds to these. This to determine. If non-compliance is confirmed, a helps indicate whether it is a sensible, long-term, so-called engagement dialogue commences during responsible investment that generates maximum which specific targets are laid down with regards to return for PFA’s customers. which changes the company should make in order to change its practices. The engagement dialogue All companies in PFA’s portfolio are part of the is based on four criteria which, among other screening process PFA has set up in cooperation things, focus on how the company can change The 6 UN-backed principles for responsible investment (PRI) The principles cover how investors should work on incorporating environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) issues. The principles state that responsible investors should: 1. Incorporate ESG issues into investment analyses and decision-making processes. 2. Be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into the ownership policies and practices. 3. Seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which the investor invests. 4. Promote acceptance and implementation of the principles within the investment industry. 5. Work together to enhance the effectiveness in implementing the principles. 6. Report on activities and progress towards implementing the principles. PFA’s screening model GES confirms GES analysis & non-compliance recommendations The company changes its practices Screening & Engagement PFA RI Board dialogue dialogue Exclusion Continued confidence in the dialogue PFA · CSR Report 2014 21 its systems and behaviour in order to reduce the active ownership, dialogue with Danish listed probability of non-compliance in future. Therefore, companies, taxes as an element in the investment the engagement dialogue is a long process. The process, and investments in the energy sector and process with a company cannot be completed uncompanies with activities around occupied territotil it has been established that practice has been ries such as Western Sahara and the West Bank. changed and this has been verified by a third party. PFA regularly receives screening results in the form When the RI Board decides to exclude a company of a focus list and an evaluation list. PFA assesses or a country, PFA’s exclusion list at pfa.dk is upthe progress in each case and also engages in dated. Other elements than strictly ethical considdialogue with a number of the companies. It is erations may mean that a company or country is PFA’s Responsible Investment Board that decides divested. In such cases, it is not a matter of excluwhether PFA continues to trust that a company on sion and the divestment will therefore not appear the focus list is developing positively or whether from the exclusion list. PFA wants to divest the company In 2014, the RI Board decided to formalise the Responsible Investment Board decision not to invest in energy companies that PFA’s Responsible Investment (RI) Board is reprimarily extract oil from tar sand. Therefore, PFA sponsible for the continued development and excludes companies that are analysed and asimplementation of PFA’s policy and guidelines for sessed to generate their main turnover from activiresponsible investments. ties connected to tar sand. The reason for excluding the companies is that the method of extraction During 2014, the RI Board held four meetings. is assessed to be damaging to the environment Among other things, the Board has focused on and the nature in the areas where it is used. It Investments in the energy sector The RI Board has focused on investments in the energy sector. PFA analysed its share portfolio for 2010 and 2013 respectively in order to see the development in energy investments. The investments were calculated based on the following method: fossil fuel (companies whose primary activities comprise extraction of coal, oil and gas), renewable energy (companies whose primary activities comprise green energy) and other energy types (energy companies whose primary activities do not comprise extraction but are placed elsewhere in the value chain, for instance oil service companies or utility companies). The figures showed that the proportion of investments in fossil fuel were decreasing, while the other two categories were growing. This development is substantiated by the analysis of the list of shares at the end of 2014. Breakdown of energy investments in 2010 Breakdown of energy investments in 2014 Other energy types 18 % Other energy types 29 % Renewable energy 11 % Renewable energy 41 % Fossil fuel 71 % Fossil fuel 29 % 22 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Example of screening and dialogue with companies In relation to active ownership, there has in 2014 been a strong focus on investments in companies that have activities in Israel and the occupied West Bank. The occupation of the West Bank violates international conventions, and PFA does not want to invest in companies that contribute to the illegal occupation or unlawful activities. Therefore, PFA’s regular screening includes an assessment of companies’ involvement at the occupied West Bank. It can be difficult to assess whether activities contribute to upholding the occupied area or to limiting people’s freedom of movement at the West Bank as well as to which extent the companies can control for which purposes their products are used. Therefore, PFA has specific criteria for assessing the companies’ activities at the West Bank. PFA has entered into dialogue with three companies in which PFA has invested to enquire about their activities in the area. Based on the information supplied by the companies and GES’ analyses, PFA has concluded that the companies have not violated the international conventions or are in the process of changing their practices. This is an important matter to PFA, and PFA will therefore continue the close dialogue with the companies. This is a matter that PFA will focus especially on in 2015. Total specification of the topics discussed with the companies in PFA’s portfolio in 2014. Labour rights 42 % Controversial weapons 1 % Corruption 9 % Human rights 34 % Environment 14 % concerns the following companies: Canadian Natuthe cases closely and has thus been able to asral Resources Ltd., Suncor Energy Inc., Imperial Oil sess exactly where the boundaries are in relation to Ltd., Canadian Oil Sands Ltd., Cenovus Energy Inc., whether the dialogue with the company results in Husky Energy Inc. and MEG Energy Corp. For the any changes. time being, these companies have been added to PFA’s exclusion list. During 2014, GES entered into engagement dialogue with 46 companies in PFA’s portfolio. In adActive ownership dition, 128 cases with indications of violation of The active ownership principle is the cornerstone of international standards and conventions have been PFA’s work with responsible investments. PFA makes evaluated. During the year, two cases on confirmed dialogue with companies a high priority, the aim non-compliance have been solved by the companies being to encourage responsible value generation changing their practice in order to comply with the on their part and thus secure the highest maximum international coventions. At the end of 2014, 33 long-term investment return. PFA has entered into companies were on PFA’s focus list. dialogue with the Danish listed companies and a number of foreign companies in which PFA invests. Dialogue with externally managed funds In 2014, PFA continued its ongoing dialogue with The dialogue with the companies is based on the externally managed funds concerning PFA’s policy screening results, which the RI Board has addressed and guidelines for responsible investments. Special during every meeting. The RI Board has monitored attention was paid to how the funds exclude comPFA · CSR Report 2014 23 Recognition for establishing and managing own index-linked funds The Dutch peace organisation, PAX, recognised PFA’s initiative to ensure that the customers cannot invest in unconventional cluster munitions. PAX makes an annual status of how the UN convention on cluster munitions is observed. In 2014, PFA made it into PAX’s Hall of Fame. A total of 36 international investors were selected. The have all ensured that neither the company nor its customers invest in companies that manufacture cluster munitions. panies which manufacture unconventional weapons We do not enter into engagement dialogues with – companies that PFA also systematically excludes. countries as this is considered to be a foreign polUnconventional weapons cover cluster munitions icy issue. In 2014, focus has been on the situation and anti-personnel landmines, and they are prohibin Ukraine and Russia, and PFA has implemented ited by the Ottawa and Oslo conventions. all of the official EU sanctions. We have found no basis for excluding investments in addition to the PFA has also entered into dialogue with an external extensive EU sanctions. manager that provides index-linked funds to PFA. Following the dialogue, PFA chose to end the partIn connection with the country screening and nership and set up four index-linked funds itself. This analysis assessment of the Ivory Coast, PFA’s RI decision was made to ensure that the customers Board has, at the end of 2014, concluded that the who select index-linked funds through You Invest do country is suitable for investment. The reason for not invest in companies that manufacture unconlisting the country as suitable for investment is ventional weapons such as cluster munitions and the positive development within governance and anti-personnel landmines. It was important to PFA to human rights. However, the Ivory Coast is still a eliminate the small possibility of this happening and, developing country and, therefore, the country’s at the same time, send a clear signal that PFA does future development is under observation. At the not want our customers to accidentally invest in such end of 2014, PFA invested in government bonds in activities. This also means that externally managed 68 countries. The list of countries in which PFA has funds available through You Invest are now screened invested as well as a list of excluded countries are with regards to unconventional weapons. available at pfa.dk. Responsible investments in government bonds PFA screens and analyses countries according to PFA’s guidelines and model for country screenings. Extract from conclusion on the Ivory Coast assessment In 2010, the Ivory Coast held its first free presidential election followed by a crisis that lasted several months. After the inauguration of the elected president, the development began heading in the right direction. The holding of free elections has made it possible to receive help from international partners, such as the EU and the World Bank, as well as to get remission of the country’s debt. Afterwards, National Assembly elections and local elections have been conducted under orderly conditions. The result is that overall the country is moving in a positive direction with regards to political participation and rights. Furthermore, the country has seen an improvement in its capacity to manage the economy and has set up a national development plan that is supported by the international partners. Based on the Mo Ibrahim Index of African Governance, the Ivory Coast has improved significantly since its return to democracy in 2010, and the country is getting closer to the African average. 24 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Hjernebarnet Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.hjernebarnet.dk PFA · CSR Report 2014 25 Hjernebarnet Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.hjernebarnet.dk RESPONSIBLE VALUE CREATION GREEN OPERATIONS AND GREEN INVESTMENTS The objective of responsible value creaResponsible tion also means that PFA strives to inproducts Responsible Sustainable tegrate its green efforts throughout the investments operations business. Code of Responsible PFA Brug Conduct value creation Livet Fonden Meeting the objective Responsible Corporate In order to meet the objective of responsible value Anticorporate responsibility RelationCustomer corruption and ethics ships and dialogue practice creation, PFA has firstly integrated the principles for dialogue environmental efforts into the policy for corporate responsibility and ethics and secondly reviewed five Responsible Tax policy Customer corporate culture trust years with climate initiatives, including the climate partnership with Dong Energy, which has been renewed. Employee Health engagement Skills development 26 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Review of five years with climate initiatives teen. In 2014, PFA launched an internal information At the end of 2009, when PFA entered into a fivecampaign with focus on food waste reduction, and year climate partnership with Dong Energy, focus the plates in the canteen were replaced by smallerwas on energy optimisation at PFA’s headquarters. sized plates. The goal was to reduce the food The employees became involved, which resulted in waste by 1 ton in a year. This goal was met already a number of good suggestions for how PFA could after the first six months with a reduction in food carry out energy savings. PFA has regularly reported waste from the canteen of 1,218 kg. on its focus areas and results. PFA’s experiences and good advice from the partnership are deA part of the overall status can be illustrated by scribed in the guide ”Godt på vej – Klimaresultater figures, however, a very important element in i PFA”. Please note that the guide is only available our climate efforts is employee participation and in Danish. engagement in order for PFA to succeed with the various initiatives. Most PFA employees are remindThe objective of the climate partnership was to ed of the effect of the energy savings during the reduce PFA’s CO2 consumption by up to 30 per cent winter months when they cross any of the three from 2010-2014. Seen in isolation, the reductions footbridges at headquarters. Here, the electric achieved through the climate partnership means panels have been switched off since 2010. This has that PFA has reduced its CO2 consumption by 25.6 resulted in an annual CO2 reduction of 2.4 per cent. per cent. Of this, the main part of the reduction was achieved during the first three years through Overall, PFA is satisfied with its initiatives during focus on optimising and trimming a number of the last five years. Even though the climate partelectricity, lighting, heating and ventilation funcnership resulted in a 25.6 per cent reduction, PFA tions. As a new climate partnership initiative, Green has also, as shown in the overview on page 28, Mobility last year calculated PFA’s CO2 reductions as carried out a number of other CO2 reductions. a result of the preference of online pension consultations to face-to-face consultations. In 2014, the Renewed climate partnership number of online consultations increased to 4,696, PFA and Dong Energy have decided to renew the compared to 3,900 the year before. This equals an climate partnership for three years and, at the actual reduction in CO2 emissions of minimum 13 same time, include PFA’s portfolio of investment tons. properties under the climate partnership. During the first five years, the climate partnership has Concurrently with the climate partnership, PFA also solely focused on PFA’s headquarters (Marina initiated a number of efforts at its headquarters Park). Now, the intention is to utilise the experiwhich has reduced CO2 emissions. These initiaence gained from the energy optimisation of Matives also played an important part in PFA’s overall rina Park and use this experience to upgrade PFA’s climate efforts, but they are not part of the climate other properties. This means that the energy partnership. The initiatives include introduction of optimisation potential of PFA’s properties will be a new waste management system that ensures mapped out. PFA will look into the possibility of that paper and cardboard are recycled instead of improving the energy label of properties currently incinerated, regular maintenance of IT equipment, labelled D or E. At the same time, PFA can work which ensures more energy-efficient solutions, together with tenants in some of the properties and reduction in the number of letters sent to on specific energy saving projects, which may the customers, who instead receive mail from PFA potentially go beyond the common areas of the through e-Boks. Most recently, PFA has focused on property. reducing food waste from the buffet in the canPFA · CSR Report 2014 27 Long-term investments in renewable energy cooperation with the energy company Sydenergi PFA continually strives to review the opportuni(SE) and invested further DKK 105 million in SE ties to invest in renewable energy or in companies Blue Renewables. which contribute to green development. The analysis of the energy investments mentioned Among other initiatives, PFA has in 2014 commiton page 22 shows a strong tendency towards ted to investing up to DKK 500 million in the new increasing investments in renewable energy. PFA Danish infrastructure fund Copenhagen Infrastrucexpects this tendency to continue. ture Partners II. In addition, PFA continued its Overview of PFA’s total climate initiatives from 2010 2014 (ton CO2) Activity/year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The climate partnership totalled 506 222.5 201.5 39 43 ton CO2 25.6 % compared to 2009 Replacement of IT equipment 18.6 Waste management (recycling of paper 72.9 86.1 and cardboard) Reduction in paper/letters as more 15.5 mail is sent through e-Boks* Reduction in transportation to meet 10 13 with customers (online consultations) Total savings 222.5 201.5 39 144.5 114.6 *Specific calculations of the reduction in paper use due to e-Boks were first possible as from 2013. Even though the customers have received mail through e-Boks before this time. 28 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Happy Dogs Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.happy-dogs.dk PFA · CSR Report 2014 29 RELATIONSHIPS AND DIALOGUE AN OPEN DIALOGUE IS THE FOUNDATION FOR INSIGHT The objective of PFA’s dialogue with stakeholders is to create long-term and Responsible mutually beneficial partnerships which products Responsible Sustainable are built on trust and openness. investments operations Code of Responsible PFA Brug Conduct value creation Meeting the objective Livet Fonden In order to meet this objective, PFA has during the year entered into dialogue with various stakeholders, who Responsible Corporate Antiresponsibility RelationCustomer have contributed with input on how to strengthen and corruption corporate ships and dialogue practice and ethics dialogue develop PFA’s products and reputation as well as how to bring more attention to pension and saving matters. Tax policy Responsible Customer corporate culture trust Employee Health engagement Skills development 30 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Søskendekram Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.soeskendekram.dk Strong focus on pension matters Dialogue concerning various dilemmas During 2014, PFA has seen an increasing interest in Part of PFA’s corporate responsibility is to shed pension matters. One of the topics that put penlight on how PFA addresses and solves a number sion in the spotlight in 2014 was the possibility of of challenges related to pension and investments. converting endowment pensions to old age savings Throughout 2014, PFA has been in dialogue with plans. During two periods in 2014, PFA opened up various stakeholders – including the press and for the customers to convert and advance the tax customers – about topics that were of importance payment on their endowment pensions. In addito them. For example, PFA has responded to custion, PFA has by virtue of its knowledge of pension, tomer enquiries about some of PFA’s investments savings, investments, health insurance plans, etc. and enquiries from the press and NGOs concerning contributed with knowledge and comments to cusspecific investments and PFA’s work with screentomers, media and others when requested. ing the investments. PFA has also taken part in dialogues within the industry on various matters The online tools PFA Optimator and the Pension Estirevolving around responsible investments. Among mator are both still publicly available for everyone to other things, 2014 has seen a strong focus on use. In addition, the portal My PFA has ensured that investments in companies that produce coal, oil customers, when logged in, can see their Pension and gas as well as on how investors integrate tax estimate calculated on the basis of the information matters into the investment process. PFA already has about the customer in question. Example of dialogue concerning a specific investment In December, PFA was presented with a report and a video showing highly critisisable conditions in the supplier chain of an international company in which PFA has invested. PFA entered into dialogue with the NGO behind the report and also contacted the company that was the object of the report. Furthermore, PFA explained to the press how PFA, as a result of the report, had asked the screening and engagement company GES to look into and analyse the conclusions drawn in the report. PFA will then assess whether it is possible to continue the dialogue and thus the investment in the company, or whether the conditions imply that the investment must be sold off. PFA’s Responsible Investment Board will decide on the matter in 2015. Stronger reputation and visibility In spite of this, PFA achieved satisfactory placings During 2014, PFA has both strengthened its repuin various image surveys. PFA kept its position as tation and its public visibility. This was achieved number 26 in the image survey in Berlingske Busithrough more openness and dialogue with customness’ Gold issue, which included 140 companies. ers, the press and other players. The objective is This equals the third best image among financial to ensure a higher level of familiarity with PFA as a companies and the best image in the commercial business and to create an understanding of penpension sector. On Berlingske Business’ 2014 PR sion as a vital part of our society’s economic founbarometer, PFA advanced 20 places to an eleventh dation. This has resulted in a significant increase place out of 54 companies. in the number of mentions of PFA in the press. In 2014, PFA was mentioned in the press on 6,166 Throughout 2014, PFA continued to host PFA Moroccasions, which represents an increase of just genBrief, which is a forum for the Danish business under 70 per cent compared to 2013. However, community where PFA encourages debate with PFA experienced a number of critical articles in the a range of ministers and top executives. During press following the announcement by Henrik Hei2014, MorgenBrief was held 10 times in Copendeby, PFA’s Group CEO and President through many hagen. On average, each meeting had 200 particiyears, that he wished to step down at year-end. pants. PFA · CSR Report 2014 31 RELATIONSHIPS AND DIALOGUE CUSTOMER DIALOGUE FOCUSED ON SIMPLICITY AND TRUST The objective of PFA’s dialogue with customers is to learn more about them, and Responsible to simplify and improve our dialogue. products Responsible Sustainable investments operations Code of Responsible PFA Brug Meeting the objective Conduct value creation Livet Fonden In order to meet the objective of the dialogue with customers, PFA has focused on simplifying its comResponsible Corporate munication in letters, on digital platforms and in Antiresponsibility RelationCustomer corporate corruption and ethics ships and dialogue practice the advisory services provided to customers. Also, dialogue PFA has set up a customer trust unit. Tax policy Responsible Customer Significant increase in dialogue with customers corporate culture trust During the first six months, the new digital customer portal My PFA had more than 330,000 visitors. Employee Health engagement The portal is an important part of PFA’s digitalisaSkills development tion strategy, whose objective is to make it easier for customers to get an overview of and an insight into their policies and return. At the same time, PFA has been more visible in the media. Both with regard to the various products offered by PFA and with regard to pension-related topics. Among other things, PFA has during 2014 increased its dialogue with customers concerning the possibility of advancing the tax payment on endowment pensions and converting them into old age savings plans, and also concerning the possibility of converting average interest rate plans into market rate in exchange for a transfer allowance. Overall, the above has resulted in a significant increase in customer contact to a total of more than 100,000 in 2014. This covers both the number of enquiries to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre, which has received approximately 35,000 more calls and e-mails than the year before, and enquiries to PFA’s Health and Claims Centre, which received 37,000 more calls in 2014 than in 2013. The rise in enquiries to the Advisory Services Centre meant that the average response time went up by 30 seconds to 2 minutes and 5 seconds, and that the annual response rate dropped by 0.8. On the other 32 PFA · CSR Report 2014 hand, customer satisfaction went up by 0.1 to 8.8 In 2014, 60 cases brought before the Danish Inon a scale from 1-10. The response rate for the surance Complaints Board were closed, of which Health and Claims Centre totalled 98, the average six were related to FunktionærPension before the response time went down from 50 to 39 seconds transfer to PFA. The number of complaints are at and satisfaction came in at 9 on a scale from 1-10. approximately the same level as in 2013 where 52 cases were closed. Out of the 60 complaints, PFA Complaints handling fully or partially won 44. PFA’s complaints department saw a small decline in the number of complaints during 2014. The numRenewed focus on customer trust ber went down from 463 complaints in 2013 to In 2014, PFA set up the Customer Trust Unit, which 453 in 2014. The decrease should be seen in the supports PFA’s Customer Representative. During light that PFA saw a significant increase in contact 2014, the Customer Representative received 62 with and advisory services to customers throughcomplaints, which is 5 complaints more compared out the year, and therefore the small decrease is to the year before. More than half of the coma quite positive result. The basis for the decrease plaints were accommodated. This is a significant inin complaints is that the Complaints Department’s crease compared to the year before. The Customer main mission is to heighten customer satisfaction Trust Unit gives priority to contacting the customer in PFA. Despite the overall drop in the number quickly after we receive the enquiry and to listening of complaints, complaints concerning PFA’s comand explaining the decision to the customer. This munication and advisory services have gone up by prioritisation contributes to more and more enquir91 complaints. This number must be seen in the ies being accommodated before they turn into light that PFA in 2014 held approximately 50,000 actual complaints. This effort in relation to the cusmore consultations than the previous year. Seen in tomers has resulted in a significant reduction in the this context, a moderate increase in the number of number of cases that the Customer Representative complaints in this area is to be expected. refers to the Complaints Department. The Customer Trust Unit and the Complaints Department are two The complaints are being reviewed to uncover posseparate functions, but they do have certain intersible future initiatives. The focus on complaints faces. A customer may contact the Customer Trust handling does not only entail that each customer Unit when the Complaints Department has settled enquiry must be handled and the customer prothe customer’s complaint if he or she wants to disvided with a comprehensible answer, but it also cuss the Complaints Department’s decision or give entails that the reason behind the complaint is feedback on his or her experience with PFA. clarified and it is assessed whether the complaint gives rise to changes in the business processes or systems. The Complaints Department gives advice, input and specific solutions on an ongoing basis to the Customer Trust Unit to help avoid that the enquiries to the Customer Trust Unit develop into complaints. With the majority of the complaints, the Complaints Department succeeded in getting the customers to understand and accept PFA’s decisions and answers – also in cases decided against the customer in question. Out of a total of 453 complaints, only 8 customers took the matter further to the Danish Insurance Complaints Board, and none of the cases turned into lawsuits. PFA · CSR Report 2014 33 Neonatalstrik Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.neostrik.dk RELATIONSHIPS AND DIALOGUE PFA BRUG LIVET FONDEN The objective of PFA Brug Livet Fonden Responsible products is to draw attention to and support Responsible Sustainable investments operations passionate individuals or organisations that help others live life to the full. Responsible Code of PFA Brug Conduct value creation Livet Fonden For the past five years, PFA Live Life Foundation Responsible Corporate Antiresponsibility RelationCustomer corporate has provided support and information campaigns corruption practice and ethics ships and dialogue dialogue to passionate individuals who can apply for aid to fund good causes and to create awareness of them. The foundation’s supervisory board selects Tax policy Responsible Customer corporate culture trust the causes of the year and grants financial aid to the most popular causes. In 2014, 77 causes were Employee Health nominated to receive a donation. The foundation’s engagement Skills website was used for presenting and voting for the development causes while the campaign and communication with the dedicated individuals and their network took place through Facebook. Please note that both the website and the Facebook page are only available in Danish. The Facebook page has approximately 38,000 followers, and throughout the entire campaign there was a lot of activity on the page. Facts about PFA Brug Livet Fonden • The foundation was set up in 2009 with initial capital of DKK 3 million. • In 2014, the foundation donated DKK 300,000. • The images in this report show the causes that received support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014. • The foundation’s supervisory board comprises Svend Askær, chairman of the Danish Association of Managers and Executives (Chairman), Henrik Heideby, former group CEO and president of PFA Pension (withdrew from the board as at 22 December 2014), Bjørn Nørgaard, professor and visual artist, and Gita Grüning, former chairman of Teknisk Landsforbund. • For more information, please visit: www.facebook.com/pfabruglivetfonden and www.bruglivetfonden.dk. Please note that the webpages are in Danish only. 34 PFA · CSR Report 2014 In 2014, the foundation received a donation of DKK 160,000 from PFA Pension. The donation is the result of a campaign PFA launched in the autumn in order to get the individual pension customers to replace physical letters with e-Boks. For each customer who accepted the offer, PFA donated DKK 1 to the foundation. The 2014 causes In 2014, the foundation granted support to five causes that focus on helping children who have had a difficult start to life. The five causes are: BørneLungeFonden, Gigtramte Børns Forældreforening, Hjernebarnet, Neonatalstrik and Hjerneskadeforeningen. BørneLungeFonden BørneLungeFonden received DKK 100,000. The foundation works towards easing everyday life for children suffering from a lung disease and their families through research, information, activities and experiences for the children. Among other things, the money from the foundation will be used for arranging weekend camps for children suffering from a lung disease and their families where they can exchange experiences, have a good time and make like-minded new friends. Gigtramte Børns Forældreforening Gigtramte Børns Forældreforening (GBF) received DKK 50,000. GBF is an independent association that consist of parents of children suffering from arthritis. GBF aims to ensure the best conditions for children suffering from arthritis by working for better treatment and aid options, as well as providing information about juvenile arthritis and drawing attention to the illness. Hjernebarnet Hjernebarnet received DKK 50,000. Hjernebarnet is a small association that consists of family members of children with congenital or non-congenital brain damage. All members do voluntary work with collecting, sharing and communicating information about the various training methods that exist to help children suffering from brain damage develop. Through targeted exercises, stimulation and play in secure surroundings, the children get the opportunity to develop socially and cognitively and enhance their motor skills. Neonatalstrik Neonatalstrik received DKK 25,000. Neonatalstrik is a group of 2500 members who knit and crochet clothing for premature babies at Danish hospitals. The clothes are donated to the hospitals without charge and the members of the group pay for yarn out of their own pockets. The aim of the group is to be able to offer hand-knitted clothes to all departments of neonatology across Denmark. Hjerneskadeforeningen Hjerneskadeforeningen received DKK 25,000. The nationwide association collects and communicates information about life with a brain injury and offers advice, events and network with people in a similar situation. The money from the foundation will be used for the association’s continued advice, support and network for the approximately 120,000 families dealing with a brain injury. The foundation also decided to bring attention to six of the nominated causes, which were offered to have an information video produced in order to promote their causes. The six causes are: • Søskendekram • Neonatalstrik • Hjernebarnet • Happy Dogs • BørneLungeFonden • Gigtramte Børns Forældreforening In addition, the foundation’s supervisory board decided to donate DKK 50,000 to Danske Hospitalsklovne. Together with the donation, the foundation also offered to produce an information video. PFA · CSR Report 2014 35 CSR KEY FACTS AND FIGURES 2014 Group structure PFA Brug Livet Fonden Other shareholders PFA-Fonden 49 % 51% PFA Holding A/S PFA Asset PFA Pension, PFA Bank A/S Management A/S forsikringsaktieselskab 76 % PFA Invest PFA The Midgard Fixed PFA Soraarneq, Mølholm International A/S Ejendomme A/S PFA Kapitalforening Income Fund Limited forsikringsaktieselskab Forsikring A/S (incl. 5 subsidiaries) (incl. 4 subsidiaries) Investeringsforeningen PFA Invest The PFA Group In 2014, the PFA Group was adjusted as follows: PFA Kapitalforvaltning, fondsmæglerselskab A/S and PFA Portefølje Administration A/S merged into PFA Asset Management A/S, which was granted a licence to manage alternative investment funds (under the AIFM Act), subject to supervision by the regulator, the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority. PFA Udbetalingsbank A/S changed its name to PFA Bank A/S. The Midgard Fixed Income Fund Limited forms part of the PFA Group. PFA Professionel Forening changed its status to a capital association and its name to PFA Kapitalforening in connection with the entry into force of the Danish Act on Alternative Investment Funds Managers, etc. (the AIFM Act). Mølholm Holding A/S merged with Mølholm Forsikring A/S. The shareholders of PFA Holding are PFA Fonden and other shareholders, who primarily comprise the founding organisations from 1917, whose members and employees are mainly PFA customers. The CSR Report concerns the PFA Group and comprises the following companies: • PFA Holding A/S (parent company) • PFA Pension, forsikringsaktieselskab • PFA Asset Management A/S • PFA Bank A/S • PFA Invest International A/S with subsidiaries • PFA Ejendomme A/S with subsidiaries • The Midgard Fixed Income Fund Ltd • PFA Kapitalforening • PFA Soraarneq, forsikringsaktieselskab • Mølholm Forsikring A/S 36 PFA · CSR Report 2014 CSR MANAGEMENT AND STRUCTURE AT PFA The framework for PFA’s work with responsibility is PFA’s CSR policy and guidelines. They have been formulated based on UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and the UN-backed principles for responsible investments, PRI. The corporate responsibility and ethics policy for the PFA Group, PFA’s responsible investment policy and associated guidelines are available at pfa.dk. The overall responsibility for CSR at PFA lies with the Group CEO and President. The daily work with CSR and coordination of activities, focus areas and implementation of the policy is carried out by the CSR department, which is a part of Corporate Communications & Public Affairs. Responsibility for enforcement of the policy for responsible investments and the work with active ownership lies with PFA’s Responsible Investment Board (RI Board). The RI Board meets four times a year and its members are leading employees from PFA Asset Management, the director of the Corporate Communications & Public Affairs department, and the CSR manager. The Director of Corporate Communications & Public Affairs chairs the RI Board, which reports to Group management. INTEGRATING THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S 10 PRINCIPLES – AN OVERVIEW UN Global Compact principle PFA activity Page in CSR report Embedding the policy for corporate responsibility and ethics 8-9 Screening of PFA’s portfolio 21-22 Engagement dialogue with companies that violate PFA’s 23-24 standards 1-10 RI Board meetings, assessments and decisions 23 Code of Conduct 11 Dialogue with customers, the media and other stakeholders 30-33 1-6 & 10 Whistleblower scheme 10 Employee satisfaction, health initiatives and skills 1&6 12-14 development 7,8 & 9 Embedding the environmental and climate policy 8-9 Energy efficiency initiatives and resource optimisation at 8 26-27 headquarters 1 Customer dialogue, customer satisfaction and online tools 32-33 PFA · CSR Report 2014 37 EMPLOYEES AND WORKPLACE CONDITIONS Number of employees 2014 2013 2012 Number of employees (annual average) 1,285 1,299 1,247 Staff turnover (%) 11.8 7.7 11.6 Employees in flex jobs 2014 2013 2012 Employees in flex jobs 10 10 10 PFA engagement survey PFA engagement survey 2014 PFA engagement survey 2013 Satisfaction 77 74 Image 83 83 Would recommend others to apply for work at PFA 77 75 In 2013, PFA set up its own engagement survey in order to assess PFA’s strategic goal to become a performance organisation. Sickness absence 2014 2013 2012 Sickness absence (%) 3.3 3.1 2.9 The short-term sickness absence dropped during 2014. The increase seen in 2014 is caused by a number of employees that are long-term absent due to an illness. Occupational injuries 2014 2013 2012 Number of occupational injuries 1 3 2 PFA has an OSH organisation, the purpose of which is to create a safe and healthy work environment at PFA. The figures are based on PFA’s reports to the Danish Working Environment Authority. 38 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Number of women in managerial positions, on boards and on PFA’s Customer Board 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Share of Share of Share of Men Women women Men Women women Men Women women (%) (%) (%) Level 1 12 2 14 14 2 12 11 4 26 Director Level 2 Senior 26 16 38 26 14 35 26 16 38 manager Level 3 35 33 49 40 36 47 45 32 42 Manager Total 73 51 41 80 52 39 82 52 39 Level 1 consists of the directors, level 2 comprises the senior managers and level 3 covers the managers at PFA. • At end-2014, PFA’s Executive Board comprises three men. • PFA’s Executive Board consists of 10 members elected at the annual general meeting, of which one is a woman, corresponding to 10 %. • PFA’s Customer Board comprises 70 members, of which 5 seats were vacant at the end of 2014 and 14 were occupied by women, corresponding to 20 %. Learn more about PFA’s key figures and initiatives to increase the proportion of the under-represented gender on boards and in managerial positions in PFA at pfa.dk. Advisory programme for pregnant employees Since spring 2012, PFA has offered pregnant employees and their immediate managers guidance from a pregnancy coach in order to plan the work in the best possible way during the pregnancy. 2014 2013 2012 Participants in advisory programme 22 13 15 Number of pregnant women 30 28 36* Share of pregnant women with sickness 47 36 58 absence (%) Share of pregnant women with no sickness 53 64 42 absence (%) Number of pregnancy-related sick days 612** 272 593 * The offer of advice started in April 2012, so the actual number of participants was 15 out of a possible 23 in 2012. ** The increase is caused by a few pregnant employees with long-term sickness absence. PFA · CSR Report 2014 39 INVESTMENTS AND ACTIVE OWNERSHIP Company screenings The screening of investments and engagement dialogues are undertaken on behalf of PFA by GES, which has screened and evaluated PFA’s investments in shares and corporate bonds. PFA itself also undertakes engagement dialogues with a number of companies and is involved in ongoing dialogues with external managers regarding CSR-related issues. In 2014, PFA’s RI Board excluded companies that PFA has analysed and assessed to be generating their main turnover from activities connected to tar sand. The reason for excluding the companies is that the method of extraction is assessed to be damaging to the environment and the nature in the areas where it is used. It concerns the following companies: Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., Suncor Energy Inc., Imperial Oil Ltd., Canadian Oil Sands Ltd., Cenovus Energy Inc., Husky Energy Inc. and MEG Energy Corp. These companies have been added to PFA’s exclusion list. In addition, the exclusion of the mining company Goldcorp has been lifted. Through GES, PFA was in engagement dialogue with 46 companies in 2014. GES has also started to evaluate 128 companies in PFA’s portfolios to investigate whether a potential infringement of standards can be confirmed or not. Engagement dialogue with companies in which non-compliance with PFA’s RI policy has been established 19 Engagement dialogue with companies in which there has been signs of non-compliance with PFA’s RI policy 27 Total number of GES engagement dialogues with companies 46 Two engagement cases have been closed involving Toyota and Deutche Post, which have both met the criteria. At the end of 2014, there were 13 companies on PFA’s focus list. Non-compliance with PFA’s standards has been observed at each of these companies and goals for the engagement dialogue with these companies have been set. There were a further 20 cases pending where it is not yet established whether non-compliance has taken place or not. Country screenings During 2014, the PFA RI Board decided to reinstate the Ivory Coast in the investment portfolio based on the country screening. At the end of 2014, PFA invested in government bonds in 68 countries. At pfa.dk, PFA publishes investment lists of the companies and countries in which it invests and an exclusion list. 40 PFA · CSR Report 2014 ENVIRONMENT AND CO2 CONSUMPTION CO2 emissions at PFA 2014 2013 2012 Total CO2 emissions (t) 1,928 2,081 1,950 CO2 emissions (t) per employee 1.56 1.68 1.64 CO2 emissions Electricity District heating Air travel Petrol-driven cars Diesel-driven cars CO2 emissions from electricity consumption kWh g CO2/kWh* CO2 (t) CO2 emission/employee 2014 1,879,984 453 852 0.70 2013 1,887,854 482 910 0.74 2012 1,860,663 410 763 0.64 ** The figure ”g CO2/kWh” is calculated by DONG Energy. The 2014 figure will not be available until May 2015. The figure 453 is based on the 2010-2013 average. CO2 emissions from district heating kWh g CO2/kWh* CO2 (t) CO2 emission/employee 2014 2,193,130 100 249 0.20 2013 2,254,570 103 225 0.18 2012 2,104,680 110 221 0.19 *The figure ”g CO2/kWh” is calculated by DONG Energy (kWh is degree-day corrected cf. the Danish Meteorological Institute). The 2014 figure will not be available until April 2015. The figure 100 is based on the development during the latest 4 years. CO2 emissions from air travel Number of flights Kilometres flown CO2 (t) CO2 emissions (t) per trip 2014 501 545,043 70.3 0.14 2013 789 744,629 96 0.12 2012 573 748,670 97 0.17 PFA · CSR Report 2014 41 CO2 emissions from cars Number of cars Consumption in litres g CO2/l CO2 (t) Petrol-driven cars 2014 4 7,590 2,272 17 2013 4 7,802 2,272 18 2012 10 20,222 2,272 46 Diesel-driven cars 2014 143 276,229 2,676 739 2013 163 310,918 2,676 832 2012 154 307,236 2,676 822 Cars in total Number of cars CO2 t per car CO2 (t) CO2 reduction 2014* 147 5.15 756 (93) 2013 167 5.09 850 (18) 2012 164 5.30 868 (1) * The 147 cars apply at the end of 2014, compared to 167 at the end of 2013. CO2 emissions from paper consumption Papir (t) t CO2/t paper CO2 (t) 2014 80 0.78 62 2013* 92 0.78 72 2012 74 0.78 58 *The figures for 2013 include 10.4 t discarding of old envelopes/paper. 42 PFA · CSR Report 2014 CO2 reduction (t) 2014 2013 2012 CO2 reduction Electricity 852 910 763 (58.3) District heating 249 225 221 24.1 Air travel 70 96 97 (25.9) Petrol-driven cars 17 18 46 (0.5) Diesel-driven cars 739 832 822 (92.8) Total 1,928 2,081 1,950 (153.4) CO2 reduction overview (t) 2014 CO2 reduction Petrol and diesel* 756 (93.3) Electricity and district heating 1,101 (34.2) Air travel 70 (25.9) Total 1,928 (153.4) PFA uses the Greenhouse Gas Protocol method to calculate CO2 reductions. *Does not include taxi rides. PFA uses a company which neutralises the taxi rides in term of CO2. Waste (t) 2014 2013 2012 Total waste 164 194 239 PFA · CSR Report 2014 43 STAKEHOLDERS AND SOCIETY Customer enquiries and contact Advisory Services Advisory Services Health and Claims Health and Consultations Centre Centre Centre Claims Centre Total Calls E-mails Calls E-mails 2014 68,600* 249,731 71,074 237,380** 25,000*** 651,785 2013 53,642 224,271 61,508 200,000 N/A 539,421 2012 58,333 227,965 49,823 180,000 N/A 516,121 * The figures include customers who have received advisory services by attending a course and at pension consultations. ** The figures have been calculated in a new manner and include calls to PFA’s Health Centre and Claims Centre, through PFA Preventive Care, enquiries through Falck HealthCare and the Healthcare Hotline. *** Now the number of e-mails are also being calculated. Complaints Department and Customer Representative In 2010, PFA set up a central complaints department and appointed a customer representative. The aim was to ensure that all complaints were handled in the same way. Number of complaints to the Complaints Department broken down by topics Communication Technology Number of Products and Payouts and Deliveries and and advisory and IT Total complaints solutions decisions registrations services architecture 2014 259 5 5 86 98 453 2013 168 31 28 81 155 463 2012 129 27 19 68 110 353 Number of complaints to the Customer Representative Referred to Found in Partially in Total Accommodated Rejected Pending Complaints favour favour Dept. 2014 62 34 3 5 12 4 4 2013 57 4 6 5 3 8 31 2012 59 10 7 5 8 4 25 Council and network to promote corporate responsibility • M ember of UN Global Compact and Global Compact Nordic Network • M ember of the Danish Council for Corporate Responsibility, which advises the Danish government on CSR. PFA is also a member of a working group which is mapping investments in the manufacture of weapons which contravene international law (cluster weapons and anti-personnel landmines) • M ember of the Advisory Board in Big Future 2025, which is about developing realistic and sustainable business scenarios for the Danish corporate sector • Member of Dansif’s working group for events • P articipated in a pilot project during Global Compact Nordic Network peer review for the purpose of gaining inspiration and improving future CSR reports. 44 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Support for associations and voluntary activities PFA has supported various initiatives with financial contributions, advertisements in members’ magazines, cooperation on specific projects, etc. Financial support • TUBA • Børn, Unge & Sorg • Behandlingscenter Tjele • Transparancy International – Danmark • Copenhagen Green Business partnerships • Red Cross Denmark • Ingeniører Uden Grænser • Foreningen til Hovedstadens Forskønnelse • CSR Forum Samarbejde eller anden form for støtte • Landsforeningen Spor • The Danish Cancer Society • Landsforeningen autisme • Hjerteforeningen • Walking Future charity race • Hjernesagen • Gadens Børn • The Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society • Proof of Life charity race • The Danish Stop Wasting Food Movement Support through advertisements in members’ magazines • Gigtforeningen • Førtidspensionisten • Spastikerforeningen • The Danish Deaf Sports Association • Dansk Handicap Idræt • Ryg foreningen • LFA – Landsforeningen For Arbejdsskade • Muskelkraft • Lev – Udvikling for Udviklingshæmmede • Servicehunde til Handicappede • The Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society Reputation PFA’s reputation is affected by a number of factors such as reliability and visibility, and PFA’s mentions in the press have made a positive contribution to the development of PFA’s image. 2014 2013 2012 Number of mentions in the press 6,166 3,635 2,713 Awards Together with its business partners, PFA won the following awards: • T  he Direct Marketing Award in the category Business to Customer for the Pension Estimator campaign • E  cho Awards, third place for the Pension Estimator campaign • A  dvertising Effectiveness Award, for ’PFA Optimator’ PFA · CSR Report 2014 45 46 PFA · CSR Report 2014 Gigtramte Børns Forældreforening Recipient of support from PFA Brug Livet Fonden in 2014 www.gbf.dk FOCUS AREAS FOR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN 2015 PFA will prepare a health strategy for PFA’s employees. PFA will map and revise internal guidelines, and advance the employees’ knowledge of the guidelines through internal communication. PFA will develop a complete CSR strategy. PFA will make an effort to communicate a number of the elements involved in the work with active ownership without compromising the confidentiality needed in the dialogue with the companies in which PFA invests. PFA will revitalise the Customer Board and involve the members to an even higher degree than previously. As a CDP Investor member, PFA will work more systematically with the data that the companies report to the CDP. . PFA · CSR Report 2014 47 PFA Holding A/S Sundkrogsgade 4 2100 Copenhagen Denmark Tel. (+45) 39 17 50 00 Fax (+45) 39 17 59 50 www.pfa.dk pension@pfa.dk CVR No. 2 24 38 018 Photos: Jakob Dall
