UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT (COP) 2014 10.09.2015 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 1 / 48 2014 CONTENT 1. Global Compact 3 2. About MARTUR Co. 4 2.1. Company History 4 2.2. Vision, Mission, Values 5 2.3. Awards and Certifications 6 3. CEO ’s Message 9 4. Human Rights & Working Conditions 10 5. Environment 33 6. Anti-Corruption 43 7. Corporate Social Responsibility Projects 44 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 2 / 48 2014 1. Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Working Conditions Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Technologies. Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 3 / 48 2014 2. About MARTUR Co. Integrity and focus on people assure that Martur’s excellence spans across every level of our business. Our long history of positive and effective employee practices provide us with a set of beliefs, approaches and tools that we apply in every detail of our business. In pace with our core values, we nurture a deep commitment to our employees. Developing and motivating people as innovators and leaders is a cornerstone in our management process. An integral part of our DNA is creating long-lasting customer relationships and working closely with them to identify their need and provide solutions that support their success. The concept of providing solutions specific to our customers' challenges has been with Martur Group since the very beginning. Martur is a member of group of companies supplying high quality products. With R&D and design offices in multiple locations in Europe, Martur continues to set the standards for the industry. 2.1.Company History Founded in 1985 to produce molded foam, Martur is now one of the leading suppliers for production of automotive seats worldwide. Operating now in Bursa, Gölcük and Kütahya in five factories employing more than 1500 people, the company has initiated new investments in Romania and Russia. The company designs and manufactures seats for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. In addition, the company also designs and manufactures automotive fabrics and seat structures. The company produces for renowned local and international OEMs.  1985 Establishment of Bursa, Geçit Foam Production Plant  1990 Seat Frame and Cover Manufacturing Process  2002 Establishment of Test Center for Seating Systems, ISO / TS 16949 Certification,  2003 Establisment of Torino / Italy Engineering and Design Office  2004 Establisment of Cologne / Germany Design Office,  2005 Establisment of Paris / France Engineering and Design Office,  2007 Establishment of Bursa OSB Plant,  2009 Establishment of Kütahya OSB Plant,  2012 Establishment of Bursa NOSAB Plant,  2013 Establishment of Golcuk Kocaeli Plant,  2014 Establisment of Romania / Pitesti production plant,  2015 – Establishment of Russia and Algeria Plant MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 4 / 48 2014 2.2.Vision, Mission, Values Martur is the member of group of companies supplying high quality components for car interiors to the automotive industry. Product design & development and innovative solutions are key factors of our group. Our Vision ;  To bring our company up to a global scale  To fulfill customer demands worldwide  To make innovations on product design, process & materials Our Mission ;  To increase our customers' competition strength by offering high quality and innovative products, services and solutions  To achieve and maintain profitability that will finance our investments and continuous growth  To fulfill our responsibilities towards our country  To fulfill our responsibilities towards our employees  To protect our environment and natüre Our Values:  Transparency  Independency  Leadership  Reliability  Sustainability  Customer-focused solutions  Environmental Management  Innovation MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 5 / 48 2014 2.3. Awards and Certifications SAP – “Golden Prize” for Üstünberk Holding SAP Project 2014 FIAT – Supplier Relationship Award 2014 SAP – Gold Winner in Bussiness Transformation Category2014 FORD OTOSAN – Best Supplier Award 2014 OYAK RENAULT 2013 Best Supplier Award 2014 BUSİAD –Value Adders to Economy / Innovation Awards – 2013 Ministry of Environment and Urbanization – BURSA The Cleanest Industrial Plant 2013 BUSİAD 2012 Environment Award – 2013 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 6 / 48 2014 ISO 50001 Energy Management System Certificate – 2013 ISO TS 14064 : 1 Specification with Guidance at the Organization Level for Quantification and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Removals – 2012 FIAT WCM The Most Successful Professional Maintenance Application – 2012 FIAT WCM The Most Successful Major Kaizen Applications – 2012 FIAT WCM The Most Successful Managerial Pillar Applications – 2012 ISO/TS 16949 : 2009 – Quality Management System Certificate BS OHSAS 18001 : 2007 – Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems Certificate ISO 14001 : 2004 Environmental Management Systems Certificate MINISTRY OF SCIENCE INDUSTRY AND TECHNOLOGY R&D Center Award – 2010 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 7 / 48 2014 FIAT Strategic Partnership Award – 2010 FIAT Best Supplier Proposal Performance Award – 2010 TOYOTA Value Analysis Award 2009 FIAT Most Successful Supplier Award in Technical Cost Improvement TOFAŞ Yan Sanayi Kalite Ödülü 2005 MAN Best Supplier Award – 2005 TOFAŞ Supplier Quality Award 2005 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 8 / 48 2014 3. CEO ‘s Message We adopt to act with a sense of social responsibility towards our employees, the community and the environment of all our activities as a building stone. We believe that our core value is human resources in order to enhance the competitiveness of our customers by providing high-quality and innovative products, solutions and services. Global warming and climate change are among the most important problems of recent times and leads to excessive consumption of natural resources. In order to leave a clean and livable world to the next generation we act with an environmental awareness in all of our activities and adopt to be the leader in this respect as a principle. We conduct effective projects to increase the energy efficiency, decrease the waste and the consumption of natural resources. By signing the UN Global Compact Martur A.Ş. undertakes; to share his works related to ten main areas which are located under main topics human rights, labor, environment and prevention of corruption with the whole world and to take the lead for his employees, suppliers and stakeholders in order to adopt Global Compact. Martur A.Ş. will continue to support ten principles of the UN Global Compact in a big loyalty. Yours Sincerely, ÖMER ALTUN MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 9 / 48 2014 4. Human Rights & Working Conditions We believe that our biggest strength for achieving our strategic targets and managing growth in continuously changing competition conditions is our human resources. We believe that the PEACE AT WORK ensured by respect, tolerance and environment of Confidence in business relations has a significant impact on the engagement of our employees and business success, and we show maximum effort to this end. With our Human Resources Processes, we target to employ human resources who are open to novelty and change, dynamic, target continuous self-development and care ethical values, and to keep satisfaction and motivation of employees high. We are aware of our social responsibility and we RECRUIT people by pursuing the principle of equal opportunity, without discriminating between religion, language, race, gender, civil status, physical obstacle, region, etc. while choosing the human resources that our company needs among the candidates who;  Have knowledge and skills with competences 2014 MARTUR satisfying requirements of the position,  Have a high development potential, Percentage %3  Will adopt and maintain values of our company and care ethical values, Percentage of disabled personnel  are older than 18 years old. Our priority is our internal resources, that is, our employees in order to meet human resources needs at different countries, locations and positions in accordance with the globalization vision of our continuously grooving and developing firm. We conduct effective Career Management with vertical and horizontal position changes by means of training and competence management systems which increase personal and professional competence of employees. We manage the Performance Assessment process with fair, transparent, concrete and measureable criteria in PROPOSAL NUMBERS(2014) order to provide resource for the career plans of our TOTAL 8135 employees and reveal development opportunities. We determine our price Policy in line with employee competences, performance, economic data and sectoral trends. We implement Introduction & Appreciation Systems in order to share and award the successes of our employees in every activity providing added value. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 10 / 48 2014 4.1 Employee Profile Educational Chart 5% 1% 6% 1% 4% 12% 44% 6% 71% 50% PRIMARY SCHOOL HIGH SCHOOL PRIMARY SCHOOL HIGH SCHOOL TWO-YEAR DEGREE LICENCE TWO-YEAR DEGREE LICENCE MASTER DEGREE DOCTOR'S DEGREE WHITE COLLAR BLUE COLLAR Gender Chart 2014 29% 71% KADIN WOMEN MEN ERKEK In order to support women employment we have kindergarden opprtunity for our female employees who has child. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 11 / 48 2014 4.2 Recruitment And Orientation Current locations of religion, language, race, gender, marital status, region, and so on. Without distinction, the selection of human resources in our company's needs, knowledge and skill competencies to meet the requirements of the position with a high potential for development, the company will offer to adopt the values and ethical values with care, taking into consideration the principle of equal opportunity among candidates older than 18 years have been making recruitment. We choose our personnel via different personnel search data bases. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 12 / 48 2014 We are able to make competency based interview via internet. Age Charts 51-60 18-24 25-30 51-60 18-24 41-50 41-50 4% 4% 35% 1% 8% 16% 16% 25-30 32% 31-40 31-40 43% 41% WHITE COLLAR BLUE COLLAR MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 13 / 48 2014 Our Company's priority is to close the open positions by using internal resources. Candidates have basic, technical and behavioral competencies according to the position and suitable to the company title structure criteria can evaluate at different positions. The hired candidate, the general orientation training is included in the orientation process, then the appropriate job description. General orientation trainings are as follows:  General Information about company  Basic Occupational Health and Safety Information  Environmental Standards and Emergency Plan  IT System Information After the general orientation training, other training programs in accordance with their job description, then the process is followed. All trainings are saved into the system. On the Job Trainings for new personnel 4.3 Compensation and Benefits All employees have social benefits such as food, cleaning, private insurance, clothing, birth, death, marriage and trainings except of SSK, transportation, food benefits. Internship and Scholarship Opportunities For children of employees in the company are provided that have certain conditions, able to benefit from internships and scholarship opportunities. THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS SCHOLARSHIPS Year Number Of Students(cumulative) 2011 2014 274 MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 14 / 48 2014 Health Care Opportunities As giving importance to our employees’ health, high-quality services are offered to our employees with high-qualified health care team and well-equipped infirmary. Annually periodic examinations, blood tests, eye control, lung control, and so on are carried out. Services are also available for emergency response at the time of accident or illness. Martur A.Ş. Medical Examination and Health Care Analysis Lots of our employees are benefitting from our infirmary activities. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 15 / 48 2014 Plant based numbers of benefitting from the infirmary On the other hand we can be able to monitor our employees benefitting from the infirmary on the SAP System which can be reached easily everytime. Dietitian Opportunity for Employees In order to provide a quality life to our employees, we try to minimize nutrition related disorders in this regard a dietitian is employed in our company. Psychologist Opportunity for Employees We try to support our employees’ psychologic development, in this regard a psychologist is employed in our company. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 16 / 48 2014 4.4 Training and Development By ensuring the continuous development of our employees, to provide the recruitment in all locations that are need Educational Management System is applied the technical and personal competencies to follow-up systematically, developed and to provide sustainability. All training records are saved on the system on an individually. All training materials are prepared in a standard format given in our company, PD Development portal, shared and up to date information available. EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMME (Technical & Personal Training Programme) Total Participant Number Year Total Education Number Man / Day 2014 211 695 ÜSTÜNBERK ACADEMY Üstünberk Academy is established on 07.03.2014, within growing, evolving and globalized Üstünberk Holding, with aim of creating a common commitment and belonging in the organization, providing maximum conversion of investment in education, planning, developing programs for employees, and initiating the change and maintaining it, increasing employee commitment. Üstünberk Academy is cooperating with Bilgi Üniversitesi Yönetici Geliştirme Merkezi (YGM), during its establishment and during its training programs such as I. Management Development Program, Train the Trainer, Directors Development Program, and II.Management Development Program. Academy has reached a total of 80 participants with its training programs, and graduate its first participants on 10.04.2015 with I. Management Development Program. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 17 / 48 2014 Participants of the Management Development Programs were selected among directors, manager and senior manager positions, and the participants of the Train the Trainer program were selected among specialist and assistant specialist positions. Academy has offered the following trainings below to our employees, which will shape our company's future, regarding their needs and which will ensure them to be adopted to the multicultural environment, to be competitive on the local, national and global area, to be innovative, to be open minded to development and training, and make them fully equipped on their positions Basic Management Skills: Planning, Implementing, Monitoring Turkey and Macroeconomic Indicators Decision Making According to Data Corporate Finance Management of Change Emotional intelligence Creativity and Innovation Management Customer-Focused Innovative Selling Methods Conflict Management I-II Every Manager Should Be HR Manager Transformational Leadership Being a Team, Managing the Team In addition to the trainings they have received, participants also join the Project Studies called “Beneficial Projects”, Vision Sharing Meetings, Learning in Management Action, Social Activity Simulation and Project and case studies. At the end of the training, participants have completed the training programs as employees who knows the in-house cooperation, who has the Value Adding Visionary Perspective and High Performance Culture, who aims for the high quality, who is adaptive to the multi-cultural environment and also to Company’s Culture & Value and who is open to learning and development. OUR VISION To become an Academy which, • Takes place on global platforms, • Innovative, directs and inspires the industry • Serves in a best way to reach company’s business targets. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 18 / 48 2014 OUR MISSION To train employees and leaders within Üstünberk Holding who • Successfully spreads the Holding culture, • Creates corporate memory and contributes it’s development. • Becomes a innovative leader and targets to coaching effective leaders. • Thinks and works globally • Plays a active role in global change and growth with programs which maintains the continuous development. OUR TARGETS To prepare training & development programs which will develop all partners of Üstünberk Holding in line with company's priorities and Academy Targets:  To develop a substructure and competencies which will ensure the adoption of same level service for both internal and external costumers.  To develop programs which will make corporate identity and culture widespread globally,  To ensure the global accessibility of the data by creating corporate memory.  To develop competencies which is open to innovative ideas, values technology, makes R&D and Product Development,  To train internal trainers who has the Ustunberk competencies and corporate culture.  To create programs which will support the talent pool. In the light of this targets, training and development programs are configured one by one all of the programs of Ustunberk holding that are bot for domestic and abroad also tranings based on function, competency and technical job trainings. ÜSTÜNBERK ACADEMY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 19 / 48 2014 Üstünberk Academy has a management structure which established to maintain the permanency and parallel functioning regarding companies targets and strategies. Therefore management structure includes representatives both from company level and functıonal base. 4.5 Competencies And Career Management Compatible with the objectives of the company, we aim to increase employees 'personal and professional competence through training and competency management systems. Also, employees' career development is supposed with task changes the vertical and horizontal directions. In addition, foreign language courses such as Italian, French, English are organized for developing our employees individual competencies each year. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 20 / 48 2014 Managers Development Appropriate trainings according to positions are determined by creating a matrix. After training, competency program and matrix are updated. (NOTE: “*” symbolized required training for the position). 4.6 White Collar and Specialist Development Competencies of the employees on the basis of departments and positions are monitored through the portal. Compatible with the competence requirements defined in the job descriptions. Then, required training and practices are realized and their competencies are updated and followed the portal. TEAM PROJECT TRAINING NEEDS  TEAM MEMBERS transportation of large materials to  Mechanic Construction the line by automation Knowledge  Autocad  Catia  Mechatronic knowledge MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 21 / 48 2014  TEAM MEMBERS transportation of large materials to the line by automation TEAM MEMBER TEAM 1 TEAM MEMBER 2 MEMB TEAM MEMBER 3 TEAM MEMBER 4 Blue Collar Development In order to support the development of blue collar employees educations are organized in accordance with their operations. These educations are given in different ways as classroom trainings, operational trainings and one point lessons. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 22 / 48 2014 Appreciation Award for Occupational Martur A.Ş. has been selected for year 2010 Competencies Development Projects by and 2011 as the best company that invests in BUIKAD people by OyakRenault. 4.8 Recognition And Rewarding System Martur involved in on-site employees, value added, the performance of every activity or sharing of proven track record of success Recognition & Reward System was created to ensure that all our employees to reward and encourage the continued development of our employees. Powered by the creativity of employees, the owners of creative ideas by motivating all employees through recognition and rewarding of the creative and innovative self-thinking and creative ideas to increase participation in the activities of the company receiving the application provide the most effective way. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 23 / 48 2014 Seniority Plaquet Ceremony Personnel that are retirement after worked at Martur A.Ş. at least 10 years Martur A.Ş. are rewarded with Retirement Plaque. Retirement Awards Suggestions are evaluted by different calculation methods according to measurability of their yields. Suggestions that have mesurable yield are awarded monthly, and the others are awarded in four months periods. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 24 / 48 2014 Suggestion Awards Martur A.Ş. encourages its employees to get involved in Suggestion System in order to enhance their working environments. Therefore, it makes an effort to encourage the employees for suggestion system. Some of these studies are listed below. Suggestion day was organized in order to increase awereness of energy losses among employees KIOSK are used in order to provide Trainings are given to inform Suggestion Boards are used for employees' participation in employees about Suggestion determining suggestion subjects suggestion system. System. which will be used for Suggestion Days . MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 25 / 48 2014 4.9 Employees Satisfaction And Motivation The main social events are organized to increase employees satisfaction and motivation as follows; Summer Schools 2014 Football Tournament 2014 Basketball Tournament MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 26 / 48 2014 Traditional New Year Celebrations MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 27 / 48 2014 Circumcision Organization ÜSTÜNBERK HOLDİNG HOBBY CLUB In 2013, the hobby survey is done by WC & BC. We’ve analyzed which hobby clubs our employees want. HOBBIES Theatre Photo Music Bowling Bicycle 0% 10% 20% 30% HOBBIES MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 28 / 48 2014 ÜSTÜNBERK HOLDING ÜSTÜNBERK HOLDING ÜSTÜN PEDALLAR BICYCLE PHOTO CLUB MUSIC CLUB CLUB According to this survey, we set up photo club, music club and bicycle club in order to increase our employees motivation. «ÜSTÜN PEDALLAR» BICYCLE CLUB MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 29 / 48 2014 4.10 Social Responsibility Projects a) Support For Education Projects Book Donation Campaign In order to support our employees educational development, we have an MBA programme in cooperative with Bilgi University. Our employee can join the MBA programme on lower costs. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 30 / 48 2014 b) Healthy Life Campaigns We launched a campaign of stopping smoking amoung our employees. Thus lots of our employees quited smoking. QUIT SMOKING CAMPAIGN Some of Social Responsibility Projects are carried out together with Onko-Day Society that is struggled with cancer. Informative Seminars were organized to our employees about Breast Cancer on 8th of The World Women’s Day by specialist doctors. Appreciation Award by Onko-Day Breast Cancer Information Seminar MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 31 / 48 2014 Blood Donation Campaign carried out annually together with Kızılay Society. Regarding our social responsibility to our country, environment and humanity, every year we organize blood donation campaign. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 32 / 48 2014 5. Environment With our senior managers and employees our common aim is to in all stages of service and production activities; in keeping with our company, our employees and society's expectations; ensure the compliance with the requirements of Environmental Management System and improve its efficiency continuously. In order to achieve this aim, following principles were determined:  Sustaining an Occupational Health Safety Management System and Environmental Management System that is sponsored by steering commitee, assimilated and performed by all employees, controlled, reviewed, suitable for, inspection and continously improved.  Relative to occupational health – safety and environment; principally performing legal requirements and the other requirements of all customers and the other related companies.  With the awareness of occupational health and safety importance, creation of accidentfree work places and development of new systems to minimize our losses in case of emergency.  To comply with the objectives of occupational safety and ergonomy for product and process design , process or significant changes in the production processes  To protect the human resources from injuries and health deteriorations caused: by work accidents, within the boundaries of the plant.  Realizing the risk assessments in an effective way to reduce the risk levels.  Keeping under control and minimizing all wastes and environmental impacts.  Encouraging and supporting the activities of recycling, effective usage, reusing and minimizing energy and natural resources consumptions.  Improving the awareness of environmental facilities and culture of occupational health and safety of our employees and suppliers’.  Using more recyclable raw materials that have less environmental effects and tecnology at all product and process design and production processes as much as possible. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 33 / 48 2014 In order to protect the environment, Martur A.Ş. studies on reducing of naturel resource consumption, chemical usage and all kind of wastes including hazardous wastes. All the legal requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety and environmental issues are analyzed, providing 100% compliance. Increasing consciousness level and awareness of Employees about environmental and energy issues is aimed. In order to provide our employees participation to Suggestion System and encourage them to find out improvement opportunities, we give one point lessons, Environment Club and Energy Saving School trainings and in-class trainings which has enhanced by visual applications. Basic Trainings; ENERGY INFORMATION ISO 14001 Environment Management Systems Environmental Accidents &Emergency Management Waste Management ISO 50001 Energy Management System Training Environment Club & Energy Saving School 2014 BLUE COLLAR ENVIRONMENT TRAININGS (MAN/HOUR) WASTE MANAGEMENT 0,03; 5% ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENT TRAININGS 0,11; 14% ISO 14001 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 0,11; 14% 0,29; 38% ISO 50001 ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 0,22; 29% ENVIRONMENTAL CLUB ANAD ENERGY SAVING SCHOOL TRAININGS MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 34 / 48 2014 ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY PORTAL Annual Environmental Report, ISO 50001 information presentation and annual greenhouse gases report are shared with employees in the Environmental & Energy Portal. MARTUR A.Ş. acts in awareness of global warming, climate change and gradually decrease of natural resources. Martur A.Ş. constantly reviews production and service activities in order to minimize the environmental impact and energy consumption, uses more recycling raw material and advanced technology at all stage of product & process design by considering the energy efficiency and environmental issues. Visual Training are given to all employees in Environment Club & Energy Saving School which opened on the 2011 Environment Week. Visual Training corners in the Environment Club and Energy Saving School; RENEWABLE ENERGY AIR PRESSURE WATER SAVING SAVING EQUIPMENT INSULATION LIBRARY Environment Club and Energy Saving School MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 35 / 48 2014 Water Saving Eqiupment Energy Saving Bulbs Air Pressure Eqiupment a a Solar Pannel Environment and Energy Library a a Hands-on trainings are provided to our employees in the Environment Club & Energy Saving School. Increasing the level of awareness of employees, the proposal also increased the number Every year on the Environmental Week, proposal campaign about improving of Environment Management System and reducing of the energy losses are organized. Coming proposals are realized. Proposal Campaign is organized about Environment & Energy on the Environment Week. Gifts are given to all employees participating in our event. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 36 / 48 2014 Climate change is determined as one of the biggest problems of countries, humans, business world shortly of all world for the next century. A number of initiatives are being developed in order to reduce greenhouse gases in international, regional, national and local levels. Those initiatives are based on calculation of green house gases removals, monitoring, reporting and verification. Martur A.Ş. has been completed its works about calculation and reporting of 14064 Green House Gases Emissions at organizational level. Martur has got the first 14064 -1 certification in Turkey among automotive suppliers which produce complete components. ISO 14064 – 1 Milkrun application was realized to reduce environmental impacts with Lojistic and Environment Departments. At the result of this Project, we reduced 40 tons CO2. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 37 / 48 2014 ISO 50001 Energy Management System is a system that can be integrated with other management systems. ISO 50001 wants to define important energy consumption points of organization Energy Management Working Group was established by the Energy Management Representative. In October of 2012, continue to work on ISO 50001 Energy Management System certification. Realized energy improvements for reducing of Energy Consumption and increasing of Energy Efficiency; Realized Improvement Projects for electricity saving;  DALI Control System is used dor Electricity saving; DALI control system is a complete building-wide digital lighting control system built on the DALI, Digital Addressable Lighting Interface and Ethernet international standards MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 38 / 48 2014 Realized Improvement Projects for natural gas saving;  By using the heat sourced from the compressor 2m3 a day of water is heated up to 70 degrees which is used in the wash basins and showers, we have saved 15.000 m3 natural gas per year. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 39 / 48 2014 Realized Improvement Projects for water saving;  The roof of the factory is equipped with a rain water collecting system that storages the water to a tank. By this way, due to annual rain rate of the city approximately 2000 m3 water is recovered and used for garden watering and domestic water. ECO-FRIENDLY PRODUCTS 1. R & D projects, which is obtained from the recovery of waste PET bottles Car Seat Fabric project Used PET bottles PET bottle bales Recycled recycled parts Recycled PET chips 2. Biodegradable seat fabric produced from renewable sources MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 40 / 48 2014 3. Anti-bacterial seat fabric production During the life-time of the seat fabric, no bacterial growth has seen on our anti-bacterial fabric. ENVIRONMENT PROJECTS We planted 748 young trees for our employee’s children are between 6 and 14. through the medium of TEMA. TEMA TREE PLANTING ACTIVITY 2012 1008 numbers 2013 858 numbers 2011 2014 748 numbers 1211 numbers MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 41 / 48 2014 2014 Environment Week In every Environment week Environment we do environment and energy themed activities with our employees’ children. In 2014, our employees’ children make some material from wastes. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 42 / 48 2014 6. Anti-Corruption Business Ethics Policy and Rules Busıness Ethıcs Policy was created by Martur Co. (www.martur.com.tr / intranetmartur) Ethical committee, which reports to the Chairman of the Board is responsible for investigating and resolving the complaints and notifications regarding the violation of business ethics rules. We adopt an eternal commitment to the principles of Business Ethics Policy and act accordingly in all our activities. The main principles of business ethics policy;  Establıshıng And Maintaining Fair Work Environment  Confidentiality  Giving And Accepting Gifts  Conflict of Interest Management  Utilization of Resources MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 43 / 48 2014 7. Corporate Social Responsibility Projects 7.1 Social Responsibility Policy SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Our management approach is built upon our values, which constitute the cornerstone of our corporate culture, and social responsibility understanding against our Employees, the Society and the Environment during all our activities. We believe that human resources is our real asset to increase the competitive power of our customers by serving high quality and creative products, solutions and services with Sustainable Growth. We conduct all our business dealings in accordance with the human rights and global principles, and give all personal benefits of our employees in compliance with the applicable laws of all countries. In order to create a safe and healthy work environment, we conduct and modify all our activities based on our Policy of Health and Safety at Work. Thanks to our Humanitarian, Friendly and Modest approach, we also encourage our employees to act accordingly. We support team work and collaboration, and encourage hard-working, self-discipline, rigor and patience. During all our corporate activities, we adopt a fair and honest attitude against our employees, and never tolerate discrimination because of language, race, color, sexual orientation, religion, sect, political orientation, age, physical disability or of other similar reasons. We take all required measures to Protect the Health of our employees, and organize Health Life Programs and ensure participation thereto. We meet all Environmental Requirements during our activities in accordance with Environmental Policy. We conduct our activities by showing due diligence to the protection of the environment, well beyond the legal requirements. We accept the Minimization of Environmental Effects, the Conservation of Energy and Natural Resources as our top priority in our Product and Process designs and one of our most important duties for a sustainable world. Under the scope of our Social Responsibility, full adherence to, and the implementation of, our above principles is our primary business goal, which is also one of expectations from our Employees, Suppliers and all entities we cooperate. We also work to raise the awareness with respect to social subjects by means of the training programs we organize. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 44 / 48 2014 We are proud to fulfill our responsibilities towards society in all locations we operate, in close collaboration with our employees, public, non-governmental organizations and other stakeholders. Education & Training; Kütahya Student Dormitory: We built a dormitory in Kütahya with a capacity of 300 students. Internship and Scholarship: In order to maintain our lead in the manufacturing techniques, we are constantly in liaison with nearby education facilities of our plants so that our know-how is always under scrutiny and ever-sharpened to achieve the most upto-date level. We establish internships and scholarships with such educational facilities in order to follow and apply new developments. Therefore, we support our employees’ successful children by scholarships. Support to Vocational High-Schools: Building a laboratory and library are the examples of our support to vocational highschools. Reconstruction of Schools: We are aware of the importance of education. Therefore we take this responsibility and we support construction modifications of village schools in coordination with local education authorities. Road Safety in Traffic: The consciousness and training of traffic safety should start at earlier stages of children. That is why, we organized a training seminar in 2011 for pre-school children, presenting the importance of seat belt usage via car seat simulations. MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 45 / 48 2014 Environmental Sensitivity; TEMA Project for Annual 23rd April World Childrens’ Day: (Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, For Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats). Our children are our future. It is our duty to make them conscious of environment as well as protect our natural richness. Each year, during the time of World Childrens’ Day on 23rd April, we plant trees in the name of our employees’ primary school children in cooperation with TEMA and we send certificates with a “Thank You” letter to their families. Environment Club: We established WCM Environment Club and Energy Saving School within our company in an effort to increase our employees’ consciousness and as a social reponsibility project. Drawing Competition: The children of our group companies’ employees drew wonderful pictures about environmental responsibility. These pictures are presented in different areas in our production plants. Environment Week: We organize Environment Week in early June each year. During the activities, we train our employees about environment and energy saving methods by different competitions, giving them pine saplings, energy saving bulbs or other home supplies, etc. Occupational Health and Safety ; Occupational Safety Week: Each year between 4th and 10th May, we celebrate the 'Occupational Safety Week'. During MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 46 / 48 2014 these celebrations, we organize trainings, panels and prize competitions, in order to develop our employee's consciousness of 'Occupational Health and Safety'. Drawing Competition With An 'Occupational Health and Safety' Theme: Our employee's kids have shown us their point of view about the 'Occupational Health and Safety' with their drawings. These drawings are displayed in various places within the production facilities.. Sports ; Summer Sports Schools: For the last 10 years, we organize summer sports activities for all group company employees’ children between 7 – 12 ages. These activities are all in our own sports facilities and totally free of charge (including sports wear, school bus, etc.). The activities consist of football, basketball and tennis during June & July. We are proud to announce that some of our students are now playing in the professional football and basketball leagues. Group Companies’ Tournaments: We organize our own sports tournaments of football, basketball and volleyball. In addition, we take part in local games and play with other companies’ sports teams. Blood Donation ; Each year, we organize our own blood donation campaign in coordination with Kızılay (Red Crescent Association) MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 47 / 48 2014 Other We also organize other social responsibility activities such as second hand book collection campaign, visiting old people in nursing homes, occupational safety related drawing competition for children of group companies’ employees, etc. Our company is also a member of AKUT (Search & Rescue Association). MARTUR Sünger ve Koltuk Tesisleri Tic.San.A.Ş. | UN Global Compact Progress Report 48 / 48 2014
