SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014/2015 TABLE OF CONTENTS Message from the CEO 02 Organizational Profile 04 Sustainability at Virtusa 10 Awards and Recognition 20 Our Clients 24 Governance and Compliance 28 Environmental Stewardship 37 Our People 50 IT for Good 60 Global Compact Principles and GRI Indicator Mapping 69 GRI Application Level 70 GRI Reporting Framework Content Index 71 1 MESSAGE from the CEO I am delighted to introduce our FY14/FY15 Sustainability Report to you. Publishing the Sustainability Report gives us an opportunity to share the progress we have made in our sustainability efforts, as well as to reaffirm our commitment to being a sustainable business. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), this report also represents our Communication on Progress (COP) in embedding the UNGC Principles in our business operations. Virtusa’s sustainability strategy is focused on five key areas: conducting business in an ethical manner, reducing our environmental footprint, delivering excellent service to our clients, creating a work environment that is safe and conducive to our employees, and using information technology for the benefit of the communities we operate in. While you will find detailed information on all our sustainability initiatives within this report, I would like to share some specific highlights from our FY14/FY15 program, in this letter. BUSINESS INTEGRITY: We extended our commitment to anti-corruption and anti-bribery by implementing two policies, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policy and the Virtusa UK Anti-Bribery Act Policy in FY14, as well as bolstering controls and safeguards set forth in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The policies are further supported and implemented by ongoing training programs and mandatory, annual certification requirements for all our employees. CLIENT SERVICE EXCELLENCE: During FY14 and FY15, we leveraged our technology expertise to help our clients build solutions that delivered millennial experience for their consumers and employees. The 125 and 45 perfect 10/10 Client Delight Index (CDI) scorecards our teams received during FY15 and FY14 respectively, are a testament to our service excellence. We also received several accolades that recognize our service excellence and our competitive edge in the industry. In October 2014, Virtusa was ranked in the Forbes’ list of “100 Best Small Public Companies in America” and in January 2014, Virtusa was named a Top 20 Outsourcing Service Provider by the Information Services Group (ISG) for the fourth consecutive quarter. More information on these accolades is provided in the Awards and Recognition section. SUSTAINABILITY POLICY: We published a formal Sustainability Policy in FY14. This policy reinforces our commitment to sustainable business practices in the following areas: employee health and safety, environment, climate change, conservation of energy and water, waste reduction, business continuity, information security, adherence to HR/labor standards, anti-bribery and corruption elimination, making meaningful contributions to society, and promoting diversity in the workforce. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP: Code Green, our environmental management system, encompasses measures to manage the significant environmental aspects of our business operations. Code Green started in FY09 and has continued to grow in terms of scope and maturity with all our major technology centers, accounting 2 for 85% of our real estate, being certified ISO 14001. FY14/FY15 saw the Code Green program receive several accolades. First, our Hyderabad Campus facility was rated LEED Gold by the Indian Green Building Council. Second, we won Gold in the Private Institute Category at the National Green Awards in Sri Lanka. Third, but most importantly, we obtained a score of 84 from the Carbon Disclosure Project, which is a testament to the effectiveness of our Code Green program. PEOPLE EXCELLENCE: We increased our headcount by 1193 team members from FY14 to FY15. With more than 80% of our workforce consisting of millennials, our goal is to create a work environment where this digitally connected generation thrives. We utilize our V+ social business platform to enhance the way our team members work, learn, share and connect with each other. As we grow our organization, we also aim to grow 75% of our leaders from within. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: Our CSR pillars—Campus Reach, Digital Reach and Tech Reach—focus on creating positive social impact. Detailed information about these initiatives are provided in the section, IT for Good. We were honored to be featured as a case study in “Responsible Business Advancing Peace”, a joint publication by the UNGC and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). The case study highlights Virtusa’s contribution to national reconciliation and reconstruction in Sri Lanka through our Digital Reach and Tech Reach initiatives. In addition, Virtusans continue to contribute their time and energy to help others. For example, the Chennai CSR team formed ‘Rings of Support’ where a group of Virtusan volunteers support children affected by Thalassemia through blood donations. In terms of improving sustainability practices, our goal is to increase the scope of our environmental reporting to include more geographic locations and reporting indicators. However, we face a challenge in implementing environmental reporting in the smaller locations due to the lower number of resources available to gather and report on such data. We also aim to have third party verification of environmental data. As the first step, we have obtained limited assurance of ISAE 3000 compliance by EY for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data in FY14 and FY15. We look forward to reporting improved sustainability performance in the coming years. Kris Canekeratne Chairman & CEO 3 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 4 Virtusa Corporation (NASDAQ: VRTU) is a global information technology services company with offices in North America, Europe and Asia. OUR MISSION OUR VALUES To be the partner of choice for corporations Pursuit of Excellence Expand the contours of in creating competitive advantage through our customer experience through innovation technology excellence. and acceleration of business outcomes. To create the conditions for professional success Integrity Be forthright and honest in all our and quality of life for all Virtusans. interactions. To be a socially conscious and responsible Respect Treat our stakeholders, environment corporate citizen in all countries of operations. and our diversity with respect. Leadership Lead by serving those being led and be accountable when things go awry. 5 FY15 FAST FACTS 9,247 Virtusans across the globe 1,193 new hires More than 80% of our workforce are Millennials 99% of senior management hired from local community Revenue: $479 million Net income: $42.4 million 20.7% increase in revenue 114 clients 125 perfect 10/10 Client Delight Index scorecards 87% of revenue from repeat business Emissions* per FTE** Reduced by 18% Energy Consumption per FTE Reduced by 22% Water Consumption per FTE Reduced by 18% *Scopes 1 and 2 **Full Time Employee 6 ABOUT VIRTUSA Virtusa Corporation (NASDAQ: VRTU) is a global information technology services company. Headquartered in Massachusetts, we have offices in the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, Sweden, Austria, Switzerland, Hungary, India, Sri Lanka, Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines. We view our operations and manage our business as one operating segment. Our corporate structure also spans multiple jurisdictions, with Virtusa Corporation incorporated in Delaware and its operating subsidiaries organized in India, Sri Lanka, the United Kingdom, Hungary, Germany, Singapore, Austria, Malaysia, Sweden, Switzerland and the Netherlands. While there were no significant changes in structure or ownership during the reporting period, new technology centers were opened in New York and Pune in FY14. In FY14 and FY15, we made several acquisitions focused on adding domain expertise. On November 1, 2013, we acquired the business and assets of OSB Consulting LLC, a New Jersey limited liability company, to extend our service offerings to include a broader set of finance transformation services in the financial services and insurance domains. On January 2, 2014, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of TradeTech Consulting Scandinavia AB and its subsidiaries to expand our position within the banking, financial services and insurance industries by increasing our asset management and treasury services domain and technology expertise, as well as expanding our global presence into the Nordics. To strengthen our infrastructure management services (IMS) practice and solution offerings and enable us to deliver network operating center (NOC) support through nearshore facilities, as well as IMS services globally, on April 1, 2015, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Apparatus, Inc., a leading provider of end-to-end IT IMS headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana. OUR SERVICES We use an enhanced global delivery model to provide end-to-end information technology (IT) services to Global 2000 companies. These services include IT and business consulting, user experience (UX) design, development of IT applications, maintenance and support services, systems integration, infrastructure and managed services. To help our clients increase revenue, we leverage the emerging demand from Millennials to deliver solutions that use technologies such as big data analytics, social, gamification, mobile and location aware. To reduce the cost of operations, we help our clients consolidate applications into platforms, rationalize IT infrastructure, and deliver transformational, industry-focused solutions to deliver modern, efficient and agile enterprise application platforms. We also combine industry specialization with our core services to deliver high-impact solutions in critical business functions that help our clients transform their business performance and gain competitive advantage in the markets in which our clients operate. We provide our IT services primarily to enterprises engaged in the following industries: communications and technology (C&T); banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI); and media and information (M&I). Detailed information of our service offerings is available on our website, www.virtusa.com. 7 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, we had revenue of $479.0 million and income from operations of $52.6 million. In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, our revenue increased by $82.1 million, or 20.7%, to $479.0 million, as compared to $396.9 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Our net income increased from $34.4 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 to $42.4 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. Our clients are located across North America, Europe and Asia. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, 67% of our revenue was generated in North America, 27% in Europe and 6% in the rest of the world. Our Advanced Technology Centers in India and Sri Lanka help contribute to the economic development of these countries through job creation. We are the largest IT service company in Sri Lanka and contribute to the development of the IT/BPO industry, which is one of the top five export revenue earners for the country. In fact, Virtusa has been recognized as the highest foreign exchange revenue earner in the IT/BPO sector for Sri Lanka, having won the gold award for ‘Export of Business & Professional Services Sector’ in the ‘Extra-Large’ category at the National Chamber of Exporters Awards for three consecutive years since 2012. We provide indirect economic benefits in two areas. Through our Campus Reach program, we collaborate with the academia to advance IT education in India and Sri Lanka. Through our Tech Reach program, we develop software applications for social good at zero cost to stakeholders. These programs are described in detail in the section “IT for Good” along with details of community investments made during the reporting period. We do not make any political donations as per our corporate policy. 8 FINANCIAL DATA Fiscal Year Ended March 31 (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Revenue 478,986 396,933 333,175 277,771 217,979 Costs of revenue 304,422 250,533 215,866 177,434 134,496 Gross profit 174,564 146,400 117,309 100,337 83,483 Operating expenses: 121,996 103,988 84,450 76,438 65,697 Income from operations 52,568 42,412 32,859 23,899 17,786 Other income 4,832 3,512 3,000 2,547 441 Income before income tax expense 57,400 45,924 35,859 26,446 18,227 Income tax expense 14,954 11,549 7,461 6,411 2,027 Net income 42,446 34,375 28,398 20,035 16,200 Net income per share of common stock: Basic 1.48 1.32 1.14 0.81 0.68 Diluted 1.44 1.27 1.11 0.79 0.66 Table: Consolidated Statements of Income Data (in US$) Year Ended March 31 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Customer revenue North America 319,285 278,318 251,219 215,723 162,528 Europe 129,904 97,178 65,863 49,839 45,065 Other 29,797 21,437 16,093 12,209 10,386 Consolidated revenue 478,986 396,933 333,175 277,771 217,979 Table: Revenue Breakdown According to Geographic Locations (in US$) 9 SUSTAINABILITY AT VIRTUSA 10 SUSTAINABILITY AT A GLANCE OHSAS 18001:2007 Certified Occupational Health and Safety System ISO 14001:2004 Certified Environmental Management System ISO 22301:2012 Certified Business Continuity Management System ISO 27001:2013 Certified Information Security Management System 9,000+ Virtusans trained and certified on EHS, BCMS and ISM 11 VIRTUSA’S SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM Our aim is “to reduce our Environmental Footprint, with ethical maturity, respect and dignity to all”. Premised on our core corporate values of Pursuit of Excellence, Integrity, Respect and Leadership (PIRL), we believe in doing more, and better, with less. Accordingly, we leverage unique and industry leading tools to increase “right first time” and reduce “cycle time” by aggressively measuring and improving quality and reuse at the source. By doing so, we effectively reduce the environmental footprint of the products and services offered to clients. Our sustainability program is based on the following core elements. Area Framework Current Status All major offices in India and Sri Lanka are Health and Safety OHSAS 18001:2007 certified. ISO 14001:2004 (EMS) All major offices in India and Sri Lanka are certified for ISO 14001. ISO 50001:2011 Guidance (Energy) Encompasses climate change, emissions, Environment (Code Green) ISO 14064 Guidance (Climate energy, water and waste management. Change) Virtusa reports its GHG emissions to the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Carbon Disclosure Project. All major offices in India and Sri Lanka are Business Continuity Management ISO 22301:2012 certified. All major offices in India and Sri Lanka are Information Security ISO27001:2013 certified. Labor Standards SA 8000 Guidance New policies and guidance under review. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 1977 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy signed in line with framework. and Bribery Act 2010 (UK) Virtusa creates social impact through the following: • Digital Reach – Creating a digitally inclusive society. Management Engagement, Social ISO 26000 Guidance • Campus Reach – Supporting the next Impact & Diversity generation of IT professionals to be workforce ready. • Tech Reach – Using technology for good. Our Chief Operating Officer, reporting to the Board, has responsibility for all aspects of sustainability. Crossfunctional teams at each geographic location oversee and implement components of the sustainability strategy that are specific to their operations. 12 SUSTAINABILITY POLICY AND SUB-POLICIES In FY14 we formulated our Sustainability Policy, which is based on the following policies and core guidelines: • Environment, Health and Safety in line with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. • Water Policy in line with ISO 14001 • Waste Policy in line with ISO 14001 • Business Continuity Management in line with ISO 22301 • Information Security in line with ISO 27001 • HR/labor standards in line with SA 8000 • Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies in line with FCPA and UK Bribery Act 2010 • Climate Change Policy in line with ISO 14064 and CDP Reporting • Energy Policy in line with ISO 50001 guidelines • Social Responsibility Policy in line with ISO 26000 guidance Along with the Sustainability Policy, we have formulated the following sub-policies: Energy Policy, Climate Change Policy, Waste Policy, Water Policy, and the Social Responsibility Policy. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The stakeholder groups with which we engage include clients, investors, employees, academia, suppliers, governments, NGOs and local communities. As such, clients, investors and employees have the greatest impact on our operations. Our clients receive services that are based on an end-to-end approach. Through our industry leading platforming process, we focus on delivering business results by modernizing, rationalizing and consolidating the critical applications that support our clients’ core business processes. Forms of client engagement include the Client Delight Index which allows clients to rate Virtusa services every quarter. Investors of Virtusa are able to witness and receive the benefits of our steady growth, both fiscally and through responsible business development. A major factor in this has been our ability to continue providing world-class services to existing and new clients. At Virtusa, we aim to give our employees a connected and nurturing environment where innovation and creativity are encouraged. Utilizing the latest technologies and platforms, we strive to give Virtusans the opportunity to work with Forbes Global 2000 firms, where they can create world-class applications and realize their career aspirations. Academia, suppliers and governments are also important stakeholder groups. We collaborate with the academia to ensure a pool of employment ready, skilled IT graduates. Suppliers are an important stakeholder group as we seek to ensure sustainable and ethical business practices in our supply chain. Governments impact our operations through laws and regulations that govern labor, business operations, taxation and environmental practices. NGOs and local communities have less impact on our operations. The following table lists the channels of engagement we use with each of our stakeholders as well as the key concerns for each stakeholder group. 13 Stakeholder Engagement Mode Key Concerns • Request for proposal • Business value • Client visits and meetings • Business continuity • Client Delight Index (CDI) Clients • Good corporate governance • Client initiated surveys and audits • Ethical business practices • Sustainability Report • Environmental responsibility • Media interactions • Revenue growth • Profit margins • Annual General Meeting Investors • Good corporate governance • Media interactions • Ethical business practices • Transparency • Global Team Member Survey • Internal Support Group Framework • EHS Committee • Career growth • Open Door policy • Compensation Employees • Social media • Work/life balance • Two Month Completion and Five Month • Safe work environment Completion surveys for employees on probation • Exit interviews for employees leaving the company • Curriculum development and advice • Virtusa Internship Program • Career guidance and awareness • Mentoring for final year projects • Internship opportunities for students Academia • Scholarship Program • Curriculum advice • Industrial visits • Career fairs • Social media • Media interactions • Supplier Survey • Supplier Guidelines • Business opportunities Suppliers • Supplier awareness sessions • Ethical business practices • Media interactions • Membership in global associations • Good corporate governance • Collaborations with government bodies on • Ethical business practices Governments sustainability • Environmental responsibility • Media interactions • Development of IT industry in India/Sri Lanka NGOs • Ethical business practices and Local • Media interactions • Responsible corporate citizenship Communities • Job opportunities 14 EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS PARTNERSHIPS Our public policy objectives mainly focus on sustainability and the growth of the IT industry. • National Association of Software and We have been a signatory and a member of the United Services Companies (NASSCOM) Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2008. We embody and practice the 10 principles through our management • Sri Lanka Association of Software and approach to sustainability and sustainable business. Service Companies (SLASSCOM) Virtusa has been a member of the Steering Committee of the Sri Lankan Network since 2010. The Board of Directors • American Chamber of Commerce, India of the Network, on which a representative from Virtusa sits, was formalized in early 2011. Through its work with the Sri • American Chamber of Commerce, Lankan Network, Virtusa has supported and encouraged Sri Lanka the activation of both the network and the UNGC principles in Sri Lanka. • Information Technology & Services Industry Association of Andhra Pradesh Virtusa is also a member of the Indian Green Building (ITsAP) Council. We are also a Patron Member of the Sri Lanka Business and Biodiversity (SL B&B) Platform, a tool to foster • United Nations Global Compact dialogue between the private sector and conservation agencies. • Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka We engage with industry associations in Sri Lanka and India to ensure the growth of the IT industry in these countries. • Sri Lanka Business and Biodiversity Many Virtusans are on the boards of such associations and Platform are therefore conduits in shaping public policy. • Indian Green Building Council UNGC BUSINESS FOR PEACE (B4P) Virtusa is also a member of the UNGC Business for Peace (B4P) initiative. In 2013, Virtusa was featured as a case study in the UNGC’s Responsible Business Advancing Peace publication for its contribution to national reconstruction in post-war Sri Lanka. The case study highlights activities carried out through our Digital Reach and Tech Reach initiatives where Virtusa helped to build a digital learning center in the North of Sri Lanka to be used to provide IT training to war rehabilitees. More details are provided in the IT for Good section. 15 VIRTUSANS IN THE COMMUNITY Roger Keith Modder EVP and Chief Operating Officer Keith is a member of the National Council for Economic Development (IT/BPO cluster) in Sri Lanka. He is also an Advisory Board Member of SLASSCOM. Samir Dhir Executive Vice President and Chief Delivery Officer Samir is a key member of NASSCOM’s IT Services Council, a steering body within NASSCOM instituted to sustain and grow India’s global leadership in IT, and to develop programs that will support this growth. Darshana Pai VP and Delivery Head of Hyderabad ATC Darshana is a member of the NASSCOM’s Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) core team. Some of the focus areas covered under this initiative involve supporting cultural and gender diversity, differently abled persons, child care, and inclusive work environment. At Virtusa, Darshana spearheads the Gender Diversity Initiative (Women of Virtusa), providing mentorship and career guidance to fellow women associates. Madu Ratnayake SVP and Head of Digital Madu is the founder Director and Chairman emeritus of SLASSCOM, the Sri Lankan IT-BPO Industry Chamber, in which capacity he has provided strategic leadership to SLASSCOM and the growth of the Sri Lankan IT industry. Madu is also the Chairman of Sarvodaya Fusion, the ICT4D arm of Sarvodaya, the largest NGO in Sri Lanka; and Co-Chairman of the National Council on ICT and Space Technology for the Coordinating Secretariat for Science, Technology and Innovation (COSTI), the Government agency for monitoring and promoting Science, Technology and Innovation in Sri Lanka. He is also a member of the Advisory Board for ICT at the Export Development Board (EDB) and represents the IT industry on the boards of several leading universities. Paul Tutun Senior Vice President – General Counsel and Assistant Secretary Paul was the Managing Editor of the B.U. International Law Journal. His publications include, “Arbitration Procedures under the United States-German Income Tax Treaty: The Need for Procedural Safeguards in International Tax Disputes,” 12 B.U. Int’l L.J. 179 (1994). 16 Denver De Zylva Head – Strategic Sustainability Initiatives, EHS & Administration Facilities Management As Head–Strategic Sustainability Initiatives at Virtusa, Denver has presented on Virtusa’s sustainability and CSR initiatives at several forums including the Google Ideas Summit 2011 in Dublin, Ireland. Denver was also instrumental in initiating and directing a Virtusa CSR project to support the Sri Lankan Government in its efforts to reintegrate war rehabilitees into civil society. He is also a Steering Committee member of the National E-waste Management Forum of the Central Environment Authority (CEA) of Sri Lanka. Chamindra De Silva Senior Director – Technology & Head of Strategic Initiatives In addition to his Virtusa role, Chamindra is a pro-bono Director of a 501(c)3 non-profit, Sahana Software Foundation. He was one of the original architects and lead of the multiaward winning Open Source Disaster Management systems and created one of the first global Humanitarian Open Source communities. He and his team have led many of the TechReach projects at Virtusa including the Arambaya Rehabilitation Management System, Àkura School Management System and the digital scoreboard. He has published and contributed on Humanitarian Open Source to CACM, IEEE, IDRC, UNDP IOSN, UN ESCAP and W3C and is the recipient of the MIT INDUS Technovator award. Gopalakrishnan Subramanian Head – Risk Management A strong activist for achieving sustainability, Gopalakrishnan believes that a mind shift is required by everyone, including himself. As such, he has carried out a number of initiatives towards this goal. These include the restoration of a park for public use, as well as raising funds to provide GPS equipment and training to community fishermen. Gopalakrishnan, together with his neighborhood society, has reduced energy consumption in their area by changing to the use of energy efficient lighting and pumping devices, while conducting awareness sessions on how residents can use more energy efficient solutions. He is also an avid biker and runner, and participates in cycling tours and marathons. He encourages everyone to walk or cycle for short journeys. Rasika Withanage Manager – Marketing, Sustainability & Communications Rasika is a Board Director, Steering Committee member and an Expert Group member for Responsible Business & Investment in High-Risk Areas of United Nations Global Compact. He is also a Steering Committee member of the National E-waste Management Forum of the Central Environment Authority (CEA) of Sri Lanka and the Capacity Building Forum (Career Development and Education) of the Information and Communication Technology Agency (ICTA) of Sri Lanka. 17 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT We believe in cascading our sustainability best practices to our supply chain. We follow ethical practices in all our sourcing and attempt to ensure that our suppliers adhere to accepted standards in labor, human rights, and anti-bribery and corruption. We review our suppliers’ sustainability practices using the Virtusa Supplier Survey. During the reporting period, we reviewed and updated our Supplier Guidelines which sets out the standards and practices that Virtusa’s suppliers are required to uphold. Our policy is to depend on local suppliers at all locations of operations unless to do so would be a cost disadvantage. ABOUT THIS REPORT REPORT QUICK FACTS This report is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3.1 reporting framework and conforms to Level C of the Reporting period: April 2013 to March 2015 GRI Report Application Levels. This report also forms our Communication on Progress (COP) in embedding the UN Date of previous report: January 2014 Global Compact principles in our operations. Reporting cycle: Biennial Since we manage our business as one operating segment, data related to economic, labor, human rights, society and Contact Point for Questions: product responsibility indicators are reported at a global Roger Keith Modder level for all geographic locations. However, environmental EVP and Chief Operating Officer data is reported only for our major technology centers in keith@virtusa.com India and Sri Lanka as approximately 85% our workforce is located in these Advanced Technology Centers. 18 Given below are the concerns that we have identified as being material to our operations. With regard to data measurement techniques, we follow the guidelines set by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Mobile Combustion GHG Emissions Calculation Tool (version 2.6) was used to calculate Scope 3 emissions from air travel and employee commute. Data related to human resource development and training is collected on a daily basis as well as periodically through surveys, etc. There have been no significant changes in the scope, boundary or data measurement methods from the previous report, other than the change in emission factors noted in the Environmental Stewardship section and the use of Greenhouse Gas Protocol Mobile Combustion GHG Emissions Calculation Tool to measure emissions from air travel instead of the Defra GHG Reporting Guidelines. In addition, the e-waste recycled in FY13 has been recalculated, which has resulted in an increase in the amount from 3,600 kg to 6,781 kg. We have made every effort to submit a comprehensive report with regard to dimensions of scope and boundary for the reporting period. Our goal is to improve our reporting as well as work towards obtaining external assurance. 19 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 20 INDUSTRY AWARDS The International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) Was ranked in Forbes’ list of “100 Best recognized Virtusa as a Leader in the Was named a Global Top 20 Outsourcing Small Public Companies in America” in 2015 Global Outsourcing 100 service Service Provider by the Information 2014. providers list. IAOP also named Virtusa as Services Group (ISG) in 2014. a Best Ten Leader for Entertainment and Media in 2014 and 2013. Was listed in the 2013 Global Services Was ranked #48 in the 2014 FinTech Received Frost & Sullivan’s 2014 Global 100 (GS 100) List for the sixth consecutive Forward Ranking published by American System Integration in Healthcare Product year. Banker and BAI. Line Strategy Leadership Award. Won the award for ‘Most Outstanding Exporter of Business and Professional Services’ in 2013 and 2014 at the National Chamber of Exporters Awards Sri Lanka. Was named in the Zinnov Global Service Virtusa also won the Gold award for Was ranked in IDC’s 2014 FinTech list. Provider Ratings in 2014 for the fourth ‘Export of Business & Professional time in a row. Services’ in the ‘Extra Large’ category in both years. In 2014, Virtusa also won the award for the Most Value Added Exporter. Won the Gold award for the “Export Won the Pegasystems Partner Excellence Brand of the Year” at the SLIM Brand Award in the category of ‘Thought Excellence Awards 2014. Virtusa also won Won Frost & Sullivan’s 2013 Customer Leadership in Legal Services’ for the the Bronze award in the B2B category for Value Leadership Award. second time. the third time in a row. Won four awards at the National Business Excellence Awards 2013 in Sri Was ranked in Boston Globe’s “Globe 100 Lanka. Winner in ICT Services Sector, 1st List” for the second consecutive year in Runner-up in Large Category Business 2013. Excellence, Runner-up in Excellence in Performance Management and Bronze Award for Overall Business Excellence. 21 TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Won the Service Innovation of the Year Won a Bronze SAP Quality Award in the Won the Adobe Marketing Cloud award from itSMF UK Chapter for the category of Business Transformation Innovation Award in 2015. Virtusa Test Automation Framework alongside our customer, Barmenia in (VTAF) in 2014. 2014. Virtusa’s code quality and reuse ERA Insight won the Silver award in the governance solution, ERA Insight, won Was named a Finalist in the Fierce General Application category at the a merit award in the Applications and Innovation Awards (Healthcare Edition) National Best Quality ICT Awards in Sri Tools category at the 2014 Asia Pacific ICT in 2014. Lanka in 2014. Alliance Awards. Was named in the 2013 InformationWeek 500 list, a list of the nation’s top technology innovators. HR AWARDS Was named one of Britain’s Top Won the Silver Stevie at the American Business Awards in the “Human Won the Golden Peacock Award in the Employers for the fifth time in a row by Resources Department of the Year” HR Excellence category in 2013. the Top Employers Institute in 2015. category in 2014 and 2013. Won the ‘Asia’s Best Employer’ award in Won Gold at the HRM Awards 2014 for Won the World HRD Congress Award for the Best HR Strategy in line with Business’ the fourth consecutive time. Innovation in Learning in 2014. category in 2014 and 2013. Received a special award in the “Excellence in Human Resource – South Won the “Employee Engagement Special Was named by The Albany Business Asia (Excluding India) & Middle East” Category Award” at the National HR Review as one of Albany’s Best Places to category at the Society for Human Conference 2014 in Sri Lanka. Work. Resource Management (SHRM) India HR Awards in 2014. Was selected as one of the top three finalists in the 2014 Monster HR® Award. 22 RECOGNITION FOR VIRTUSANS Darshana was also conferred the “Women Leadership Achievement Award Darshana Pai, Vice President and Head of in the IT Sector” by the World Women Kris Canekeratne was honored with ‘CEO the Hyderabad and Bangalore Delivery Leadership Congress and Awards in 2014. of the Year’ award by the World HRD Centers, was conferred the ‘Women In addition, Darshana was recognized Congress-Thought Leaders International Achievers in IT’ award by INTEROP in by the Indo American Chamber of in 2014. 2014. Commerce as the Best Woman Corporate Leader in a US company in India in 2013. Chandika Mendis, Senior Vice President and Global Head of Engineering, was Praveen Purushotham, Global Head of honored with two key awards at the Marketing, was named in the “100 Most first-ever CS&ES Achiever Awards Talented Global Marketing Leaders” by 2013, organized by the Department of the World Marketing Congress in 2014. Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), University of Moratuwa, Sri Lanka. SPECIAL AWARDS Won the Special Award for Emergency Response at the 18th Annual Japan Sri Lanka Cultural Association (JASTECA) Won a Merit Award at the Sri Lanka Won the Gold Trophy in the Private Awards 2013 in recognition of the National Occupational Safety & Health Institute Category at the Sri Lanka Rehabilitation Management System Excellence Awards in 2014. National Green Awards in 2014. (RMS) built by Virtusa for the Bureau of Commissioner General of Rehabilitation (BCGR), Sri Lanka in 2009/2010. 23 OUR CLIENTS 24 FY15 FAST FACTS 104 clients 125 perfect 10/10 Client Delight Index scorecards 87% of our revenue is from repeat business A majority of our revenue for the reporting period was generated from Forbes Global 2000 firms or their subsidiaries. Our expertise in core technology services allows us to help our clients lower total cost of ownership of their overall IT investments. We also combine industry specialization with our core services to deliver highimpact solutions in critical business functions that help our clients transform their business performance and gain competitive advantage in the markets in which they operate. We believe that our regular, direct interaction with senior executives at these clients, the breadth of our client relationships and our reputation within these clients as a thought leader, differentiates us from our competitors. We have a high level of repeat business among our clients. For instance, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, 87% of our revenue came from clients to whom we had been providing services for at least one year. CLIENT DELIGHT INDEX Measuring and ensuring high client satisfaction is an integral part of delivery at Virtusa. The Client Delight Index (CDI) is a key performance measure that has Board-level visibility. Client feedback is collected each quarter from stakeholders identified for each account and a consolidated report is published for each Advanced Technology Center. The CDI helps us to identify areas of client engagement that may need attention. Internally, all negative responses require action plans from our staff, ensuring that any problems are corrected. The survey can be customized depending on the project or project phase. The reporting period saw two significant events related to CDI. Not only did we upgrade the information gathering process for CDI so that clients can easily provide feedback through a web portal, but our teams obtained 125 perfect 10/10 CDI scorecards. 25 GLOBAL INNOVATION PROCESS Our proprietary Global Innovation Process (GIP) is a software lifecycle methodology that combines our decadelong experience building platform-based solutions for global clients with leading industry standards such as CMMI L-5 (Capability Maturity Model), Agile, ITIL v3, Rational Unified Process, and Product Line Engineering. By leveraging GIP templates, tools and artifacts across diverse disciplines such as requirements management, architecture, design, construction, testing, application outsourcing and production support, each team member is able to leverage software engineering and platforming best practices and extend these benefits to clients. During the initial process-tailoring phase of an engagement, we work with the client to define the specific approach and tools that will be used for the engagement. This process-tailoring takes into consideration the client’s business objectives, technology environment and currently-established development approach. A dedicated process group provides three important functions: they continually monitor, test and incorporate new approaches, techniques, tools and frameworks into GIP; they advise project teams, particularly during the process-tailoring phase; and they monitor and audit projects to ensure compliance. Clients also contribute to innovation and improvement as their ideas and experiences are incorporated into our body of knowledge. All our major delivery centers, located in Hyderabad, Chennai, Bangalore and Colombo, have been assessed at CMMI Level 5 maturity. During our fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, the Chennai and Colombo delivery centers initiated the reassessment of CMMI Level 5 as these centers were first assessed in fiscal year 2013. CMMI is a process improvement model used to improve a company’s ability to manage project deliveries to ensure predictable results. CMMI’s process levels are regarded as the standard in the industry for evolutionary paths in software and systems development and management. 26 PLATFORMING APPROACH Platforming is a structured approach to software development that organizes discrete software components into related functions in a layered architecture of common services. This enables development teams to write code once and utilize it multiple times. Unlike in traditional enterprise application development where different applications remain isolated, thus replicating business logic, technology frameworks and enterprise data, Platforming helps to combine common business processes and rules, technology frameworks and data into reusable application platforms that can be leveraged across the enterprise. Through Platforming our clients are able to continually improve their software platforms and applications in response to changing business needs and evolving technologies while also improving business agility and realizing long-term and ongoing cost savings. We apply our innovative platforming approach across our business and IT consulting, technology implementation and application outsourcing services to rationalize IT application portfolios and reduce costs, increase productivity and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our clients’ IT application environments. As part of our platforming approach, we assess our clients’ application environments to identify common elements, such as business processes and rules, technology frameworks and data. We incorporate those common elements into one or more application platforms that can be leveraged across the enterprise to build, enhance and maintain existing and future applications in a leaner environment. Our platforming approach enables our clients to continually improve their software platforms and applications in response to changing business needs and evolving technologies while also realizing long-term and ongoing cost savings. Our platforming approach improves software quality and IT productivity. Software assets within platforms are reused across applications, their robustness and quality improve with time and our clients are able to develop software with fewer defects. A library of ready-made building blocks significantly enhances productivity and reduces software development risks compared to traditional methods. This establishes a cycle of continual improvement in that the more an enterprise embraces platform-based solutions, the better the quality of its applications will be, and the less the effort required to build, enhance and maintain them. 27 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE 28 POLICIES Virtusa’s core values – Pursuit of Excellence, Integrity, • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Respect and Leadership (PIRL) – are the guiding principles • Virtusa Anti-Bribery Policy in all our interactions. Sound governance along with strong • Virtusa FCPA Policy policies have helped to maintain a reputation of corporate • Whistleblower Policy excellence. • Business Continuity Management Policy • Information Security Management Policy Instilling our business ethics and culture in our people • Intellectual Property forms an important part of people development. All • Harassment-Free Workplace Policy employees are educated on the PIRL values and corporate • Sustainability Policy policies through several mediums from the on-boarding • Environment, Health and Safety Policy program to awareness mailers. All corporate policies are • Energy Policy also available on the company intranet for easy reference. • Climate Change Policy • Waste Policy As a responsible corporate citizen, Virtusa adheres to the • Water Policy laws and regulations relevant to our operations. During • Social Responsibility Policy the reporting period, there were no instances of monetary or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws CERTIFICATION and regulations related to any aspects of our business operations including the provision of services, anti• CMMI Level 5 competitive behavior and environmental regulations. • ISO 22301:2012 • BS OHSAS 18001:2007 • ISO/IEC 27001:2013 • BS EN ISO 14001:2004 29 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE Mr. Canekeratne, a founder of our company, serves as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. The Board of Directors believes that having our Executive Officer as Chairman of the Board facilitates the Board of Directors’ decision-making process because Mr. Canekeratne has first-hand knowledge of our operations and the major issues facing us, and is most capable of effectively identifying strategic priorities and leading the discussion and execution of strategy. This also enables Mr. Canekeratne to act as the key link between the Board of Directors and other members of management. To maintain effective independent oversight, the Board of Directors annually appoints a lead independent director. The Board of Directors believes the combined role of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, together with a lead independent director is in the best interest of stockholders because it provides the appropriate balance between strategy development and independent oversight of management. Mr. Martin Trust currently serves as the Lead Independent Director. In this role, Mr. Trust serves as Chairperson of the independent director sessions and assists the Board in assuring effective corporate governance. 30 INDEPENDENCE OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Seven members of the Board of Directors are independent within the meaning of the director independence standards of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc., or NASDAQ, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Furthermore, each member of each of the committees of the Board of Directors is independent within the meaning of the director independence standards of NASDAQ and the Securities and Exchange Commission. COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors has three standing committees: Audit Committee; Compensation Committee; and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. NOMINATING AND CORPORATE AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Oversees our accounting and Responsible for developing Developing and financial reporting processes, executive compensation recommending to the internal controls and audit policies and advising the board board criteria for board and functions. of directors with respect to committee membership. such policies and administering Focuses on risks and issues the Company’s cash incentive, Administers enterprise risk related to accounting, internal stock option and equity management program. controls, and financial and tax incentive plans. reporting. Identifies and oversees risks Identifies and oversees risks and issues associated with Assesses economic and and issues associated with director independence, related business risks and monitors our executive compensation party transactions and the compliance with ethical policies and practices. implementation of corporate standards and applicable governance policies and our regulations. code of ethics. Committees of the Board of Directors Each committee operates pursuant to a separate charter that has been approved by the Board of Directors. A current copy of each charter is available at the Corporate Governance section of our website at http://www.virtusa.com/investors/corporate-governance/. 31 ROLE IN RISK OVERSIGHT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors’ role in overseeing the management of the Company’s risks is primarily accomplished through management’s reporting processes, including receiving regular reports from members of senior management on areas of material risk to the Company, including operational, financial, legal and regulatory, and strategic and reputational risk and assessments and prioritization of such risks. The standing committees of our Board of Directors, pursuant to the respective charters, represent a key element of enterprise risk management. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors has been initially appointed by our Board of Directors to administer the enterprise risk management process as the Enterprise Risk Management Committee. The Enterprise Risk Management Committee provides oversight of the recommendations of management and associated timeline to identify and assess severity of enterprise risks, the prioritization of such risks and development of any action plans to mitigate such risks. Our Audit Committee focuses on risks and issues related to accounting, internal controls and financial and tax reporting. The Audit Committee also assesses economic and business risks and monitors compliance with ethical standards. The Compensation Committee identifies and oversees risks and issues associated with our executive compensation policies and practices, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee identifies and oversees risks and issues associated with director independence, related party transactions and the implementation of corporate governance policies and our code of ethics. All of these committees are ultimately subject to oversight and direction of the full Board of Directors and report directly to the Board of Directors on these matters. COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Virtusa’s stockholders who wish to communicate directly with the Board of Directors or an individual member of the Board may do so by sending such communication by mail (including courier or expedited delivery service). Attention To: • Chairman of the Board (as a representative of the entire board of directors); • OR to the individual director or directors. U.S. Mailing Address: c/o Secretary Virtusa Corporation 2000 West Park Drive, Westborough, Massachusetts 01581 USA ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Detailed information on corporate governance is available in the Proxy Filings on our website http://www.virtusa.com/investors/annual-report-and-proxy-statement/. Information on the members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers is available at: http://www.virtusa.com/investors/corporate-governance/management-and-board/. 32 MONITORING AND COMPLIANCE DISCIPLINE AND TRANSPARENCY Discipline and transparency are the premise of Virtusa’s daily business. These founding principles are reflected and enforced across the global organization through the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program, and the Whistleblower Policy. CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS Virtusa’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides the ethical and business standards by which Virtusa requires all of its employees to conduct themselves. The Code applies to all directors and employees worldwide. Day-to-day responsibility for administering the Code rests with the Compliance Officer who is also the General Counsel. A current copy of the Code is available at http://www.virtusa.com/investors/corporate-governance/. ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION PROGRAM The Virtusa Anti-Bribery Program is implemented through the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policy and the Virtusa UK Anti-Bribery Act Policy. The policies set a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption and reaffirms our commitment to complying with all relevant anti-bribery legislation wherever we do business. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics was updated to emphasize the importance of anti-bribery. These policies are applicable to all our employees in all locations and are supported by ongoing training programs and annual certification requirements for employees. Our Finance and Administrative systems are regulated to ensure that anti-corruption practices are maintained in all transactions performed within. WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY Employees and other interested parties can report any behavior that contravenes the Code of Ethics, any accounting irregularities or conduct that undermines the integrity of the Company’s financial statements or the Anti-Bribery Policy using the Whistleblower Hotline, through a web-based submission tool or in writing. Complaints are forwarded to the Chairman of the Audit Committee as soon as reasonably practicable following receipt of such Complaint. More information on the Whistleblower Hotline is available in the Audit Committee Complaints Procedure at http://www.virtusa.com/investors/corporate-governance/. 33 CONFIDENCE IN FINANCIAL INFORMATION THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT As a publicly traded company in the US, Virtusa (NASDAQ: VRTU) is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). Virtusa’s Internal Audit Department monitors compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act throughout the financial year. Since the implementation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (in 2007), Virtusa’s independent public accountants, KPMG LLP, Boston, has audited Virtusa to validate compliance with SOX and provided an unqualified opinion with respect to Virtusa’s financial statements and internal controls. Details of the Company’s annual reports and audited financial statements are available at http://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/browse-edgar?company=V irtusa&owner=exclude&action=getcompany. INTERNAL AUDIT The Internal Audit Department (IAD) is supervised by the Director of Internal Audit based at Virtusa’s Colombo, Sri Lanka office and is supported by teams in Colombo, Sri Lanka and Hyderabad, India. The Director of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and administratively reports to the Chief Financial Officer of Virtusa. IAD ensures compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and also performs reviews across the global company based on an annual Audit Plan (or requests) which helps the company address any potential risks. INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT KPMG LLP, Boston, is Virtusa’s external independent registered public accountant. KPMG provides an independent audit of the company’s financial statements for each fiscal year ending March 31. KPMG’s independent audit and report supports the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and is reported in Virtusa’s Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. PEOPLE POLICIES VIRTUSA’S COMMITMENT TO PEOPLE Virtusa is committed to ensuring the protection of human rights and maintaining a harassment free workplace. As such, Virtusa conforms and maintains a workplace that complies with all applicable laws and regulations. Virtusa has a Harassment Free Workplace Policy to prevent against any form of discrimination based on age, race, color, national origin and ancestry, religion, sex or gender, sexual orientation, disability and other areas protected by law. As a technology services company child labor, forced labor and bonded labor are not significant risk factors in our operations. The Global Head of HR is responsible for all labor practices at Virtusa, with location HR leaders reporting to him. Within location HR, separate teams focus on specific areas such as recruitment, training, career development, and compensation and benefits. The HR team is also responsible for investigating any violations related to HR policies and procedures. 34 PRIVACY AND CONFIDENTIALITY OF PERSONAL INFORMATION Virtusa is committed to safeguarding the privacy and confidentiality of personally identifiable information and personal health information of people which Virtusa could potentially retain in the course of business as provided by employees, their family members, or clients. Virtusa complies with all applicable laws and regulations regarding data privacy. Virtusa’s Senior Vice President of Human Resources and the General Counsel have responsibility to implement and enforce the Data Privacy Program. INFORMATION SECURITY Our information assets and those of our clients are paramount at Virtusa. Virtusa’s Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for information security and ensuring that information assets of both clients and Virtusa are adequately secured and protected through various governance structures, periodic monitoring, and compliance programs. Virtusa’s Information Security Management Policy provides the foundation for these reviews. THE ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT TEAM The Enterprise Risk Management Team is responsible for taking 360 view on risks that could affect Virtusa. The team executes an annual program to monitor the implementation of solutions for those areas deemed high risk for the company. ISO 27001 CERTIFICATION The Enterprise Risk Management Program ensures that the annual re-certification is performed by a qualified external third party agency. The review examines Virtusa’s information security framework and comments on its strengths and weaknesses. Since the original certification in 2008, the reviewer has not reported any material or significant observations. The most recent review was performed in October 2014. EXTERNAL PENETRATION PROGRAM The Penetration Testing Program is governed by Virtusa’s Global Penetration Testing policy and is administered by the office of the Chief Information Security Officer. An external penetration is performed by a selected and qualified ethical hacker once every financial year. Ethical hackers are rotated to optimize the program. The program provides confidence that Virtusa’s external infrastructure is hardened to industry standards. DATA LEAKAGE PREVENTION An industry accepted Data Leakage Prevention (DLP) solution is implemented to ensure that business critical information including client information, financial information, personally identifiable information, and personal health information is not disclosed to parties external to Virtusa. The DLP program, which is jointly administered by the Chief Information Security Officer’s office and Information Technology Team, provides Virtusa and its clients the essential confidence and security on sensitive information. 35 SOFTWARE COMPLIANCE Virtusa has a strong Software Compliance framework. In May 2014, Virtusa was independently assessed and granted Verafirm certification by BSA, thus becoming the fourth company in the world to receive Verafirm certification. PERIODIC AUDITING The Internal Audit Department (IAD) of Virtusa conducts periodic audits of the information technology infrastructure and the information security framework based on risks and request. IAD’s reports are provided to the Vice President of Information Technology and Chief Information Security Officer for review and correction and updates are provided to Virtusa’s Audit Committee during quarterly meetings. INCIDENT MANAGEMENT The Chief Information Security Officer’s organization monitors and reports any breaches to the Chief Information Security Officer and Enterprise Risk Management Team, relevant business unit heads, and human resources teams for corrective action. During the year 2013-2014 under review no complaints were recorded related to breaches of client privacy or loss of customer data. SAFEGUARDING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Virtusa also has processes and procedures to ensure that the utilized software have proper licenses. We also have non-disclosure and assignment of inventions agreements with all of our employees to ensure the confidentiality of our work product and title to work that we create for us or our clients. We also monitor and have rigorous software engineering standards designed to prevent or detect any use of software or intellectual property not properly owned or licensed to Virtusa. BUSINESS CONTINUITY Virtusa understands the criticality of smooth business continuity for Virtusa as a company, for our clients, and employees. Our Business Continuity Management System is ISO 22301:2012 certified. The Enterprise Risk Management Team is responsible for business continuity at a global level, while location specific teams are responsible for day-to-day monitoring. MARKETING AND COMMUNICATION Our sales and marketing strategy is based on developing strong relationships with IT and business executives at prospective and existing clients to establish long-term business relationships. We also have a strong marketing campaign targeted at recruitment. Virtusa ensures that it complies with the laws applicable in each of its geographic locations as well as adhering to standard industry practices. We follow a voluntary code to ensure responsible marketing and communication. 36 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 37 FY15 FAST FACTS 84 Carbon Disclosure Project Score 46% Reduction in scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions per full time employee since FY11 47% Reduction in energy consumption per full time employee since FY11 22% Reduction in water consumption per employee since FY12 85% of real estate certified for ISO 14001 Environmental Management 100% Hyderabad Campus rated LEED Gold and 22% Colombo office rated LEED Silver Won Gold in the Private Institute category at the National Green Awards Sri Lanka 38 We are committed to reducing the environmental footprint of our products and services and have adopted the precautionary approach. As such, we have taken proactive steps by formulating effective policies to measure, manage, benchmark and consistently improve our environmental performance. Our commitment to reducing our environmental footprint and adhering to all environmental regulations is set out in the following policies: Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Energy Policy, Climate Change Policy, Waste Policy, and Water Policy. Code Green, our internal branding for environmental management, was initiated in 2009. Code Green encompasses measures to manage the significant environmental aspects of our business operations: emissions, energy and water usage, and disposal of waste material. Since the inception of Code Green, we have improved our environmental performance consistently and achieved ambitious reductions in emissions, energy usage and water usage. In order to augment our green practices, in FY14 we started external verification of our emissions data. As such, our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions calculations for FY14 and FY15 have received limited assurance under ISAE3000 from Ernst & Young. INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATION Our ATCs in Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Colombo, which constitute 85% of our real estate, are certified for ISO 14001 by the British Standards Institute. Our Hyderabad Campus was awarded the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) India ‘Gold’ rating by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) in 2013. In addition, 43,000 sqft, which amounts to 22% of our office space in Colombo, has been rated LEED Silver. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY The Facilities Management teams in each location manage day-to-day activities related to environmental management such as tracking emissions, energy and water usage, recycling activities, ISO14001 certification and aspects of environmental reporting. 39 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES FROM CLIMATE CHANGE We are moving towards assessing the risks at a corporate level to share best practices and avoid silo-thinking. Currently, reputational and customer associated risks are assessed at a corporate level while regulatory and weather/climate related risks are done at an asset level. Climate change can have a serious impact on several aspects of our business operations, which are detailed below. • Risks driven by changes in regulation: With the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21) seeking to achieve a legally-binding agreement on climate, it is likely that organizations and countries will be under increased pressure to meet emissions targets. Some of our largest clients already work towards reducing their emissions by regulating their supply chains and as such request information on our emissions reduction activities. If they are faced with obligatory emissions reduction targets, Virtusa may be required to make drastic reductions in emissions. In addition to this, if taxes related to fuelcharges increase, these taxes would impact our energy costs. Our suppliers in turn would also pass on a component of cost incurred due to increases in energy costs. • Risks driven by changes in physical climate parameters: India and Sri Lanka, where most of our operations are located, have a high representation of hydropower in their national grids. As per 2013 statistics, hydropower sourced 58% and 17% of electricity in Sri Lanka and India respectively. Low rainfall may induce power shortages, which impacts our fuel cost to run diesel generators. Additionally, if water shortages require us to move away from hydropower, it will increase the costs of meeting our greenhouse performance targets because of the higher emission factors associated with energy sources such as coal. Furthermore, due to our large operational footprint in India and Sri Lanka, extreme weather conditions in either of these countries may disrupt our business operations. • Risks driven by changes in other climate-related developments: Clients have shown an increased interest in our emissions and climate change management process. In addition, there is increased focus on transparency in reporting through measures such as third party verification. As a result, failure to ensure environmental best practices could result in a loss of reputation and associated revenue. It could also impact our ability to attract top talent as modern employees, especially those in the millennial generation, tend to seek organizations that are environmentally responsible. While climate change poses many risks, it has also created opportunities for us to reassess resource usage and improve our business processes. • Opportunities driven by changes in regulation: In the current context where legal and regulatory obligations for reporting on emissions and environmental performance is increasing, companies that are already reporting on environmental performance will be at an advantage. Virtusa has a strong environmental management system (Code Green), backed by ISO 14001 certification, in order to manage our environmental impacts. We continuously monitor, benchmark, and revise our environmental performance targets. All these factors put us in a strong position to face any compulsory reporting obligations. 40 • Opportunities driven by changes in physical climate parameters: At present, Virtusa is exploring the possibility of using renewable energy. Reducing our dependence on fossil fuels through investment in renewable energy would improve operational cost. Also, investing in renewable energy savings would transfer operational costs into capital costs. In order to increase the energy efficiency of new buildings and workspaces, we have created customized design and build guidelines to establish energy parameters so that energy efficiency is stipulated as a requirement for new spaces. • Opportunities driven by changes in other climate-related developments: A strong commitment to reducing our impact on the environment and demonstrating leadership in climate change management will enhance our reputation. This will in turn help to attract clients as well as employees. We leverage unique and industry leading tools to increase “right first time” and reduce “cycle time” by aggressively measuring and improving quality and reuse at source. By doing so, we effectively reduce the environmental footprint of the products and services offered to clients. We are also exploring the opportunities for enhanced engagement with the IT industry so that we can contribute to driving Green IT initiatives. CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT Virtusa has been responding to the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2011. In 2014 our score increased to 84, which is 31 points higher than the supplier chain average for the year. Our Performance Band was “B”. 90 84 80 74 70 59 60 53 31* 48 49 50 40 *31 points higher than the 30 supply chain average 20 10 0 2012 2013 2014 Supply Chain Virtusa EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT We calculate emission using the guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). The main source of emissions are as follows: • Emissions from the usage of diesel generators (Scope 1) • Emissions from the usage of purchased electricity (Scope 2) • Emissions from business travel – air travel and road travel (Scope 3) Since FY11, we have reduced our emissions per full time employee by 46%. The intensity of GHG emissions from operations and electricity purchases (Scope 1 and Scope 2) reduced from 2.07 MTCO2eq per full time employee in FY11 to 1.105 MTCO2eq per FTE in FY15. 41 ENERGY MANAGEMENT We initiated our energy management program in April 2008. We have optimized our energy usage through space and server consolidation, the use of building management systems (BMS) and the use of energy efficient products. In 2012 we implemented an initiative to convert the lighting system in the Sri Lanka, Hyderabad and Chennai facilities to LED. Lighting in the Bangalore facility is 100% LED. We also a have a policy to hibernate or switch-off idle machines wherever possible. Due to the above measures, we achieved a 47% reduction in per capita energy consumption over our baseline year of FY11. The intensity of energy consumption per full time employee reduced from 236 kWh in FY11 to 123 kWh in FY15. BUSINESS TRAVEL MANAGEMENT We have reduced the impact from business air travel through the use of audio and video conferencing. An automated system helps to track and manage shuttle services provided for employees working late or during weekends. During the reporting period, emissions from business travel increased 15% from 2,171.00 MTCO2eq in FY14 to 2,503.73 MTCO2eq in FY15. This increase is mainly due to the expansion of transport facilities available to our employees through increased shuttle services and transport routes. We will seek to mitigate its impact in the coming years. WATER MANAGEMENT As a services company, water is used mainly for drinking, hygiene, facility operations and landscaping. Our main source of water is the municipal water supply and our operations do not affect any local water body significantly as water is not used for production. Water usage is monitored only at our facilities in Sri Lanka, Hyderabad and Bangalore. Also, the water data does not include drinking water, which we do not target for reduction. Since FY12 per capita water usage reduced by 22% from 0.79 m3 in FY12 to 0.62 m3 in FY15. Strategies for water management include more efficient water usage in facilities maintenance and creating awareness among employees about conserving water. At present, we are able to recycle waste water only at the Hyderabad Campus. In FY14, 85% of water used was recycled, which amounted to 9,182m3. In FY15 the percentage was 84%, which amounted to 14,284m3 FY15. WASTE MANAGEMENT The Sri Lankan ATC has in place a program where e-waste is handed over to a certified vendor, which is then shipped internationally for recycling. Virtusa is a member of the Co-operate E-waste Management Project initiated by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) of Sri Lanka. We are the first IT company in Sri Lanka to receive a Scheduled Waste Management License from the CEA. Apart from e-waste, no other types of waste were donated for recycling during the reporting period. 42 PAPER USAGE We have reduced paper usage through several measures such as duplex printing with usage and paying for farmed paper. All departments are encouraged to use paperless forms, notifications and reports wherever possible. GAPS AND PERFORMANCE TARGETS FOR FY15 FY12 Status FY13 Status FY14/FY15 Status Targets for FY16 Goal: Third party audits of environmental performance. Environmental management Sri Lanka, Bangalore, Performance: Scope 1 Extend third party assurance not standardized across Chennai and Hyderabad and Scope 2 emissions to Scope 3 emissions. locations ATCs ISO 14001 certified. calculations for 2014 and 2015 received limited assurance of ISAE3000 compliance by EY. Goal: Implement waste management in Chennai, Hyderabad and Bangalore. Performance: Paper Targets for environmental recycling implemented performance set only for Targets set and achieved for in all three locations. energy CO2, water* and waste. E-waste management is not implemented in Bangalore yet as the facility is less than five years and at present all equipment is under warranty. Goal: Extend to Chennai and Bangalore. Performance: Extended to We are working to Bangalore. Chennai is not be *Water consumption implement amenities that Water consumption not monitored as the building measured only for would allow us to measure measured in all locations infrastructure currently Hyderabad and Colombo. water consumption from available does not enable FY16 in Chennai. water consumption to be measured separately and is included as part of facilities costs. Achieved Partially Achieved 43 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2.50 250 236 2.04 210 2.00 1.78 200 176 1.54 1.50 150 136 1.25 123 1.105 1.00 100 0.50 50 0.00 0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FT15 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FT15 Notes: 0.9 0.79 • (1) (2): All ATCs (90% of office space). (3): All ATCs 0.8 except Chennai. 0.66 0.7 0.62 0.6 0.54 • All FTE figures taken average for the year. During 0.5 years of growth this provides a more conservative 0.4 figure. 0.3 0.2 • (3): Water usage in FY15 increased due to installation 0.1 of flow meters in Hyderabad for better measurement. 0 FY12 FY13 FY14 FT15 • (4): Emissions and energy data have received limited assurance under ISAE 3000 by Ernst & Young. 44 EMISSIONS DATA Percentage Breakdown of Emissions for FY15 FY15 FY14 FY13 2012 Scope 1: Fuel (Diesel) 71.51 44.38 350.12 472.00 Scope 2: Grid Power 9,487.94 9,341.69 9,317.55 9,536.00 Scope 3: Business Air Travel and Road Travel 2,503.73 2,171.00 2,340.24 2,509.00 Total GHG emissions 12,063.18 11,557.07 12,007.91 12,517.00 Table: Total Direct and Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Weight (metric tonnes CO2e) Note: The Scope 2 Emissions for FY12 were retroactively adjusted with the emission factors for India and Sri Lanka derived from the IEA 2012 — CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion. ENERGY DATA FY15 FY14 Direct Energy Consumption (non-renewable source – diesel fuel) 965.11 598.92 Indirect Energy Consumption (purchased electricity) 45,066.29 43,493.38 Total Energy Consumption 46,031.40 44,092.30 Table: Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption in Giga Joules WATER DATA FY15 FY14 Total Water used 39,279.00 29,929.00 Total Water recycled* 14,284.00 9,173.00 Table: Water Used and Recycled in M3 *Water is recycled only at the Hyderabad Campus 45 E-WASTE DATA FY15 FY14 FY13 E-waste recycled (in 18,444.40 3,239.00 6,781.00 kilograms) Table: E-waste Recycled PAPER DATA FY15 FY14 FY13 Total Paper recycled (weight in 4,476.00 2,487.00 4,234.00 11,197.00 kilograms) Paper recycled (%) 50% 69% 43% Trees saved 107 60 102 269 Table: E-waste Recycled 11,197kg = 269 paper recycled trees saved *Based on the assumption that 1kg of paper saves 0.024 trees (http://conservatree.org/) *Total paper and e-waste recycled from FY13-FY15 46 SPREADING THE GREEN MESSAGE HYDERABAD CAMPUS TREE PLANTING Hyderabad Campus has commenced a long-term initiative to plant trees around the Campus grounds. Phase I of the initiative commenced in July 2015 with the planting of 30 trees. A further 30 trees are to be planted in future. Types of trees planted are Alstonia scholaris and Bahunia blakiana. EARTH HOUR Virtusans in all locations observe Earth Hour as an annual event. Each year Virtusans switch off nonessential lights and equipment for one hour. A highlight of these celebrations at SLATC is the participation of 45% the students from Rajasinghe Maha Vidyalaya and Hourly energy saved Northwood Global College, where the adults gain many insights into importance of environmental during Earth Hour in FY15 conservation from the children. 47 WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY World Environment Day (WED) is an annual event that Virtusans across the globe observe. Activities for WED include tree planting, vehicle emission testing, walkathons, etc. CYCLOTHON 2014 Though Chennai ATC has organized cyclothons before, this time the participation was more overwhelming than usual and registrations closed within a few minutes with over 300 nominations. Enthusiastic Virtusans demonstrated their ‘support and commitment to a cleaner environment’ on October 11, 2014 by cycling their way through a 45 kilometer stretch of coastline. 48 AWARENESS OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION Throughout the year Virtusans organize several events such as cycle to work days and walkathons to create awareness on environmental conservation. 49 PEOPLE 50 Our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly-skilled and multi-dimensional team members. At March 31, 2015, we had 9,247 employees, or team members, an increase from 8,054 as on March 31, 2014. Our people practices have received industry recognition with Virtusa being named a top employer in all major geographies of operation, which are detailed in the Awards and Recognition section. More than 80% of Virtusans are Millennials, the generation of people born after 1984, who have grown up in an environment guided by social media, mobility, big data and cloud. Managing this “wired” generation of employees has created the need for newer ways of working. As a result, the entire employee lifecycle at Virtusa is engineered to engage Millennials, and this is exemplified in our “gamified” engagement formula embedded in the themes of Work, Home, University and Play. Virtusa is an equal opportunity employer and respects the diversity of our workforce across the world in terms of all our policies and procedures. PLAY UNIVERSITY Bonding/Network/Family/ Functional Expertise Social Capital Process Expertise WORK HOME Delivery/Project Execution Career Guidance Managed by PM Business Ethics Performance Appraisal and Compensation 51 RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION Our pool of employees is recruited from leading universities. Through our Campus Reach program, we maintain a visible position in universities in India, the United States and Sri Lanka, through a variety of specialized programs, including IT curriculum development, classroom teaching and award sponsorships. Our lateral hire program is fuelled by an employee referral scheme wherein employees get a prefixed bonus on every successful reference. Our objective is to build robust in-house talent and stabilize our leadership pipeline through an appropriate engagement modality. As a result, the “Talent Scout” Program has been incorporated into the V+ platform. Our Mysite platform tables the Talent Scout Badge, where team members receive badges on referring candidates or by participating in the selection process (conducting interviews). With this we have adopted two social recruiting practices which ride on the back of our V+ platform/tools, which are: • Virtusa Next – Extension of Yammer to engage with offered candidates where the key outcome is to increase the “Offer to Join” ratio. • Talent Scout – Points and badges based gamification for employee referrals and engagement. Virtusa aims to groom leaders from within with a target rate of 75%. In order to achieve this target, we have launched graduate fast tracker programs, leadership trainee programs and internship programs across locations in order to strengthen the internal pipeline with identified high-potential individuals. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT In creating a work environment for knowledge workers, Virtusa works within a performance-driven culture. All employees in our permanent cadre have regular performance appraisals, on which career development, compensation and promotions are based. We recruit, develop, measure and reward based on a structured, performance-based approach. Our performance philosophy is deeply embedded in the achievement of business goals, competency assessments (behavioral and technical), as well as employee engagement in the case of senior managers. 360 degree assessments are conducted for the leadership (managers and above) and the input supports individual development plans and promotions. All leaders at manager level and above are also assessed for behavioral indicators using the Harrison Assessment Test. In addition, we have also created platforms where individual achievement is highlighted, such as the Personal Excellence Program (PEP), for all our engineers to promote engineering excellence and the opportunity to recognize innovations through VInnovate. We also have leaderboards which provide transparent performance scores, visibility and ranking. They drive competition, thereby improving overall performance and buildling a reputation for agile revenue growth. Our in-house 2-in-a-box performance philosophy has created a high performance culture among teams. Common objectives are framed for both sales and client services teams, which ensures high collaboration and co-ownership, as it is tied to their variable/bonus pay out. The impacts of shortfalls and achievements (or overachievements) of goals were observed in both organizations, steering conjoint action for results. This has had a high positive impact on our account margin, retention scores and client delight index. 52 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Competency Excellence Groups (CEGs), Practices and Role-Based Training mechanisms supported by a system titled ‘Career Compass’ ensures that a systematic approach is followed in developing people whilst the phasebased training needs analysis and need-based training approach ensures that the changing business needs are catered to in a timely and effective manner. With around 86% of Virtusans being ‘Millennials’, the execution of learning interventions such as activity-based classroom learning, online learning, gamification, crowd-sourcing, tech talks, learning circles, use of Yammer, and coaching ensure a distinctive millennial experience in learning and development. We have architected mobile learning systems and applications so that both new recruits and existing employees are exposed to the millennial mode of teaching and learning. Our Mentor time initiative is another development tool that embraces peer learning. This exclusive mentorship program, “Virtusa Ambassadors”, caters to all our new hire technical engineers and Delivery teams. This engagement enables the new recruit/mentee to be mentored in their field, role, larger organizational strategy and developmental chart. Each mentee is assigned to six different leaders (Mentors) who hail from discrete functions and geographies. This program not only helps the mentee to develop functional strengths but also enables them to discover strengths and ensure value addition to the organization. The average feedback from the mentees is 78% depicting the superiority and high impact of the program. We have built robust scorecards and metrics to build this engagement for level 3 assessment. We have several programs, policies and management projects conducted that support mentee development. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATION None of our team members are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or are represented by a labor union. This is partly due to the open communication and cordial relations maintained with employees, which includes an open door policy as well as the transparent and open channels of communication that are encouraged across all levels. Channels of employee engagement range from company-wide updates and town hall sessions to open social media forum such as Yammer. These are supplemented by multiple surveys such as the Internal Service Group Survey that allows employees to provide feedback on all service groups within the company. Employees also have the opportunity to provide their feedback through pulse check surveys conducted periodically during their career at Virtusa (e.g. Onboarding Survey, 5th Month Survey, 18 Month Survey and Exit Survey). The input from these surveys is reviewed to arrive at solutions to create a great place to work. Being a millennial enterprise, we have built our communication ecosystem in a millennial mode ensuring digital engagement and real time communication. 53 V+ ENGAGING THE MILLENNIAL WORKFORCE V+, Virtusa’s proprietary social business platform, has transformed the way Virtusans work, learn, share and connect – ultimately improving business agility, productivity and innovation. V+ creates a millennial work environment by providing a social experience akin to applications like YouTube, Google, Facebook, LinkedIn and Wikipedia. It also uses social practices such as gamification and crowdsourcing to create an engaging platform. YAMMER V+ provides a vibrant platform for employee engagement through Yammer. Utilizing social media for employee engagement has proved to a hit where Virtusans, irrespective of role or designation, can share ideas, request for information, share items of interest, and even conduct surveys and publish company announcements. Overall, Yammer provides a transparent channel that enables intra-personal communication and a free-flow of ideas. CHANNELS OF EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT • Company updates • V+ (Yammer, RAVE) • Global Team Member Survey • Two Month Completion Survey & Five Month Completion Survey for new team members • Internal Service Group Survey • Exit interviews • Facebook • Voice of Europe RAVE Peer recognition and appreciation – RAVE is a 360 degree recognition and appreciation portal, that allows employees to thank, recognize and reward contributions by their colleagues. RAVE incorporates gamification, badges and leaderboards to enhance employee recognition and morale. 54 COMPENSATION Our compensation philosophy rewards performance by linking both variable compensation and salary increases to performance. Benefit plans vary by location, depending on legal requirements. More information on Benefit Plans is available in our Annual Report. RETENTION We remain committed to improving and sustaining our voluntary attrition levels in-line with our long-term stated goals. Our voluntary attrition rate was 14.7%, while our involuntary attrition rate was 3.7% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. We define attrition as the ratio of the number of team members who have left us during a defined period to the total number of team members that were on our payroll at the end of the period. We follow a systemic approach to control attrition and increase retention. We have a robust tool called “Proactive Attrition Warning System” which is rigorously managed by the Business Unit HR teams. This lever enables us to stall attrition and plug it with appropriate customized developmental initiatives. Our amicable exit policy consists of a formal granular exit interview which is more than a retention discussion. DIVERSITY As an equal opportunity employer, we respect diversity in nationality, gender or the differently-abled. We have in place a Harassment Free Workplace Policy to ensure a workplace free from discrimination, harassment or any type of abuse. While we aim to have a balanced ratio of men to women in the workforce, the participation of women is low in the IT industry as a whole. At present, women comprise 29% of our overall global workforce. WOMEN OF VIRTUSA (WOV) The Women of Virtusa (WoV) initiative was launched in March 2012 in an effort to facilitate longer, more fruitful careers for the women at Virtusa. WoV has a committee at each Advanced Technology Center and women are groomed for leadership positions and career satisfaction and maintaining a healthy work/life balance. It offers a basket of initiatives such as career development, training, health & safety, recreation/fun and work/life balance. Virtusa also has a second career initiative where women are offered to initiate a new career after a break (family reasons) of a few years. This has enhanced the retention of women and ensure long careers with Virtusa. 55 EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY We strive to provide a safe and secure work environment for all Virtusans. Our Advanced Technology Centers in Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Colombo are OSHAS 18001 certified. Health and safety committees at each location are responsible for the Environment, Health and Safety initiatives for their respective location. These committees consist of members from the HR and Admin teams as well as volunteers from across the organization. Training on environment, health and safety is provided as part of our On-boarding program and all employees are assessed on their knowledge of these tools. Basic training on First Aid and Fire Safety are available to employees on a voluntary basis. Apart from these, Virtusa provides flexible time and work-from-home options to employees whenever there is a need for agile business outcomes. NURTURING TALENT SPORTS AND LEISURE ACTIVITIES Sports and extra-curricular activities are an important part of employee engagement at Virtusa. Cricket, Rugby, Football, Badminton and Athletics are all sports where Virtusans take part in mercantile championships. SILVER PIXELS Silver Pixels is an annual exhibition where photography enthusiasts at Virtusa can showcase their talent. The exhibition is held in multiple ATCs and photographs from the exhibition are used in the corporate calendar, which is shared with Virtusa clients and employees. 56 PEOPLE DATA TOTAL WORKFORCE India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APAC Region Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Permanent 3,549 1,421 1,537 737 583 86 98 26 15 2 Cadre Contract 96 53 18 11 118 13 36 4 17 Outsourced 134 15 39 3 18 1 FY14: Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APAC Region Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Permanent 4,001 1,770 1,665 817 750 109 87 15 24 9 Cadre Contract 38 18 22 5 172 17 59 8 17 4 Outsourced 165 21 22 1 3 1 FY15: Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender NEW HIRES India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APAC Region Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Permanent 923 590 295 124 24 4 11 7 4 1 Cadre Contract 407 77 114 20 81 17 4 3 Outsourced 1 5 221 29 40 3 1 FY14: Total number and rate of new employee hires by age group, gender, and region India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APAC Region Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Under 30 959 596 293 171 188 24 34 7 7 5 30–49 463 89 106 20 91 16 19 24 6 Over 50 5 1 1 19 2 2 1 FY15: Total number and rate of new employee hires by age group, gender, and region 57 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APAC Region Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Under 30 453 215 166 96 11 2 11 3 130–49 322 78 76 22 48 7 8 7 2 Over 50 3 1 1 1 29 5 5 1 1 FY14: Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APAC Region Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Under 30 483 253 159 71 20 8 9 4 1 2 30–49 334 92 92 25 75 11 11 1 2 1 Over 50 2 2 1 29 6 9 1 1 FY15: Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region DIVERSITY India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APAC Region Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Tier 0 – Tier 1 89% 11% 85% 15% 90% 10% 87% 13% 80% 20% Tier 2 – Tier 4 69% 31% 66% 34% 85% 15% 79% 21% 100% FY14: Percentage of employees by gender and by level India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APAC Region Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Tier 0 – Tier 1 87% 13% 85% 15% 90% 10% 93% 7% 87% 13% Tier 2 – Tier 4 67% 33% 66% 34% 85% 15% 81% 19% 69% 31% FY15: Percentage of employees by gender and by level 58 REMUNERATION RATIOS India Sri Lanka US & Europe Male Female Male Female Male Female Tier 0 1.04 1.0 0.94 1.0 1.32 1.0 Tier 1 1.09 1.0 1.05 1.0 0.95 1.0 Tier 2 1.07 1.0 1.15 1.0 0.96 1.0 Tier 3 1.04 1.0 1.18 1.0 1.0 Tier 4 1.12 1.0 1.11 1.0 1.0 FY14: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men India Sri Lanka US & Europe Europe Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Tier 0 0.93 1.0 0.99 1.0 1.26 1.0 4.6 1.0 Tier 1 1.10 1.0 1.07 1.0 1.10 1.0 1.4 1.0 Tier 2 1.09 1.0 1.15 1.0 0.95 1.0 1.6 1.0 Tier 3 1.04 1.0 1.20 1.0 1.12 1.0 0.9 1.0 Tier 4 1.07 1.0 1.11 1.0 0.93 1.0 0.4 1.0 FY14: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men TRAINING DATA India Sri Lanka US & Europe Tier 0 4.88 4.12 2.11 Tier 1 3.26 2.84 1.21 Tier 2 2.79 2.89 1.14 Tier 3 2.98 2.61 1.26 Tier 4 5.26 2.70 1.27 Tier 5 3.85 1.32 1.00 FY14: Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category India Sri Lanka US & Europe Tier 0 4.1 4.5 3.5 Tier 1 4.0 4.7 3.9 Tier 2 3.1 3.6 3.3 Tier 3 2.9 2.9 4.7 Tier 4 4.3 4.5 10.0 Tier 5 2.6 1.8 7.0 FY15: Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 59 IT FOR GOOD 60 We believe in using our skills and knowledge to create a digitally-inclusive society. Our strong culture of volunteerism means that many Virtusans offer their time, knowledge and skills to drive our corporate social responsibility projects. Virtusa’s corporate social responsibility initiatives fall under three pillars: Campus Reach, Tech Reach and Digital Reach. 850 internships 17,240 campus training hours Our Campus Reach initiative is an industryacademia partnership designed to support the next generation of IT professionals to be workforce FY14/FY15 Campus Reach Stats ready, and thereby, contribute to the growth of the IT/BPO industry. • 426 Internships Through Campus Reach Virtusa provides: • 60 Career guidance sessions Curriculum development and advice, Virtusa • 24 TechTalks Internship Program, teaching and teacher training, • 6 Excellence Awards career guidance and awareness, mentoring for • 21 Industrial visits final year projects, Virtusa Academic Excellence Awards, Placement Engineer Scholarship Program, knowledge sharing through TechTalks and industrial visits. 61 4 software projects 5 awards Through Tech Reach we utilize our software development and consulting expertise to contribute to projects of social benefit. Tech Reach projects include the following: SAHANA Virtusa built the coordination portal for the Government of Sri Lanka (CNO) after the 2004 tsunami. Sahana has since been donated for public good and has been used around the world, including in the United States, Japan, Pakistan and the Philippines for disaster management. ÀKURA Àkura is an open source school management system that helps schools to manage their administrative tasks more efficiently. In FY14 Àkura was moved to a billing model, though Virtusa will continue to support the open source version. REHABILITATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (RMS) RMS was first developed as a solution to expedite the re-integration of war rehabilitees in Sri Lanka and manage their vocational training needs. Now that the re-integration process has concluded, Virtusa is developing Phase II of RMS (named Arambaya) so that is can be re-purposed for substance abuse rehabilitation. FIRST MULTIPURPOSE/MULTIMEDIA DIGITAL SCOREBOARD IN SRI LANKA Virtusa designed and donated the software to operate a digital LED scoreboard at the Mathota Sports Arena in Mannar, Sri Lanka. The software was designed by members of the GTO team at SLATC. Virtusa also donated a desktop machine along with the software for the scoreboard. The theme of the Mathota Stadium is “Reconciliation through sports” and it is intended to be part of the reconstruction and development of the North and East of Sri Lanka. 62 70 IT Labs 200,000 training hours Through Digital Reach we aim to create a digitally-inclusive society by IT enabling communities in Sri Lanka and India. LABS FOR RURAL SCHOOLS Since its inception, Digital Reach has helped set up IT labs in rural schools in India and Sri Lanka. So far more than 70 IT labs have been set up with a student reach of 7,000+. The Digital Reach model was adopted by the Sri Lanka Association of Software and Service Companies (SLASSCOM) for a countrywide community outreach program. DIGITAL LEARNING CENTER In 2010 Virtusa set up a fully-equipped Digital Learning Center (DLC) to help war rehabilitants in Sri Lanka gain IT skills. The DLC was used to provide a variety of IT skills training, covering over 200,000 training hours. Once the rehabilitation process was completed, the DLC was handed over to the local higher education authorities to offer IT education to university students in the area. 63 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Winner of Free Software Foundation Finalist in Secretary of State Award for Award for Projects of Social Benefit Corporate Excellence (2008) (2006) Winner of Digital Opportunity Award at the WITSA Global ICT Excellence Awards (2012) Case Study in UN Global Compact Nominee at Computerworld Honors Program Laureate (2011) RMS AND VAVUNIYA DLC Responsible Business Advancing Peace (2013) Special Award for Emergency Response at the 18th Annual Japan Sri Lanka Cultural Association (JASTECA) Awards (2013) 64 COMMUNITY OUTREACH PROJECTS RINGS OF SUPPORT FOR CHILDREN WITH THALASSEMIA The Chennai CSR team formed the ‘Rings of Support (RI-SUPP)’ to support children affected by Thalassemia. RI-SUPP comprises four groups of 10 donors, who will support one ‘thalassemia child’ lifelong. The objective is to create a more personalized support system for the children as they need blood transfusions every 24 days depending on the severity of the case. BE A SANTA PROJECT The VINGS CSR Team at Chennai ATC organized the “Be a Santa” project to help the Udhavum Ullangal orphanage. It was identified that the main requirement of the orphanage was the provision of a mat and pillow for each child. Virtusa donated mats and pillows to all 110 residents of the orphanage. The success of the initiative was seen in the smiling faces of the children who received the gifts with delight. BEAT THE HEAT The VINGS CSR Team at Chennai ATC donated garden umbrellas to poor vendors. This provided the vendors shelter from the summer heat. 65 HELP FOR MANIKONDA UPPER PRIMARY SCHOOL In order to share our good fortune with the wider community, Hyderabad ATC has been helping the Upper Primary school at Manikonda. In December 2014, the Virtusa team donated 300 books to the school as they were in need of a library. In February 2015, Virtusa provided some basic amenities like a ceiling fan, a mobile blackboard sheet, educational kits, Rubik’s cubes, educational charts, etc. PLAYGROUND FOR RAJASINGHE MAHA VIDYALAYA Virtusa helped build an outdoor play area for the students of Rajasinghe Maha Vidyalaya, thus realizing a longawaited dream of the school. The donation was part of Virtusa’s efforts to uplift the standards of the school. Rajasinghe Maha Vidyalaya has nearly 700 students and operates with limited resources. The opening of the new playground coincided with the lower school Prize Giving where students who excelled in their studies were presented with study material donated by Virtusans. Virtusa has been engaging with the school in an effort to foster positive community relations and development. The school children joined Virtusa to commemorate World Environment Day in 2013 and Earth Hour, and World Children’s Day in 2014. 66 SPREADING CHEER AT THE CHILDREN’S WARD NATIONAL CANCER HOSPITAL In 2013, a team of Virtusans from the Sri Lanka ATC visited the Children’s Ward at the National Cancer Hospital in Sri Lanka, where they donated supplements and medical items. The Virtusans organized various activities including a magic show, dance and performances by leading Sri Lankan artists who volunteered to entertain the children and their parents. In 2014, Virtusa helped to bring some Christmas cheer to the Children’s Ward by distributing gifts in partnership with the Lions Club of Nugegoda – Midtown. FLOOD AND DROUGHT RELIEF Virtusans in India and Sri Lanka came forward to help their fellow countrymen affected by natural disasters. Virtusans in Hyderabad and Bangalore donated blankets, medicines, and other items to assist people affected by floods in Jammu and Kashmir. In Sri Lanka, Virtusans donated 80+ water tanks to help drought-hit families in several parts of the country. 67 WOMEN OF VIRTUSA (WOV) HELPS ORPHANAGE Members of Women of Virtusa (WoV)–Sri Lanka cleaned, painted and brightened up the playground at the Jayanthi Infants Home on Saturday, November 22, 2014. The WoV members created murals and cleaned and painted the swing set and merry-go-round so that the previously unusable playground could be enjoyed by the children at the Home. This project was made possible through the generous donations of Virtusans. Muchneeded provisions such as milk powder, soap, detergent, etc., were also donated to the Home. 68 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATOR MAPPING Category UNGC Principle GRI Indicators Page Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; And HR1, HR6, HR7, SO5 15, 18, 34 Human Rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not HR6, HR7 18, 34 complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to LA4 53 collective bargaining; Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all HR7 18, 34 Labour forms of forced or compulsory labour; Standards Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition HR6 18, 34 of child labour; Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of EC7, LA1, LA2, LA14 6, 57-59 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Disclosures on approach to environmental challenges; Management Approach: 39 Environment Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to Environment promote greater environmental responsibility; and EN3, EN4, EN5, EN7, EN8 EN9, EN10, EN16, EN18, 38-49 EN22, EN24 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN16, EN18 41-41 Disclosures on Anti Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all Management Approach: 33 Corruption its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption, SO2, SO3 69 GRI APPLICATION LEVEL 70 GRI REPORTING FRAMEWORK 3.1: CONTENT INDEX GRI Application Level C STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: PROFILE DISCLOSURES 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Reason for Description Reported Page Explanation Disclosure Omission Statement from the most senior 1.1 Fully 2-3 decision-maker of the organization. 2. Organizational Profile Profile Reason for Description Reported Page Explanation Disclosure Omission 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully 5 Full description available at: Primary brands, products, and/or 2.2 Partially 7 http://www. services. virtusa.com/ services/ Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, 2.3 Fully 7 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully 7 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations 2.5 Fully 7 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 7 Markets served (including geographic 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of Fully 7-8 customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 6-9, 57 Significant changes during the reporting 2.9 period regarding size, structure, or Fully 7 ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 20-23 71 3. Report Parameters Profile Reason for Description Reported Page Explanation Disclosure Omission 3.1 Reporting period Fully 18 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Fully 18 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully 18 Contact point for questions regarding 3.4 Fully 18 the report or its contents. 13, 14, 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 18, 19 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.6 Fully 18 joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see 3.7 Fully 18-19 completeness principle for explanation of scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that 3.8 Fully 18 can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such 3.10 Fully 19 re-statement (e.g. mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 Fully 19 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Table identifying the location of the 3.12 Fully 71-77 Standard Disclosures in the report. 72 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Reason for Description Reported Page Explanation Disclosure Omission Proxy Statement Governance structure of the (available at: organization, including committees http://www. under the highest governance body 4.1 Partially 30-32 virtusa.com/ responsible for specific tasks, such investors/annualas setting strategy or organizational report-and-proxyoversight. statement/) Proxy Statement (available at: Indicate whether the Chair of the http://www. 4.2 highest governance body is also an Partially 30 virtusa.com/ executive officer. investors/annualreport-and-proxystatement/) Proxy Statement For organizations that have a unitary (available at: board structure, state the number and http://www. 4.3 gender of members of the highest Partially 30 virtusa.com/ governance body that are independent investors/annualand/or non-executive members. report-and-proxystatement/) Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 4.4 Fully 30 or direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for Proxy Statement members of the highest governance (available at: body, senior managers, and executives Provided in http://www. 4.5 (including departure arrangements), No the Proxy virtusa.com/ and the organization’s performance Statement investors/annual(including social and environmental report-and-proxyperformance). statement/) Proxy Statement (available at: Processes in place for the highest Provided in http://www. 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts of No the Proxy virtusa.com/ interest are avoided. Statement investors/annualreport-and-proxystatement/) Proxy Statement Process for determining the (available at: composition, qualifications, and Provided in http://www. expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 No the Proxy virtusa.com/ governance body and its committees, Statement investors/annualincluding any consideration of gender report-and-proxyand other indicators of diversity. statement/) Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, 5, 13, 33, 4.8 and principles relevant to economic, Fully 35-36 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 73 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Reason for Description Reported Page Explanation Disclosure Omission Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s Proxy Statement identification and management of (available at: economic, environmental, and social http://www. 4.9 performance, including relevant risks Partially 32 virtusa.com/ and opportunities, and adherence or investors/annualcompliance with internationally agreed report-and-proxystandards, codes of conduct, and statement/) principles. Proxy Statement (available at: Processes for evaluating the highest Provided in http://www. governance body’s own performance, 4.10 No the Proxy virtusa.com/ particularly with respect to economic, Statement investors/annualenvironmental, and social performance. report-and-proxystatement/) Explanation of whether and how the 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is Fully 39 addressed by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 4.12 Fully 15 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as 4.13 industry associations) and/or national/ Fully 15 international advocacy organizations. List of stakeholder groups engaged by 4.14 Fully 13-14 the organization. Basis for identification and selection of 4.15 Partially 13-14 stakeholders with whom to engage. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2. Organizational Profile Reason for Description Reported Page Explanation Omission Available at: http://www. Reported in virtusa.com/investors/ Category: Economic Partially 13 Annual Report annual-report-and-proxystatement/ Category: Environmental Fully 12, 13, 29, 37-49 Category: Labor Practices and Fully 12, 13, 34, 50-59 Decent Work Category: Human Rights Fully 12, 13, 29, 34 Category: Society Fully 12, 13, 28-36 Category: Product Responsibility Fully 25, 35, 36 74 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Performance Description Reported Page Indicator Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations EC1 Fully 8-9 and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for EC2 Fully 40-41 the organization's activities due to climate change. Annual Report (available at: http:// Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan www.virtusa.com/ EC3 Partially obligations. investors/annualreport-and-proxystatement/) Annual Report (available at: http:// www.virtusa.com/ EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Partially investors/annualreport-and-proxystatement/) Market presence Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based EC6 Fully 18 suppliers at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior EC7 management hired from the local community at significant Partially 6 locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit through Fully 8, 61-68 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic EC9 Fully 8 impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental Performance Description Reported Page Indicator Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully 45 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully 45 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5 Fully 42, 44 improvements. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 42, 44, 45 reductions achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 42, 45 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 42 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 42, 45 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully 41, 42, 45 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions EN18 Fully 41, 42, 45 achieved. 75 Environmental Performance Description Reported Page Indicator Emissions, effluents and waste EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully 42, 43, 46 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24 Fully 46 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonEN28 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Fully 29 laws and regulations. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products EN29 and other goods and materials used for the organization’s Fully 42, 45 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Description Reported Page Indicator Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, LA1 Fully 57 and region, broken down by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee LA2 Fully 57, 58 turnover by age group, gender, and region. Labor/management relations Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LA4 Fully 51, 53 agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that LA6 Partially 56 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, LA10 Fully 59 and by employee category. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and LA12 Fully 52 career development reviews, by gender. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age LA13 Partially 30 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by LA14 Fully 59 employee category, by significant locations of operation. 76 Social: Human Rights Performance Description Reported Page Indicator Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating HR1 Partially 18 human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having HR6 significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken Fully 18, 34 to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, HR7 Fully 18, 34 and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Social: Society Performance Description Reported Page Indicator Percentage of operations with implemented local community SO1 engagement, impact assessments, and development Partially 61-68 programs. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for SO2 Fully 33 risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization's antiSO3 Fully 33 corruption policies and procedures. Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 Fully 15 development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political SO6 Fully 8 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, SO7 Fully 29 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Fully 29 regulations. Social: Society Performance Description Reported Page Indicator Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of PR5 Fully 2, 25 surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary PR6 codes related to marketing communications, including Fully 36 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches PR8 Fully 35, 36 of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Fully 29 products and services. 77 © 2015 All rights reserved. Virtusa and all other related logos are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Virtusa Corporation in the United States, the European Union, and/or India. All other company and service names are the property of their respective holders and may be registered trademarks or trademarks in the United States and/or other countries. 78
