©LEXCODE ©LEXCODE  Lexcode pledges to do its best to support, spread, and make widely known the key values of the United Nations (UN) in the fields of human rights, anticorruption, the environment, and labor as a member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). To support human rights, we will neither accept nor work on any document that contains any content that is in violation of human rights or any requests from an organization that does not abide by human rights. To support anticorruption, we will continue to transparently manage our business internally and compete fairly based on due procedures externally as we receive requests for interpretation and translation services. To support eco-friendly values, we will actively adopt and practice policies that can help preserve and recover the environment. To support good labor values, we will not only abide by labor-related regulations but also ceaselessly work hard to provide a pleasant working environment and proper welfare to our employees. ©LEXCODE  Russia United Kingdom Ukraine Germany USA Korea Italy Israel China Hong Kong Egypt India Philippines Vietnam  ©LEXCODE  We provide simultaneous / consecutive / accompanying We process about 10,000 interpretation services. translation projects annually. We lend and operate interpretation We provide translation services for transmitter–receiver equipment. over 30 languages. We have about 1,000 translators in each field. We provide editing services for English papers following major style We provide call center services for guides such as APA, MLA, Chicago, about 20 languages. and so on. We operate call centers for global We provide proofreading and editing marketing, teller sales, and help services for papers to be published desks. in about 3,000 major academic journals globally. ©LEXCODE  Company: Lexcode CEO: HAM, Cheol-yong Established date: May 2004 Address: 6F–7F., Daeseong Bld., 41 Seochojungang-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Korea Certificates: Venture Firm Certificate Subsidiary Research Center Certificate ISO 9001 Quality Business Management Certificate Two patent applications and one patent registration Technologically Innovative Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) (Inno-Biz) Certificate  CEO Philippines Philippines China Office Korea Office Office Office Strategy & Translation Interpretation QA General Technology Department Department Department Mgmt. Department ©LEXCODE  Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ©LEXCODE Lexcode supports and respects not only stakeholders working in the interpretation and translation business, but also internationally declared human rights protection.  Young employees pursuing horizontal relations Over 80% of the Lexcode staff, labeled “Lexcodians,” are in their 20s and 30s. As such, the company is a young and flexible organization that respects the unique personality of each member. We hold “casual days” every Friday, during which Lexcodians can wear casual clothes to work. THE PERCENTAGE OF FOREIGN Lexcodians are diverse. EMPLOYEES IN LEXCODE Lexcode does not discriminate based on 36% race, sex, and age when employing staff 34% both in Korea and globally, and employs competent persons who can actively 32% practice the key values of the company. 30% Multilingual interpreters and translators who can fluently work in various languages, 28% such as Pakistani, Cambodian, Myanmar, 26% and Malay, are all Lexcode’s precious treasures. 2013 2014 2015 The entire staff makes presentations during staff meetings We hold “one-minute, month-end reports” during staff meetings. Here, the entire staff gets to enjoy the opportunity of freely reporting and discussing their work. ©LEXCODE Lexcode has been supporting the disadvantaged who suffer from poverty both in Korea and globally, since March 2011.  We support “Home of Love” We support the management of “Home of Love,” in which children with leukemia or cancer, together with their families, can be provided with accommodation or a place to rest while the children get long-term treatment at a hospital. Most hospitals treating children with leukemia or cancer are located in large metropolitan cities in which expenses (transportation, lodging, and meals) other than the treatment cost can put a heavy financial burden to their families. In addition, we support the management of independent spaces where they can do household tasks like wash clothes and cook, which are facilities that hospitals do not provide. These spaces provide an avenue where 5,000 children with leukemia or cancer, as well as their families, may rest and enjoy with less financial burdens. ©LEXCODE Lexcode has been supporting the disadvantaged who suffer from poverty both in Korea and globally, since March 2011.  One-to-one sisterhood relations with children overseas We have formed one-to-one sisterhood relations with two children located in Guatemala in need of help. Until now, we continue to support their happy growth by comprehensively providing financial support for their education, meals, and overall health. Lexcode’s activities during the first half of 2015 We held a donation event wherein the entire profit made from selling iced tea was given to children located overseas in need of support. In addition, we supported the procurement of stationeries to be <Justa Ajsivinac Yancoba, given on their birthdays. Odilia Marisol Panteul Soloman > ©LEXCODE Lexcode upholds and respects the rights of employees enshrined in Korea’s Constitution, labor laws, and the UNGC. Lexcode respects the diversity of employees, and strives to improve their quality of life with better working conditions. EXPERTISE  An evaluation system that values well-rounded maturity COOPER and capability ABILITY Lexcode has a three-tier evaluation system of evaluating the executives, RELATIVE team leaders, and team members. EVALUAT Well-rounded maturity includes integrity, -ION vision, leadership, and discipline, while capability entails expertise and the ability to collaborate. With this, Lexcode fairly evaluates all Lexcodians.  Lexcodian of the Month awards Each month, we select two “Lexcodians of the Month.” Through this, Lexcode shows its support and gratitude for the employees’ hard work exerted over the month. ©LEXCODE Lexcode upholds and respects the rights of employees enshrined in Korea’s Constitution, labor laws, and the UNGC. Lexcode respects the diversity of employees, and strives to improve their quality of life with better working conditions.  We conduct in-house training on the prevention of sexual harassment Lexcode conducts mandatory in-house training on the prevention of sexual harassment once a year. We are thus working hard to create a working environment wherein everyone can coexist in harmony. Training on leadership Lexcode provides training for enhancing team leadership to foster key managers and leaders. The training entails fostering key leaders in each grade so that they may help spread Lexcode’s key values. Need rest? Help yourself. According to regulations (rest) of Article 54 of the Labor Standards Act of Korea, a worker is entitled to rest for over 30 minutes during working hours after having worked for over 4 hours. Lexcode operates a sleeping room inside the office pursuant to the act, so that any staff member may rest during working hours other than lunch time. ©LEXCODE Lexcode upholds and respects the rights of employees enshrined in Korea’s Constitution, labor laws, and the UNGC. Lexcode respects the diversity of employees, and strives to improve their quality of life with better working conditions.  Activities to enhance communication by team Lexcode organizes a company-wide workshop each month, promoting more honest and effective communication. Special events to boost morale Lexcode intermittently holds special events to boost staff morale. We hold events wherein the entire staff participates to win coupons for extended lunch hours or early leave from work. ©LEXCODE Lexcode upholds and respects the rights of employees enshrined in Korea’s Constitution, labor laws, and the UNGC. Lexcode respects the diversity of employees, and strives to improve their quality of life with better working conditions.  Culture Day On “Lexcode Culture Day,” held on a certain day every other month, the entire staff can enjoy various cultural events. Starting this year, we have surveyed the staff to find out what kind of programs they are satisfied with and prefer to prepare events accordingly. 2015 CULTURE DAY SATISFACTION SURVEY 95 89 86 72 MUSICAL BOWLING POP ART MOVIE ©LEXCODE Lexcode actively supports global efforts for eco-friendliness and environmental sustainability. At Lexcode, we will encourage a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and the development of more eco-friendly technologies.  Using My Cup If we avoid using just one disposable cup, we can apparently reduce 4 kg of carbon dioxide emission. To reduce the use of disposable cups, the entire Lexcode staff uses their own tumblers or mugs. With this, we are able to reduce the use of disposable goods in the office, and using the savings from this effort, Lexcode can hold more support activities for environment preservation. Healthy lunch box culture Lexcodians help reduce emissions from food waste and the use of disposable goods from eating out by bringing their lunch boxes from home, three times a week on average. The staff shares the side dishes they bring and socializes with fellow Lexcodians over lunch. Improving the in-house environment and eating healthy meals are some of the efforts made by Lexcode to protect the environment despite everyone’s busy lives. Reducing the emission of carbon dioxide by wearing cool clothes To reduce the emission of carbon dioxide and prevent air conditioner–related diseases in the summer, the staff is allowed to wear light and cool clothes at work. Male staff do not have to wear ties, and female staff can wear light blouses without heavy accessories. We thus maintain the heating and cooling temperature indoors at 26°C. Thanks to this effort, we have succeeded at raising the air conditioner’s set temperature by 2° and at saving cooling energy. ©LEXCODE Lexcode actively supports global efforts for eco-friendliness and environmental sustainability. At Lexcode, we will encourage a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and the development of more eco-friendly technologies.  Protecting the surroundings of the trekking path in front of the office In the morning, upon arrival at work, Lexcode practices environmental protection by picking trash thrown on the trekking path near the office. This movement not only helps keep the environment clean but also keeps the staff healthy as they have to trek along the path. Although not grandiose, it is our hope that such practices would help improve not only the office environment but also the local society and the environment as a whole. Training on environmental protection Lexcode is actively participating in the UNGC’s environmental training provided to enhance and lead ecoresponsibility. We are also working hard to understand and benchmark best practices of other companies implementing the ten principles of the UNGC. ©LEXCODE Lexcode clearly objects to corruption in all its forms, including extortion and other activities, that compromise the principle of integrity.  Lexcode reinforces a strong code of ethics in all employees and ensures the integrity of all its official procedures. The corporate credit card management system is employed every month to conduct audits. The company’s financial team is dedicated to finding budget wastes. The details of all work-related expenses are transparently disclosed. Fostering a culture of integrity Lexcode encourages employees to cultivate integrity on their own through the company’s collective purse. Employees pay equal amounts into this purse, and the amounts collected are spent on purchasing birthday gifts or providing help for employees in need. Lexcode also discourages the giving or receiving of gifts in its dealings with clients. Lexcode Inc. lexcode@lexcode.com www.lexcode.com
