Greenstone Annual Communication on Progress February 2014 – February 2015 Introduction I am pleased to confirm that Greenstone+ Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. With this Communication on Progress, we demonstrate our commitment to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. We support public accountability and transparency and we are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Matthew de Villiers Chief Executive Officer Greenstone+ Ltd 2 Our commitment to UNGC Principles As a sustainable software solutions company, Greenstone assists its clients with sustainability reporting. We provide an advanced non-financial reporting service and software solutions to over 100 organisations in more than 90 countries. Greenstone's software and services cover Environment, CSR Frameworks, Health & Safety and Supply Chain and any other non-financial KPIs our clients need to report. This enables our clients to take an integrated and robust approach to reporting. We actively use and promote the UN Global Compact Principles as a standard for our clients and are dedicated to improving the transparency of corporate reporting in the 4 key areas – human rights, labour, environment and anti-bribery and corruption. SupplierPortal – enabling responsible sourcing Through our SupplierPortal solution (http://www.greenstoneplus.com/software/supplierportal/), we are helping our clients to improve transparency of responsible sourcing information across the supply chain. SupplierPortal is an online responsible sourcing tool for suppliers and their buyers to track and monitor environmental, labour, health & safety and anti-bribery & corruption information. Using a series of questionnaires and data wizards, suppliers are able to disclose information about their policies and procedures that they have in place. This helps buying organisations to get a better understanding of the companies they work with across their supply chain to help them make informed business decisions. 3 Human Rights As an employer, Greenstone is committed to providing employees all basic Human Rights guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Global Compact Principles. Equality & Diversity Policy Greenstone has a written equal opportunity policy that complies with its statutory obligations under the Race Relations Act 1976, the Sex Discrimination Act 1975, the Disability Discrimination Act 1995, the Equality Act 2006 and the Equality Act (Sexual Orientation) Regulations 2007. Forthcoming Plans • All staff will be reminded of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and be made aware of the commitment Greenstone has made to these principles. • Any and all updates in legislation will be communicated to employees in a timely manner and communicated through education and awareness training. Measurement of outcomes Since its inception, Greenstone has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. Due to the scope of our activities and number of employees (15) in our organisation, an external audit on Human Rights performance is not required. 4 Labour Greenstone’s policies and procedures, including our Health and Safety policy, employment contracts, and non-discrimination policies, comply with both UK and EU employment legislation to ensure that our staff are treated fairly and without discrimination. We are committed to maintaining positive labour relations, and encourage open debate between the team and the Board of Directors about issues that affect them or that they feel need to be discussed. As a team, we have a zero tolerance policy for all forms of forced and compulsory labour both within Greenstone and within our clients and suppliers. We also are vehemently opposed to any form of child labour and discriminatory practices. Measurement of outcomes The rights of all employees are continuously reviewed to ensure that the Greenstone team are happy and that they are fulfilled and motivated by their work. Where necessary we take external advice, and as a result of our care to ensure that we enforce Labour principles compliant with the Global Compact position, we have never had a breach or complaint about unfair treatment since the Company formation in 2006. 5 Environment Greenstone is committed to acting responsibly and adopting best practice to minimise our environmental impact. We are committed to the continuous improvement of our environmental performance, as part of our overall goal of implementing the principles of sustainable development in all areas of our work. Our aim is to ensure that environmental objectives are integrated into relevant business objectives in a cost-effective manner. Greenstone is continually improving its environmental targets and plans. Our sustainability policy is publically available through our SupplierPortal profile. Ongoing goals include: • Comply with all relevant environmental legislation and approved codes of practice in force, cooperating fully with the appropriate regulatory authorities; • Foster an understanding of the environmental issues arising from our business activities among our employees, suppliers, contractors, customers and the local community. • Carry out regular measurement and audits of Greenstone’s environmental activities. Measurement of outcomes We continuously measure and manage our environmental performance (including energy, water, waste and recycling) using our Enterprise software. We also report our environmental performance publicly on an annual basis to our customers via our SupplierPortal solution. 6 Anti-bribery & corruption Greenstone is committed to operating responsibly wherever we work in the world and to engage with our stakeholders to manage the social, environmental and ethical impact of our activities in the different markets in which we operate. Greenstone does not engage in bribery or any form of unethical inducement or payment including facilitation payments and ‘kickbacks.’ All employees are required to avoid any activities that might lead to, or suggest, a conflict of interest with the business of the Company. We do not make direct or indirect contributions to political parties. Measurement of outcomes The Greenstone Management Team regularly reviews the implementation of this policy in respect of its suitability, adequacy and effectiveness and makes improvements as appropriate. It periodically reports the results of this process to the Greenstone Board, who makes an independent assessment of the adequacy of the policy and discloses any material non-compliance. Greenstone has established feedback mechanisms in order to maintain accurate records which properly and fairly document all financial transactions. Internal control systems are subject to regular audits to provide assurance that they are effective in countering bribery and corruption. 7 5th Floor, Crown House 143-147 Regent Street London W1B 4NR T: +44 (0)20 3031 4000 W: www.greenstoneplus.com
