Zurich Insurance Group United Nations Global Compact Living up to our commitment Martin Senn Chief Executive Officer, Zurich Insurance Group Statement of Our progress 2014–2015 We continued our efforts in our pilot communities in Mexico, Indonesia, Nepal continuing support Our flood resilience program and Peru. In Mexico, the focus is on clusters of at-risk communities in Tabasco, where in In 2014 the secretariat of the UN’s Framework some places floodwaters stand for months at Zurich became a signatory of the Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) a time. These communities are now implementing United Nations Global Compact in recognized the Zurich flood resilience program solutions to provide shelters and alternative July 2011 because we believe that being as a ‘Momentum for Change Lighthouse agriculture during the flood season. In Indonesia, a responsible company is fundamental Activity,’ acknowledging it as an outstanding we are looking at how upstream behavior affects to our long-term sustainability. example of efforts to address climate change downstream communities in West Java, especially and its effects. with regard to developing a sustainable waste As a signatory, we are committed to aligning our strategy, culture and day-to-day management approach. Work in Nepal includes Our program employs a new approach to strengthening critical infrastructure (such as operations with the Global Compact’s 10 cross-sector collaboration through an alliance evacuation routes and shelters) and improving universally-accepted principles in the areas with the International Federation of Red Cross livelihoods to make community members better of human rights, labor, environment and and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the able to withstand floods. The El Niño phenomenon anti-corruption. The principles of the international non-governmental organization can cause enormous damage to communities in Global Compact complement Zurich (NGO) Practical Action, and two research urban areas in Peru. We are working in the Rimac Basics, our basic values and code of institutes – the International Institute for Applied and Piura river basins to help communities in conduct, and all Zurich employees Systems Analysis (IIASA), and the Wharton Risk these places prepare better for the heavy rains are expected to live up to both. Management and Decision Processes Center. that typically follow a severe El Niño. Our continued commitment to the United By linking research, community-based programs Our collaboration with Wharton and Nations Global Compact’s principles on and risk expertise, we seek to demonstrate IIASA delivered key research insights, human and labor rights, the environment the benefits of pre-event risk reduction over which the alliance has used to build a and anti-corruption is expressed in this report. post-event disaster relief. Together we also resilience measurement tool. This tool takes We are committed to embracing, supporting work to facilitate public dialogue around an innovative approach toward defining a and enacting these principles within our flood resilience. community’s resilience level, and helps us to sphere of influence, and we will regularly communicate on our progress. measure the impact of our work. Zurich also published three post-event review studies of specific flood events in Germany, Switzerland and the UK. Zurich Insurance Group | United Nations Global Compact – Communication on progress 2014/2015 1 Our progress 2014–2015 continued As part of an employee secondment plan, eight UN Guiding Principles on Business Our people Zurich employees were given the opportunity to and Human Rights Underscoring the important role our people work on projects with our community partners in Zurich led the process to develop the Chief Risk play in achieving our strategic goals, the role 2014, allowing them to deploy their skills where Officer Forum’s 2014 discussion paper, Human of Chief Human Resources Officer was elevated they can make a difference. Rights in Corporate Insurance. This paper seeks to the Group Executive Committee. to improve understanding of how insurance Responsible investment companies can manage human rights risks The Zurich Commitment to stakeholders and Responsible investment forms an integral when dealing with other corporations. It Zurich Basics, our code of conduct, are part part of Zurich’s investment philosophy and aims to help the industry address changing of the training of every member of staff. They approach. We have been a signatory of the expectations about its role in ensuring human encapsulate our core values. We are now Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) rights are respected, while promoting best building on these values to evolve our culture since 2012 and are pursuing a robust strategy practice. Building on what we learned, we have toward one where our people can deliver even for responsible investment. Our second PRI introduced an overarching human rights position better results, inspire trust and confidence, show Transparency report for the 2014 – 2015 in our approach to managing CR risks in compassion and care and make a difference reporting cycle was published on our website business transactions. to those around them, including making a in March 2015. positive contribution to the communities in Environmental performance which we live and work. With this in mind, In July 2014, we doubled our commitment Zurich uses a Group-wide environmental in 2014 we re-shaped people practices in to invest in green bonds to up to USD 2 billion, management system (EMS) to measure and the areas of recruiting, talent management, with around USD 700 million already invested. improve our environmental footprint across development, performance management, With this investment we hope to help mitigate all countries in which we operate. This system engagement, and diversity and inclusion. climate change and other environmental risks. helps us to reduce our global carbon footprint We have also made our first investments in and address other types of environmental impact In summary impact private equity, supporting inclusive from our offices, such as paper use, waste Insurance creates value for society. It allows finance in Africa and Asia, and environmental generation and water consumption. In Switzerland people and businesses to protect themselves technologies in Europe. we have received ISO 14001 certification for from risk and helps them become prosperous all Zurich in-house business operations and the and resilient. Risks are becoming more complex In collaboration with Population Services activities of Zurich’s headquarters and the Zurich as a result of climate change, globalization, International (PSI), a large global health Switzerland business unit. urbanization and technological development. organization, we developed a unique Insurers are increasingly expected to use their framework to facilitate use of investor We aim to reduce carbon emissions generated core skills to help communities and society capital as a source of flexible and scalable by our office buildings and business travel become more resilient to interconnected risks, funding for NGOs. Through this work we by 50 percent per employee, and energy including natural hazards. The premiums we can showcase innovative approaches to consumption per employee by 40 percent invest in capital markets also help to finance impact investing and demonstrate how by 2020, compared with a 2007 baseline. At businesses and projects that are important for private capital can help NGOs to maximize the end of 2014, we had already achieved a society. Corporate responsibility is an integral their impact. 37-percent reduction in carbon emissions per part of Zurich’s strategy. By acting responsibly employee and a 30-percent reduction in energy in everything we do, we aim to create Working with our customers to manage consumption per employee. We also became sustainable value for all our stakeholders. corporate responsibility risks carbon neutral at the end of 2014, offsetting Zurich has a three-step approach to emissions we cannot eliminate through a forestry systematically detect, assess and mitigate project in Indonesia, which also complements major environmental, social and ethical risks our flood resilience program. inherent in some corporate and commercial customer transactions. In 2014, we trained We are developing highly energy-efficient office over 900 General Insurance employees to use buildings and installing technology to produce this responsible approach to corporate business. energy for our company’s own use. SkyKey Martin Senn Using our proprietary risk-profiling methodology, in Zurich, our new headquarters for the Swiss Chief Executive Officer we have prioritized five key areas of concern: market, was completed in 2014 and provides a human rights; banned cluster munitions and sustainable workplace for around 2,500 people. anti-personnel land mines; and governance, It aims to receive the highest ‘platinum’ ranking human rights and environmental risks in dam under the Leadership in Energy & Environmental construction, mining, and oil and gas activities. Design (LEED) certification system. The building was constructed using up to 75-percent recycled materials and only Forest Stewardship Councilapproved wood. This modern and attractive workplace includes a pool of electric cars for employee use. In 2014, Zurich joined 186 other leading companies in the CDP Climate Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) and the CDP Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for the DACH region (Germany, Austria and Switzerland). Zurich Insurance Group | United Nations Global Compact – Communication on progress 2014/2015 2 Our progress 2014–2015 continued The Group is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland where it was founded in 1872. Our Group Further information about Zurich is available at www.zurich.com/en/about-us Corporate Corporate responsibility at Zurich responsibility Corporate responsibility highlights 2014 and our business Living up to the Zurich Commitment strategy Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Links to the relevant page Our commitment on our website: Zurich’s role in emerging markets Z Zurich Foundation Annual Report 2014 Global Risks Report 2015 Corporate responsibility in business transactions Sustainable products and solutions Employees speaking up and reporting concerns (Zurich Basics pages 5 and 10) Suppliers Health and safety management Zurich Insurance Group | United Nations Global Compact – Communication on progress 2014/2015 3 Our progress 2014–2015 continued Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Links to the relevant page Our commitment on our website: The Zurich Commitment Our people Employee development and diversity & inclusion (including key performance indicators) Board composition Employee engagement Developing our people Employees speaking up and reporting concerns (Zurich Basics page 10) Zurich Insurance Group | United Nations Global Compact – Communication on progress 2014/2015 4 Our progress 2014–2015 continued Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Links to the relevant page Our commitment on our website: Environmental performance Assurance statement Flood resilience program Climate change: Zurich’s position Carbon neutral Responsible investment Understanding catastrophe risk Sustainable products and services Corporate responsibility in business transactions Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Links to the relevant page Our commitment on our website: Employees speaking up and reporting concerns (Zurich Basics pages 5 and 10) Anti-bribery and anti-corruption Corporate responsibility in business transactions Zurich, July 14, 2015 Zurich Insurance Group | United Nations Global Compact – Communication on progress 2014/2015 5
