United Nations Global Compact Dover Vantage Corporation Communication on Progress 2015 Middle East Operations Office 2404 Saba 1, Cluster E Jumeriah Lake Towers Dubai UAE www.dvantagecorp.com Statement of Support To our Stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Dover Vantage Corporation fully supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-­‐-­‐-­‐Corruption. By signing the Global compact, Dover Vantage Corporation has ensured that the company publicly recognizes the business value of operating in an ethical, environmental and socially responsible manner. The company is actively striving to contribute towards the creation of a more sustainable global society. This is the company’s Communication on Progress and we have actively engaged with our clients/stakeholders to integrate the Global Compact ethos and principles into our daily business operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Michelle Lauzon Executive Director Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Dover Vantage works in some of the most challenging regions on earth, in countries that have little or no human rights implementation. The company ensures that business activities are carried out with the outmost respect for our staff, contractors, stakeholders and host communities. We operate within the boundaries of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, respect for human rights is integrated in both the internal and external operations of the organization. Implementation All staff members, either permanent or temporary, will be provided with a human rights Code of Conduct, that clearly sets out the companies principles which are applied universally across all of our activities. We ensure that our business associates and stakeholders adhere to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and provide guidance where necessary. Monitoring and Evaluation Daily site meetings are held across all our projects and employees are encouraged to report any violations of the Code of Conduct in private. Any reports made are fully investigated and the situation corrected as quickly as possible. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Dover Vantage does not discriminate on any grounds, and employs a highly diverse workface, including locally sourced teams. We are committed to ensuring that all employees are treated equally, with the same rights. The company provides exceptional health and safety training, sponsorship and health care insurance for all employees. We comply with all applicable wage and labour laws and regulations, and provide comfortable accommodation when staff are working away from home. Implementation The company has implemented Health and Safety and Quality Assurance policies for all Dover project sites. Each employee is trained and required to follow these procedures under the current Human Resource Manual. All Line Managers are fully trained on these procedures and have been certified by our Head Office in the UAE, they are responsible for implementing the policies and procedures onsite. Every project holds a daily site meeting that highlights the specific health and safety factors relating to the planned activities, minimizing the risk of accidents for our employees. Monitoring and Evaluation The On-­‐-­‐-­‐site Management teams are responsible for continuous assessment of health and safety measures, ensuring the safety of our staff. We are working towards a ‘No Accident’ working environment. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Dover Vantage strives for sustainable excellence across all of our activities; we believe that the only businesses that will succeed in the long term are those that are willing to actively seek out solutions to the world’s problems. Our desire to be part of the global solution includes environmental awareness training, LEED Certification, participatory practices, long term planning, development of environmentally friendly technologies and transparent working procedures. Implementation The company is striving to become an industry leader in implementing tangible sustainable practices for the wider benefit of the global communities in which we work, developing stringent environmental protocols across all of our business activities. In November 2014, we were re-­‐certified ISO 14000, ISO 9000 and ISO 26000 for Project and Construction Management. Monitoring and Evaluation The Sustainability and Environmental, Health and Safety Policy’s are renewed yearly. Staff are encouraged to bring forward new ideas and practices to continually improve our environmental performance. Anti Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Dover Vantage is faced with corruption almost daily, we have a stringent “Zero Tolerance” rule that is strictly adhered to by all employees and business associates. Violations are dealt with promptly and we take disciplinary and terminal action against any employee who violates this rule. Implementation All employees and business associates are made aware of the Zero Tolerance rule regarding any form of bribery or corruption, and are trained in how to deal with it in a clear, firm, precise manner. Monitoring and Evaluation Dover has engaged a third party independent authority to implement and monitor the anti-­‐-­‐-­‐corruption policy and business ethics program. This includes training and certification. Women's Empowerment Gender Equality in the Workplace Dover Vantage was founded and remains a Woman owed company. Our CEO maintains a strong equal opportunity culture in the organization. Gender Equity in the Marketplace Dover Vantage where possible will make every attempt to support and encourage working with Women Owed Enterprises. Our CEO, Micheline Pollock was instrumental in supporting Afghan Women Entrepreneurs legislation with the US Government. Gender Equity in Community Dover works in many small communities throughout Africa in particular. It is critical to engage the Women representatives to successfully deliver our programs. Measuring Progress Targets/Bench marks Dover Vantage focused this year on improving our footprint in our deployed operations establishing two key benchmarks for its deployed operations in 2014. 1) Achieve 95% local labour rates for projects 2) Procurement 85% materials locally for all projects Implementation Both these targets were achieved and in the case of local labour, we exceeded the target with 95% local labour rates for projects in Togo and Niger We continue to be committed to improving our local footprint throughout our deployed operations because it is has major impacts on the local economies in which we operate and improves the profitability of our business. .
