tesa SE: Our responsibility – Our commitment 2014 Report A living tradition of responsibility Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations (World Economic Forum) Global Compact January 31, 2001 at the World Economic Forum in Davos: The then UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, calls upon internationally operating companies to actively respond to the challenges of globalization. His vision: A global pact with universally applicable social and environmental principles. Companies from over 140 countries, international employees’ The ten principles of the UN Global Compact associations, civil society groups, governments and UN organizations have now joined the Global Compact. Under the patronPrinciple 1: Businesses should support and respect the proage of presiding UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, the world’s tection of internationally proclaimed human rights; largest corporate citizenship initiative continues to grow. The and pact’s ten underlying principles in the areas of human rights, Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human labor standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption rights abuses. have long been part of tesa’s corporate values. The membership Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associaof tesa in the Global Compact underscores this lively tradition. tion and the effective recognition of the right to tesa SE’s entire commitment is based on a continuous improvecollective bargaining; ment process. In the current progress report for 2014, tesa proPrinciple 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and vides insights into the development of its activities and projects compulsory labor; – with regard to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and its corporate responsibility strategy. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 2014 Progress Report As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, tesa has With more than 50 affiliates around the world, countless projects undertaken to provide an annual report documenting the proform part of these efforts. For this reason, this report is limited to gress of its activities and measures. This serves the purpose of an exemplary selection of current activities and measures. Since engaging in regular dialogue with the environment and docu2008 tesa has been publishing an online version of the Progress menting the projects in which tesa is implementing and reinforcReport, which not only makes it more easily accessible, but also ing the ten principles of the Global Compact in the company. The allows for regular updates. More information about the topics 2014 Progress Report will give an overview of tesa’s global comof products, the environment, employees and society can also mitment in the areas of human rights and labor standards, envibe found in the “Responsibility” section of the tesa website at: ronmental protection, fighting corruption, and society. tesa tradiwww.tesa.com/company/responsibility. tionally pursues a sustainable approach that ensures both continuity and a constant improvement process. Declaration of support Human rights and labor standards A member out of conviction The human factor for success Mandatory values and sustainable business policies are The defining topics in 2014 included a culture of feedback traditionally the prerequisites for the economic success of and dialogue, employee training and qualifications, as well as tesa SE, which is based in Hamburg, Germany. >> Page 4 occupational health and safety. >> Page 5 Environmental protection Compliance and fair competition Consistent further development Integrity and proper conduct All tesa locations have very high environmental standards. tesa pays strict attention to compliance with laws and tesa is constantly evolving beyond this high level. guidelines. A central coordination office bundles together all >> Page 11 associated processes and activities. >> Page 16 tesa connects Social commitment A strategy with regional facets In 2014 tesa set a new course for its social commitment. “tesa connects” makes it easy for employees to play a meaningful role. >> Page 17 3 Declaration of Support “Responsibility has a tradition at tesa: We see it as an important investment in the future.” Thomas Schlegel, CEO of tesa SE tesa SE is one of the world’s leading companies in the self-adhehave very high environmental standards. We continued this comsive technology segment. Our successful development is associmitment in 2014 and pressed ahead with the introduction of enated with innovations, quality and technological progress. The ergy management systems. Through these, we can check and assumption of responsibility is one of the supporting pillars for manage our energy consumption even better. In the tesa plant in our activities. We underscore this tradition of a sustainable busiOffenburg, an ultra-modern system for trigeneration went into ness policy through our membership in the United Nations’ Globoperation in the current reporting year, enabling us to generate al Compact. our own power from gas, waste heat and cold, and to protect the environment. The installation of another system is planned in The construction of our new corporate headquarters with an the tesa plant in Hamburg for 2015. We are also ensuring continadjoining research and technology center continued unabated in uous improvement at product level. Not only are we focused on 2014. As planned, 850 employees will this year be provided with our own environmentally friendly offers like the tesa ecoLogo® a new professional base in Norderstedt, just outside Hamburg. range, we are also taking increasing note of the entire lifecycle of While we are currently distributed across several buildings, this our product solutions, including detrimental environmental imwill give us the benefit of working in close proximity. This will have pacts arising outside our own company. a positive impact on our business processes, flexibility and competitiveness, as well as proving advantageous in terms of collabTo improve the satisfaction of our staff even more, we make sure oration and our good corporate culture. To enable employees to there is a good feedback culture. Open and honest dialogue follow the progress of our construction project “one tesa,” we between employees and managers was again encouraged in arranged field trips as part of numerous communication meas2014, and mutual trust was strengthened. The employee develures in 2014. The enthusiasm was tangible during tours, a sumopment and feedback meeting introduced in the previous year mer party and our Christmas celebration. We also used the past was consistently continued. In addition, management teams and year to develop concepts for important social benefits – including employees made agreements for further improvements in 15 our ultra-modern gastronomy area and an extensive range of workshops. Their implementation will continue in 2015. We have sport and health offerings. again devoted ourselves to the topic of management through further measures. We are also offering employees more opportuniIn the current reporting year, we have introduced a new Corpoties to familiarize themselves with other areas of work – particurate Citizenship program and sharpened the profile of our social larly in production. Such projects are intended to create an uncommitment through the four pillars “helping, donating, supportderstanding of internal relationships and dependencies. We were ing, protecting.” The “tesa connects” approach makes it easy for also able to expand the further education program in 2014. One employees worldwide to volunteer for the benefit of society. At focus of this was our training program for employees from Rethe same time, the core tesa competencies and strengths are search and Development, Sales and Marketing. reflected: its inventiveness and spirit of ingenuity, orientation towards solutions, practical aid and team spirit. In 2014, employFurther information about the topic of responsibility at tesa can ees got involved in neighborhood projects, collected donations, be found on tesa’s “Responsibility” page on the Internet: filled children and young people with enthusiasm for science and www.tesa.com/company/responsibility technology, and helped to protect the environment and nature. Both in Germany and in our international affiliates, the level of In the future tesa will continue to pursue its sustainable business commitment in 2014 was much higher than in previous years. policy in keeping with the UN Global Compact. One of the reasons for this was almost certainly because employees were able to make their own wishes known in advance. Binding targets as well as both small and large measures have in recent years ensured that our production locations worldwide Thomas Schlegel 4 Human rights and labor standards The human factor for success People – employees as well as customers and suppliers – are and qualification measures in 2014. In the area of occupational the foundation for the success of tesa’s business. For this reahealth and safety tesa was once again able to continue the posison, tesa believes it is just as important to respect and support tive trend of previous years. tesa’s reportable number of acciinternational human rights as it is to have impeccable working dents is considerably lower than the industry average. The topic standards. tesa has made a full commitment to this in an internaof compliance was an item on tesa’s agenda once again. tionally applicable tesa Code of Conduct and in the global tesa Amongst other things, tesa carried out a risk analysis, docuPurchasing Charter for collaborating with suppliers. The submented the results precisely and derived measures where necstance of the behaviors and rules associated with these measessary. Issues relating to antitrust law were examined afresh in ures were also an integral part of numerous employee training training sessions and regular communication measures. Code of Conduct Purchasing Charter Mandatory rules of conduct Minimum standards in strategic purchasing The tesa Code of Conduct defines clear values and behavioral A standard process is used throughout the group to qualify, guidelines for all employees of the tesa Group. Its content is an evaluate and develop suppliers. This allows tesa to ensure its integral part of workshops and training programs. >> Page 6 mandatory minimum standards around the world. >> Page 7 Employees Occupational health and safety Continuing education and corporate culture A low number of accidents tesa’s employees are the most important capital for securing Thanks to high standards and preventative measures, the rate its success. tesa’s corporate culture and targeted support of reportable accidents was once again significantly lower than initiatives take this fact into account. >> Page 8 the industry average in 2014. >> Page 10 5 Human rights and labor standards Code of Conduct The tesa Code of Conduct defines values and clear behavioral guidelines. Its content is an integral part of workshops and training programs. Mandatory rules of conduct The Code of Conduct establishes tesa’s most important Respect, honesty, trust, tolerance and integrity – these principles principles in a total of six subject areas: of business activity have not only made tesa successful in the 1. Compliance with legal regulations past; they also guide tesa now and will continue to do so in the tesa conducts its business lawfully and strictly complies with the future. The associated behavioral rules have been laid down in a laws of the countries in which it operates. globally binding Code of Conduct. As in previous years, tesa 2. Fair competition continued to reinforce the content in 2014 by using various comtesa does not obtain any market advantages through unfair or munication and training measures. illegal practices. 3. Protection of tesa assets With its rules and criteria, the tesa Code of Conduct, which is tesa is careful with the proprietary information, assets and rederived from tesa’s corporate values and the ten principles of the sources of the company. UN Global Compact, provides clear orientation. It boosts confi4. A socially acceptable working environment dence in the performance and integrity of the tesa Group. Retesa guarantees a socially acceptable, safe and motivating workgardless of their position or function, tesa expects all employees ing environment. tesa strongly opposes child and forced labor, to stand by its ethical principles and to act consistently based on discrimination and the like. tesa also expects the same from its them. As role models, our managers exemplify the rules of conbusiness partners. duct and actively communicate them. Since the Code of Con5. Personal integrity duct was introduced, all managers have been required to comtesa fosters a high degree of personal integrity and fairness plete a web-based training program. tesa also provide all levels among its employees and avoid situations in which personal of management with presentation materials to support them in interests conflict or could conflict with those of the company. the ongoing communication process with employees. To ensure 6. Social commitment that this issue is permanently present, the Code of Conduct is tesa takes its responsibility for future generations seriously and also an integral part of tesa’s orientation seminars for new emstrives for sustainable development in all relevant areas – ecoployees, management training programs, the “Sales Qualification nomical, ecological and social. Program” for employees in sales, and tesa’s Management Development programs for managers and junior managers. The tesa Code of Conduct Download „Code of Conduct“ 6 Human rights and labor standards Purchasing Charter Standard criteria are used at all locations to qualify, evaluate and develop suppliers. This allows tesa to ensure its mandatory minimum standards around the world. Minimum standards in strategic purchasing tesa is convinced that sustainable, responsible action must exples of the UN Global Compact. In its collaborations, tesa strives tend beyond the confines of the company itself. For this reason, towards long-term strategic partnerships and a continuous imits internal rules of conduct have long applied for collaborations provement process. This includes mutually agreed goals and with suppliers around the world. In order to provide a standard their verification as well as site visits and certification in accordframework for its internationally applicable minimum standards in ance with the environment and quality standards ISO 14001 and the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental proISO 9001. tection and fighting corruption, tesa’s strategic purchasing division adopted the tesa Purchasing Charter in 2008. As a result of the terms and conditions of contracts, suppliers make a bindDownload ing commitment to act in accordance with the ten basic princi„Purchasing Charter“ Employees tesa’s employees are the most important capital for securing its success. The corporate culture and targeted support initiatives take this fact into account. Quality and corporate culture show responsibility and initiative. Important components of tesa’s The commitment and expertise of tesa’s employees form the future-oriented HR policy include the targeted training of qualified basis for its worldwide success. tesa promotes trust between employees, continuous further education and a very diverse employees and management, encouraging every individual to range of offers to actively support the well-being of employees. 7 Human rights and labor standards A culture of feedback and dialogue ployees that they are part of a greater whole. Another successful In 2013 tesa conducted a survey amongst employees at its measure has been the “Orientation Stop”, with which managers Hamburg headquarters under the motto “tesa wants to know” are evaluated by their employees using a points system. This tool – supported by the independent institute “Great Place to Work” is mandatory for all managers, helping them reflect on their own (GptW). The result was a very good showing for tesa, with a conduct, and aims to aid the development of a better tomorrow. score in the upper bracket. In order to improve satisfaction levels Future cooperation was also a theme in 2014 at the annual “tesa even more, tesa held 15 workshops with management teams team training” more than 500 employees. Under the guidance of and employees in 2014. As part of this, all functions reached the relevant managers, in the current reporting year employees agreements on further improvements. The extent to which these focused on overarching expectations – with real-life relevance are taking effect will be examined in a new employee survey, and open discussion rounds. Part of the training also involved a which will be carried out following the move into the new tesa look back at past events on the subjects of safety in the workheadquarters (fall 2015). In fall 2014 tesa’s Hamburg factory also place, quality and management. examined the satisfaction levels of its workforce: 380 employees (72 percent) took part, providing feedback and ideas that are Intensive management at tesa now being evaluated by market research institute TNS Infratest. tesa’s HR division offers a special training concept specifically A result had not yet been established when this progress report designed for junior management talent. Among other things, the went to press. “Intensive management at tesa” training course focuses on respectful dialogue between managers and employees. The goal is In order to further enhance the open dialogue between employto prepare participants for future challenges by sustainably posiees and managers, tesa introduced a redesigned employee detioning issues such as appreciation and recognition as the founvelopment and feedback meeting in 2014. This creates a foundadation for a good management culture. In 2014, 29 up-and-comtion for mutual trust: Both parties – the employees and managers ing managers underwent training. – are equally given the opportunity to provide each other with constructive feedback, to learn about each other’s expectations Human resources planning and training and to take an active role in developing the collaboration. In 2014 Succession planning and talent management are important tools both managers and employees had the opportunity to refresh in strategic human resources development. The aim is to build their knowledge about the most important themes for successful up expertise for important key positions promptly and systematinegotiation in short workshops. cally on an international level. In 2014 tesa successfully continued its work in both areas and introduced supporting software. This tesa factory, Hamburg corresponds with current data protection legislation and helps tesa’s factory in Hamburg is also reinforcing the feedback and tesa to manage all the necessary data for the identification of dialogue culture with a number of different measures. It has alsuitable candidates securely. This measure means that all reready seen the successful implementation of line training and the gions can now participate in the corresponding processes and “Open Production” project, for which employees gather practical can thus set the course for the future. On this basis all necessary experience outside their normal area of activity. Temporary destandards are being further improved and harmonized step by ployment in different production areas is designed to create a step. complete understanding of the manufacturing process, strengthen cooperation and drive forward improvements. As another Targeted continuing education feedback tool, managers in tesa’s Hamburg factory use “praise Ongoing investment into the targeted qualification of employees cards” to reward employee’s achievements. The written word is part of tesa’s corporate strategy. In line with this, the current expresses appreciation, enhances dialogue and reminds emreporting year was once again marked by wide-ranging meas8 Human rights and labor standards ures. The “Sales Qualification Program” was continued with great cepts for the sport and exercise sector as well as the future comintensity in 2014, with a total of 115 training courses held. In the pany restaurant. The latter will focus on fresh preparation, reprocess, around 1,170 employees participated during 320 days gional products, and balanced and healthy nutrition. In addition, of training. tesa offers three separate specialist programs with a a team was formed to come up with a new health management focus on the areas of sales, marketing, and research and develconcept for tesa Germany. Its members include experts from the opment. In addition to basic qualifications for new employees, company’s medical service, the social counseling team, the the “Sales Qualification Program” includes special formats that works council and the disabilities representation. are specifically tailored to the needs of individual business areas. One example of this is the sales program with a combination of The activities of the “Health” working group at tesa’s Hamburg technical training and sales skills. factory were guided by the motto “Gesund im Team”, or “healthy within the team” during 2014. The annual program included variIn addition, eleven training courses were held in our “tesa Purous courses in the factory’s own gym, soccer and volleyball tourchasing College” in 2014. This fairly new program for internationnaments, team events and a special nutrition program in the al purchasers comprises custom-made training sessions in factory canteen. In addition, health checks were carried out in which participants acquire wide-ranging knowledge of cooperacooperation with the company’s medical service. Over 250 emtion spanning different countries and functions in line with global ployees underwent checks on their current fitness and the health standards. The current reporting year saw 110 trainees take part. of their hearts and other physical functions, and received individIn future, tesa plans to open up the training courses to employual advice. Other campaign days for checks or new analyses are ees in different roles involving individual purchasing. tesa is thus in the planning stage. catering to the growing demand for open training courses, of which 50 already took place in 2014. During the current reporting Company culture plays a key role in the well-being of employees. year, 340 colleagues took part in presentation or project mantesa’s Offenburg factory was once again rewarded for its exemagement training – a substantial increase on the previous year. In plary actions with the HR Management Award for the topic of 2015 tesa plans to react to the increasing need for language and “New Work” in 2014. This was in recognition of pioneering work IT qualifications by incorporating corresponding offerings into the models for various different phases of life, for example the “paroverall program. ent-and-child” office and “57 plus”. Efforts like this not only make work and family life more compatible, but also offer older emHealth and well-being ployees the chance to reduce their weekly working hours without Health and well-being are important to tesa. This is reflected a substantial loss of income. across the company: Thanks to the low membership fees, many tesa employees and their family members stay in shape at the Beiersdorf sports association. Hamburg’s fourth-largest company sports association offers over 40 sports. The parent company’s offerings promoting health in the workplace are also quite popular, and the same is true for the health and sports offerings at other locations. After the move into the new tesa headquarters in Norderstedt (fall 2015), employees will also be able to choose from a broad offering of health and fitness outside of the Beiersdorf network. tesa laid the foundations for this during 2014, developing con9 Human rights and labor standards Occupational health and safety The health and safety of employees is a top priority at tesa, which places the emphasis firmly on prevention with high standards and targeted measures. A low number of accidents Prevention is the best form of protection from injuries and ties involved. The foundation for targeted solutions and appropriwork-related health risks. As in previous years, tesa’s global acciate risk reduction is the so-called STOP principle, which outlines dent rate of 4.0 accidents per 1,000 employees was significantly four categories: substituting, technical, organizational and perbelow the industry average of 14.5 percent as stated by the Gersonal. This way, measures can be categorized and evaluated. man employers’ liability insurance association. This shows that tesa is on the right track with its high safety standards, occupaIn order to ensure that its high demands for occupational health tional health measures and training programs. and safety measures are consistently pursued and implemented, tesa involves the Occupational Health and Safety department in The Occupational Safety Guidelines, which are based on the the planning of new plants right from the beginning. Here the international standard OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and focus is on the early identification and elimination of potential Safety Assessment Series), apply for all tesa locations around risks. tesa’s safety standards are thus already incorporated into the world. When it comes to safety, tesa regularly raises employthe drafting of specifications. The whole construction and manuee awareness of the issue worldwide – including with training facturing process is accompanied by regular status enquiries. courses on conduct conducive to health and safety, preventing Even before a new plant is handed over, all the important locaexplosions and fires, fire extinguishing drills, detailed operating tion details are checked directly in situ in a “Factory Acceptance procedures for all production facilities, and targeted training. Test”. Then a “Site Acceptance Test” is carried out before the Internal processes significantly contribute to reducing hazards plant eventually begins production. This test involves additional and risks. These are based on a combination of systematic hazchecks on all safety-related functions, with optimization measard identification and risk assessment, employee responsibility, ures taken where necessary. and a continuous improvement process, which includes all par10 Environmental protection Global initiatives over three years, tesa has been active in the do-it-yourself sector Leaving an intact environment for subsequent generations is one with corresponding offerings. of tesa’s stated corporate goals. Since 2001 tesa has been consistently pursuing the establishment of its own environmental Of course, tesa also abides by minimum standards and legal management system. It is the global production sites, above all, requirements in all areas in which it is involved. In order to corthat have contributed to tesa regularly exceeding its ambitious rectly implement the different countries’ laws, rules and regulagoals. Since the beginning of the program the output of volatile tions, which can sometimes vary, tesa has employees who are organic compounds (VOCs) has been significantly reduced. In familiar with local legislation and can ensure compliance at all of addition, there have also been significant reductions in the conits production sites. tesa has defined its position in globally bindsumption of solvents, CO2 emissions and generation of waste. All ing environmental guidelines. These guidelines dictate the standtesa production sites are certified according to the international ards for the company’s actions to all employees and are meant environmental standard ISO 14001. to further raise environmental awareness. Resource-conserving production processes are just as important as environmentalThe common “green thread” throughout tesa is based on a prely-friendly products. tesa sets specific environmental goals and cautionary approach: tesa promotes the international exchange consistently pursues them to make sure that it lives up to its of information between its environmental experts and actively commitment. The monitoring of key figures as well as regular takes the initiative. Part of this strategy is the development of audits at the relevant production sites help in this endeavor. In tesa’s own production technologies, which enable it to manufacthese audits, tesa assesses whether process procedures and ture without the use of solvents. In addition, tesa is increasingly regulations are being correctly adhered to. Where required tesa pursuing its commitment at the product level: With the ecoLogo® makes corrections and introduces measures for continuous imsub-brand, tesa now offers a full range of eco-friendly products provement and to ensure the utmost efficiency in the use of refor the office sector, which is being expanded continuously. For sources. tesa environmental program Climate protection Corporate environmental protection Raising awareness Defined areas and specific projects are the key to tesa’s tesa enacts climate protection measures on its own initiative successful environmental program. All tesa locations around and responsibility in order to leave an intact environment for the world have high standards. >> Page 12 subsequent generations. >> Page 13 Saving resources Environmentally friendly products The efficient use of raw materials Consumers benefit from tesa The efficient use of raw materials and resources is imporSustainably produced goods like the tesa ecoLogo® range tant to tesa in terms of a sustainable business policy. protect the climate. The winners? People all over the world. >> Page 14 >> Page 15 11 Environmental protection tesa environmental program Specific areas of activity and clearly defined projects are the key to tesa’s successful environmental management program. All tesa locations have very high standards. Corporate environmental protection more environmentally friendly alternatives to individual product tesa has taken the initiative and responsibility to engage in precomponents or elements of packaging. Another important aspect ventative environmental protection measures. Alongside the minof tesa’s environmental commitment is energy consumption. imization of CO2 emissions, the reduction of energy consumption Here the company is focusing on introducing energy manageis a key focus of its environmental management program. In the ment systems that will enable ultra-modern energy monitoring. last few years the greatest strides have been made thanks to state-of-the-art technologies and new, patented tesa processes. Environmental program: In addition, a number of smaller measures also made a big imGoals achieved between 2002 and 2014 pact in 2014. Energy use  -21 percent In the future, tesa will continue to do everything in its power to maintain high standards and to continue improving with reasonaCO2  -16 percent ble measures. In order to further optimize the environmental comSolvent use  -35 percent patibility of its products, tesa uses the so-called life-cycle analysis method, which helps to identify adjustment points that represent Waste  -65 percent significant ecological value-drivers in the life-cycle of individual products. On this basis, tesa is able to check whether there are VOCs  -91 percent Highlights, key figures and successes of the tesa environmental program In 2002 the tesa plant in Offenburg put an eco-friendly proIn 2006 , five years after launching its environmental program, duction system for the solvent-free manufacturing of masking tesa saw positive results from successfully reducing the amount tape into operation. That was just the beginning: Today over 60 of energy and solvents consumed. percent of the plant’s entire production takes place without solvents. A second environmental program was agreed for the period between 2007 and 2012 – with a focus on reduced emisIn 2005 tesa received the B.A.U.M. environmental prize and sions of volatile organic compounds, also known as VOC emisthe “Responsible Care Prize” for the consistent and successful sions. development of a holistic environmental management system. 12 Environmental protection In 2007 an innovative system for heat recovery at the tesa through at the plant in Hamburg. The globally unique and patentplant in Offenburg considerably reduced energy consumption. ed ACX technology enabled the eco-friendly production of double-sided acrylic adhesive tapes for high-strength permanent In 2009 tesa reported significant advances in the emission of adhesive bonds. volatile organic substances. VOC emissions were down 50 percent compared to 2001. One year later the figure had already In 2013 , tesa introduced an energy management system at dropped to 58 percent. its German production sites to sustainably reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions even further. The “Green Car In 2010 , the tesa plant in Hamburg installed a new, state-ofPolicy” was launched that same year. Low-emission cars are set the-art ventilation system. That same year the technology center to significantly reduce the CO2 emissions of the entire fleet from at tesa’s headquarters in Hamburg received funding from the an average of 161 to 140 grams per kilometer. Hamburg Authority for Urban Development and Environmental Affairs to modernize the technology in the ventilation system and In 2014 tesa’s Offenburg factory began operating a CCHP its control unit. The first tesa ecoLogo® products also started (combined cooling, heat and power) system for environmentally conquering the office supplies market. friendly in-house power generation. The German production sites of Hamburg and Offenburg are each implementing an ultra-modern In 2011 tesa succeeded in making a technological breakenergy monitoring system as part of their energy management. Climate protection Eco-friendly production processes and measures to raise awareness among employees are part of tesa’s commitment to climate protection. Small things can make a big difference light came in July 2014 with the activation of the first CCHP In addition to eco-friendly production processes and other meas(combined cooling, heat and power) system for environmentally ures that the company uses to keep up with the latest technolofriendly in-house power generation. Power generation using gas, gy, tesa’s commitment includes raising the awareness of its emwaste heat and cold saves the factory 3,600 tons of CO2 every ployees. Not only are they familiar with ongoing operations, at year. After Offenburg, the installation of another CCHP system in the same time they also help save energy and reduce costs tesa’s Hamburg factory is planned for 2015. thanks to their knowledge and ideas. In 2009 this process was initiated in an exemplary manner at the tesa plant in Offenburg As part of the international tesa environmental management with the “Active Environmental Protection through Reduced system, production sites have been implementing successful Waste and Energy Use” project. According to the motto of “small energy-saving projects for many years. The current reporting things can make a big difference”, this site was successful again year was marked by the introduction of an energy management in 2014. Amongst other achievements, the plant saved around system at the German production sites. Both in Hamburg and 1,180,000 kilowatt-hours of energy, for example through the in Offenburg, ultra-modern energy monitoring systems were modification of an electron radiation hardening system, which is installed. The certification of the fully implemented energy used for the cross-linking of adhesives, or through the incorporamanagement systems in line with ISO 50001 will take place in tion of a reverse osmosis system for water processing. The high2015. 13 Environmental protection Saving resources tesa handles raw materials and resources efficiently. Environmentally friendly technologies and good waste management are deemed important. Responsibility begins in the mind Life cycle analysis Waste management A great deal of environmental pollution is caused outside one’s The production of any good involves the generation of waste. own company while manufacturing products. For this reason, in In order to reduce this in a sustainable manner and to protect the future tesa will focus more on the entire life cycles of our the environment and resources, tesa conducts regular training products – from the extraction of raw materials to the materials courses to ensure that all those involved are conscious of the used, production and transport, and disposal after their use. need to avoid unnecessary waste and to recycle appropriately. With the help of the so-called life cycle analysis method, tesa will In addition, tesa is constantly seeking new technical solutions determine the parameters that affect the ecological footprint of and cooperation partners to allow it to maximize recycling its products. The goal of this life cycle analysis is to discover the efforts. best options – not just in-house at tesa, but always in collaboration with suppliers and service providers. The “Reduction of Waste and Energy Consumption” project, launched in tesa’s Offenburg factory in 2009 and continued ever Environmentally friendly manufacturing processes since, has put forward some impressive results. For example, the Efficient handling of raw materials and resources led to ecologiimprovement of a measuring system in the tapes coating plant cal and economical improvements again in 2014. The consistent H12 helped to stabilize the regulation of the adhesive application. use of the globally unique production plant for environmentally This leads to annual material savings of 550,000 m², which corcompatible manufacturing of double-sided acrylic adhesive responds to the size of around 77 soccer fields. Most ideas tapes, housed at tesa’s Hamburg factory, had a positive effect come from the employees themselves. Bold communication on energy consumption. The technology known as ACX is notameasures in combination with an incentive system in the form of ble for the extremely efficient extraction of emissions, among a variable bonus have led to the proactive introduction and imother things. Compared to conventional processes, this leads to plementation of these suggested improvements. With numerous the following environmentally relevant savings: other measures, the employees have brought about positive effects in line with the motto “ideas not waste”. The key to the success was and is people’s own conscientiousness. This is something tesa’s Offenburg factory aimed to strengthen in 2014, Use of organic solvents: approx. -55 percent for example with its Waste and Energy Day: To great effect, the waste remaining after one day of production was “exhibited” – Disposal of organic solvents:  approx. -89 percent 20 tons of waste, five 1,000-litre containers, ten 200-litre containers and a whole load of piled-up palettes. The aim is to further Processing water requirement:  approx. -100 percent reduce the waste generated. 14 Environmental protection Commitment at the product level Products for conserving energy and sustainably produced goods help to protect the climate. The winners? People all over the world. Consumers benefit from tesa For quite some time, tesa has been consistently applying its envipenser meets high standards with regard to the environment, ronmental commitment at the product level. Consumers are with casing made from 100-percent recycled plastic. In addition, offered eco-friendly solutions, including the tesa ecoLogo® the solvent-free, odour-free tesa® multipurpose glue was given a range, which is being expanded on a regular basis. Solvent-free new bottle made from 80 percent recycled plastic, and was inteadhesives and the use of primarily organically derived or recycled grated into the range. materials and packaging are the main environmental advantages. The environmentally friendly products have won prizes on multitesa also now carry a “green” ecoLogo® range in DIY and home ple occasions in the last few years. In 2014 the range was further improvement stores. There consumers can also find products expanded: At the Paperworld exhibition tesa presented the new such as tesamoll® for sealing gaps around windows and doors Smart ecoLogo® desk tape dispenser to the industry. The disas well as tesa® ISO SYSTEM for easy roof insulation. 15 Compliance and fair competition Adhering to laws and internal guidelines is something that goes without saying at tesa. A central coordination office combines all associated processes and ensures compliance with international standards. Compliance Fair competition Integrity and proper conduct For quite some time activities have been focused on antitrust tesa traditionally stands for trust. This includes virtues that guarlaw, which promotes a free economy and prevents practices that antee free markets and fair competition as well as protection of are detrimental to competition. To do this, tesa successfully intropeople and the environment. The tesa group firmly rejects any duced the “tesa Antitrust Compliance Program” throughout the form of corruption as well as any illegal or immoral behavior. In company a few years ago. It serves to raise awareness on issues order to be able to consistently ensure this worldwide, tesa acrelating to antitrust law and enable the implementation of a tively protects company and employees from possible risks. In worldwide functional antitrust law compliance system for the 2014 tesa once again actively addressed the issue of compliance entire tesa Group. Besides providing relevant information on and its system of values as laid down in the globally applicable antitrust law and educating about possible violations, tesa set up tesa Code of Conduct. This included performing a compliance internal communication structures and a network of competent risk analysis including documentation and further developing attorneys. This issue will continue to be actively pursued in the corresponding compliance measures. The reporting year also future. As part of the compliance risk analysis, tesa held antitrust saw the launch of a global refresher training course on tesa’s law workshops in 2014, in which risks specific to the department anti-corruption directive aimed at further consolidating its conwere analyzed and existing tools reviewed. Where necessary tent. Communication measures on in-house media are being new measures were defined and executed. implemented continuously. The aim is to raise awareness by providing precise information and to prevent unintentional A permanent topic-related platform is also offered on the tesa breaches of laws and regulations. Since the end of 2010, emintranet. This page allows employees worldwide to find out about ployees have been able to seek the advice of the central “Comconduct that complies with antitrust law in their day-to-day busipliance Coordination” office in the event of questions or doubts in ness dealings and helps them find competent advisors. To raise individual cases. This function defines international standards awareness even more, the company also informs staff about and ensures the efficient bundling of all compliance processes. relevant developments and decisions made by the antitrust auIts duties also include preparing status reports for the managethorities via the News portal on the tesa intranet. ment team. The Compliance office combines a total of eleven fields. Various specialists are available to provide expert advice In the international regions, guidelines that have been modified on topics including anti-corruption, labor and competition law, to take into account the legal requirements in the respective information technology and data protection, antitrust law, financountries and a catalog of examples of correct and incorrect cial guidelines, environmental protection, occupational health conduct lays down what is and what is not permissible under and safety, as well as trademark and patent law. antitrust law. 16 Social commitment A strategy with regional facets The assumption of corporate responsibility is part of tesa’s cortime, the program creates a bridge to the core tesa competenporate philosophy. Out of the conviction that all sides win, tesa cies and strengths of the company – its inventiveness and spirit gets involved at several levels worldwide – in the form of donaof ingenuity, orientation towards solutions, practical aid and team tions, sponsor memberships and sponsorships as well as spirit. through volunteer involvement on the part of employees. Employees were able to include their wishes within the context Helping, donating, supporting, protecting – with these four pillars of a survey on social commitment in 2013. In the meantime, tesa launched a new Corporate Citizenship program “tesa conthe Corporate Citizenship program has taken shape. Overall nects” in 2014. The objective of “tesa connects” is to take an tesa recorded a significantly higher level of commitment in the approach that makes it easy for employees worldwide to get current reporting year – both in Germany and in the international involved for the good of society in a meaningful way. At the same affiliate. tesa tesa helps donates tesa helps tesa donates Good neighborly relations Uncomplicated help In the immediate vicinity of our locations tesa teams get stuck tesa supports the victims of natural disasters or other crises in on local projects, thus supporting the community. through targeted donations of money and products. >> Page 18 >> Page 19 tesa tesa supports protects tesa supports tesa protects Improving prospects for the future Active conservation With a focus on science and technology, we invest in the Specific environmental projects preserve nature and help futures of children and young people. to improve the quality of life in the region. >> Page 20 >> Page 21 17 Social commitment tesa helps: Good neighborly relations Neighborhood assistance that is needed in the immediate vicinity of tesa locations – that is the core thought behind “tesa helps”. On-site tesa teams on every continent get involved project by project and support the community. Germany: tesa’s headquarters found a fitting partner in the volunteering organization “tatkräftig – Hände für Hamburg”. According to the motto “1 day, 1 team, 1 goal”, the organization lends a hand in the form of volunteer helpers at over 150 institutions that require support. The offer has been very well received by tesa employees since the official start in September 2014: Around 60 colleagues in eight teams have completed a total of 480 hours of charitable work. The work varied depending on the The Netherlands: In June 2014 a Dutch-Belgian team project. Gardening and manual activities with tools, paint and made a paradise out of a beach on the Dutch North Sea coast rollers were as much a part of the agenda as games and craft for 105 small pirates. The school children from the socially deafternoons with children or senior citizens. Amongst others, nine prived area of the city of Amersfoort near Hilversum went on a trainees from tesa’s Hamburg factory volunteered together with discovery trip with a treasure hunt. Many of them experienced a their supervisor. They worked for a children’s nursery, building day at the sea for the first time. fences, filling play areas with a suitable subsoil and erecting a tepee tent in the style of the Native American tradition. A tesa Belgium: For the second time, the Belgian tesa company assistance project in cooperation with the “tatkräftig” organizasupported the European Summer Games of the “Special Olymtion is set to become a firm fixture of the first year of an apprenpics” in Antwerp. Seventeen “helping hands” from tesa were ticeship in tesa’s Hamburg factory in future. impressed by the courage of the mentally disabled athletes. They supported the athletes in sports that included badminton, judo Global commitment and table tennis. The affiliates also provided active aid in their vicinities in 2014. Hungary: In 2014 employees of the Eastern European ReThe social commitment of tesa employees is a tradition in gional Team contributed to the creation of a special mother-andFrance, the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Turkey, child area in the children’s cardiology ward of a Budapest hospiMexico, Japan, India, China and many other countries. In 2014 tal. The so-called “Mother Hotel” enables mothers to stay close over 250 colleagues got involved to help the community. Six to their children as they undergo treatment. Armed with paint examples illustrate this: and brushes, the tesa team transformed the previously impersonal spaces into a bright and colorful area for mothers and their children. 18 Social commitment France: This is the fourth time that tesa colleagues in France have taken part in the “Course des Héros”. The committed athletes not only completed six kilometers of a running course, but also collected a total of 6,000 euros in advance from their friends, family and colleagues, which will benefit the organization “Action Enfance” to support children and adolescents in need. United Kingdom: Since 2009 tesa UK has been supporting the “Walnuts School” for autistic children in Milton Keynes. Austria: For more than ten years now tesa Austria has providComplementing a donation, in 2014 for the first time six adolesed a tesa craft tent for the Nivea family festivals put on by the cents were allowed to get their first taste of working life at tesa. parent company Beiersdorf. Equipped with craft materials and Accompanied by their teacher, they helped out for two hours a supported by creative volunteers, this year the children made week at a packing station. This involved the sort of repetitive treasure chests and a knight’s fortress out of sheets of cardactivities that suit people with autism. board. The family festivals take place to benefit the SOS Children’s Villages. tesa donates: Uncomplicated help Help is urgently needed for natural disasters and other crises. We support people in impacted regions – as well as selected institutions in their daily routine – with targeted funds and product donations. In 2014 the Hamburg locations introduced the so-called “remainThe collection and provision of donations is also a firm tradition ing cents” donation, in line with the motto “small gesture, big in the tesa affiliates: The international tesa locations outside Gerimpact”. A simple principle to make participation easy is behind many donated almost 100,000 euro to various causes in 2014. this idea: Employees donate the cent amounts of their net wages (0.01 to 0.99 euro) for a good cause. The money collected, At the same time, a guideline for the handling of product amounting to a maximum of 11.88 euro per employee and year, donations was also developed as the basis for the area “tesa is credited to a separate tesa donation account and matched by donates”. Accordingly, primary schools and kindergartens as the senior management. At the end of 2015, the three Hamburg well as charitable institutions that provide emergency aid during tesa companies will add together the amounts collected for the disasters are the focus of their commitment. The donation packfirst time and with it support non-profit institutions in their comages contain useful tesa products – for instance glue sticks, munity. 450 employees have already registered for the campaign tesafilm® or Mini Dispensers for schools and kindergartens, or in 2014. The more employees who participate in the future, the packaging tape and fly screens for disasters. greater the amount of the funds will be. 19 Social commitment tesa supports: Education secures a future Under “tesa helps” tesa combines education projects through which it aims to open up future prospects to children and young people. Here there is a focus on the themes of science and technology as important prerequisites for the preservation of our livelihoods as well as technological and social progress. In Germany and numerous affiliates, these objectives are linked to specific projects: Germany: Since September 2014 tesa SE has been collaborating with the “Naturwissenschaft & Technik” (“Science & Technology”, or NAT) initiative. In Hamburg and the surrounding metropolitan area, NAT networks schools with universities, colleges and technology-driven companies. The objective is to make it possible for adolescents to get a variety of insights into various occupational fields. In November 2014 tesa opened its laboratories for the first time to ten mid-level female pupils from a local high school. Within the context of the program “mint:pink“, which is geared especially to girls starting from class nine, five tesa employees from product development and process engineering China: In 2014 tesa tape Greater China supported the organishared their own enthusiasm for adhesive technology with the zation “Sunrise Library”, which levels the access to more educagirls. There are plans to expand the collaboration in 2015 – intion for children in poorly developed regions – among other cluding through the “90 Minutes MINT” program. In this program things by developing libraries and offering reading and art courstesa employees take a little less than two teaching hours to give es. In addition to financial aid, eight tesa employees got actively school students real-life insights into their working lives. In addiinvolved in the event “The Camp to Inspire Dreams”. tion to practical projects and excursions like this, tesa has supported the NAT initiative financially by taking out a sponsoring membership. Japan: tesa’s Japanese subsidiary got involved in the “Tsukuba Science Festival” in 2014. The event in the deeply symbolic “City of Science” appeals to children and adolescents in a targeted manner. Of the more than 17,000 participants, 400 potential up-and-coming researchers plunged into the world of adhesive technology at the tesa stand and experienced it up-close. 20 Social commitment tesa protects: Commitment to the environment Environmental protection and sustainable management of natural resources are part of the tesa business strategy. Engagement on the production and product level is complemented by specific projects for preserving nature and improving the quality of life in the region. Since 2011 we have been working to preserve the sensitive ecoand crab apple trees, blackthorn, hawthorn and pink hawthorn system of the UNESCO Biosphere Reserve “Niedersächsische bushes. These bushes protect still sensitive sapling oaks from Elbtalaue”, not far from Hamburg. With targeted reforestation in animals and offer birds nesting opportunities. particular, we are making a contribution to climate protection and species diversity. After various planting efforts by tesa teams, 2,500 new oak trees are now flourishing in the reserve. When it came to planting time in the spring of 2014, 23 employees made their way to the reserve. In around 20 areas they planted pear Contact: tesa SE Quickbornstraße 24 D-20253 Hamburg, Germany Tel.: +49(0) 40-4909-6597 Fax: +49(0) 40-4909-2236 responsibility@tesa.com www.tesa.com/company/responsibility 21
