EA-Connect Pte Ltd Communication on Progress EA-Connect is an international sourcing and trading company specialized in off shore sourcing in Asia and Europe 22 Jan 2015 To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that EA-Connect Pte Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Carsten Damsgaard Managing Director EA-Connect is a premier provider of contract manufacturing services through offshore sourcing and assembly of industrial and electronical parts from high quality Asian producers. Our Vision EA-Connect aims at becoming its customers’ most reliable production partner in terms of quality and delivery. Our Mission EA-Connect is a global niche player providing high mix-low volume mechanical parts from low cost countries in Asia to customers in high cost countries throughout the world. The Mission and Vision is achieved through: • Improve our Integrated Management System Continually • Meet Customer and applicable legal requirements • Prevention of pollution and depletion of resources in operation Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals EA-Connect respects human rights and adheres strictly to the Laws of the Republic of Singapore under the Employment Act and the statutory requirements from the Ministry of Manpower to ensure Workplace Safety and Health. Implementation EA-Connect issue a Letter of Appointment to each employee, that covers the definition to each individual rights e.g. stipulated work hours/annual leave etc., prior to the commencement of employment. Measurement of outcomes Periodic review of Human Rights adherence by senior management. To date the company has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals Our company covers policies concerning employees’ rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits in accordance with the Singapore’s Ministry of Manpower (MOM) Employment Act. Implementation EA-Connect performs appraisal for each employee at year end and the results of the appraisal will be reviewed by Managing Director. The management communicate to employees regularly to ensure they understand the company’s position and the current issues facing. Measurement of outcomes Periodic review of labour rights within the company by management. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals Being an ISO14001 certified company, our goals are to have all recoverable resources recycled and to continue with zero company specific pollution. Implementation Prevention of pollution and depletion of resources in operation, to reduce paper, water and electricity usage by 5%. We monitors the usage of water and electricity consumption on a monthly basis Measurement of outcomes Periodic review of environmental performance so far everything is under control. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals EA-Connect will not tolerate any such misconducts/practices relating to corruption, bribery or extortion, whether within or outside our organisation. Implementation No single individual is allowed to make decision on purchasing matters prior to management approval. Measurement of outcomes EA-Connect has not encountered any incidents relating to corruption/bribery and extortion. We are statutory obliged to submit our accounting reports to external auditors in line with the Company Act, under the Laws of the Republic of Singapore.
