Sustainability Report 2015 Statement of support by our CEO Since the latest report on our sustainability progress This initiative also springs from a desire to work strain mid 2014, at Plougmann & Vingtoft we have tegically with our corporate social responsibility in created a new vision to provide meaningfulness to the sense that we want to excel in the field of suour stakeholders as well as within our own organizastainability so as to show our stakeholders that we tion: are acting on taking our social responsibility seriously. By this we also wish to emphasize our firm belief Plougmann & Vingtoft are determined to make a that companies showing good CSR behaviour will difference by strengthening knowledge, innovation prosper even more in the coming years. and creativity Going forward, our CSR will form an active part of With this vision, we wish to include the value we the Plougmann & Vingtoft brand with a focus on want to inflict on our surroundings and to satisfy the promoting projects, cooperation and supporting unineed to know the deeper meaning of our function in versities conducting research within green and renesociety and acknowledge our work as a part of sowable energy, whilst also being linked closely to our mething greater. By strengthening the knowledge, human resource strategy on the job satisfaction of we help the community, the companies and the our employees. Taken all together, Plougmann & people to take advantage of the huge potential Vingtoft’s identity will be reflected internally and exwhich is unfolded in and around the global IP syternally as active participation in and improvement of stem. By strengthening innovation and creativity, we the environment we operate in. show that development and success is built on good ideas and the ability to think outside the box. At Plougmann & Vingtoft, we look forward to reporting on our progress on the social responsibility in Bearing our vision in mind, we wish to contribute to living our new vision, and we hope that you will ensociety as an overall goal, and as an example, we joy reading this year’s Sustainability report. will strive to find room to help a couple of start-up businesses each year with IP counselling on favorable terms. You can read more about this in this report. Annette Siewert Lindgreen CEO Our employees Professional development in focus Furthermore, a number of our IP attorneys also work as lecturers at educational institutions such as the As a knowledge-based consultancy our employees University of Copenhagen and the Technical Univerare our greatest asset. We invest in having a posisity of Denmark. tion on the market as trusted advisors to our clients in areas that are vital to their business. This means Diversity in our company that our employees are setting new standards for what clients can expect from the cooperation with an As an internationally oriented company we welcome IP consultancy. employees from any part of the world, as we see diversity as a strength and competitive advantage in We have a strong focus on the further development an international company like ours. of our employees. In addition to educating European Patent Attorneys, all of our IP specialists receive inOur international diversity also benefits our clients as ternal training tailored to their individual function and we can also provide legal expertise from an inhouse level. In this way, all attorneys are introduced to proJapanese Patent Attorney and also a U.S. Patent cesses that secure a consistent high level of quality in Attorney. Currently, we have employees from many each single task. European countries as well as Japan. Our IP coordinators also participate in additional The male/female ratio of our company is close to training and education, and many of them are QIPA being 48/52 which also contributes to providing Qualified Intellectual Property Administrator and gender diversity in our company. QTMA Qualified Trade Mark Administrator. Job satisfaction In the Spring of 2015 we conducted a thorough workplace assessment survey on the physical and psychological working environment of our employees. The overall results were positive, and the conclusion was that the working environment provides an atmosphere of trust between the management 87% of our employees partiand the employees, and more than 8 out of 10 employees report on experiencing an overall satisfaccipating in the 2015 survey tion with their job taken as a whole. However, the survey also revealed that there are certain issues to be are very satisfied with their attended to among our staff to enhance our job satisfaction curve: As an example can be mentioned that job and their workplace at the general workload of the individual employee is experienced as being somewhat on the high side Plougmann & Vingtoft which is probably a side effect of the economic crisis and recession which among other things have caused market conditions to sharpen. As always, we are striving to learn from the results of the survey and will continue to work on all aspects of the well-being of our employees in order to be an attractive place of work. Facts and figures We have 83 employees (equal to 75 FTEs), 40 male and 43 female The average age at Plougmann & Vingtoft is 45 58% of our employees have been at the company more than 6 years 19 of our 34 patent attorneys are qualified European Patent Attorneys Ethical standards Our business terms cement that our relationship with our clients are built on a healthy foundation of mutual trust and balancing of expectations. As a consequence of this, we have included a section on “Ethical standards”. Among other things, this section describes that our main priority is to look after the interests of our clients and to safeguard their rights and our independency as professional advisors as well as the fact that our business is subject to the ethical rules and codes of conduct of trade-related international organizations like ADIPA (Association of Danish Intellectual Property Attorneys), EPI (European Patent Institute), ECTA (European Communities Trade Mark Association), FICPI (International Federation of Intellectual Property Attorneys) and NPF (Norwegian Association of IP Attorneys). Read our business terms at: http://www.pv.eu/about/business-terms/ ”To retain our independency as advisors, our employment policy incorporates prohibition against insider trading and restrictions against financial engagements with clients or suppliers. Likewise, our attorneys are restricted from being involved within the field of intellectual property rights outside their capacity as employees of Plougmann & Vingtoft.” Focus on innovation and clean technology Working with clean technology Communication on sustainable inventions The world of Intellectual Property revolves around innoWithin our team of IP attorneys we have a competent vation and inventions. Many of the inventions we work and innovative Cleantech team whose work helps to with are smart solutions which contribute to making promote technological development which can imsmall or large changes in the environment and society at prove environmental conditions. Besides working large. with the technological aspects of Cleantech, our experts are also keen on communicating the results One of the primary industries in which we work is the and impacts of various inventions within this sector. Clean Technology sector. Clean Technology relates to products and services that improve operational perforOur magazine BRIGHT NOW is a channel for commumance, productivity or efficiency while reducing costs, nicating the stories behind the different inventions. inputs, energy consumption, waste or pollution. CreaThrough BRIGHT NOW, we have told stories about tors of Clean Technology need patent protection for using algae as a ”green” form of aircraft fuel, the detheir inventions and investments, as it secures their velopment of a special type of fish feed for sustainabusiness and stimulates further innovation for the ble fish farming, using ozone for efficient water purifigood of all of us. cation, and a solution for environmental garbage sorting and recycling. With BRIGHT NOW we share stories of the societal impact of inventions Networks and sponsorships Learning by helping others Plougmann & Vingtoft in close corporation with our The idea and concept behind both SITPACK® and subsidiary company, tto a/s, focuses much of our DROPBUCKET® are simple, yet very efficient and are work on helping start-up companies and universities. part of solving heavy environmental issues. Therefore, tto a/s assists universities in commercializing their inwe were not in doubt whether or not to sponsor these ventions as well as in improving the overall perforprojects. mance of their technology transfer units through implementation of innovation management processes. As an example, the university sector is one of our ”With a fully-fledged concept most innovative and inspiring client bases and Plougmann & Vingtoft enjoys the cooperation with at hand, MONO+MONO® entrepreneurs and students. Often we not only help our clients to obtain protection of their specific invenwas standing at the threshold tion, but also take the opportunity to partly sponsor the invention in order to make a contribution to aiding of launching their product. upcoming businesses with brilliant ideas and thus promoting innovation overall in society. We have already supported both several creative entrepreneurs However, worrying about the such as the people and projects behind the trademarks DROPBUCKET® and MONO+MONO®. We risk of someone wanting to did thiso so, as we believe that both initiatives are both truly innovative and having a great impact. copy their idea, made the DROPBUCKET® is a garbage bin designed to be two entrepreneurs contact transported in folded condition and quickly be set up at huge events such as Roskilde Festival, Distortion Plougmann & Vingtoft for and Aarhus Festival where additional waste capacity is required. DROPBUCKET® is invented by a group advise.” of students from the Technical University of Denmark. It is made of recycled cardboard and the material is enhanced in order to make it water-resistant. When the DROPBUCKET® is full, the entire waste bin can be recycled, along with the garbage. The idea and concept behind the DROPBUCKET® is simple, yet very efficient and is part of solving a large environmental issue. MONO+MONO®’s SITPACK® is a foldable seating device invented by three young Danish design talents. Besides creating a cool means of relief for physical strain at e.g. transport hubs, SITPACK® improves waste management at open-air events, where left-behind camping chairs are a major problem. Furthermore SITPACK® is cemented in sustainability and is made out of only recyclable materials that help Read the exciting story behind SITPACK® here: reduce waste management. http://bit.ly/1fr8ony Anti-corruption Denmark the world’s least corrupt country Our Commitment Fortunately, administrative corruption, business corStill, Plougmann & Vingtoft is committed to non-acruption and other forms of corruption are very rare in ceptance of all forms of bribery directly or indirectly, Scandinavia. In May 2015, Denmark received a score and we make an effort to ensure that all of our emploof 92 on the Corruption Perception Index (CPI) in a yees are aware of this policy. global study performed by the World Justice Project (WJP). Thus, Denmark is the least corrupt country in As highlighted in the section dealing with our ethical the world for the third year in a row. See full country standard, Plougmann & Vingtoft complies with the profile for Denmark on the WJP’s website: guidelines of Danish legislation regarding the ban of insider trading of stocks. The ban on insider trading http://bit.ly/1BLQZv4 means that buying, selling or encouraging to buy or sell stocks/securities is prohibited for persons with inside knowledge (For instance our employees), which could be of significance for the trade of these stocks. Furthermore we have strict financial approval procedures (e.g. when sending out invoices and receipts). Plougmann & Vingtoft Plougmann & Vingtoft is a European Intellectual Property consultancy consisting of European IP attorneys who strengthen our clients’ competitive power and we are determined to make a difference by strengthening knowledge, innovation and creativity using our core values commitment, credibility, creativity and competence. Munich Copenhagen Aarhus Arnulfstrasse 37 Munich 80636 Munich Germany Rued Langgaards Vej 8 Aaboulevarden 23 Arnulfstrasse 37 T +49 89 5155 543 2300 Copenhagen S 8100 Aarhus C 80636 Munich Denmark Denmark Germany Munich Arnulfstrasse 37 80636 Munich Germany Oslo Madrid T +49 89 5155 543 Bergen Nedre Vollgate 4 Parque Empreserial “La Finca” Bergen Business Centre Strandga0158 Oslo P Club Deportivo, 1 Edificio 15A ten 209 Norway 28223 Pozuelo de Alarcón, Madrid 5004 Bergen Spain Norway
