Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Assessment Report Company Assessed : JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG Overall Score: 59/100 CSR engagement: Confirmed February 2015 Size: Medium Country (company headquarters): Germany Presence in Risk Countries: No Category/Industry: Manufacture of other fabricated metal products n.e.c. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 1/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 TABLES OF CONTENTS 1. Score Overview 2. Supplier Scorecard Objectives 3. Assessment Process 4. Ecovadis Methodology a. Four themes with 21 criterias b. Seven management indicators c. Scoring Scale 5. How to understand company Scorecard a. Quantitative information: score & activated criteria b. Qualitative information: Strengths & Improvement Areas 6. Theme: Environment 7. Theme: Labor Practices & Human Rights 8. Theme: Fair Business Practices 9. Theme: Sustainable Procurement 10. 360° ­ Stakeholder Information 11. Specific Comments 12. Contact us ABOUT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is the continuing commitment to behave responsibly by integrating social and environmental concerns into business operations. CSR goes beyond regulatory compliance to focus on how companies manage their economic, social, and environmental impacts, as well as their relationships with stakeholders (e.g. employees, suppliers, government). ABOUT THE ASSESSMENT The EcoVadis methodology framework assesses the policies and measures put in place as well as the reporting published by companies with regards to environmental, labor practices & human rights, fair business practices and sustainable procurement issues. The assessment conducted by CSR experts is made on the basis of the company answers to a survey which is dynamically adapted to their country, sector and size, on the basis of supporting documentation, and on public and stakeholder (NGOs, trade unions, press) information. ABOUT ECOVADIS EcoVadis operates the 1st collaborative platform allowing companies to assess the environmental and social performance of their suppliers on a global basis. EcoVadis combines technology and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expertise to deliver simple and reliable supplier scorecards, covering 150 purchasing categories and 21 CSR criteria. This document cannot be reproduced or distributed unless otherwise specified in EcoVadis contractually granted license right. No part of this document may be modified in whole or in part and in any form prior express written permission of EcoVadis. EcoVadis does not warrant the accuracy, reliability, completeness of the information, content, text, graphics provided on this document. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 2/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 1. Score Overview The overall and theme scores summarize the CSR performance of JULIUS VOM OVERALL SCORE 59/100 HOFE GMBH & CO KG on a scale of 1 to 100. Legend Outstanding CSR PERFORMANCE Advanced Environment ENV 60 Confirmed Labor Practices LAB 60 Partial None Fair Business Practices FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement SUP 50 The grey bars on this graph represent the benchmarks. Benchmarks compare BENCHMARK a company’s overall score and theme scores to other companies operating within the same industry. Here the Benchmark on over 150 suppliers. NOTE: The top and bottom 5% of performers are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. ENV : Environment LAB : Labor Practices & Human Rights FBP : Fair Business Practices SUP : Sustainable Procurement Benchmark is done on all suppliers of the same business category on the EcoVadis database This graph depicts the distribution of overall scores for several thousand companies on the EcoVadis platform. JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG has an overall score of 59 and the company is ranked alongside 25% which have Confirmed CSR engagement. The red dot represents the average of all suppliers The blue diamond refers to company position JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG has been identified as Silver regarding their approach to CSR management. To achieve this recognition, a company must have an overall score of [46-61]. The Corrective Action Plan (CAP) is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Action Plans, a starting point for an Corrective Action Plan in progress effective dialogue on actions taken by the supplier to improve their CSR performance. JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG has a CAP in place and is working on improving their CSR management system. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 3/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 2. Supplier Scorecard Objectives UNDERSTAND: Get a clear picture of the company’s CSR performance. With a score on four CSR themes (environmental, labor practices & Human Rights, fair business practices and sustainable procurement), that highlight the company’s strengths and possible areas for improvement. Know the company’s positioning compared to their industry sector peers. On which theme is this company better positioned than their peers? How is this company positioned in comparison to their sector average? Identify sector specific initiatives. What are the main international CSR regulations and sector initiatives specific to the industry sector of the company? COMMUNICATE: Meet client needs. More and more companies raise questions about their supplier’s environmental and social performance. This assessment allows to demonstrate company commitment. Leverage a unique communication tool. Directly share the assessment results with all clients. 3. Assessment Process Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 4/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 4. Ecovadis Methodology is based on A. Four themes with 21 criteria The EcoVadis methodology takes into account 21 CSR criteria which are contained under four themes: ENVIRONMENT, LABOR, FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES, and SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT. The methodology and criteria are in line with international CSR standards including the Global Reporting Initiative, United Nations Global Compact, and ISO 26000. B. Seven management indicators The EcoVadis assessment evaluates a company CSR management system by looking at seven management indicators. The four themes and their subsequent 21 CSR criteria are assessed on the basis of the following management indicators that a company has in place. Policies (weight: 25%) 1. Policies: Mission statements, commitments, principles, objectives and/or policies issued by the company. 2. Endorsement: Endorsement of CSR external initiatives, principles and/or active participation to international/sector CSR initiative. Actions (weight: 35%) 3. Measures: Concrete actions put in place to support commitments, objectives and deployment of policies (e.g. training, manual procedures). 4. Coverage: Level of deployment/dissemination of measures and concrete actions put in place throughout the company to support commitments and/or policies. 5. Certifications: Certifications received for the management system and/ or labels received for the products/ services delivered. Results (weight: 40%) 6. Reporting/ KPI: Quality and level of reporting readily available to stakeholders 7. 360°: Controversies, condemnations or positive developments reported by stakeholders (NGOs, Trade Unions, Press) having an impact on the company's CSR performance. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 5/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 5. How to understand company Scorecard The overall score can be better understood by looking at quantitative information theme scores, activated criteria and qualitative information strengths & improvement areas. A. QUANTITATIVES INFORMATION: SCORES & ACTIVATED CRITERIA THEME SCORES: Like the overall score, theme scores are on a scale of 1 to 100. ACTIVATED CRITERIA: E a c h o f t h e f o u r t h e m e s E N V I R O N M E N T , L A B O R , FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES, and SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENThave specific criteria associated to them. It is important to note that not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). For more information see Appendix: category profile. If criteria are not activated, this means that the specific associated Non Activated issue is not relevant or has very low CSR risk for the company Medium importance criteria are the issues where there is some CSR Medium Importance risk, but it is not the most pressing criteria. High-importance criteria are the issues where the company faces High Importance the greatest CSR risk. Criteria classified as Only in Risk Countries are activated only if the Only in Risk countries company has significant operations in one or more risk country. B. QUALITATIVE INFORMATION: STRENGTHS & IMPROVEMENT AREAS Qualitative information provides more details and insights into the theme scores. For each theme the company is assigned Strengths (the elements of the CSR management system that are positive) and Improvement Areas (the elements of the CSR management system that need to be improved). The strengths & improvement areas are divided according to the 3 management indicators Policies, Actions, Results – and are also classified by level of importance/priority (i.e. Priority.) Green check marks indicate the Strengths Alert signs indicate the Improvement Areas Improvement Areas are a focus point for improvement. The EcoVadis Corrective Action Plan Tool allows companies to improve their CSR performance on specific improvement areas. It is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It supports the development of Action Plans, a starting point for an effective dialogue between buyers and suppliers on actions taken by a supplier to improve their CSR performance. Each improvement area is given a priority level Priority Level which can be used to set up corrective action plans. High Medium Low Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 6/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 C. THE SCORING SCALE Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 7/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 6. ENVIRONMENT The environment theme takes into account both operational factors (e.g. energy consumption, waste management, etc.) and product stewardship (e.g. product end of life, customer health and safety issues). ENVIRONMENT: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor Practices LAB 60 Fair Business Practices FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement SUP 50 WEIGHT of the Theme ENV 3 out of 9 -> 33% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other the company industry of operation and country EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: of operation(s). The theme weights influence the are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 resulting overall score. suppliers to compare with. ENVIRONMENT: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). ENVIRONMENT: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 8/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 ENVIRONMENT:POLICIES Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Basic environmental policy on [ materials only ] More Information • The company has issued value statements, commitments, and operational objectives regarding some of the environmental issues but these lack specificities or organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application), or are not consolidated into a formal document. Guidance • Standard environmental policies cover at least qualitative objectives/commitments with specificities on the main issues, which may vary according to the industry or sector. This policy should encompass at least the high material risk issues (e.g energy consumption, waste management). Such policies also include organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application). Claims environmental policy on selected issues but no More Information supporting documentation available [ i.e. Energy • The company declares formal adoption of a specific policy consumption & GHG emissions, Water, Local poluution regarding some selected environmental issues (e.g. energy and Product end-of-life ] consumption issues), but there is no evidence of such a policy within the company supporting documentation. Guidance • A standard environmental policy covers at least qualitative objectives/commitments with specificities on the main environmental issues, which may vary according to the industry or sector. This policy should encompass at least the high material risk issues (e.g. energy consumption & GHG, water, materials/ chemicals and waste). Such policies also include organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application). Global Compact Signatory Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 9/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 ENVIRONMENT:ACTIONS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP No information on ISO 14001/ EMAS certification More Information • No company declaration and no evidence within the supporting documentation on ISO 14001 or EMAS certification achieved for at least one of its operational sites. Guidance • The ISO 14001 standard and the Eco­Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) are designed to provide an internationally recognised framework for environmental management. The EMAS is an EU voluntary instrument. Use of renewable energies or purchase of green power No external/3rd party audit conducted on environmental More Information issues • No company declaration and no evidence within the supporting documentation, nor in the public domain, on environmental audits (conducted internally or by an external third party) performed on the company premises. No monitoring of direct CO2 emissions More Information • The company declares no monitoring, tracking or regular review of its direct CO2 emissions. Guidance • Direct CO2 emissions (e.g. coming from fuel consumption) include emissions from facilities, plants, property or assets that are owned or controlled by the company (also called Scope 1 emissions according to the GHG international protocol). Company specific recycle or reuse programs and promotion campaign Specific measures to manage oil waste Measures to optimize transport of employees or reduce More Information CO2 emissions from transport • The company has implemented specific measures to optimize the transportation of employees or reduce the amount of CO2 emissions associated with transportation. • Examples might include carpooling, bike programs, public transport incentive schemes, company vehicles using alternative energy, etc. Work process or innovative technologies implemented to treat waste or facilitate clean disposal Measures to reuse or recycle waste Measures to avoid emissions of dust or particles Measures implemented to reduce pollutants into water Packaging designed for recyclability Infrastructures implemented to enable recycling of water More Information • The company has implemented certain infrastructures to facilitate the recycling of water during operations • Examples might include closed loop water systems, systems to reclaim water or rainwater harvesting, to name a few. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 10/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 ENVIRONMENT:RESULTS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Basic reporting on environmental issues More Information • There is evidence of formal reporting regarding the management and the mitigation of the company environmental footprint, within its supporting documentation, including key performance indicators (KPIs), statistical figures or associated concrete actions, but reporting elements are limited in terms of quality and quantity, do not cover the main issues, are not meaningful enough, or are not regularly updated. Guidance • It might also be the case that reporting does not exactly cover the entity under evaluation (e.g. KPIs might be aggregated at parent company level only). • KPIs can be sector­specific and include for instance direct energy consumption by primary energy source, total direct greenhouse gas emissions, total volume of water recycled and reused (Source: Global Reporting Initiative). Reporting on energy consumption of fossil fuel No information on emissions of hazardous air pollutants Reporting on water consumption per ton of finished product Reporting on electricity consumption Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 11/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 7. LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS (LAB) The labor theme takes into account both Labor Practice issues (e.g. health and safety, working conditions, etc.) and Human Rights issues (e.g. discrimination, child labor, etc.). LABOR & HUMAN RIGHTS: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor Practices LAB 60 Fair Business Practices FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement SUP 50 WEIGHT of the Theme LAB 4 out of 9 -> 44% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other the company industry of operation and country EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: of operation(s). The theme weights influence the are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 resulting overall score. suppliers to compare with. LABOR & HUMAN RIGHTS: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). LABOR & HUMAN RIGHTS: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 12/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS:POLICIES Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Basic policies on labor and human rights issues [ on More Information Working conditions and Discrimination only ] • The company has issued value statements, commitments, and operational objectives regarding labor practices and human rights issues, which lack specificity at issue level, or do not cover all the major issues the company is confronted with, or lack organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application), or are not consolidated into a formal document. Guidance • Standard labor practices and human rights policies cover at least qualitative objectives/commitments with specificities on the main issues, which may vary according to the industry or sector. This policy should encompass at least the high material risk issues (i.e. employee health and safety, career management & training, anti-discrimination issues). Such policies also include organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application). Claims policies on selected issues but no supporting More Information documentation available [ on Employee health and • The company declares formal adoption of policies on selected safety ] labor and human right issues but there is no evidence of such policy elements within the company supporting documentation. • A standard policy integrates commitments and/or operational objectives on the main labor practices and human rights issues a company is confronted with. The importance of issues covered by the policies may vary according to the industry or sector. Such issues can include employee health & safety, working conditions, labor relations, career management & training, child & forced labor, anti-discrimination and other fundamental rights issues. • The policy might also incorporate some of the following elements: scope of application, allocation of responsibilities, quantitative objectives (i.e. on employee health & safety, career management & training and anti-discrimination), and review mechanisms. • The policy is contained into a dedicated policy document or in a dedicated section of a larger purpose document. Guidance • Standard labor practices and human rights policies cover at least qualitative objectives/commitments with specificities on the main issues, which may vary according to the industry or sector. This policy should encompass at least the high material risk issues (i.e. employee health and safety, career management & training, anti-discrimination issues), which vary according to industry/ sector. Such policies also include organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application). Global Compact Signatory Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 13/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS:ACTIONS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP No information on OHSAS 18001 certification More Information • No company declaration and no evidence within the supporting documentationn on OHSAS 18001 certification achieved for at least one of its operational sites. Guidance • OHSAS 18001 is a standard for occupational health and safety management systems. It is designed to help all kinds of organizations put in place demonstrably sound occupational health and safety performance. Specific measures implemented for the integration of More Information persons with disabilities • The company has implemented specific measures to integrate disabled persons. • Some measures to integrate disabled persons in the workplace include assistive and adaptive technology such as new computer software programs, assistive listening devices, skills training and wheelchair accessible transportation. Company wide collective agreement signed on working conditions, including agreement on remuneration Training of relevant employees on health & safety risks and best working practices Official measures to promote work and life balance More Information • The company has implemented working practices that acknowledge and aim to support the needs of staff in achieving a balance between their home and working lives. Examples of work life-balance measures include: the possibility to work from home, to work part time, flexible-time schedules, childcare facilities at work, in-house services. Employee health & safety detailed risk assessment Company specific health care program for employees More Information • The company has implemented a specific health care program for employees covering private medical treatment. • Some examples of areas it could cover include drug treatment of cancer, health assessments, dental care, surgical procedures and treatment of conditions relating to alcohol and substance abuse. Mandatory health check up for employees Active preventive measures for noise exposure Official measures promoting career mobility More Information • The company has implemented measures to promote internal career mobility. • Some examples of measures include objectively promoting talent based on ability and potential, developing roadmaps for key talent in the company, continuing professional training, and encouraging employees to broaden their range of technical skills. Provision of skills development training More Information • The company has implemented vocational training and instruction, which include skills development training, education paid for in whole or in part by the company, with the goal to provide opportunities for career advancement (Source: Global Reporting Initiative G3). Company specific training or awareness programs for managers on discrimination issues Whistle blowing procedure or disciplinary measures on discrimination issues enforced Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 14/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 LABOR PRACTICES & HUMAN RIGHTS:RESULTS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Basic reporting on labor practices and human rights More Information issues • There is evidence of formal reporting regarding labor practices or human rights issues within the company supporting documentation including key performance indicators (KPIs), statistical figures or associated concrete actions, but reporting elements are limited in terms of quality or quantity, do not cover the main issues, are not meaningful enough, or are not regularly updated. Guidance • It might also be the case that reporting does not exactly cover the entity under evaluation (e.g. KPIs might be aggregated at parent company level only). • KPIs can be sector­specific and include for instance the rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, the number of work-related fatalities, or the % of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (Source: Global Reporting Initiative G3). Reporting on accident severity rate More Information • The company reports a severity rate of accidents among its employees during the last reporting year. Guidance • The accident severity rate measures the time lost due to occupational injuries in relation to the total amount of time worked. It indicates how severe the accidents were and how long the injured employees were out of work as a result of disabling injuries. Reporting on accident frequency rate More Information • The company reports a frequency rate of accidents among its employees during the last reporting year. Guidance • The accident frequency rate measures the number of injuries with lost time in relation to the total amount of time worked. It indicates the extent to which injury incidents are repeated over time and their number of occurrence. Reporting on percentage of women in executive (e.g. senior or top management) positions Over 6% of disabled workers out of total workforce Reporting on average hours of safety training Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 15/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 8. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES (FBP) The fair business practice theme focuses primarily on corruption and bribery issues, but also takes into account anti-competition and responsible marketing depending on the industry of operation. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor Practices LAB 60 Fair Business Practices FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement SUP 50 WEIGHT of the Theme FB 1 out of 9 -> 11% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other the company industry of operation and country EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: of operation(s). The theme weights influence the are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 resulting overall score. suppliers to compare with. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES:POLICIES Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Basic company business ethics policy More Information • The company has issued value statements, commitments, and operational objectives on fair business practices, which lack specificity at issue level, or do not cover the major business ethics issues the company is confronted with, or lack organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application), or are not consolidated into a formal document. Guidance • A standard company business ethics policy covers at least corruption & bribery issues and optionally anti-competitive practices issues and consumer/client issues such as responsible marketing & data protection, depending on the industry or sector. Such a policy is usually in the form of a Code of Ethics or a Code of Business Conduct and it includes organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application). Global Compact Signatory Company public commitment to respect Intellectual Property Rights Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 16/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES:ACTIONS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Internal controls (e.g. four eyes principle, separation of More Information functions, job rotation) • The company has implemented formal internal controls as part of its anti-corruption compliance program. Such measures include control activities that cover policies and procedures designed to ensure that management directives are carried out (e.g., approvals, authorizations, reconciliations, and segregation of duties); information and communication; and monitoring. Guidance • For example, a separation of duties minimizes the risk of fraud; it can be done geographically and/or to achieve all the completion stages of an operation. The four-eyes principle implies a decision or a transaction must be approved by at least two people. Job rotation ensures improper relationships do not have time to develop. Specific approval procedure for sensitive transactions More Information (e.g. gifts, travel) • The company has implemented a verification process for sensitive transactions. Guidance • Sensitive transactions involve payments and cash transfers particularly for operations exposed to high risk of corruption and bribery. Some examples are: gifts, entertainment and travel, new investments. Whistle blowing procedure active on corruption & bribery issues Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 17/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 9. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT (SUP) The sustainable procurement theme focuses on both social and environmental issues within the company supply chain. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT: SCORES DETAILED SCORE BENCHMARK CSR PERFORMANCE BENCHMARK Environment ENV 60 Labor Practices LAB 60 Fair Business Practices FBP 60 Sustainable Procurement SUP 50 WEIGHT of the Theme SUP 1 out of 9 -> 11% of the global score Themes are weighted according the Corporate This benchmark shows the company overall score in The theme benchmark is a more detailed comparison of Social Responsibility (CSR) risks associated to comparison to the scores of industry sector peers on the the company’s theme score in comparison to other the company industry of operation and country EcoVadis platform. The top and bottom 5% of performers companies operating within the same industry. NOTE: of operation(s). The theme weights influence the are excluded to ensure statistical relevance. Benchmark is only activated when they are at least 3 resulting overall score. suppliers to compare with. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT: ACTIVATED CRITERIA Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Note: Not all 21 criteria are activated for every company and some criteria have more weight than others in the overall assessment. The weights for the criteria are determined based on the CSR risks faced by the company according to their industry of operation and their country of operation(s). SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT: STRENGTH & WEAKNESSES Note: The number of alert signs or checks next to a strength or weakness does not represent the performance of the company; rather they indicate the level of importance of each individual strength and/or weakness This icon informs that the company has a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) in place associated to a particular weakness. The CAP is an interactive tool shared between suppliers and buyers. It helps to develop Actions to improve the supplier’s CSR performance. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 18/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT:POLICIES Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Basic sustainable procurement policy on social factors More Information • The company has a basic sustainable procurement policy on social factors. • The company has issued value statements, commitments, and operational objectives regarding the integration of social factors within its supply chain but lack specificities at issue level, or does not cover all the major sustainable procurement issues the company is confronted with, or lacks organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application), or are not consolidated into a formal document. • A standard social policy covers at least qualitative objectives/commitments with specificities on the main social sustainable procurement issues, which may vary according to the industry or sector. This policy should encompass at least the high material risk issues (e.g. diversity, child labor, human rights). It is contained in a formal policy document (i.e. CSR Procurement Guidelines) or in dedicated section of a larger purpose document and usually includes organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application). Claims sustainable procurement policy on environmental More Information factors but no supporting documentation available • The company declares formal adoption of a policy regarding the integration of environmental factors within its supply chain management (e.g. ecolabels, supplier environmental certifications), but there is no evidence of such a policy within the company supporting documentation. Guidance • A standard sustainable procurement policy includes at least CSR requirements for both supplier practices (environmental and social), and product/service characteristics (e.g. use of independently verified labeling schemes). It is contained in a formal policy document (i.e. CSR Procurement Guidelines) and usually includes organizational elements (e.g. review process, dedicated responsibilities, scope of application). SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT:ACTIONS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Formal assessment of suppliers progress with regards to REACH requirements Integration of social factors when More Information subcontracting/externalizing labor resources • Social and health & safety criteria are formally described as an integral part of the selection process of subcontractors. • Illustrative examples include previous health and safety records of subcontracting organizations, labor and human rights performance, proactive measures beyond regulatory compliance, and certifications (e.g. OHSAS 18001, SA8000). Integration of social or environmental clauses into More Information suppliers contract • The company's contractual agreements with subcontractors systematically contain a binding clause that requires those suppliers to comply with international CSR standards or to demonstrate a proactive CSR approach. • Such contract clauses can contain defined measures that the client can impose in case CSR clauses are not respected (e.g. contract termination). • Some specific issues covered in supplier contracts can include child labor, conflict minerals, REACH and RoHS. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT:RESULTS Priority Strength or Weakness Additional Definition CAP Declares using no tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold and/or their derivatives Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 19/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 10. The 360° WATCH: stakeholders' information The 360° is a web based tool to collect stakeholders insight on a company‘s CSR approach and impacts. A corporate stakeholder is a party that can affect or be affected by the actions of the company and the achievement of its objectives (i.e. employees, clients, suppliers). Note: If a strength or weakness is activated on the 360°, this is an indicator that the 360° has had an impact on the score. Only legitimate stakeholder sources are selected: Governmental organizations (i.e. government environmental protection administrations, anti-trust agencies, customers protection agencies) CSR networks and initiatives Trade unions and employers’ organizations International organizations (i.e. UN, ILO, UNEP, …) NGO’s (i.e. Greenpeace, Clean Clothes Campaign, Transparency international, UFC, …) Research institutes and reputable press (CSR Asia, Blacksmith Institute, …) Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 20/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 11. SPECIFIC COMMENTS Specific comments are key points which indicate some specific characteristics of the company CSR evaluation and will help to better understand the company’s performance. Despite the company implementing measures regarding the main CSR issues, policies are not formalized or are only basic. Since the last evaluation, the overall score has increased thanks to the implementation of additional measures. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 21/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 MORE INFORMATION For more information, please refer to our website (http://www.ecovadis.com) where you can also connect to the EcoVadis platform. If you have any questions or problems, do not hesitate to contact us: By email at: support@ecovadis.com By phone : +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 Provided under contract for exclusive use of subscriber: Christiane Sieper-Meyer 23/03/2015 This assessment is valid for 12 months only. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 22/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 APPENDIX : CATEGORY PROFILE A Category Profile offers practical insights into the key sustainability issues which are applicable to the company industry of operation. It provides a link to major regulations, sector initiatives, and eco-labels. The company industry of operation has been determined based on International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC), which is a compilation of all global economic activities published by the United Nations Statistical Commission. The International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC) main purpose is to provide a set of activity categories that can be utilized for the collection and reporting of statistics according to such activities. International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, Rev.4, United Nations, New York, 2008 It is possible that a company has operations in more than one category, but EcoVadis classifies companies based on their main area of operation. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 23/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 CRITERIA ACTIVATION BY THEME: Each category faces specific CSR issues and risks based on their industry of operation. The below chart shows the criteria activated for the company category name : Manufacture of other fabricated metal products n.e.c.. Environment Labor Practices Fair Business Practices Energy Consumption & GHG Employee Health & Safety Corruption & Bribery Water Working Conditions Anti-competitive Practices Biodiversity Social Dialog Responsible Marketing Local Pollution Career Management & Training Materials, Chemicals & Waste Child & Forced Labor Sustainable Procurement Product Use Discrimination Suppliers & Environment Product End-of-Life Fundamental Human Rights Suppliers & Social Customers Health & Safety Sustainable Consumption Non Activated Medium Importance High Importance Only in Risk countries Noteworthy Practices KEY CSR ISSUES This section shows a qualitative explanation of the key CSR issues and risk pertaining to Manufacture of other fabricated metal products n.e.c.. Key CSR Issues ENVIRONMENT Energy Consumption & GHG Definition: Energy consumption (e.g. electricity, fuel, renewable energies) used during operations and transport. Greenhouse gases direct and indirect emissions including CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC and SF6. Also includes production of renewable energy by the company. Sectorial issues: In Progress Water Definition: Water consumption during operations. Pollutants rejected into water. Sectorial issues: In Progress Local Pollution Definition: Impact from operations on local environment around company facilities: emissions of dust, noise and odor. It also includes accidental pollution (e.g. spills) and road congestion around the operation facilities. Sectorial issues: In Progress Materials, Chemicals & Waste Definition: Consumption of all types of raw materials and chemicals. Non-hazardous and hazardous waste generated from operations. Also includes air emissions other than GHG (e.g. SOx, NOx). Sectorial issues: In Progress Product End-of-Life Definition: Direct Environmental impacts generated from the end-of-life of the products. These impacts can include hazardous, non-hazardous waste generated, emissions and accidental pollution. Sectorial issues: In Progress LABOR PRACTICES Employee Health & Safety Definition: Deals with health and safety issues encountered by employees at work i.e. during operations and transport. Includes both physiological and psychological issues arising from, among others, dangerous equipment, work practices and hazardous substance. Sectorial issues: In Progress Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 24/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 Working Conditions Definition: Deals with working hours, remunerations and social benefits granted to employees. Sectorial issues: In Progress Social Dialog Definition: Deals with structured social dialogue i.e. social dialog deployed through recognized employee representatives and collective bargaining. Sectorial issues: In Progress Career Management & Training Definition: Deals with main career stages i.e. recruitment, evaluation, training and management of layoffs. Sectorial issues: In Progress Child & Forced Labor Definition: Deals with child, forced or compulsory labor issues within the company owned operations. Sectorial issues: In Progress Discrimination Definition: Deals with discrimination issues at work. Discrimination is defined as different treatment given to people in hiring, remuneration, training, promotion, termination; based on race, national origin, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership, political affiliation or age. Sectorial issues: In Progress Fundamental Human Rights Definition: Deals with fundamental human rights issues at work. This includes the respect of security, property rights, employees privacy rights, civil and political rights, rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining, social and cultural rights (including indigenous people) as well as the prevention of harassment, moral and physical violence and inhumane or degrading treatment. Sectorial issues: In Progress FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES Corruption & Bribery Definition: Deals with all forms of corruption issues at work, including among other things extortion, bribery, conflict of interest, fraud, money laundering. Sectorial issues: In Progress SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Suppliers & Environment Definition: Deals with environmental issues within the supply chain i.e. environmental impacts generated from the suppliers and subcontractors own operations and products. Sectorial issues: In Progress Suppliers & Social Definition: Deals with labor practices and human rights issues within the supply chain i.e. labor practices and human rights issues generated from the suppliers and subcontractors own operations or products. Sectorial issues: In Progress SOURCES Sources In Progress MAIN REGULATIONS AND SECTORS INITIATIVES This section provides a list of text references related to major CSR standards, regulations, labels or sector initiatives pertaining to Manufacture of other fabricated metal products n.e.c.. Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 25/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 Main Regulations and Sectors Initiatives ( = Regulatory) ENV : Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal The Basel Convention, which came into force in 1992, is the most comprehensive global environmental agreement on hazardous and other wastes. The Convention has 172 Parties and aims to protect human health and the environment against the adverse effects resulting from the generation, management, transboundary movements and disposal of hazardous and other wastes. http://www.basel.int/index.html ENV : EU Directive 2006/42/CE on machinery Revised Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC (includes improvements on safety of the current Machinery Directive 98/37/EC). Deadline for national law transposition: 29th June 2008. http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/mechan_equipment/machinery/rev... ENV : EU Directive 96/61/EC concerning integrated pollution prevention and control The aim of this directive is to prevent or reduce pollution of the atmosphere, water and soil, as well as the quantities of waste arising from industrial and agricultural installations to ensure a high level of environmental protection. http://europa.eu/scadplus/leg/en/lvb/l28045.htm ENV : EU Directive on Noise Pollution On top of the corrective measures applicable to some sources of noise, in 2002 the European Union adopted a Directive setting out a Community approach to the management and evaluation of ambient noise in order to protect public health. http://europa.eu/scadplus/leg/en/s15003.htm ENV : GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement, Pilot Version 1.0 Thirteen supplementary indicators, as well as commentary to the GRI guidelines, developed to address economic, environmental and social aspects of Mining & Metals companies http://www.globalreporting.org/ReportingFramework/SectorSuppl... ENV : Ultra Low CO2 Steelmaking (ULCOS) Consortium of 48 European companies and organisations that have launched a cooperative research & development initiative to enable drastic reduction in Carbon dioxide(CO2) emissions from steel production http://www.ulcos.org/en/index.php ENV : US National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Iron and Steel Foundries In 2004, the EPA issued national emission standards to control hazardous air pollutants emitted from iron and steel foundries. This action amends the work practice requirements for materials certification and scrap selection/inspection programs. http://www.epa.gov/EPA-AIR/2005/May/Day-20/a9591.htm ENV : Standard ISO 14000 (International Standard Organisation) The ISO 14000 family addresses various aspects of environmental management http://www.iso.org/iso/iso_14000_essentials LAB : Universal Declaration of Human Rights The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) is an advisory declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly (10 December 1948 ) http://www.un.org/Overview/rights.html LAB : International Labor Organization's Fundamental Conventions The Governing Body of the International Labour Office has identified eight Conventions as fundamental to the rights of human beings at work. These rights are a precondition for 12 the others in that they provide a necessary framework from which to strive freely for the improvement of individual and collective conditions of work. http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_norm/---declara... LAB : Standard OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) OHSAS 18000 is an international occupational health and safety management system specification. http://www.ohsas-18001-occupational-health-and-safety.com/ind... FBP : Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) prohibits payments, gifts, or Practices Act contributions to officials or employees of any foreign government or government-owned business for the purpose of getting or retaining business. http://www.usdoj.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa/ Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 26/27 EcoVadis Assessment for JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG February 2015 FBP : United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) The UNCAC is the first leg12y binding international anti-corruption instrument. In its 8 Chapters and 71 Articles, the UNCAC obliges its States Parties to implement a wide and detailed range of anti-corruption measures affecting their laws, institutions and practices. http://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/treaties/CAC/index.html ALL : United Nations Global Compact (10 principles) The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/AboutTheGC/TheTenPrinciples/in... ALL : OECD guidelines for multinational enterprises The Guidelines are recommendations addressed by governments to multinational enterprises operating in or from adhering countries. They provide voluntary principles and standards for responsible business conduct in a variety of areas including employment and industrial relations, human rights, environment, information disclosure, combating bribery, consumer interests, science and technology, competition, and taxation. http://www.oecd.org/about/0,2337,en_2649_34889_1_1_1_1_1,00.html ALL : Standard Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) The GRI is a network-based organization, that has set out the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. http://www.globalreporting.org/Home ALL : Standard ISO 26000 (International Standard Organisation) The future International Standard ISO 26000, Guidance on social responsibility, will provide harmonized, glob12y relevant guidance based on international consensus among expert representatives of the main stakeholder groups and so encourage the implementation of best practice in social responsibility worldwide. http://www.iso.org/iso/pressrelease.htm?refid=Ref972 ENV : Carbon disclosure project CDP is an international, not-for-profit organization providing the only global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. https://www.cdp.net ADDITIONAL CATEGORY STATISTICS Critical Category Strength and Improvement areas (% Suppliers) In Progress... Strengths and Improvement Areas EcoVadis KPIs Suppliers Active whistleblowing procedure in place 35% Audit or assessment of suppliers on CSR issues 24% Carbon disclosure project (CDP) respondent 7% Formal code of business ethics 39% Formal sustainable procurement policy 18% Global Compact Signatory 13% ISO 14001 certified (at least one operational site) 37% OHSAS 18001 certification or equivalent (at least one operational site) 20% Reporting on energy use or GHG emissions 72% Reporting on health and safety indicators 78% Supplier JULIUS VOM HOFE GMBH & CO KG KPIs Christiane Sieper-Meyer ©Copyright EcoVadis™ 23.03.2015 12:17:16 – All rights reserved Ecovadis Assessment Report February 2015 www.ecovadis.com │ +33 (0) 1 82 28 88 88 support@ecovadis.com Page: 27/27
