27 February 2015 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Miele & Cie. KG Reporting Period: Business Year 2013/2014, July 1st 2013 June 30th 2014 GC Active Level Reference: Miele Sustainability Report 2015: http://www.miele-sustainability.com 1. Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer 2. Human Rights Principles 3. Labour Principles 4. Environmental Principles 5. Anti-Corruption Principles 1. Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Miele & Cie. KG reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Since 2004, when Miele published its first communication on progress, we have continually increased our commitment to sustainability. Based on the understanding that our company bears a responsibility towards society, which is deeply embedded in our corporate culture, and involving both external and internal stakeholders, we developed our first sustainability strategy in 2011. In five different fields of action (products, supply chain, processes, employees, and corporate citizenship) we implemented management systems and defined ambitious objectives as well as suitable measures to integrate sustainability into daily business. In 2014, we again engaged in a stakeholder consultation process and, based on that, are currently in the process of reviewing our sustainability strategy, which will be completed at the end of 2015. In this communication on progress, we describe our actions and the progress we have made in the business year 2013/2014 in implementing the Ten Principles. More detailed information can be found in our 2015 Sustainability Report. Sincerely Yours, Dr. Eduard Sailer Board Member responsible for Technology Issues UN Global Compact COP Miele & Cie. KG 2013/2014 Page 1/6 2. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Since Miele was founded in 1899, supporting and respecting human rights in all its business activities has been a pivotal aspect of its corporate culture. Consequently, Miele supports and respects the UN Declaration of Human Rights. To establish support of human rights beyond own operations and along the supply chain, Miele has set up a responsible supply chain management system. Suppliers and business partners are asked to adhere to the principles of human rights and confirm doing so in a supplier self-assessment. Implementation To ensure compliance with human rights in its own business activities, Miele decided to implement the SA8000 Standard, which suggests a management system approach to complying with the UN Declaration of Human Rights, conventions of the ILO, as well as UN and national law. Today, all European sites are certified. Miele’s site in Dongguan, China, is expected to be certified by the end of 2015. In 2008, Miele first implemented its code of conduct, followed by a revision in 2012. The code states in writing amongst other things the company’s policy on human rights and labour standards. Upon joining, new employees are being introduced to the company’s principles and the code. In 2010, Miele introduced internationally a grievance mechanism which allows employees, suppliers and others to report infringement of a law or non-compliance, e.g. with human rights or labour principles, to an ombudsman. Once potential suppliers have successfully completed their self-assessment and Miele is interested in engaging in a business relationship, the supplier needs to pass a short audit conducted on-site, assessing amongst other things compliance with human rights and labour principles. Suppliers are required to update their self-assessment every year and are audited on a regular basis, assessing similar criteria like in the short audit. In addition, if classified as a high risk supplier due to country of origin or sector affiliation, suppliers undergo a more detailed audit specifically focussing on human rights and labour principles every year. If a potential supplier does not pass the audit, Miele does not establish a business relationship with this company. If an audit is failed by a current supplier, Miele engages with the supplier to jointly develop improvement measures. If however the supplier is not willing to improve, Miele usually ends this business relationship. Measurement of Outcomes In 2014, all European sites were re-certified to the SA8000 standard. Also in 2014, Miele introduced an online learning tool about its code of conduct. Until November of the same year, 1,540 employees and managers including the board had completed the training. A total of 570 potential suppliers completed the self-assessment questionnaire, of which 181 were excluded due to non-compliance with human rights, labour standards, or other principles. UN Global Compact COP Miele & Cie. KG 2013/2014 Page 2/6 GRI-G4 References Principle 1: G4-HR2, G4-HR7-9, G4-HR12, G4-SO1-2 Principle 2: G4-HR1, G4-HR10-11 3. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Meeting high social and ethical standards is a top priority for Miele. Upholding the freedom of association and collective bargaining as well as the elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination are core responsibilities. Consequently, Miele supports and respects the ILO Core Conventions. Miele’s commitment to its employees goes far beyond fulfilling legal requirements. The company pays decent wages in all countries of operation. E.g. in China, the company conducted a study to determine an appropriate living wage (being higher than the minimum wage). Furthermore, Miele grants numerous social benefits and ensures worker participation and employee representation. Miele is an equal opportunity employer. To establish support of labour standards beyond own operations and along the supply chain, Miele has set up a responsible supply chain management system. Suppliers and business partners are asked to uphold the labour principles and confirm doing so in a supplier selfassessment. Implementation Please see Principle 1: Implementation for further details. Miele has implemented comprehensive management systems to ensure compliance with both human rights and labour principles along the value chain. To ensure occupational health and safety, all Miele sites are OHSAS 18001 certified. In addition to the general grievance mechanism, employees in Germany can file complaints to a designated ombudsman specifically on the issue of discrimination. According to the German General Act on Equal Treatment (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz, AGG), this proceeding has been set up in collaboration with the workers council. Measurement of Outcomes Please see Principle 1: Measurement of Outcomes for further details on management systems, number of employees trained on the code of conduct and number of potential suppliers who completed the self-assessment questionnaire. The following measurements of outcomes refer to the business year 2013/2014. The percentage change to business year 2012/2013 is given in brackets: UN Global Compact COP Miele & Cie. KG 2013/2014 Page 3/6 Total number of employees: 17,660 (+2.4%) Number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements: approx. 60% Employee turnover rate: 0.9 % (+/-0%) Injury frequency rate: 13.6 (+22.2%) Average hours of training per year per employee: 6.2 (+22.6%) Since introducing an online learning tool about the General Act on Equal Treatment, 1,134 employees from all human resources departments were trained, of which 188 in the business years 2012/13 and 2013/14. In 2013/14, no grievances were filed through the formal grievance mechanism in Germany. GRI-G4 References Principle 3: G4-11, G4-LA4, G4-HR4 Principle 4: G4-HR6 Principle 5: G4-HR5 Principle 6: G4-10, G4-EC5-6, G4-LA1, G4-LA3, G4-LA9, G4-LA11-13, G4-HR3 4. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Miele sees environmental protection as one of its core responsibilities. In its own processes, the company addresses material use, energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, water use, wastewater, and waste. However, as a producer of household appliances, the largest impact in the value chain lies in the use phase of its products. Thus, the company places special emphasis on managing this aspect of their environmental impact. As a guiding principle, the company aims at avoiding, minimizing and recycling as much as possible and applies the precautionary approach. To promote environmental responsibility amongst its suppliers, Miele has integrated environmental aspects in its responsible supply chain management system. Suppliers and business partners are asked to indicate in the supplier self-assessment if an environmental management system is in place, if local environmental laws are observed and if resources are managed sustainably. Requirements regarding the environmental impact of purchased raw materials and components are guided by both applicable laws and company-specific specifications. Implementation All Miele sites make use of an environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001. The last site to obtain the certification was Dongguan, China, in 2012/2013. In addition, all sites except Dongguan have implemented an ISO 50001 certified energy management system. In the reporting period, emphasis was put on implementing measures to increase energy efficiency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve water UN Global Compact COP Miele & Cie. KG 2013/2014 Page 4/6 protection. To raise awareness for the environmental impact of its business activities, Miele employees receive specific training once a year. To ensure its products will meet the required quality, longevity, and environmental standards, Miele developed a check list which is being used in the product development process. Please see Principle 1: Implementation for further details on how Miele audits its suppliers. Environmental aspects are part of the same audits as compliance with human rights and labour standards. Measurement of Outcomes The following measurements of outcomes refer to the business year 2013/2014. The percentage change to business year 2012/2013 is given in brackets: Environmental protection investments: 1,602 million Euro (-41.1%) Environmental protection expenditures: 7,365 million Euro (+8.7%) Energy use: 223,546 MWh (-8.1%) Greenhouse gas emissions: 97,457 tons CO2 (-1.4%) Water use: 370,085 m3 (+6.6%) Wastewater: 336,474 m3 (+12.2%) Waste: 31,493 tons (+4.9%) The share of washing machines, dishwashers, and refrigerating appliances meeting the requirements of the top two energy efficiency classes of the European Union energy label (A+++ und A++) could be increased by 28%. There was no incidence of non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations and no suspected case was reported to the ombudsman. GRI-G4 References Principle 7: G4-EC2, G4-EN1, G4-EN3, G4-EN8, G4-EN15-17, G4-EN20-21, G4-EN27, G4EN31 Principle 8: G4-EN1-34 Principle 9: G4-EN6-7, G4-EN19, G4-EN27, G4-EN31 5. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Miele pursues a zero-tolerance policy against all forms of corruption, bribery, extortion and illicit enrichment and has committed itself to be in compliance with all relevant laws, including anti-corruption laws. To establish support of anti-corruption policies beyond own operations, these are embedded in Miele’s responsible supply chain management system. Suppliers and business partners are asked to follow anti-corruption policies and confirm doing so in a supplier selfassessment. UN Global Compact COP Miele & Cie. KG 2013/2014 Page 5/6 Implementation In 2008, Miele first implemented its code of conduct, followed by a revision in 2012. The code states in writing, amongst other things, the company’s policy on corruption, bribery, donations and sponsoring. Its predecessor was the code of ethics, which had been implemented in the purchasing department in 1996. Upon joining, new employees are being introduced to the company’s principles and the code of conduct. In 2010, Miele introduced internationally a grievance mechanism which allows employees, suppliers and others to report infringement of a law or non-compliance, e.g. with anti-corruption policies, to an ombudsman. As part of the internal audit, specific aspects of the code of conduct are being verified, amongst them compliance with the policies on accepting gifts, on donations, and on conflicts of interest. In the event of non-compliance, improvement measures are implemented. Please see Principle 1: Implementation for further details on how Miele audits its suppliers. Compliance with its anti-corruption policy is part of the same audits as compliance with human rights and labour standards. Measurement of Outcomes In 2014, Miele introduced an online learning tool about its code of conduct. Until November of the same year, 1,540 employees and managers including the board had completed the training. In 2012, there were six, in 2013 three incidents of suspected non-compliance with the anticorruption policy reported to the ombudsman. In the following investigations, none of these cases were confirmed. A total of 570 potential suppliers completed the self-assessment questionnaire, of which 181 were excluded due to non-compliance with the anti-corruption policy or other principles. In the reporting period, no contract with a business partner or supplier was terminated or discontinued due to non-compliance with the anti-corruption policy. GRI-G4 References Principle 10: G4-56, G4-57, G4-58, G4-SO3-6 UN Global Compact COP Miele & Cie. KG 2013/2014 Page 6/6
