BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER SITA GROUP CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER CEO STATEMENT 3 SITA AT A GLANCE 4 OUR BUSINESS 6 CSR AT SITA 12 SITA AND THE ENVIRONMENT 18 OUR PEOPLE 22 SITA AND THE COMMUNITY 30 ABOUT THIS REPORT 40 GRI INDEX 42 FEEDBACK 44 Cover photo: SITA Beirut team building event, Shouf Biosphere Reserve, June 2014 Photo courtesy ProMax for Adventures & Fitness CSR REPORT 2014 1 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER UNITED NATIONS LABOR • Principle 8: undertake GLOBAL COMPACT TEN initiatives to promote • Principle 3: Businesses PRINCIPLES greater environmental should uphold the freedom of responsibility; and association and the effective The UN Global Compact is a recognition of the right to • Principle 9: encourage strategic policy initiative for collective bargaining; the development and businesses that are committed diffusion of environmentally to aligning their operations and • Principle 4: the elimination friendly technologies. strategies with ten universally of all forms of forced and accepted principles in the compulsory labor; ANTI-CORRUPTION areas of human rights, labor, • Principle 5: the effective • Principle 10: Businesses environment and anti-corruption. abolition of child labor; and should work against By doing so, business, as a • Principle 6: the elimination of corruption in all its primary driver of globalization, discrimination in respect of forms, including extortion can help ensure that markets, employment and occupation. and bribery. commerce, technology and ENVIRONMENT ﬁnance advance in ways that beneﬁt economies • Principle 7: Businesses and societies everywhere. should support a precautionary approach to HUMAN RIGHTS environmental challenges; • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER WELCOME TO OUR THIRD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) REPORT In my introduction to our SITA’s major environmental impacts are 2013 CSR report, I stated energy use through operations and air the importance of our travel. We continue to see reductions in our long-term CSR strategy, and energy and emissions intensity ratios year our commitment to being a on year. However, during 2014 there was responsible business. Looking an increase in emissions from business back at the year in review I am travel. As an organization that operates on pleased to say that we have made good behalf of our customers in the air transport progress in our three strategic areas: industry in around 200 countries, air travel • Integrating CSR into our business is a requirement. Nevertheless, we remain committed to tracking and reporting on • Managing our environmental impact, and our travel – as well as using alternative • Bringing value to our communities technologies where we can. The following pages of this report give more During a trip to India in October, I took the detail on what has been done, but there are a opportunity to join some of my management few key areas I would like to highlight. colleagues in visiting the Divine Mercy’s Ward In July, I once again reconﬁrmed our at the Mother Teresa Ashram in Jaipur. This commitment to the United Nations Global was just one of many volunteering activities Compact – recognizing it as an important that SITA employees participated in across the framework for our approach to responsible globe, and I was grateful to be part of it to see business. We continue to use the principles ﬁrst hand the positive impact that can be made of the Global Compact to inform a number of on local communities. our actions in the areas of labor, environment, Looking to 2015, we will review and develop human rights and anti-corruption. our CSR strategy so that it remains relevant I also took the opportunity to sign the for our business and stakeholders as the air UNGC Call to Action on Anti-corruption, transport industry evolves. As we address the joining many other organizations that material issues, my colleagues in the CSR support the promotion to governments Executive Review Board, together with the of anti-corruption measures and the CSR Steering Group, will continue to ensure implementation of policies that will that we deliver on our commitment to be a establish systems of good governance. responsible business. In our own business we retained a keen We encourage and welcome your feedback on emphasis on ensuring that our policies and our CSR Report via csr@sita.aero. processes support corporately and socially responsible behavior. As part of this activity, we released our global environmental policy in October. Throughout the year, SITA has been implementing ISO 14001 (Environmental Management Systems) across our ﬁve largest Francesco Violante locations. Three sites gained certiﬁcation CEO, SITA during the year, while the remaining two were certiﬁed early 2015. CSR REPORT 2014 3 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER 40+ air transport CIOs on SITA’s Board & Council 20 committees to set standards OWNERSHIP 430 SITA air transport industry members 2,800 customers 20 Billion business and mission-critical transactions handled by SITA every year for the air transport industry 126 Million AIRPORTS 200 passengers via our horizon system No.1 baggage tracing countries & territories network WorldTracer in use at 2,200 airport locations 1,000 airports 5,500 SITA kiosks worldwide 30,000 CUTE systems in use worldwide 4 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER 13,500 aircraft using SITA’s aircraft communication services 100 Million type B messages carried per day 1,394 VHF ground stations worldwide 4.6 Million flight plans delivered per year AIRLINES 140 nationalities 60 languages SITA'S GLOBAL spoken 4,500 PRESENCE OUR employees PEOPLE 95% of all international destinations covered by SITA's extensive network NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE 13,500 air transport sites connected by SITA VPN networks 15,000+ IP connections CSR REPORT 2014 5 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER 6 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER SITA is the world’s leading specialist in air transport Our subsidiaries communications and IT solutions. We have been providing air SITA has three subsidiaries: transport industry communications and IT solutions to airlines, airports, governments, ground handlers and other customers • OnAir, which is the leading provider of in-ﬂight connectivity, over the world’s most extensive network for more than six • CHAMP Cargosystems, the world’s only IT company decades. Our technology is used for nearly every air passenger dedicated solely to air cargo, and trip across the globe – and nearly every airport and airline in the • SITA Bureau Services (SBS), our new cloud-based venture world does business with us. which is simplifying billing for the beneﬁt of airlines and Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, SITA is also one of the Air Navigation Service Providers. world’s most international companies. Our global reach is based SITA also operates a joint venture, Aviareto, which provides on local presence, with 2,800 customers in 200+ countries and aircraft asset management to the air transport community. territories. We employ 4,500 people of more than 140 nationalities, These subsidiaries are not included in the boundaries of this speaking over 60 different languages in 137 countries. report (see About this Report). SITA has 5 main business divisions: CORPORATE STRUCTURE • Communications Infrastructure Solutions SITA’s corporate structure comprises SITA SC, a Belgian • Airport Solutions co-operative, and SITA N.V., a Dutch commercial company. • Passenger Solutions The majority of SITA’s activities are today undertaken through • Government Solutions SITA N.V., although SITA’s network services are housed in the • Aircraft Communications SITA co-operative. The SITA Trust Foundation is an Employee Share Plan Trust. SITA Group Foundation’s shareholding is ﬁxed, Our portfolio addresses the IT and communications needs of with companies holding certiﬁcates in the Group Foundation, the air transport industry with more than 120 products and which represent the economic interest in the N.V. shares. There solutions. They include managed global communications and is a very large overlap between the members of SITA SC and the technology integration, infrastructure and outsourcing services, certiﬁcate holders of the SITA Group Foundation. In practice, as well as services for managing airline infrastructure, airports although SITA N.V. has two main shareholders – SITA SC and the and passenger operations. In addition, SITA provides services SITA Group Foundation – they function as one governing body for to facilitate ﬂight and aircraft operations and air-to-ground SITA N.V. communications, baggage operations, transportation security and border management, cargo operations and more. A full SITA SC is wholly owned by its members. Shares in SITA SC are breakdown of SITA’s products and services can be found online: reallocated to members each year based on their use of all SITA www.sita.aero/solutions-and-services/solutions. services in the previous year. This means that the shareholding structure of the co-operative is variable, rather than ﬁxed. OTHER There have been no major changes to the organization’s VEL TRA RIB’N size, structure, ownership or supply chain since the last report, DIST NT AE ME RO SP issued in 2014. RN AC OR T VE E RP GO AI O RG CA AIR Our business by sector AIRLINE CSR REPORT 2014 7 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER ORGANIZATIONAL GOVERNANCE SITA Council SITA Board The SITA Council plays a signiﬁcant part in the overall governance of SITA. As a member-representative body, the The SITA Board (as a unitary structure) supervises the activities Council has the role of representing and safeguarding the of the SITA Group to ensure its effective operations, and reports interests of our membership with the right of ﬁnal approval over to SITA Members at the Annual General Assembly. The role of the speciﬁc, important matters relating to the high-level direction Board has been modeled on best practice for both cooperative of the organization. The SITA Council is also consulted on any and commercial organizations. other matter having a material impact on services provided to the At year-end the Board comprised 12 Directors, including eight SITA members. Finally, and very importantly, the SITA Council is Member Directors, three Other Directors*, and the CEO, with tasked with gathering community opinions and reporting back on a Member Director serving as Chair of the Board. A Member their actions. Director is deﬁned as a Director who is afﬁliated with a member The SITA Council is composed of up to 34 representatives, organization at the time of appointment, while an Independent 20 from our top 20 customers, 10 airline geographical group Director is not afﬁliated to a member organization at the time of representatives, and four industry-speciﬁc group representatives. appointment. The term of ofﬁce for Board Directors, except the The Council President, who is a representative of a member SITA CEO, is three years, with one-third of the Board seats being organization, chairs the SITA Council. available for re-election each year. The SITA Council has two standing committees. They are The SITA Board has two standing Committees: the Audit the Nomination Committee, which recommends SITA Board and Risk Management Committee and the Remuneration Directors and SITA Council President and Deputy President Committee. The Audit and Risk Management Committee advises for appointment by the Annual General Assembly, and the the Board on matters relating to ﬁnancial policy and control, Membership Committee, which addresses membership policy as well as risk management of SITA, while the Remuneration and rules. Committee advises the Board on matters relating to SITA-wide remuneration policies. Gender split and average tenure across SITA’s governance structure SITA Board SITA Council** Nomination Membership Remuneration Audit & Risk Committee Committee Committee Management Committee Average tenure 5.5 2.3 2.5 6.7 5.6 4.7 (years) WOMEN 27.3% WOMEN 6.5% WOMEN 0% WOMEN 0% WOMEN 40% WOMEN 25% Gender split MEN 72.7% MEN 93.5% MEN 100% MEN 100% MEN 60% MEN 75% SITA does not gather information on the age of members of its governing bodies. *Other Directors are not SITA Members, and are therefore independent. **The SITA Council was formed in 2012. 8 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER SITA Senior Leadership Team INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT SITA’s CEO leads our Senior Leadership Team, which takes Our community remit ensures close ties to industry associations, responsibility for deﬁning and setting SITA’s corporate strategy such as the International Air Transport Association (IATA), (including economic, environmental and social aspects), policies, International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), Civil Air and organizational structure. The Senior Leadership Team Navigation Services Organisation (CANSO) and Airports Council comprises our most senior executives from across the business: International (ACI). We bring together community stakeholders the heads of each of the business areas, functions, geographies to address the global challenges of our rapidly evolving industry and the CEO Ofﬁce. Further details can be found at: in global, regional and national forums. Our place at the heart www.sita.aero/about-us/sita-management. of the air transport industry enables us to advance industry interests and help solve community issues, through working with Gender split and age range across SITA’s Senior Leadership Team associations related to: • Aircraft communications ȳǍਦ ɕǍ࿎ • Airports • Aerospace AGE • Flight operations MEN (14) 30-49 (5) WOMEN (1) >50 (8) • Government • Passenger and travel services • Logistics • Internet See more at: www.sita.aero/about-us/working-for-theECONOMIC PERFORMANCE community/industry-associations. Sustainable and proﬁtable growth remains a critical part of SITA’s In addition to these industry initiatives, SITA engages with its 2020 business plan and evolution. Our results show steadily stakeholders in a number of different ways. We listen and rising revenues. Though impacted by market conditions, SITA’s respond to the needs and feedback from our members and 2014 revenue ﬁgure grew by 4.3% to US$1,710m, including customers through channels such as: over-recovery*. This compares to ﬁgures of 4.0% (US$1,633m) • The SITA Council in 2013, and 3.5% (US$1,570m) in 2012. For more detailed • The SITA Board ﬁnancial information – including revenues, operating costs, • The SITA Annual General Assembly employee compensation, retained earnings, payments to capital providers and governments, and coverage of the organization’s • The Customer Advisory Board deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations – refer to the SITA Group • SITA user groups Financial Statements for the same reporting period, January 1 • Driving of – and participation in – industry standards to December 31, 2014. These are available on request from the and initiatives Board Secretariat at SITA after their approval at SITA’s AGA on • Feedback channels such as surveys and interviews June 17, 2015. • SITA’s annual Customer First Feedback program See also: ‘About this Report’. *As a cooperative, each year SITA SC returns any excess between income and expenditures to its Members. CSR REPORT 2014 9 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER INNOVATION COMMUNITY VALUE As SITA strives to continuously simplify and streamline the SITA brings value to the air transport industry through its work end-to-end passenger journey, innovation plays a critical to develop innovative solutions to community-wide issues. role. Part of SITA’s value to air transport is our collaboration By exploring new technologies that have potential beneﬁt to the with customers and industry partners to explore new air transport community as a whole, we can address community technologies across the journey, for the potential beneﬁt issues with common approaches and shared services, with a of the community at large. focus on reducing costs, increasing efﬁciencies and introducing We demonstrated our technology leadership in a number of new ways of working. areas during the year, including co-innovation with customers In addition, SITA’s members derive value through our selective and partners, as well as participation in industry research focus on infrastructure, applications and services that provide programs. Through the SITA Lab – described in one journal the foundations for a stronger industry over the long term. as the Google X of the air transport industry – we remain at They can plan and operate their services in the knowledge the forefront of testing how new technologies can enable a that SITA offers services everywhere, including remote and ‘connected traveler experience’ for the air transport community. challenging locations, and members beneﬁt from SITA’s For example, research into Bluetooth low energy beacons neutrality and independence. highlighted great potential for the technology to trigger better OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE passenger experiences and efﬁcient passenger ﬂow. Based on SITA’s work with airlines and airports across the world we saw With the air transport industry’s increasing dependence on an the necessity for an industry approach to beacon deployment. always connected ecosystem, availability and reliability have To ensure consistent industry-wide deployment, SITA introduced never been so critical – making information and communications a Common Use Beacon Registry and has been working with infrastructure more strategic than ever. SITA Global Services airports, airlines, IATA and ACI to deﬁne standards around (SGS), our uniﬁed global customer service organization, beacon deployment and use. retains a commitment to the principle of ‘service excellence every time’. Customer support is provided by over 2,000 The Lab made continued progress collaboratively innovating dedicated aviation IT specialists and engineers located with customers in many other areas, such as Near Field throughout the world. Communication (NFC), mobile boarding passes, drones and more. One headline-grabbing initiative involved the SITA Lab’s Investments in our Command Centers, Next Generation Data exploration of wearable technology – including smart glasses Centers and Service Desks to improve service quality and and smart watches. A trial of Google Glass and Sony SmartWatch availability have seen positive results. In 2014 a drop of 33% with Virgin Atlantic attracted particular interest globally. in major incidents was reported, along with a 38% reduction Wearable computing promises great potential in the areas of in major incident hours, while service availability targets for operations, customer services, security and immigration in the all SITA’s core applications were met. air transport industry. DATA PROTECTION AND INFORMATION SECURITY SITA respects and protects the privacy of our people, customers, third parties, business partners and others. In addition, we expect all our employees to safeguard any SITA, third party or other conﬁdential information to which they may have been given access. 10 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER OUR AWARDS AVIATION IT SERVICE PROVIDER OF THE YEAR 2014 African Airlines Association, for the second year running Managing information security SITA’s Corporate Information Security Ofﬁce (CISO) operates a comprehensive foundation for managing information security for our business. Our policies, standards, guidelines and control BEST AIRPORT IT SERVICE framework are all aligned to standards and best practices (those PROVIDER 2014 described in the ISO 27001 in particular), and reinforce our 2014 ORACLE Emerging Markets commitment to protecting our assets as well as those entrusted EXCELLENCE Airport Awards to SITA by our customers. AWARD for We retain a strong focus on embedding appropriate information Sustainability security practices into the conduct of our business, such as Innovation product development and refresh, and through services including the ATI Cloud and SITA Bureau Services. CISO’s Security Threat and Operational Risk Management BEST MOBILE TECHNOLOGY (STORM) function provides contextual analysis of the tactics, INITIATIVE tools and procedures used by attackers, and shares this analysis for American across SITA to continually reduce the likelihood and impact of a 2014 ORACLE Airlines’ beacon deployment successful attack. Through security assessment and penetration LEADERSHIP at Dallas Forth Worth testing, STORM assesses our exposure to security vulnerabilities AWARD Airport, 2014 Future for Finance, and threat actors. Travel Experience Global Europe, Middle CISO also provides stewardship and coordination of information East and Africa security management to drive adoption of good practices across our workforce, and to ensure that our employees maintain awareness of security risks and how to manage them. PCI compliance For a number of years SITA’s PCI Compliance Program has SMART provided a framework for managing SITA’s payment card industry TECHNOLOGY BEST data security standards compliance (PCI-DSS) obligations, a AWARD PASSENGER common set of internationally applicable security requirements The Wearables ASSISTANCE that is speciﬁcally designed to provide protection of stored 2014, SITA and INITIATIVE cardholder data. Virgin Atlantic for Virgin Atlantic’s Airways Google Glass The PCI program provides compliance oversight and governance, project 2014 deﬁnes roles and responsibilities in speciﬁc areas of the business Future Travel as they pertain to payment card data (including but not limited to Experience Global reservation and fares systems). It also provides staff training and awareness, and coordinates annual certiﬁcation activities. NO. 1 FOR CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INNOVATION, 2014 In 2014, SITA recorded our highest customer satisfaction Australian Airports score of 4.10 (out of 5), with 98.4% of customers satisﬁed, very Association’s National Airport satisﬁed or absolutely satisﬁed and a Net Promoter Score of Industry Awards: Melbourne 59%. This maintains SITA’s position ﬁrmly in the top quartile International Airport, among IT service organizations globally. using SITA’s passenger self-service solutions CSR REPORT 2014 11 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER OUR CSR STRATEGY When we refer to corporate social responsibility (CSR) at SITA, we include the social, environmental and governance aspects. We address these areas within our CSR strategy, pulling them together under three key threads: • Integrating CSR practices into our business • Managing our environmental impact, and • Providing value to our communities. This focus reﬂects the importance SITA places on being a responsible business, and the changes that we have made in our operations to align to international frameworks such as ISO14001 Environmental Management Systems. SITA also supports the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and our CEO reconﬁrmed our commitment to the UNGC principles in July. In addition, SITA joined the UNGC Swiss network during the year. Our strategy is underpinned by our CSR Charter, which describes six guiding principles that drive our approach to CSR in the business. • Reducing our environmental impact by measuring, reporting and minimizing the use of energy and resources • Conducting business responsibly in compliance with applicable laws, and supporting fair, open and free competition • Engaging with our communities by addressing industry-wide issues for air transport, and acting philanthropically in the countries where we operate • Supporting responsible supply chain practices and reviewing our supply chain for environmental and social performance 12 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER • Innovating to create high quality products and services that SITA adopts a precautionary approach through a corporate risk meet the evolving needs of our customers, supporting their register. It addresses a number of areas and includes aspects sustainability challenges and contributing to the future related to the environment. SITA’s Internal Audit and Risk prosperity of society Management team conduct reviews on a quarterly basis, and the • Enhancing the workplace as a fair, diverse and equitable reports are shared with our Senior Leadership team, as well as employer, providing professional developmental and the Audit and Risk Management Committee (see About SITA). learning opportunities in a safe working environment. In addition, the SITA Board conducts an annual review of the corporate risk register. MANAGEMENT APPROACH The economic and operational aspects of the business are SITA’s CSR ofﬁce is managed by dedicated resource and reports reviewed monthly at a minimum by SITA’s Senior Leadership into the Senior Leadership team. It is complemented by the CSR team. Issues related to environmental and social factors are Steering Group that is made up of representatives from across assessed throughout the year by SITA’s CSR Ofﬁce, and on at the business. Their role includes proposing targets, and tracking least a quarterly basis, through the CSR Steering Group and CSR and reviewing progress. Additionally, the CSR Executive Review Executive Review Board. Board, comprising key members of our Senior Leadership Team, reviews and approves strategy, and supports integration of CSR DOING BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY throughout the business. We operate in over 200 countries and territories, in diverse, Throughout this report, reference is made to the management cultural, political and economic environments. Wherever we are approach to addressing SITA’s material issues – detailed in the in the world, we are committed to doing business the right way About this Report section. Many of the aspects are incorporated by acting honestly and fairly, complying with laws and regulations into standard business practice such as corporate policies and adhering to policies and procedures. and established processes. These ensure that we always act THE INTEGRITY, COMPLIANCE responsibly and in compliance with all national and local laws AND ETHICS (ICE) PROGRAM in areas such as labor, health and safety, anti-bribery and corruption, ethics and the environment. In addition, local country A dedicated Compliance team was created in 2014 which reports policies are implemented where required. into the General Counsel and is accountable to the Ethics Ofﬁce. The priority for the team during the year was the development of the Integrity, Compliance and Ethics (ICE) Program, which was successfully launched in March 2015 with endorsement from the CEO and Board of Directors. ICE acts as an umbrella program bringing together compliance activities on anti-bribery and corruption, trade controls, data protection and competition. The governance of ICE is based on best practice guidance which identiﬁes the following ﬁve key elements of a successful program: leadership, risk assessment, standards and controls, training and communication and monitoring. CSR Executive Review Board: Ian Riddell, SVP, Corporate & Technology Services (Chair), David Greaves, General Counsel, Astrid Warren, SVP, Human Resources, Arthur Calderwood, SVP Marketing and Sales Operations CSR REPORT 2014 13 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER STANDARDS (POLICIES, IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES) How are the standards cascaded? Our standards currently include the Ethics Policy, Anti-Bribery Standards are mandated across the business and apply to all and Corruption Policy, Agents and Intermediaries Policy and employees. The company intranet is the primary means of Hosting and Gifting Guidelines. making each of the standards available to employees. These and related resources are available on our company Education on the standards is also built into each of the intranet site. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, together with e-learning modules and all face-to-face materials. summaries of our standards, is available on the public website. How is the training given? These standards also apply, to the extent appropriate, to our third parties and business partners. In 2014 our Legal, Regulatory and Compliance team provided face-to-face training sessions on anti-bribery and corruption in a TRAINING number of locations around the world. Our General Counsel also Raising awareness of and educating employees on our delivered face-to-face training to the Senior Leadership Team. standards and the applicable laws and regulations is a EFFECTIVENESS fundamental part of our compliance governance. There are a number of challenges in delivering a program of this nature Ethics Office across more than 200 countries and territories, including The Ethics Ofﬁce is responsible for oversight of compliance with language, culture and logistics. our Ethics Policy, which includes the review of investigations into Since 2010, all employees are required to complete mandatory potential violations. The Ethics Ofﬁce will periodically engage e-learning on our Ethics Policy. Targeted mandatory e-learning Internal Audit to assist in this role. on anti-bribery and corruption is provided to employees on Ethics Hotline a risk based approach, which is further supported with There are a number of different ways our employees can report a face-to-face training. concern, including through their line manager, another manager RISK ASSESSMENT in their function or a member of the Compliance or HR teams. Alternatively, an online report can also be made directly to the Since 2013 we have carried out annual standalone compliance Ethics Ofﬁce, anonymously if preferred. risk assessments to identify those business areas which have the higher risk of a compliance breach, often associated with All reports are investigated promptly and thoroughly and high risk territories. These high risk areas receive additional feedback on results of the investigation is provided in a timely focus and support including further training and guidance. manner. Where appropriate, disciplinary action up to and Compliance and ethics risks are also reviewed as part of our including dismissal is taken and/or additional guidance and annual corporate risk management process. training provided. SITA does not tolerate retaliation against anyone making reports in good faith and/or assisting in an investigation. Any retaliation will be treated as a violation of our Ethics Policy. 14 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER ICE GOING FORWARD IN 2015 HUMAN RIGHTS During 2015 the company plans to further develop the ICE The nature of our business means that while we are ever Program in a number of ways including: cognizant of the risks of human rights abuses, they are an area • Refreshed Code of Conduct to replace the Ethics Policy. of low risk for our organization. Our responsible supply chain This will serve as more than just a policy statement on self-certiﬁcation references human rights – speciﬁcally in the how we do business, but also act as a valuable resource, areas of non-discrimination and harassment, child labor and cross referencing to applicable Standards and other useful human rights, and sourcing from conﬂict countries – as well as resources and tools; disclosure of penalties related to these issues. To date we have received no responses that have given us concern. • Annual e-learning module on Code of Conduct to all employees and annual targeted e-learning module on Appropriate behaviors anti-bribery and corruption on a risk based approach; Our Ethics Policy clearly states the expected behaviors of those • Presentations to our Board of Directors and Senior who work with us. Harassment in the workplace is strictly Leadership Team and face-to-face ‘train the trainer’ prohibited. This includes any behaviour toward another person sessions to local managers and subsequent cascaded based on that person’s race, colour, gender, age, disability, site level training to targeted groups based on a risk religion, nationality, or sexual orientation, which is unacceptable based approach; and personally offensive to the recipient. • Annual certiﬁcation of the Code of Conduct; Our SITA ofﬁce in India has a sexual harassment policy and • Annual benchmark survey to audit the effectiveness of our complaints committee to deal with any concerns, with all Program; and employees in the country notiﬁed of the policy, the committee, and the requirements on behaviour. They have the company’s • Refreshed Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and assurance that any complaints will be handled promptly supporting Standards. and thoroughly. Forced labor We do not consider there to be any risk of child labor, forced or compulsory labor, or loss of freedom of association and collective bargaining in any of our operations. All employees have contracts in place, and SITA does not retain any original identiﬁcation UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL documents for any purpose. Freedom of movement is exercised COMPACT ‘CALL TO ACTION’ for all employees across all sites and countries. Our Ethics Ofﬁce is available for any employee wishing to raise a concern In 2014 our CEO signed the United Nations Global Compact in this area. ‘Call to Action’. This is a call to governments to promote anti-corruption measures and to implement policies that will Training establish systems of good governance. The ‘Call to Action’ was Through our online Learning Portal, all employees are able to presented to UN Secretary General Ban-Ki Moon at the UNGC access a number of training courses that cover content in all 10th Principle Anniversary in New York in December. areas of human rights. CSR REPORT 2014 15 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT A new e-learning course on Responsible Procurement at SITA was developed in-house and launched mid 2014 as a mandatory SITA’s procurement reaches across the globe – with around 7,000 course for our purchasing team and open to all staff. The course suppliers providing goods and services to the company. Around details our commitments as a signatory to the United Nations 95% of spend is with the top 1,300 suppliers. Supplier selection is Global Compact speciﬁcally as they relate to our supply chain. based on the value for money principle. While price is important, By year-end all the target employees (23 staff) had successfully we always consider quality, timely delivery, reliability, warranty, completed the course and nearly 40 more had taken it voluntarily. safety, security, CSR and after-sales services and support when making a procurement decision. A clear Supplier Code of With this new mandatory training for our purchasing staff, Conduct is published on our website for organizations wishing our knowledge and capabilities in the area of responsible and to work with SITA that outlines our expectations on vendors and sustainable procurement has reached a high level of maturity. service providers. In October SITA was awarded an Oracle Award for Sustainability During 2014, SITA targeted a sample of suppliers in identiﬁed Innovation for the successful implementation of its strategic countries of risk in the UNGC areas of labor, human rights, ﬁnancial system. It has moved traditional paper based processes anti-corruption and environment with a requirement to online, saving time and paper, and enabling a smoother self-certify though an online evaluation. In total, 34 suppliers transaction process for both suppliers and SITA. completed the assessment, almost double our target for the year. TARGETS SITA continues to evolve the procurement process, including evaluating contracts and suppliers, and updating the corporate SITA’s CSR Steering Group set a number of targets for 2014. Purchasing Policy. These are validated by the CSR Executive Review Board, and tracked throughout the year. The table opposite shows the status As a responsible business we always strive to pay our suppliers as of year-end. on time. We provide details on the company website on our terms and conditions, and provide contact information so that any In addition, a number of areas were baselined throughout the ﬁnance queries can be addressed quickly and easily. year, including the paper consumption, water consumption at sites where the data is available, and energy consumption of the corporate computer estate (where the capability exists). The results are shown right. CUSTOMER FEEDBACK At year-end, we reviewed the results of our annual customer satisfaction survey. Overall satisfaction remains high (see About SITA), while in the area of CSR 93% of our customers agree that we are a corporately and socially responsible organization. 16 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER Indicator 2014 Target Result Reduction in average power consumption [in Watt hours] per unit for the corporate standard laptop 5% for year | Reduction in average power consumption [in Watt hours] per unit for the corporate standard desktop 5% for year | Percentage of production corporate servers virtualized at 20 large and medium sites 5% for year | Air travel emissions data capture 90% of all travel |1 Increase in use of video conferencing suites 2% increase |2 No increase in electricity consumption intensity (where the ability is present for measurement) 0% increase | Emissions intensity measurement capability Ability to calculate | Update standard contracts to reinforce expectations on suppliers against the UNGC principles June 2014 |3 Create e-learning course on UNGC principles for purchasing team, with 100% purchasing team completion December 2014 | 20 suppliers in high-risk countries to self-certify using SITA’s responsible supply chain assessment December 2014 | Percent of new employees undertaking SITA ethics training within 90 days of joining 100% |4 Percent of SITA employees to complete an ethics training refresh within 24 months 99% |3 Percent of target audience who have completed anti-bribery and corruption training 95% |3 Customer first feedback: Do you believe that SITA is a corporately and socially responsible organization? Percent of top two responses (absolutely or strongly agree) 67% | Number of volunteer days taken by SITA staff 180 | |= Fully achieved |= Within 5% of target |= Not achieved, or < 5% of target 1. Currently restricted by the reporting capabilities of the non-corporate agency booking countries. 2. While 2014 did not reach the target it still represents a slight increase on the previous year. The figure does not take into account the use of resources such as desktop or mobile device video conferencing. 3. This is being addressed and reinforced as part of the new compliance program in 2015. 4. 81% of employees had taken training within 90 days, the remainder outside the 90 day period. The process for ethics training for new employees will be reinforced in 2015 as part of the new compliance program. Baseline area Measure Track power consumption of total SITA internal estate where DSM is enabled 163.1 MwH (estimated) Water consumption across key sites Atlanta, Paris, Geneva and Singapore Paper consumption in key sites Information available for 16 sites CSR REPORT 2014 17 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER 26,032 CO2e TOTAL EMISSIONS (Tonnes) The main environmental impacts of the organization have been identiﬁed as energy consumption and subsequent emissions related to normal business operations and emissions AIR TRAVEL from business air travel. In order to report the data on each, 11,856 the information is recorded by site and entered into SITA’s (Tonnes) Environmental Management System (EMS). The EMS enables us to track a variety of environmental and social indicators (See CSR at SITA). 0.036 There were no ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions related to CO2e (Tonnes) environmental compliance during the reporting period. (Carbon Dioxide equivalent) TRACKING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CH4 SITA has been able to measure and track its environmental (Methane) impacts since 2011, when we established a full year baseline for 14,101 0.03 energy consumption. Initially we were able to gather data for 56% (Tonnes) (Tonnes) of our ofﬁce-based operations. Today, the ﬁgure is 77% – which represents 24 sites in 18 countries around the world, including our top 10 largest sites (62.3% of our ofﬁce-based population, N2O (Nitrous Oxide) and shown in bold below). There are some limitations, however, to the fullness of data CO2* that can be collected against environmental data, as a result of (Carbon Dioxide) 75.17 SITA’s breadth of operations. In the majority of SITA’s sites we (Tonnes) are tenants, and energy consumption may not be metered, or is pro-rata against all the building’s tenants. Therefore, some assumptions are made in the energy information provided to CO2e** SITA and entered into our environmental management system. (Carbon Dioxide equivalent) Americas Europe Middle East, India and Africa Asia Pacific Atlanta, USA (2 sites) Frankfurt, Germany Amman, Jordon Hong Kong Town, Hong Kong Islip, USA Geneva, Switzerland Beirut, Lebanon Singapore Town, Singapore Montreal, Canada Godalming, UK Cairo, Egypt Sydney, Australia Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Letterkenny, Ireland Dubai, UAE Sao Paolo, Brazil London Gate, UK Johannesburg, South Africa Madrid, Spain Paris, France Prague, Czech Republic Rome, Italy *Sites where SITA measures energy consumption (73% of offices) and air travel (83%). **Breakdown of gasses not available for UAE, Jordan and Lebanon. 18 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER In 2014, we recorded an overall energy consumption for the 24 sites of 27,925,594 KwH for energy used in our ofﬁces – such as heating, ventilation, air conditioning and operation of standard ofﬁce equipment. This is a decrease of 1.5% on the previous year in absolute terms, despite the addition of data collection from an additional major site – Montreal. Since we began capturing data in 2011 it represents an increase of 1.8%, however this includes the fact that the number of sites where data is reported has been increased. A clearer indication of the energy consumption is shown on page 20, in the energy intensity ratio. The majority of sites use energy generated from coal, gas or nuclear sources. Some sites are able to use renewable energy, including; Prague (11.9% renewable energies), Paris (hydroelectric 9.3%, other green energy 5.1%) and Geneva (80% hydroelectric, 20% solar). We use DEFRA 2013 GHG factors to calculate the emissions from energy consumption, with the exception of UAE, Lebanon and Jordon where the International Energy Agency (2013) factors were used. We can break down the greenhouse gases into Carbon Dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4) and Nitrous Oxide (N2O). For business travel, we capture around 85% of all emissions, and receive GHG reports directly from our travel agents, using the DEFRA 2014 factors. These are shown as Carbon Dioxide equivalent (CO2e). Our overall emissions breakdown for 2014 – including scope 2 and scope 3 – is shown opposite on page 18. ENVIRONMENTAL FRAMEWORKS In 2014, we released our corporate environment policy to the organization. This sets out the expectations SITA has on employees to ensure that the organization acts in an environmentally responsible manner. It has also been instrumental in the adoption of the ISO 14001 (Environmental Management Systems) standard throughout the business. During the year, sites in the UK, Geneva and Singapore all received certiﬁcation, while Atlanta in the US, and Montreal, Canada joined them in early 2015. Together with our Rome ofﬁce, which is already certiﬁed, we now have 45% of employees in locations that have implemented the standard. This was a core element of SITA’s CSR strategy, and has been the result of some 18 months planning and preparation. SITA’s Director, CSR, Amber Harrison (right) collects the ISO14001 certificate for the UK’s London Gate Office at the BSI Headquarters CSR REPORT 2014 19 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT Energy intensity (KwH per square meter) SITA has seen a 9.6% decrease in energy intensity since we began reporting, based on consumption per square meter. Additionally we have achieved a reduction in scope 2 emissions intensity per square meter of 12.1%. In contrast, emissions from 544 529 525 491 air travel have increased. In 2012 we began capturing emissions data from air travel, and recorded 8,403.4 tonnes CO2e, while 9.6% decrease 2014 saw an increase to 11,856.24 tonnes CO2e. The emissions in energy intensity, calculated as tonnes CO2e per mile ﬂown increased 2011 2012 2013 2014 intensity from 0.000190 in 2012 to 0.000207 in 2014, a rise of 8.7%. As a provider to the air transport industry, the range and Scope 2 emissions intensity breadth of our customers and services covers the world, and (Tonnes CO2e per square meter) therefore air travel is inevitable. We do however encourage use of technology to collaborate where possible; through the video conferencing suites we have in our major ofﬁces, and the desktop 0.285 0.276 0.276 video conferencing capability. We saw a steady use of these 0.250 alternatives throughout the year. As part of our work in developing the environment policy, we strengthened our approach to the management of end-of-life electrical and electronic equipment (EEE) – both our own, and 12.1% decrease that which is managed on behalf of our customers. Through a in emissions carefully selected roster of providers, SITA now has the capability 2011 2012 2013 2014 intensity to ensure that IT equipment is recycled (either through reuse or disassembly and disposal) in an environmentally responsible DAILY ACTIVITY manner in every location where it operates, with the aim of zero In many of our ofﬁces, SITA has implemented recycling of to landﬁll. During the year, we decommissioned data centers in everyday items, such as paper, plastics, batteries and toner Vancouver, Atlanta, Godalming and London, and ensured that all cartridges. In addition, the use of paper with a high recycled the assets (3,843) were recycled in a responsible manner. content is encouraged. ENERGY EFFICIENCY A program to install multifunction printers in major sites and the removal of local printers continued, with the beneﬁts including A beneﬁt of updating the equipment we use, such as laptops less energy use as a result of fewer devices, reduced need for and computers, is increased energy efﬁciency of our corporate consumables, and the ability for print to be activated by passcode standard equipment. We have continued our program of server – meaning no unnecessary printing. virtualization, in the process reducing energy consumption in our computer rooms, as well as the associated heating and In a number of our locations, employees are incentivized to use cooling requirements. public transport. Support of car and van share programs saw our Atlanta ofﬁce receive a certiﬁcate of accomplishment from the Throughout the year, we have been baselining the calculated Clean Air Campaign. energy use of our corporate estate – those assets that are recorded on our network. This will allow us to identify movement against the ﬁgure as we adopt new technology and implement our IT strategies. 20 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER GREENER OFFICES SUPPORTING AVIATION SUSTAINABILITY As SITA updates its premises or moves to new sites, a program A number of SITA’s products and solutions contribute to of improvements is undertaken that includes a review of efﬁciencies in areas such as fuel consumption and paper use. environmental opportunities for improvement. This has seen the For example, SITA’s Weight and Balance tool can ensure optimal implementation of energy efﬁcient, motion sensitive and smart loading and fuel consumption, while FMS Wind Uplink adjusts lights and better use of natural lighting. These improvements ﬂight plans according to changing wind and weather conditions, have all contributed towards the reduction in energy intensity enabling the aircraft to use fuel effectively. The reductions in fuel shown as well as improve the ofﬁce environment. As these use mean fewer emissions, and that can help airlines with their activities take place, we also undertake an amnesty for old IT own sustainability goals. equipment and mobile phones, as well as encouraging a ‘spring The use of iPads and other tablet devices in the cockpit and clean’ before moving to new ofﬁce space. the cabin reduces the amount of paper required for charts, Following a move to new ﬂoors in our Geneva ofﬁce, we recycled documents and passenger information. At airports, SITA’s kiosks ﬁve tonnes of paper and recycled two containers of equipment, are manufactured using fewer raw materials and minimal in addition to recycling our ofﬁce furniture to employees or plastics, while using energy efﬁcient power processors and charities. The move to more energy efﬁcient space will continue hard drives. our downward trend of energy consumption in this ofﬁce. Also in As part of its joint innovation activities SITA and Orange have Geneva, SITA was awarded Eco-engagement status through the developed a new generation of traveler entertainment kiosks. Eco-Label Program. This is an initiative to recognize companies The Media Kiosk has been showcased at several industry in districts in Geneva that commit to sustainable development. conferences, as well as the CES in Las Vegas and is about to start live trials in a few airports. The kiosk allows passengers to download movies, music or magazines on their tablet or phones in a few seconds while waiting to board an aircraft. CSR REPORT 2014 21 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER SITA employs a uniquely diverse workforce, numbering Number of leavers and joiners, by gender, region and age approximately 4,500 people in 137 countries around the world. In our 368 sites, 32% of people are based in the Americas, Gender 14% in Asia Paciﬁc, 36% in Europe and 18% in Middle East, JOINERS LEAVERS India and Africa. Nearly half of SITA employees are in customer-facing roles, MEN 369 307 (76%) (76%) while a third of our staff are directly involved in the design, development and deployment of solutions and services for WOMEN 114 (24%) 96 (24%) the air transport industry. See pages 24 and 25 for a breakdown of our global workforce. GLOBAL TALENT A highly skilled and engaged workforce is key to SITA’s long-term vision and success, and our HR team works hard to attract Region the best talent and inspire a collaborative, high performing JOINERS LEAVERS working culture. AMERICAS 154 (32%) 136 (34%) In 2014 a number of new global guidelines were created to provide employees with clear guidance for speciﬁc peopleASIA PACIFIC 68 (14%) 48 (12%) related procedures. These included guidance on employee referrals, recommended practices when applying for an internal EUROPE 182 (38%) 177 (44%) role, employee recognition best practices and recommended mechanisms, guidelines with respect to hiring and disclosure of MEIA 79 (16%) 42 (10%) personal relationships, and grievance procedure guidelines for employees who need to raise concerns about their work, working environment or working relationships. Hiring at SITA generally follows a best ﬁt for role model, with location a consideration for both the employee and the business to help assure good work-life balance. Internal hires are Age encouraged at SITA, and of more than 800 roles ﬁlled across the JOINERS LEAVERS business during 2014, 36.1% were ﬁlled by existing SITA staff moving to new roles. This rate is up from the previous year and indicates a good acceptance of functional and geographical skills >50 44 (9%) 97 (24%) transfer as well as an openness to encouraging employee career aspirations in many directions. 30-49 310 (64%) 253 (63%) <30 129 (27%) 53 (13%) 22 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER “Wow, has it been nine years already? Time flies when you’re having fun! With all the great support from the teams around me, and management, the opportunities to grow in my career are virtually endless. It has been quite a ride and I am looking forward to more.” Ben Yap, Burlington, Canada Our voluntary attrition rate dropped from 5.3% to 4.5% in 2014, We strive to build and maintain a productive, motivated reﬂecting the trend of good retention during the year. SITA workforce by treating all employees fairly and equitably. We do likewise recognizes the value to the business of building on not discriminate on the basis of trade union membership or expertise at the more senior levels, with 45.5% of roles at grades non-membership, and 14.6% of our workforce are covered by 8, 9, and 10 ﬁlled internally in 2014. The number of women in collective bargaining agreements in 18 countries. Employees in senior positions showed an encouraging rise from 20.3% in 2013 ﬁve additional countries receive statutory annual pay increases to 20.5% in 2014. as required by law. SITA employees are entitled to sick leave as per local laws in SITA also beneﬁts from an exceptional range of knowledge, all territories where we operate, and in most countries we perspectives and insights deriving from workforce diversity. signiﬁcantly exceed statutory allowances. As a business-toThe gender balance and age diversity of our workforce is business services organization, our employees do not have a high reported in detail in the charts accompanying this section (see risk of diseases related to their occupation. 945 sick days were pages 22, 24 and 25). A number of local SITA initiatives have also recorded in our HR Information Management System in 2014 been established which actively promote equality and diversity by a total of 68 employees (54 women and 12 men). and combat discrimination. Parental leave entitlement also Canada matches or exceeds statutory In 2014 SITA entered the second year of an Employment Equity requirements in the 22 program in Canada established to highlight, recognize and track countries where the leave is Employees who diversity and equal opportunity. The program speciﬁcally monitors measured. This represents took parental how four designated groups – namely women, Aboriginals, 78% of our total workforce. MEN leave, by gender 13 (35%) persons with disabilities, and visible minorities – are represented. 37 employees took parental Diversity awareness activities through the year included diversity leave in 2014 (24 women and 13 men), 36 of whom were 97% training, consultation with the Project Ka Mamukanit Aboriginal WOMEN still at work organization on potential recruitment opportunities, the posting still employed at SITA one 24 (65%) after one year of diversity maps where staff can identify their country of origin, year after leave started. and numerous staff events such as the International Women’s DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Day fundraising and awareness activities held annually at our Canadian ofﬁces (see Our Community). SITA is committed to employee equal opportunity and communicates this explicitly through corporate policy. In line with UNGC principles on freedom from discrimination, employees are hired, trained, compensated and promoted based on their skill sets and abilities, regardless of their race, color, religion, gender, age, disability, nationality or sexual orientation. CSR REPORT 2014 23 24 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (2) ARGENTINA (21) WOMEN ARUBA (2) BAHAMAS (1) 995 (23%) BRAZIL (85) FIXED TERM CANADA (274) CHILE (15) COLOMBIA (16) 51 (1.1%) COSTA RICA (10) CSR REPORT 2014 UNLIMITED TERM CURAÇAO (5) ECUADOR (7) Our people by region EL SALVADOR (2) GRENADA (1) GUYANA (1) 4,469 (98.5%) AMERICAS Employees by contract type JAMAICA (8) MEXICO (49) BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER PANAMA (2) PARAGUAY (3) SECONDMENT MEN PERU (9) SINT MAARTEN (DUTCH PART) (4) Permanent employees by gender: 4,469 SURINAME (1) 3,474 (77%) TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (8) 17 (0.4%) UNITED STATES (917) VENEZUELA (4) AUSTRALIA (96) BANGLADESH (21) BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (1) CAMBODIA (1) WOMEN WOMEN CHINA (79) FIJI (1) 480 (30%) 337 (23%) FRENCH POLYNESIA (3) HONG KONG (36) INDONESIA (31) JAPAN (16) Gender by region KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S REP (1) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (13) LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REP (1) EUROPE MALAYSIA (36) AMERICAS MONGOLIA (1) MYANMAR (2) NEW ZEALAND (6) PAPUA NEW GUINEA (2) ASIA PACIFIC MEN MEN PHILIPPINES (9) SINGAPORE (250) TAIWAN, PROVINCE OF CHINA (28) 1,139 (70%) 1,109 (77%) THAILAND (17) VANUATU (1) VIETNAM (8) AUSTRIA (6) AZERBAIJAN (3) BELGIUM (26) BULGARIA (8) WOMEN WOMEN CROATIA (2) CZECH REPUBLIC (153) 87 (10%) 109 (17%) DENMARK (27) FRANCE (198)  +ɂǍఎ Ȗ  + ǍΜ GERMANY (72) GREECE (2) HUNGARY (4) MIDDLE-EAST, IRELAND (112) ISRAEL (5) ITALY (51) EUROPE ASIA PACIFIC ȼ KAZAKSTAN (8) INDIA & AFRICA MALTA (13)  + Ǎਟ  + Ǎ୲ ȱ +  NETHERLANDS (24) MEN NORWAY (12) MEN POLAND (10) PORTUGAL (3) 746 (90%) 530 (83%) SERBIA, REPUBLIC OF (3) ROMANIA (9) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (29) SLOVAKIA (3) SPAIN (29) SWEDEN (8) WOMEN WOMEN SWITZERLAND (300) TURKMENISTAN (1) 865 (23%) 148 (19%) UKRAINE (3) UNITED KINGDOM (588) Supervisors UZBEKISTAN (2) ALGERIA (2) Non-supervisors ANGOLA (3) BAHRAIN (2) BENIN (2) BOTSWANA (1) BURKINA FASO (1) BURUNDI (1) CAMEROON (3) CAPE VERDE (2) CHAD (1) CONGO (1) CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (2) *Breakdown using gender data where available. CYPRUS (2) EGYPT (48) ERITREA (1) ETHIOPIA (9) GABON (1) GAMBIA (1) GHANA (9) GUINEA (1) Workforce by supervised and supervisors, by gender* INDIA (277) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF) (3) JORDAN (73) MEN KENYA (9) KUWAIT (4) LEBANON (61) 634 (81%) LIBYA (1) MALAWI (2) MALDIVES (2) MALI (2) MAURITANIA (1) MAURITIUS (5) MOROCCO (10) MOZAMBIQUE (2) NAMIBIA (1) NEPAL (7) NIGER (1) NIGERIA (7) OMAN (15) PAKISTAN (21) QATAR (6) REUNION (1) RWANDA (3) MIDDLE-EAST, INDIA & AFRICA SAUDI ARABIA (12) SENEGAL (1) SIERRA LEONE (1) MEN SOUTH AFRICA (88) SRI LANKA (5) 2,885 (77%) SUDAN (2) SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (1) TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (7) TOGO (2) TUNISIA (4) TURKEY (18) UGANDA (2) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (76) CSR REPORT 2014 YEMEN (2) ZAMBIA (4) BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER 25 ZIMBABWE (3) BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER South Africa 97% of employees had objectives defined at the start of 2014 – Over a number of years SITA has been developing its rising to 99.5% through the year. Individual Development Plans commitment to Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (IDP) are implemented with each employee to ensure training (B-BBEE), a South African government code of practice to and development activities are well supported and recognized. advance historically disadvantaged people. B-BBEE certification At the end of the year, 57% of employees had a formal IDP is a pre-requisite in many of our tendering processes in the recorded in the system, with a renewed focus to capture the region, and we have a clear plan in place to ensure that we remainder by the early part of 2015 as the cycle completes. meet the code criteria in the areas of equity ownership, Career paths management control, employment equity, skills development, Roles at SITA are mapped to a Career Framework, which defines preferential procurement, enterprise development, and socio the 13 ‘professions’ or areas of functional expertise which make economic development. up our organization. Career streams and roles are defined within In 2014 we maintained a Level 4 B-BEEE certification and each profession, giving staff clarity on the skills and knowledge increased in points from 66.5 to 71.73 reflecting improvements required to fulfil their role and to progress to others. we’ve made in the areas of management control, skills development and preferential procurement. (See SITA and 45+17+10876 the Community). Employees by career stream SERVICE MANAGEMENT 45.7% PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT 16.8% SITA’s success is dependent on the skills and know-how of CUSTOMER SOLUTIONS our people, and this is embodied in an HR approach that AND PRODUCT MANAGEMENT 10.3% prioritizes clarity of roles and responsibilities while promoting the development of a high level of expertise in our staff. FINANCE, LEGAL AND BUSINESS MANAGEMENT Key to this approach is our global annual performance and 7.5% reward cycle, a staged process designed to bring global PROJECT MANAGEMENT 7.2% consistency to the management of company and individual OTHER objectives, support employee development and professional 6.9% growth, and ensure that high performance is rewarded. The cycle SALES AND MARKETING includes annual objective setting and a mid-year and final review, 5.7% and encourages the scheduling of monthly 1-2-1 meetings between staff and line managers. Training programs A catalogue of Learning Opportunities is mapped to each stream Employees receiving regular performance reviews (98%)* and available via our online learning system, the Learning Portal – re-launched with a new interface and accessible on mobile devices as of 2014 – or through a number of other channels including video training and on location trainer-led sessions. MEN SUPERVISORS MEN NON-SUPERVISORS WOMEN SUPERVISORS WOMEN NON-SUPERVISORS NO REVIEW *Certain categories of employees, such as those on long-term leave and interns, do not receive annual performance reviews while absent from the business. 26 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER “Starting my career as an intern at SITA while in the last semester of my very technical master’s degree allowed me to combine my previous passion for aviation with my interest in technology – and brought me a job opportunity at the front line of our business. I was able to use all the theories and ways of reasoning that I was learning about in a new applied setting. Maybe I am still very new to this world, but so far the whole experience is tremendously motivating.” Goran Isakovski, Geneva On average in 2014, employees formally recorded 11.8 hours of ACTIVE VALUES training per person, while many took advantage of ‘on the job’ Our values are core to how we act within SITA. All employees training and development. are expected to conduct themselves according to our values to Employee learning and development programs in 2014 included ensure that our customers and colleagues experience the best the following: of SITA every day. Often our people go ‘above and beyond’ what is • Nearly 100 IT Power Sessions were scheduled across nine expected of them. The Values in Action (VIA) award is one way for of our larger ofﬁces, featuring live demos, expert advice, us to recognize those people who make a difference and actively and tips to improve productivity using some of our most demonstrate our values. Anyone can nominate a colleague for common desktop software and applications a VIA award simply by completing and submitting a form, and • A program of online and situational Security Awareness the employee in turn is awarded a location-speciﬁc payment, training throughout the year helped equip staff to deal with a letter of congratulations, and a certiﬁcate signed by the CEO email, mobile device, social networking, phishing and social highlighting the aCtive value that has been demonstrated. engineering threats Our aCtive values are at the heart of who we are and • In London, our second largest ofﬁce, a new program of how we work. regular ‘Lunch & Learn’ sessions was launched to share product and technology area expertise ACT WITH INTEGRITY We uphold the highest standards of • A new bespoke e-learning course on Responsible professionalism and ethical behavior. Procurement at SITA was developed and launched mid-year as a mandatory course for our purchasing team and open to CUSTOMER FIRST all staff. (See CSR at SITA) We focus on our customer’s needs. • Sales teams beneﬁted from a mix of online and face-toface training to support the introduction of a new Sales TEAMWORK & RESPECT automation platform We work as a team and treat others with • Over 220 managers took part in different Management and openness and respect. Leadership Excellence programs (MLX) in 2014, and 43 high performing managers started a new 15-month development INNOVATE program called MLX LIVE GLOBAL We generate new ideas and creative solutions. • SITA continued its sponsorship of the Airport Management VALUE CREATION Professional Accreditation Program (AMPAP), an initiative of We deliver results that create value. the Airports Council International and the International Civil Aviation Organization aimed at developing a new generation EMPOWERMENT & ACCOUNTABILITY of airport industry leaders. Since its inception in 2007, 425 We take ownership and are accountable. airport executives have graduated the program including 13 of our own leaders at SITA. Average training hours SUPERVISOR NON-SUPERVISOR MEN 10.9 HRS 13.0 HRS WOMEN 8.9 HRS 8.8 HRS CSR REPORT 2014 27 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK Employee engagement at SITA starts with good communication, Each year SITA runs a large-scale Employee Survey which not only in the reporting of business performance and priorities, provides an opportunity for all active SITA employees with but equally in the promotion of staff activities, volunteering, more than three months service to feed back about life at SITA. achievements and awards. The survey is strictly conﬁdential and is hosted and analyzed by Through our monthly newsletter, Together, as well as our our external partner, Towers Watson. intranet, public website and active social media presence, The participation rate in the 2014 Employee Survey stood at 73% staff stay up to date with the latest SITA news and events. and, for the second year in a row, scores had improved across all Face-to-face communications are also strongly encouraged. 11 categories. Among the strongest indicators were: A location leaders program, operating at 26 major SITA sites, • 93% of employees say they are willing to work beyond what provides a direct communication conduit between employees is required to help SITA succeed; and our Senior Leadership Team, as well as regular Meet • 90% understand how their work contributes to SITA’s and Greet sessions with small groups where open feedback business objectives; is encouraged and welcomed. Location Leaders typically host regular presentations and events for staff, such as town hall • 89% report that their manager involves them in solving meetings, Lunch & Learn sessions, as well as social events, and problems at work; are accessible to listen to local employee concerns and issues – • 88% believe that people in their work group are willing to and employee achievements in equal measure. help each other even if it means doing something outside Globally, as part of a suite of employee recognition mechanisms, their usual activities; and SITA’s HR team launched Thank You e-cards in 2014 for staff to • 87% report that their workgroup constantly looks for better send a personal message of thanks to colleagues, recognize ways to deliver value to our customers. great service, or simply praise someone for going the extra mile. One of the main drivers for the Employee Survey is to identify SITA’s annual Upward Feedback activity gives all employees areas for improvement. The 2014 survey indicated some areas a chance to provide their line managers with constructive where satisfaction was lower than expected, and speciﬁc action feedback about their people management skills and areas for plans are underway to make changes to address these. development. Optional and anonymous, Upward Feedback helps employees inﬂuence their working environment in a very direct way. In 2014 a total of 2,733 Upward Feedback surveys were completed, providing 651 people managers with feedback. This represents a 62% completion rate, the same as in the previous year, with overall scores increasing from 4.1 to 4.25 on a 5-point rating scale. “Even after eight years of working for SITA, the depth of knowledge and experience my colleagues have continues to amaze me. Through our new Sales Excellence Training Program (STARS), not only have I received world leading training, but also been able to share the experience with colleagues from all over the world. This has helped me get a truly global appreciation of our industry.” Andy Smith, London 28 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER “I have been working on the AIRCOM Server product since its launch back in 2000. The fact that I am still excited about the challenge of making it an excellent product appreciated by our customers after 15 years says a lot about the spirit and work environment at SITA. We like what we do, and we want to do it right. Other colleagues and friends from the AIRCOM Server team have been here a long time too, and they are still present and dedicated today.” Eric Perreault, Montreal WIT IN ATLANTA LOCAL INITIATIVES As part of an outreach program for under-represented Other employee engagement activities have been equally groups, SITA Atlanta sponsored 10 women staff to diverse and are often aligned with local interests and attend WIT’s Women of the Year in Technology Awards, opportunities. For example, in November 2014 the Geneva ofﬁce an event celebrating female technology executives for welcomed around 20 employees’ children, aged 10 to 13, for their accomplishments, leadership, vision and making a ‘Bring Your Child to Work Day’ where they gained insight into difference in their local communities. SITA’s activities and technology. In Montreal our employees got involved in local research, with The event took place at the Georgia Aquarium on 80% of staff over 55 responding to a PhD candidate’s survey 13 November 2014 and was organised by Women in on work life for those nearing retirement. Health Week at SITA Technology (WIT) a Georgia organization whose mission is Canada took place in February when our Montreal, Burlington “to serve as passionate advocates for women of all ages in and Vancouver ofﬁces joined efforts in creating awareness and Georgia’s STEM community”. The group of attendees was promoting a healthy living through seminars and information unanimous in their praise of the event, commenting, sessions on nutrition, back health, and stretching exercises “We all felt empowered and very at work. supportive of each other and our female In July SITA Atlanta also promoted a health and wellness community.” campaign called ‘To Your Health!’ which included interactive activities, and seminars promoting healthy eating and physical activity. Later in the year SITA Atlanta sponsored a group of women staff to attend a Women of the Year in Technology Awards event (see sidebar). CSR REPORT 2014 29 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER SITA established a volunteering program in 2011 called SITA 14 of our larger locations have active local charity committees VIVA – Value in Volunteer Action. It enables and encourages all and/or designated points of contact that promote and organize employees to take a day’s paid volunteering leave to support opportunities to get involved in local community volunteering and projects in their community. fundraising. As we have such a broad global reach, our people in each location are encouraged to support the causes that matter locally. The range of VIVA activities in 2014 was once again 60% of SITA employees work in locations that took inspiring, and our employees have been active in many different projects around the world. part in VIVA volunteering activities in 2014 AMERICAS Around the Americas region, SITA staff raised awareness, funds, and spirits through their strong commitment to community and 297 VIVA days booked in 2014 charitable causes in 2014. Starting with our largest ofﬁce in Atlanta, once again the Junior Achievement organization received some help from SITA volunteers at two life and work simulation events for young Nearly1,000 days booked since VIVA program began in 2011 people held in May. In July, 20 SITA Atlanta volunteers took part in the MUST Ministries Summer Lunch program – collecting over US$2,100 in donations to prepare packed lunches for distribution to children in Cobb County, Georgia who normally beneﬁt from school lunches. $244,844 Total raised by employees to date Directors and managers at the Atlanta Data Center took the ALS ice bucket challenge in September, collecting US$400 toward this popular international cause. Also in September 25 SITA Atlanta employees, family and friends participated in the Kaiser 5K Run/Walk, a ﬁtness program designed to promote health and wellness at companies, with proceeds beneﬁting the Atlanta SITA Group, Atlanta, Community Food Bank, the Back on My Feet homelessness Kaiser 5K Run charity, and the Atlanta Braves Foundation. 30 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER CSR REPORT 2014 31 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER “We had a fantastic time working for the Pets for Vets program last year. It is a very worthy cause for a very deserving group of people. And the opportunity to shoot at my boss with paintball pellets was a very nice side benefit!” Scott Huffstetler, Atlanta Every year SITA participates in the PGA golf championship in In Sao Paulo, SITA staff rallied to raise almost US$500 to buy Atlanta to raise funds for the Georgia Center for Child Advocacy, Easter treats, winter clothes, toys, blankets, and other needed serving food and drinks to spectators and in 2014 earning a items for children at the local Lar Vinicius foster home – putting total of US$13,480 for the center. In October, 24 employees smiles on the faces of young children along the way. challenged each other and raised an impressive US$1,100 at In the run-up to the US Thanksgiving holiday, the SITA team from SITA Atlanta’s second annual paintball event in support of Pets Islip, New York, organized a food drive for the local food pantry at for Vets, an organization which unites veterans with shelter St. John Nepomucene Church, providing more than 165 families animal companions. with a food box for the holidays. And during the Christmas period, In honor of International Women’s Day in early March, our volunteers from SITA Dallas spent their 4th consecutive year Montreal and Vancouver ofﬁces held bake sale events serving the community by wrapping and sorting gifts for the which raised a combined total of US$750 and also collected residents at the Denton State Supported Living Center. donations of clothing, shoes, accessories to support local women’s organizations. In September, the bakers and makers ASIA-PACIFIC in our Montreal ofﬁces reunited for another bake sale – raising In 2014 SITA employees in our Asia Paciﬁc region joined US$575 for the Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation. together to support a variety of charities tackling poverty and In August, one of our Montreal employees did some fearless homelessness, helping children, families and the elderly, and fundraising, collecting US$900 for the Quebec Society for other good causes in their communities. Disabled Children and taking on the Drop Zone challenge: a SITA Beijing staff organized a successful clothing donation rappel down a 21-storey building. Later in the year the Montreal drive in May to help the less fortunate in Tibet, delivering a total ofﬁce held a Centraide/United Way charity pledge drive and collection that weighed more than 100kg. Our Sydney staff also raised a total of US$6,850 through a rafﬂe, one-time donations addressed those facing difﬁcult times – making volunteer visits and payroll pledges. This is the 14th year running that SITA to Australia Foodbank in July and October – and packing an Montreal has campaigned for Centraide, raising over US$130,000 enormous 17,000 kg of food for distribution to families in need. in total since 2001. Over to Singapore where, in June, a generous group of SITA staff, family, and friends visited an assisted living facility for the frail elderly called the Gift of Love Home to help with gardening and cleaning, and to spend some time visiting with the residents. SITA Singapore was also pleased to help sponsor the 2014 Angkasa SITA Singapore Love Home Pura 2 summer camp, an event run every year for around 1,000 children from orphanages, shelters and less fortunate homes. 32 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER In September, 18 employees from our Singapore ofﬁce travelled EUROPE to Bintan, Indonesia for Project “Build a Hope”. With US$3,062 From Letterkenny to Prague and points in between, our European raised for supplies, the group of volunteers spent a day hard at ofﬁces found a variety of ways to support charitable causes, big work building, painting, decorating, and gardening to transform and small, and make good use of their fully paid volunteer days a run-down local school. In October a group of 10 Singapore throughout the year. employees used their volunteer days to participate in tree planting activity at a local park. And in early November two SITA September was an exceptionally busy VIVA month at our teams participated in a Singapore Airlines sponsored 10K run, Letterkenny ofﬁce. 14 SITA staff took part in a volunteer raising US$4,000 for the Community Chest of Singapore. supermarket bag pack for Aware, a national charity providing support and education around depression and mental health – raising a total of US$1,486. In the same month, 26 employees gave their energies to a charity car wash, raising US$463 in aid of Donegal Mountain Rescue, a voluntary frontline emergency service serving nearby Glenveagh National Park. Also in September, SITA Letterkenny held a special “Jersey Day” event in aid of the “Mammy, I Want to Walk” Fund. The charity supports a local ﬁve year-old boy who has spastic quadriplegic cerebral palsy, and beneﬁted from US$1,275 raised at the event. In November SITA Letterkenny held a Retro Gaming Night to raise funds once again for the same charity. Young and old relived their past on consoles such as the Nintendo 64, SNES, Atari, Spectrum, Playstation, SEGA and many more, competing to win STUDENTS OF CLASS VI prizes and raising an additional US$2,600. “We are very grateful to SITA Singapore for the help that you have rendered to our beloved school, SDN 006 Teluk Sebung, in the form of painting and planting of ﬂowers, making our school nice and beautiful. Also for equipping the school with furniture like book racks for our beloved library. This has enabled us to place the books properly and neatly on it. We will take care of them properly.” “In Canada we count ourselves among the fortunate, but poverty is present everywhere in the world. By partnering with Centraide, an organization which supports 362 agencies addressing the needs of 500,000 vulnerable people, we can help have an impact on our local community.” Rodica Crasnic, Montreal CSR REPORT 2014 33 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER On a grey March day, 11 SITA London Godalming volunteers spent a hands-on day clearing wood and pasture areas at Mane CHALLENGE NETWORK Chance Horse Sanctuary, a rescue and rehabilitation centre in Surrey. A second team returned in May to work on the buildings “Visiting SITA is one of my favorite and help the charity get ready for an open day and fundraiser memories from the NCS program later in the year. last year. It was such a good In early July London staff based at the Heathrow Compass experience, and the staff at SITA Centre helped out at the Hillingdon Narrowboats Association, a really made us feel comfortable as charity that provides boating experience and qualiﬁcations for a team. We learned how to present in disadvantaged young people and others in the community. The front of people we didn’t know in a professional and SITA volunteers completely refurbished the charity’s ofﬁce space conﬁdent way. They gave us excellent feedback too. over three days of cleaning, painting, carpet ﬁtting, and installing It really helped us for the pitch we had to do the next furniture, cabling and equipment. day – which went well. We also loved the t-shirts you gave us and we still wear them every time we meet up!” In July burgers, ice cream, cupcakes, games, prizes, a rafﬂe and great live music were all on the menu at SITA London’s annual Jasminder Kalha summer BBQ and fete. A great time was had by all, and nearly Challenge Network participant US$2,400 was raised for childhood cancer research charity Christopher’s Smile. Another annual event took place in August when SITA London once again welcomed a group of local young people from the Challenge Network, a summer program that helps teens build conﬁdence and gain experience of the real world of professional work. Each autumn UK charity Macmillan Cancer Support holds its biggest fundraising event, “The World’s Biggest Coffee Morning”, to raise money for people living with cancer. In 2014 SITA London staff were involved in no less than four separate coffee mornings at our various locations, helping to raise a combined total of just over US$4,500 for the cause. In parallel, our ofﬁce in Hayes, London held a week-long collection drive for the Hillingdon Foodbank, raising a donation of US$145 in cash plus several crates of non-perishable food. “My VIVA activity was very rewarding. It not only allowed us to make a valuable contribution to the local community but also to spend a very enjoyable day with other SITA employees and make a lot of new friends in the process. Truly a win-win!” Tony Boys, London 34 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER A London team of 14 made a day of it at Minet Country Park in Hayes on behalf of the local Wildlife Trust on a sunny day in November, helping to the improve the wildlife habitat by clearing overgrown vegetation. Also in November, teams and individuals from all over SITA joined in the 2014 Movember campaign, the month-long charity event for male cancers and mental health. Of special note were seven men at SITA London who took on a challenge from a neighbouring ofﬁce and generated US$1,951 for the cause. In September, 14 women from our Paris ofﬁce participated in “La Parisienne”, a 7K race for Breast Cancer Awareness, raising a total of US$2,420. In October volunteers from our Paris ofﬁce supported a theatre night which brought in US$5,000 for the charity “La Cami sport et cancer” which offers sports programs to people living with and recovering from cancer. SITA London, In early April, 16 of our SITA Frankfurt staff participated in Minet Country Park a volunteer day out with forestry management organization Hessen-Forst, helping to support the preservation and re-forestation of woods in the nearby Taunus mountain range. A team of 13 volunteers from VIVA Switzerland participated in its second “Le Partage” event in December, spending a half-day supporting the organization’s work sorting donations of food and other necessities for distribution to local charities. SITA Frankfurt, Hessen-Forst CSR REPORT 2014 35 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER “SITA VIVA is a great initiative as it stimulates the team CARREFOUR-RUE spirit of our employees. “We would like to thank you for your renewed support and action this year at Jardin de Mont-Brillant. Thank you It allows us to plan and also for bringing the food needed to prepare a balanced do something totally meal and serving the meal to the beneﬁciaries. Through different together in another their action the volunteers that commit themselves to environment and add value to our our cause contribute to the success of our mission – to give food to the needy community in different ways, from and homeless – whose numbers fundraising or collecting clothes, to grow more and more these days. repairing buildings or planting trees.” With all our heart we again thank you and all participants.” Katja Bergerin, Frankfurt After a successful launch in 2013, another helping of SITA Spaghetti Bolognese was served at the Jardin Montbrillant ‘restaurant for the needy’ in Geneva in December 2014. Our employees donated the ingredients and funding required for the meal which a team of seven SITA staff volunteers then prepared for some 150 guests. Also in December Geneva staff organized a campaign to collect toys and clothing for two local associations, Piccolo and Solidarité Femmes Genève, organizations which serve the Canton de Geneve by helping mothers in difﬁcult situations including domestic violence, homelessness, and human trafﬁcking. SITA Malta, Ice Bucket Challenge 36 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER “I think the VIVA initiative is great – it allows us to meet our colleagues in a different environment and get to know each other at a more personal level. It really connects people differently: when you work with that person next time, you have a common experience you can both refer to.” David Augy, Geneva A group from SITA Malta got soaked for charity with the ALS ice MIDDLE EAST, INDIA AND AFRICA bucket challenge in August, raising US$270 for a local charity Health and family care were strong volunteering that helps those affected with the disease. In December our themes in our Middle East, India and Africa region in 2014. Rome ofﬁce delivered a huge amount of toys to Community of Sant’Egidio for ‘Rigiocattolo’. Through this initiative thousands In March, a group of SITA Amman staff honoured local family of toys – many made of plastic and other often unrecycled day with a visit to the Dar Al Amal Hospice in Jordan where materials – are collected in schools and neighborhoods and they spent a half day visiting and sharing food with elderly given a second home. residents. During Ramadan our Amman staff participated in the Eid Wish campaign with Creative Care, a small local In addition to supporting organized charitable causes, sometimes non-proﬁt organization, collecting gifts, clothes, and toys, and SITA staff are moved to action closer to home. Josef was sleeping approximately US$900 for children in need. rough at the metro station close our Prague ofﬁce. A group of SITA staff started to converse with him and began fundraising In October, ﬁve staff from SITA Cairo spent a VIVA day helping and organizing other direct help from colleagues in the ofﬁce. families in Stabl Antar, an impoverished area in the south of the city. The visit included house painting with the parents and As of March 2014, Josef had his own apartment and a full-time families and classroom activities and play with the children. job as a security guard thanks to direct help from our staff. In November, the SITA Prague Compliance team took a volunteer October was also a busy time for VIVA activities in India. Staff day out to support Raná péce EDA, a non-proﬁt organization from SITA Chennai sponsored a one-day eye camp organized helping families with visually disabled children, raising US$140 through eye care hospital Sankara Nethralaya. 103 people and spending a full day on site helping to repair and organize the received consultations and treatment thanks to the SITA staff charity’s premises. contribution of US$484, as well as on-site co-ordination help on the day. And during the 2014 India ICT Forum, the local management team took time out to visit the Divine Mercy’s Ward in Jaipur, a local organization that provides shelter, food and support to those in need. Accompanied by SITA’s CEO, Francesco Violante, the SITA team met and talked with the nuns and charity helpers, helped to serve food, and ﬁnished the day with a donation of US$200. SITA Chennai, Sankara Nethralaya eye camp INDIA COMPANIES ACT In 2014, with the introduction of the India Companies Act, the organization created a committee and policy to implement the CSR requirements speciﬁc to the legislation. In early 2015, SITA selected the SOS Children’s Villages as the recipient of funds and a donation of $23,000 was made to assist the work of the charity. CSR REPORT 2014 37 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER “I would like to take this opportunity and thank SITA for the VIVA program. It’s a great program that really improves employees’ engagement and makes work more fun. The activities show that SITA is really giving special attention to community needs.” Engy Hemat, Cairo SUPPORTING EDUCATION In addition, SITA has worked with the Letterkenny Institute of Technology (LYIT) on an MSc in Computing in Enterprise Through a range of local partnerships, sponsorships and Applications Development course. Although no MSc graduates collaborations SITA shares its long industry expertise with new were recruited in 2014, SITA has in the past been one of the local generations of learners. employers beneﬁtting from their highly relevant skills in recent SITA’s operations in Letterkenny in the Republic of Ireland years, having recruited 6-8 graduates per year between 2010 provide strong support to local higher education and skills and 2013. development schemes. Among them is an internship program with the University of Ulster (Magee), and through this program 13 fully paid interns joined us in 2014 along with four new SITA LAB HELPS KIDS INTO TECH graduates. In 2014 SITA was once again highly commended for their efforts as a placement employer in the Ulster Placement SITA Lab Lead Engineer Kevin O’Sullivan created huge Employer of the Year Awards. excitement when he demonstrated some of SITA’s Google Glass projects at a show and tell at West Hove Junior SITA also partners with Business in the Community’s (BITC) School in Brighton, UK. Kevin is a and Finn Valley College on the Skills@Work program which volunteer Code Club instructor gives local school children insights into the world of work and there, and in 2014 SITA Lab encourages them to complete their studies. provided funding to purchase Kano DIY computer kits and other equipment to help kids get a start in coding. Code Club is a UK network of free after-school coding clubs for children aged 9-11 run thanks to SITA South Africa, Computer Lab volunteers like Kevin. 38 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER In South Africa SITA supports youth education and development of IT skills through a formal learning program called ‘Another Level’. The program runs from June to May every year, and aims to recruit unemployed young adults from disadvantaged backgrounds and support them through technical training and workplace experience. Successful graduates of the program are awarded a National Certiﬁcate in Technical Support. Nine students graduated from the Another Level program in 2014, one of which has been retained as a SITA employee now working at OR Tambo International Airport via one of our contracting houses. A NEW FOUNDATION SITA is also committed to a multi-year computer lab building program at schools in underprivileged areas, giving youngsters Throughout 2014 SITA’s a chance to develop the IT skills they need for now and the future. CSR Ofﬁce and Executive Leaders worked in partnership In 2014 SITA furnished and equipped a new computer lab at with the SITA Council to lay the groundwork for a new Zitikeni Secondary School. education initiative. The SITA Air Transport Community In May 2014 SITA established a new scholarship at the Civil Foundation will work with charities to deliver learning Aviation University of China, the ﬁrst scholarship program that programs and technology to communities in need. The SITA has established in the region. Its goal is to help talented Foundation’s initial focus will be in Africa where it will young civil aviation students to focus their study and research on provide computer suites at schools in Ethiopia and Uganda, science and technology related to the air transport industry. and educational grants at a university in South Africa. In October 2014 SITA entered a brand new collaboration By supporting students from schools and universities agreement with Singapore’s Institute of Technical Education (ITE). through the Foundation’s activities, we are helping to This new program will help train students in the real world of equip a new generation with essential IT and technology airport passenger services and continue to develop a skilled skills. In its ﬁrst year the Foundation hopes to improve the workforce to support Singapore’s growing civil aviation industry. educational life of more than 10,000 students and facilitate About 100 ITE students are expected to undertake the training training for around 100 teachers. every year. SITA has a strong presence on the continent having SITA also supports a number of smaller collaborative education worked there for more than 50 years and today has initiatives such as the Challenge Network visits to our ofﬁce in 250+ employees located in 38 countries across Africa. London and our work with Junior Achievement in Atlanta. “We believe that this is a great opportunity for SITA, and its 430 member organizations, to create a positive impact across a number of African countries. With our focus on IT and education, we’ll be supporting skills development and helping students and schools to have access to technology. Such initiatives have been proven to increase attendance levels and learning and improve student advancement.” Jappe Blaauw, President of the SITA Council Signing Ceremony at CAUC (Civil Aviation University of China) May Zhou (front right), General Manager of SITA China and Mr. Yu Jian (front left), Vice Chairman of CAUC CSR REPORT 2014 39 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER SITA issues an annual CSR Report, the last being released in A range of stakeholders were engaged in order to gain June 2014. This report covers the corporate social responsibility feedback across these key areas. They included over 700 SITA activities of the SITA Group from January to December 2014, employees who participated in an online survey to provide input and has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting and prioritize issues. Initiative (GRI) G4 ‘Core’ guidelines. It is not SITA’s policy to Members of the company’s Senior Leadership Team responsible assure non-ﬁnancial reports, and thus the report has not been for each geography took part in in-depth interviews, as did externally assured. A full GRI index can be found on page 42. those responsible for the key functions of Human Resources, MATERIAL ISSUES Legal, Marketing and Sales Operations and Corporate & Technology Services. The aspects included in this report have been identiﬁed Also interviewed were members of SITA’s Council and Board – following a materiality analysis conducted early in 2015. 12 key representing an external perspective. Additionally feedback from areas (shown in the diagram below) were selected as having a session held at the Customer Advisory Board in April 2014 on importance to the organization and its stakeholders, either as CSR and SITA’s material issues was incorporated, as well as core business issues or as matters that reﬂect the focus on recent relevant external research conducted on behalf of the sustainability in the air transport industry where SITA operates, organization. The feedback gathering and analysis took place and which are relevant to the nature of our operations. over a three-month period, and was conducted by SITA’s external CSR strategy consultant. High Economic Business Integrity Environmental Social Employees: talent, Operational excellence Importance to Stakeholders aquisition & retention & customer satisfaction Data protection & information security Labor & working practice Working Local economic Responsible with local contribution Environmental Management Procurement communities & compliance Electronic waste Product & service innovation Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Importance to business High 40 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER In each element of stakeholder engagement, participants were REPORT BOUNDARIES asked to identify the issues they consider to be of the greatest All the material issues included in this report are considered priority. This was translated into a score for each issue, which relevant within the boundary for the SITA Group organization. was then averaged by stakeholder group, before these separate This was assessed by reviewing whether the impacts occur average scores were aggregated to give a ﬁnal, combined inside or outside the organization as per the GRI4 guidelines stakeholder prioritization of an issue. on deﬁning boundaries. The activities of subsidiaries and joint 46 issues were identiﬁed and grouped into 12 broad areas, ventures have not been included in this report. However, in six under three overarching themes of: locations 77 employees of SITA’s subsidiaries are co-located, • Business so the environmental aspects of this group are included in the • Environment overall ﬁgures reported. • Society While the issues of responsible procurement and labor and working practices have been referenced within the boundary These 12 areas are deemed to be of greatest signiﬁcance to of the organization, it is noted that there is future potential for stakeholders. The results are shown opposite. Through this these to have scope outside the organization. At this time, it is report, SITA is responding to stakeholders on the status of its considered that emissions as a result of air travel are generated activities in these areas. The material issues and deeper analysis as a result of the business, and therefore these have been behind them will also inform the company’s future development included within the business boundary. of its CSR strategy. Information that is presented in this report is collated from Each of these material issues has been mapped to the our internal management systems, including SITA’s corresponding GRI 4 aspect and indicator in the GRI Index at environmental management system, HR systems and other the back of this document. Where no GRI indicator applies, management information systems. There have been no it is marked as ‘N/A’. signiﬁcant changes regarding size, structure or ownership in Future reports the business since the last report, or changes to the scope As this is the ﬁrst year that SITA has applied the GRI4 report or boundaries. No feedback has been received as a result of guidelines to its annual CSR Report, it is anticipated that the previous reports, or from stakeholders. future reporting will evolve. In this report, those issues that are RESTATEMENTS material to the business as a whole have been included. While the majority of the issues do have an impact on sustainability in In the report on CSR for 2013, two pieces of information were one form or another, it is likely that the report on 2015 activity incorrect. One related to the overall energy consumption ﬁgures will be more focused on those with a direct impact in the areas for the business, where the data for the ofﬁce for Rome had been of economic, environmental and social conditions, while also incorrectly provided. The other relates to the number of countries addressing our need to communicate on our progress against the with collective bargaining agreements (CBA). 18 countries were principles related to the United Nations Global Compact. stated as having CBAs, however this number also included ﬁve countries that have mandatory salary increase schemes. The correct ﬁgure for 2013 was 13. CSR REPORT 2014 41 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER GRI G4 DISCLOSURE UNGC COP LINKAGE LOCATION COMMENTARY Strategy and analysis G4-1 No COP requirement Page 3 Organizational profile G4-3 No COP requirement Page 6 G4-4 No COP requirement Page 6 See www.sita.aero solutionsG4-5 No COP requirement Page 6 and-services/solutions G4-6 No COP requirement Pages 4, 18, 24-25 G4-7 No COP requirement Page 6 G4-8 No COP requirement Pages 4-6 Pages 4-6, page 4 SITA Group Consolidated G4-9 No COP requirement Financial Statements 2014 G4-10 Principle 6: Labor Page 22 G4-11 Principle 3: Labor Page 23 See www.sita.aero/others/ G4-12 No COP requirement Pages 15-16 orders-and-deliveries G4-13 No COP requirement Page 6 G4-14 No COP requirement Pages 12, 14 G4-15 No COP requirement Pages 15, 19 See www.sita.aero/about-us/ G4-16 No COP requirement Page 10 working-for-thecommunity/ Identified material aspects and boundaries Page 10, page 4 SITA Group Consolidated G4-17 No COP requirement Financial Statements 2014 G4-18 No COP requirement Pages 40-41 G4-19 No COP requirement Pages 40-41 G4-20 No COP requirement Page 41 G4-21 No COP requirement Page 41 G4-22 No COP requirement Page 41 G4-23 No COP requirement Page 41 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 No COP requirement Page 40 G4-25 No COP requirement Page 40 G4-26 No COP requirement Page 40 G4-27 No COP requirement Page 40 Report profile G4-28 No COP requirement Page 40 G4-29 No COP requirement Page 40 G4-30 No COP requirement Page 40 See www.sita.aero/resources/ G4-31 No COP requirement Page 41 sita-social G4-32 No COP requirement Pages 40, 42 G4-33 No COP requirement Page 40 Governance See www.sita.aero/about-us/ G4-34 No COP requirement Page 8 sita-board-council-members G4-35 No COP requirement Page 8 See www.sita.aero/about-us/ G4-36 No COP requirement Page 8 sita-management G4-38 No COP requirement Page 13 42 CSR REPORT 2014 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER GRI G4 DISCLOSURE UNGC COP LINKAGE LOCATION COMMENTARY G4-39 No COP requirement Page 8 G4-42 No COP requirement Page 8 G4-47 No COP requirement Pages 8, 13 G4-48 No COP requirement Page 13 G4-49 No COP requirement Page 14 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Principle 10: Anti-corruption Pages 13-15, 27 MATERIAL ASPECTS LOCATION UNGC COP LINKAGE G4-57: Pages 14-15 Business integrity G4-58: Pages 14-15 Principle 10: Anti-corruption G4-SO4: Page 14 Data protection and Page 11 No COP requirement information security Electronic waste Page 20 No COP requirement Employees: talent acquisition G4-LA9-11: Pages 26-29 Principle 6: Labor and retention G4-EN3: Page 18 Environmental management G4-EN5: Page 19 Principle 7 & 8: Environment and compliance G4-EN6: Pages 20-21 G4-EN29: Page 18 G4-LA1: Page 25 G4-LA3: Page 22 Labor and working practices Principle 6: Labor G4-LA7: Page 23 G4-HR6: Pages 15, 23 G4-EC1: Page 10, pages 4-9, 26 SITA Group Consolidated Financial Statements 2014 Local economic contribution Principle 1: Human Rights G4-EC3: Pages 8-9, 22-23, 26, 43-53 SITA Group Consolidated Financial Statements 2014 Operational excellence and G4-EC1: Pages 4-5, 11 No COP requirement customer satisfaction Product and service Pages 10-11 No COP requirement innovation Reducing greenhouse gas G4-EN15-18, G4-EN21: Pages 18-20 No COP requirement emissions G4-EN30: Page 18 Responsible procurement Pages 15-16 Principle 7 & 8: Environment Working with local G4-SO1: Pages 26, 30 No COP requirement communities CSR REPORT 2014 43 BRINGING CSR TO LIFE. TOGETHER Feedback and questions on this report are welcomed and encouraged. They can be directed to the Director, Corporate Social Responsibility at SITA via e-mail: csr@sita.aero, via the corporate website at www.sita.aero, or through our social media channels at www.sita.aero/resources/sita-social. 44 CSR REPORT 2014 Geographic Offices For further information, please contact SITA by telephone or e-mail: Americas +1 770 850 4500 info.amer@ sita.aero Asia Pacific +65 6545 3711 info.apac @ sita.aero Europe +41 22 747 6111 info.euro @ sita.aero Middle East, India & Africa +961 1 637300 info.meia @ sita.aero www.sita.aero/CSR CSR@sita.aero Follow us on www.sita.aero/socialhub Printed by Technique Print Group using their environmental print technology. Printed on Forestry Stewardship Council® (FSC®) accredited paper stock. © SITA 2015
