Self-assessment  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 5th October 2015 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that MAKA Engineering Sdn Bhd continues to support the ten principles to the United Nations Global Compact in respects to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to continue supporting and advancing these principles within our sphere of influence. We continue to commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and daily operations and we undertake to make a clear statement of our commitment to our employees, partners, customers and to the public. Sincerely Yours, Wong Ken General Manager. Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. MAKA seeks to uphold universal human rights including accessibility, discrimination and labour rights. This is reinforced through our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. MAKA believes that all employees should be treated with respect and fairness. The provision of fair and equitable workplaces is a legal obligation.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Our Human Resources’ team is responsible for protecting human rights in conjunction with our line managers. Suggestion boxes are available at all departments so that any issues can be raised confidentially.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. No prosecutions relating to equal opportunity have been recorded against MAKA for the period covered by this report. Any incident involving a human rights violation would be addressed by our Human Resources team. Labour  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. MAKA supports a fare and safe working environment. Our policies support the right to freedom of association and support collective bargaining. We require our employees to conduct themselves in an ethical way and abide by local laws at all times.  Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. All MAKA employees and required to read the Company Manual and OHS&W documents at the time of their employment. These documents outline the right to freedom of association and support collective bargaining and the requirement for employees to conduct themselves in an ethical way.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Routine Risk assessment reviews are conducted. Issues are reported and monitored at weekly management meetings. We conduct annual performance review meetings to review staff development requirements. MAKA has not been involved in any investigations or legal cases relevant to this area. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. MAKA operates under the outline of an Environmental policy. This policy calls for the operation of an environmental system that minimizes the environmental impact of its operations, products and services.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. The company is an active recycler of waste products including plastics and papers.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Waste and Recycling figures are monitored routinely. Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. MAKA supports the UN Convention against Corruption.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Our Company Manual specifies the ethical conduct required by personnel and dictates gift policies.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Our accounting practices are reviewed annually by an independent external financial auditor.
