UNGC COP –TELELINGUA Febr 2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Statement of Continued Support The Telelingua membership to the UN Global Compact comes from my own initiative. It does not come from the fact that our company has to correct some processes or ways to behave in order to comply with the values of UNGC (even if it can obviously). The idea comes from the fact that being a member of UNGC is a good vehicle to spread universal values in which I totally believe and fully subscribe as the CEO of my company. Through our membership to this chart, I wish through my company, to become a vehicle to spread those ones as well for our own employees as well as for our customers and suppliers. Telelingua and I, wish to become a spreading vehicle of the UNGC values, and by this way, to be part of building a better world in the economic activity on this planet. Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals: Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  a. Evaluation: policy and objectives: In all companies, and maybe even more for an SME like Telelingua in the “service” business, there is an easy risk of not respecting the legal and social framework (schedules, privacy policy, and a lot of rules settle down in the work contract and the social laws related to our industry). The policy and objective here is of course to fully respect the legal framework in any circumstances.  Implementation: Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  b. Actions: i. We have a written and signed (by each employee) code of conduct at Telelingua. This framework complies to the local social laws of the Kingdom of Belgium. ii. Our objectives, missions and values for our employees, but also our customers and suppliers, are written down on our website and are public. iii. Our recruitment rules are also written and documented and follow defined values. iv. We organize frequent communication meetings in order for everyone in the company to be able to express him or herself. v. We develop training policies in the respect of our company values and human rights.  Measurement of outcomes: Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  c. Measurements and results: i. We have a very high stability of our employees: very few people leave the company, because they feel respected as persons. ii. We measure the employee’s satisfaction by individual annual meetings. The results are recorded and all remarks are taking into account. The recorded document serves as a basis for the meeting of the year after. iii. We have monthly Management meetings with the managers of each department. Each Manager is supposed to report some points to be corrected. Labour  Assessment, policy and goals: Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.  a. Evaluation, policy and objectives: i. At Telelingua we do not make any difference between men and women, nor between nationalities or races. ii. Telelingua respects the right of having an employees’ delegate in order to improve working aspects and to negotiate improvement of working conditions.  Implementation: Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.  b. Actions: i. We select our employees based on the quality and profile of the people exclusively. ii. We always try to adopt measures to facilitate the work for our employees in terms of greater flexibility for them. iii. Telelingua subscribes to insurances in order to protect its employees.  Measurement of outcomes: Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  c. Measurements: i. At Telelingua in Brussels, 80% of our employees are young women, despite the fact that many of them becomes mother within the 3 first years of employment, which means a lot of maternity leaves to cope with. ii. We have today employees from many different nationalities (Belgium, Croatia, England, USA, Portugal, Italy, France, Romania, Poland, Greece, Spain, Columbia, The Netherlands). iii. 33% of our employees benefit of a flexible way of working by being able to work part time and also being able to work from home by teleworking. iiii. One of our employee suffer from a serious handicap. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals: Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  a. Evaluation, policy and objectives: i. As a translation company, the activity of Telelingua is not submitted to any environmental risk related to its activity. ii. The basic principle is that we try to educate our employees, in the context of their work, to the respect of environment. iii. We also try to support the environment related industries by trying to work together with them.  Implementation: Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.  b. Actions: i. Some basic rules are clearly written in our Code of Conduct where every employee is supposed to behave in a proper manner: close lights when out of office; pc shut down every night; use only recycling paper; print/copy as less as possible (we are a paperless company); control heating system; selecting of garbage for recycling; use only BIO detergent products etc… ii. The person in charge of the purchase of supplies is supposed to follow some specifications in terms of recycled products (like paper), BIO products (detergents) and Fair Trade products (coffee, tea…). iii. A lot of companies active in the environment industries are working with Telelingua. By translating a lot of materials for them we help them to disseminate their knowledge worldwide. iv. We have been supporting the UN Word Environment Summit in Copenghagen.  Measurement of outcomes: Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.  c. Measurements: i. We have measured a decrease of our energy costs over the last years; ii. We recycle everything that comes out of our offices; iii. Our declassed IT material is given to schools; iv. We have received the label “Entreprise EcoDynamique” from the Brussels Region Government. v. We work for more and more customers in the environment industry. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals: Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. a. Evaluation, policy and objectives:  Not Applicable:TELELINGUA does not work in a context or region of the world where corruption can happen in the translation market. We work exclusively in a B to B context. We submit quotes to our customers and they accept them or not. Our employees are Project Managers. They subcontract the translation work to freelance translators located everywhere in the World. The principle is the same with them: for a specific project they will give us a quote that we will accept or not.  Implementation: Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anticorruption risks and respond to incidents.  b. Actions: o Not applicable: TELELINGUA does not work in a context or region of the world where corruption can happen in the translation market. We work exclusively in a B to B context. We submit quotes to our customers and they accept them or not. Our employees are Project Managers. They subcontract the translation work to freelance translators located everywhere in the World. The principle is the same with them: for a specific project they will give us a quote that we will accept or not.  Measurement of outcomes: Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  c. Measurement: o Not applicable: TELELINGUA does not work in a context or region of the world where corruption can happen in the translation market. We work exclusively in a B to B context. We submit quotes to our customers and they accept them or not. Our employees are Project Managers. They subcontract the translation work to freelance translators located everywhere in the World. The principle is the same with them: for a specific project they will give us a quote that we will accept or not.
