United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress 2015 Contents Introduction Introduction..................................................................................................................................................................................... 3 The Principles of UN Global Compact .............................................................................................................................. 4 Overview: Our Corporate Social Responsibility Framework.................................................................................... 6 Human Rights................................................................................................................................................................................. 8 Supporting people in need.................................................................................................................................................10 Employees......................................................................................................................................................................................12 Feature story: Working with values to strengthen culture and support strategy....................................15 Environment..................................................................................................................................................................................16 Feature story: Giving older wind turbines a new lease on life...........................................................................18 KK Wind Solutions is a dedicated green-tech Environment company in the renewable energy industry – and At the same time, we are continuously assessOperations in joint venture in China..................................................................................................................................20 as such, sustainability is the core of our company. ing and improving the environmental impacts This Progress Report gives you an overview of our of our operations. We do this through a product efforts, including overall focus areas and concrete lifetime approach to development, continuous activities as well as our results for the past year waste reduction in our supply chain and innovaand goals for the coming period. tive logistics solutions that are both better for the environment and for our customers. Making wind even more competitive With the launch of a new strategy in 2014 and Developing and manufacturing solutions for the the growth we set out for, we remain committed wind industry, the most positive impact we have to and focused on our corporate social responon sustainability is through our own and our sibility – both when it comes to human rights, customers’ solutions. employees and the environment. We look forward to this journey. Our core competencies and solutions contribute to sustainable energy production, and together with the rest of the wind industry, we are continuously innovating to lower the cost of wind energy, making it even more competitive against This report also serves as our annual communication on progress in sustainability, as required by the fossil fuels. United Nations Global Compact. For instance, we invest heavily together with other parties to develop new sensor technology that Kind regards, Thank you to stakeholders contributing to the content in the report. allows for longer and lighter blades in low-wind Tommy G. Jespersen areas. Chief Executive Officer 2 HUMAN RIGHTS The principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) The UNGC outlines ten principles the companies should engage in, in order to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly. technologies. Anti-Corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4 UNGC Our Corporate Social Responsibility framework Our ambition is to continuously develop and enhance our sustainability actions. To ensure our corporate social responsibility efforts are captured and well explained, we have concentrated our communication on progress around the following three reoccurring themes: Human Rights, Employees and Environment. Human Rights Employees Environment We are committed to the It is our goal to maintain a As part of the renewable enerprotection of human rights culture that encourages and gy industry, we aim at maximisand support the United Nasupports the development of ing our positive impact on the tions Universal Declaration of our employees. Furthermore, environment, not only through Human Rights and the Interwe are dedicated to ensuring the products we develop, but national Labour Organization’s a safe and healthy working also through our actions aimed Declaration on Fundamental environment that meets high at managing the business in an Principles and Rights at Work. ethical standards. ever more responsible manner. Focus areas Focus areas Focus areas By regularly conducting risk We aim to build a highly skilled We direct our attention to assessments of our suppliers workforce with engaged emimproving our products and in compliance with our Code ployees whose contribution is operations across the entire of Conduct, we have ensured meaningful and appreciated. product lifecycle and the supan effective integration with Our approach includes strucply chain. This includes taking the CSR policies. Also, we have tured introduction schemes, appropriate actions to reduce integrated appropriate sustainextensive training and consisenergy consumption, minimise ability measures and our Code tent follow-up on performance. waste, and increase the share of Conduct in screening and of waste that is recycled. assessing new suppliers and In addition, we have intensified in finding accessible areas of our health and safety proceWe have continued our work improvement. dures, including improved with product development that reporting of ‘near misses’ and contributes to the optimisaWe experience and expect the introduction of new inition of renewable energy and future growth in our service tiatives to stimulate stronger encouraged the progress of business where we persistently preventative safety awareness environmentally friendly techEvelyn Lundvig Technical Assistant, focus on human rights, both in in all employees. nologies. Denmark regards to our own and collaboration partners’ employees. 6 CSR FRAMEWORK Revising and reinforcing our Code of Conduct We are committed to the protection of human rights and support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Status 2013 We continuously work to ensure that we have the Our Code of Conduct covers the following: right measures and assessment in place when it comes to ensuring respect for human rights • Legal Compliance in our operations. We realise that it requires • Human and Labour Rights continuous training and integration of our • Health and Safety processes to achieve this implementation. For • Business Ethics that reason we focus first of all on our employees • Environment and our suppliers. We encourage our suppliers to respect their employees’ human rights and provide them with A significant part of our CSR footprint comes decent working conditions. We require that our from our supply chain, and we are committed suppliers sign our Code of Conduct. to ensure that our suppliers uphold the same standards as we put forward. Consequently, To ensure our standards will be met, we have all expectations towards suppliers within this made a risk assessment of our suppliers in area are part not only of our Code of Conduct, Figure llustrating four different supplier categories that require different actions and levels of attention. regards to compliance with the Code of Conduct but are also included in all contracts with new and integrated CSR-measures and our Code of suppliers. We have initiated a program to secure Conduct in the screening and assessment of new commitment from suppliers to our Code of suppliers. Conduct in which we recognize the importance of clear communication of expectations and cooperation with suppliers. During 2014 we have ensured that all suppliers in New objectives the medium or high risk categories have signed In 2015 we will integrate the 10 principles for Progress in 2014 All existing suppliers have been rated through our Code of Conduct or proven that they live up ethical sourcing into the KK Wind Solution As part of the continued efforts we have a number of risk parameters. These parameters to the same high standards. We have visited all assessment and audit tool. This way all Medium evaluated and revised our Code of Conduct have helped to prioritize the efforts in screening four suppliers currently in the high risk category. to High Risk suppliers will automatically be to further emphasise the importance of safe our supplier base. The parameters are based on New suppliers delivering components in the Low assessed on ethical matters in the same way as working conditions and sound processes in our the 10 principles from UN Global Compact and to High Risk category have also signed our Code quality is assessed. The Code of Conduct will in operations. We also expect our suppliers and include human rights, environment, labour rights of Conduct or proven similar standards during 2015 be an integrated appendix to our contract their sub-suppliers to follow and ensure the and anti-corruption. own programs, audits or self-assessments. template. standards. 8 HUMAN RIGHTS Supporting people in need We support various causes throughout the year. In the past year we paid particular attention and provided financial support in relation to the outbreak of Ebola across a number of African countries, causing thousands of deaths. Tommy G. Jespersen, CEO, KK Wind Solutions 10 HUMAN RIGHTS Continued health and safety focus pays off It is our goal to maintain a culture that encourages and supports the development of our employees. Furthermore, we are dedicated to ensuring a safe and healthy working environment that meets high ethical standards. Status 2013 In addition, the safety procedures for employees In the past year, we have maintained the working in the wind turbines were enhanced, and OHSAS18001 certification (Occupational Health the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) and Safety Management System) we obtained in including the use of safety shoes everywhere on November 2012. This certification ensures our the shop floor was reinforced. commitment to continuous implementation and improvement of the way we manage our health To identify and anticipate potential hazards, we and safety systems. As the certification process have introduced a mobile platform for technicians revealed, the vast majority of our standards to input information related to accident prevention. and targets already met environmental and occupational standards. New objectives KK Wind Solutions remains committed to further Progress 2014 reducing the environmental impact of the In the previous year, KK Wind Solution A/S’ target company’s operations. was to have maximum absence of 3% and no working accidents requiring statutory reporting. Efforts in the coming year will aim to further Employee absence was reported at 1.6%, while 3 embed a strong safety awareness mind-set working accidents were experienced. amongst employees, with the aim of achieving zero accidents throughout the whole company. Going forward, we will measure and report on the number of working accidents per 1 million working Continuing the focus on both health and safety hours. issues across all departments, the target for absence is a maximum of 3% on a global scale. 12 EMPLOYEES Feature story: Our Values Working with values to strengthen culture and Care, listen, observe, anticipate, innovate, integrate and exceed are values which represent the core foundation of our success. They support our vision and strategic actions. By promoting them both internallly and externally we aim at instilling them in all our employees support strategy and partners. With the launch of KK Wind Solutions’ strategy for 2014-2017, the management team communicated a clearly defined direction for the company, supported by concrete strategic targets and actions. This was launched, introduced and very well received by the employees. This year, we focus on the corporate culture part of the strategic change – where working with values has high priority. x Listen Listen to understand and e Listen learn from customers and colleagues. Ask questions that deepen your knowledge e and understanding. “Setting a clear direction and having concreate plans to support strategic objectives is key to c d employee motivation and performance. But In 2014, the main activities in the we also need to work with our culture and company revolved around the develbehaviour to support the strategy and motivate opment, launch and implementation our employees,” says Anne Eliasson, Global HR of our strategy for 2014 – 2017. Manager at KK Wind Solutions. • We have worked extensively with our comThe culture at KK Wind Solution is personified pany strategy and the strategic targets e with the notion “Wind Power Wizard”, illustrating known as Must-Win-Battles. how qualities such as curiosity, technical wind-know-how and determination enable the • With the strategy launched personally by aim company’s employees to come up with a solution the Executive Management on a global and t scale and followed by strategy updates d ve us t to almost impossible challenges. c ee acti nd j ou to and town hall meetings, employees are Ex pro eyo Find take ns Be go b ing. uld tatio ile. s “The values and the behaviour are fundamental kept updated on the progress of the stratto tisfy t wo pec tra m nge to our progress and success. It is the culture egy and Must-Win-Battles. sa at i d ex e ex alle e wh cee o th w ch valu that will drive our way of doing things and be ex d g ne on . essential for us to reach the goals we have set • As part of the strategy, we have worked an se to cus orts out to achieve, among others a safe working with values and to ensure these are emRi d fo eff Posters describing values bedded in the company culture. an ding and which are used environment,” says Anne Eliasson. ad internallly In the coming months, we will continue the • We have adapted our company namestrategic work by revising the strategy according from kk-electronic to KK Wind Solutions, to market and work with values and culture to and updated our visual identity to better create a stronger foundation for the strategic reflect who we are and our sole focus on progress of KK Wind Solutions. the wind industry. 14 EMPLOYEES Lower energy consumption and increased recycling As part of the renewable energy industry, we aim at maximising our positive impact on the environment, not only through the products we develop, but also through our actions aimed at managing the business in an ever more responsible manner. Status 2013 Our production facilities are certified according Our electronics production in DK is now RoHS to the international environmental standard (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Compliant, ISO14001, which ensures systematic organisation which means that we produce lead-free. and documentation of internal environmental procedures. New objectives For wind to be a viable alternative to traditional Building on previous years’ experience, the focus fossil fuels, it has to be competitive. At KK Wind will be on further reducing energy consumption Solutions, we contribute to advancing the wind and keeping the share of waste recycling at a high industry by continuously improving our products level. The targets set for 2015 are to lower the use and working with product development that of energy for heating and electricity by 3%. While contributes to the optimisation of renewable new products are expected to be added to the energy. Furthermore, we are working in portfolio, the target for recyclable waste is set at partnership to extend the lifetime expectancy of 75%. wind turbines. Progress 2014 In the past year, our focus has been on continuing to reduce the environmental impact by reducing energy consumption for heating by 3% and 75% electricity by 3%, and by increasing the share of waste that is recycled to 75%. To achieve that, we have monitored and adjusted the heating consumption, saved on electricity consumption where possible e.g. closing of extra server room and maintained the recycle set-up. In addition, our focus on safety has been strengthened in a number of areas. To further raise the awareness of environmental We have exceeded our issues, more information about environmental target of recycling 75% practices and behaviours was added to the of our waste introduction process for the new employees. 16 ENVIRONMENT GRID, three columns Feature story: Giving older wind turbines a new lease on life Since its infancy in the 1970s, the wind industry has been innovating to build larger, more effective and reliable turbines. The aim at every step of the way has been to lower the cost of producing clean, renewable energy. Today, in many markets around the world, A new control system outperforms the original onshore wind has already become competitive technology in a number of ways. With better and with or even cheaper than fossil fuels and other more accurate control, the turbine can convert energy forms. Offshore wind remains more costly more of the wind available to into electricity. At due to the particular challenges at sea, but both the same time, the turbine’s components will be at sea and on land, the cost of electricity from better protected in the harsh environment on site wind continues to become ever cheaper. – caused by turbulence in the wind, for instance – which might otherwise cause the turbine to fail. Innovation in wind power, however, is not solely about developing new turbines. It is also about making the most of the thousands of turbines Making the most of better data already installed globally. A modern control system also provides the turbine owner with another key advantage: significantly better access to data from the wind Retrofitting the control system in older turbine. This can include a SCADA (supervisory turbines control and data acquisition) system, which In Europe, around 25 per cent of the wind power makes it possible for an engineer or a service capacity comes from turbines that are more than technician to tap into the data they need to 10 years old. This vast fleet of turbines holds a improve the turbine’s performance great potential for improvement for the latter part of their lifetime. “The turbine owner will be able to pinpoint the root cause of a problem that occurs repeatedly. KK Wind Solutions’ specializes in the electrical Also, the service team can monitor any system in turbines, where rapid developments irregularities and be able to replace a part before in electronics and control systems mean that it fails, greatly reducing the amount of hours that technology today is much more advanced and the turbine stands still,” explains Ballegaard. reliable than a decade ago. That makes changing the original equipment in older turbines with Combined, the improved availability and power modern technology – known as retrofit – a path to production mean that retrofitting a wind turbine’s more power and lower costs. control system is often a sound, financial decision for the owner – and a sustainable way to get the “The advantages of replacing the original control maximum amount of clean energy from turbines system with the latest generation technology are already spinning across the globe. two-fold: Firstly, the turbine will run more reliably, producing electricity for more hours every year. And secondly, it will harvest the power of the wind more effectively when it does run. Combined, this boosts power output, helping reduce the cost of electricity for us all,” says Thomas Ballegaard, Chief Sales Officer at KK Wind Solutions. Learn more at kkwindsolutions.com/retrofit 18 ENVIRONMENT Operations in joint venture in China Employees Environment In China, KK Wind Solutions operates through a joint venture collaboration with Qianwei, part of the CSIC group. The company, Chongqing kk-Qianwei Windpower Equipment Co.,Ltd. The company produces no hazardous substances. (kk-Qianwei), produces wind turbine control systems and well as offering testing and a Through a number of CSR activities, kkHowever, the company continuously strives commissioning service to customers in the wind industry. Qianwei has succeeded in maintaining a good to reduce its impacts on the surroundings by relationship with employees, leading to a reduced recycling via licensed recycling companies of e.g. staff turnover rate in the past year. cobber scrap, wood packaging materials etc. In the past year, the production setup has been Recruiting optimised and products redesigned leading to a According to company policies, kk-Qianwei’s reduction of component consumption in a number main selection criteria when recruiting must of areas. Furthermore, energy consumption be the applicant’s personal ability, education was reduced by limited the running time of air background and working experience. It is conditioners. explicitly stated that the company is against any discrimination on the basis of gender, age and No environmental incidents have occurred during minority group. the reporting period. Anti-Corruption During the reporting period, the relation with government authorities has been strengthened, Compensation helping to avoid potential corruptive events. AntiAccording to the kk-Qianwei’s compensation corruption policies are stated in the staff manual system, the salary criterion must be the same and training is provided for the related high-risk for employees holding similar positions. positions such as procurement and finance. For promotions, the company takes into consideration only the employees’ working Before signing any contract with suppliers, a competency, seniority and the job requirement. Supplier UN Global Compact is signed, covering More than 30% of the members of management the following principle: Businesses should work are women. against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Education Human Rights All new employees have been educated in the Health and Safety company’s principles and regulations. Further Suppliers No accidents involving employees have occured a number of employees have been educated By signing the UN Global Compact principles with during the reporting period, and kk-Qianwei works in internal audit practices. All employees of component suppliers, kk-Qianwei has included concertedly to ensure the company operates to a the company have participated in fire-fighting a set of actions in regard to the following issues: high level of health and safety. training. Human rights, Labour rights, Occupational Health To improve working conditions in production, & Safety and Anti-corruption. An annual internal lifting equipment has been purchased to reduce audit examines if there are any violations of the the need for heavy, manual lifts. Machinery is kept Labour Rights policies stated. As part of the CSR action plan, is a safe working condition, and a safety specialist A health and safety supervisor has been About Chongqing kk-Qianwei Windpower kk-Qianwei has added a policy for non-use of is available for frequent inspections. Safety training appointed, in charge of health and safety Equipment Co.,Ltd. child labour into the supplier audit and now ask is carried out for each new operator of machinery. inspections and assisting in settling grievances. that suppliers provide the age range of their All necessary safety equipment, including shoes, Furthermore, kk-Qianwei plans to recruit an The company was established in 2008. employees. safety helmets, gloves and clothes are provided additional professional EHS supervisor in order It is located in the High-tech Industrial Park for service technicians, who are also required to go to strengthen EHS related works in 2015. In in Chongqing, China and employs more Furthermore, the procurement department through a safety check list before climbing each addition, a physical examination has been than 150 people. has visited seven new suppliers with a view to turbine tower. Finally, an emergency response arranged for all employees during the reporting investigating the suppliers’ performance in relation programme is implemented, and two emergency period. to CSR. drills have been carried out in the past year. 20 JOINT VENTURE HQ KK Wind Solutions A/S Bøgildvej 3 DK-7430 Ikast Phone +45 96 92 43 00 E-mail main@kkwindsolutions.com Web www.kkwindsolutions.com
