CSR 2014 Cover.indd 1 10/13/15 1:20 PM TABLE OF CONTENTS LIST OF TABLES LIST OF FIGURES LIST OF APPENDICES Welcome 04 Table 01 Our Commitments and Outcomes 08 Figure 01 Our CSR Milestones 06 Appendix 1 Highlights of Code of Ethics and Conduct 64 Introduction 06 Table 02 B asis for Internal and External Stakeholder 09 Figure 02 Spectrum of Material Issues Identified 10 Appendix 2 Highlights of Bank Audi’s CSR Policy 65 Our Materiality Process 09 Selection and Engagement Process Figure 03 Process of Defining Material Aspects 11 Appendix 3 Sampling of Bank Audi's Brands, 65 Our Updated CSR Strategy for 2014 12 Table 03 E xamples of Bank Audi's Membership 13 and Boundaries Products and Services Creating Value through Partnerships 13 in Industry Associations Figure 04 Our Materiality Process in Summary 11 Appendix 4 Bank Audi's Economic, Environmental 66 Table 04 T otal Number and Percentage of Employees 20 Figure 05 Materiality Matrix and Main Issues 12 and Social Charters, Principles and Corporate Governance 16 of Priority Concern for 2014 who Received Training on Anti-corruption Initiatives Endorsed and Subscribed to Economic Development 22 Figure 06 Bank Audi CSR Pillars and Corresponding 12 by Category in the Reporting Year Appendix 5 Financial Literacy across our Products 66 Community Development 30 Material Aspects for 2014 Table 05 Bank Audi's Indirect Economic Impact 27 and Services Human Development 38 Figure 07 Bank Audi's Spill-over Effect 13 Table 06 S urveys Conducted to Measure Customer 27 Appendix 6 Bank Audi's Employee Grievance 68 Environmental Protection 48 Figure 08 CSR at a Glance at End 2014 14 Satisfaction as per our Quality Program Mechanism in Employee Handbook Figure 09 Bank Audi Supporting “Grow My Business” 24 Supplementary Information 54 Specifications Figure 10 Bank Audi’s Digital Platforms 25 Reporting and Ratings 56 Table 07 S ummary on Rewards Program Outcome 33 Figure 11 Bank Audi’s Branch-less and Conveniently 26 Internal Audit 63 since 2012 Located ATMs Appendix 64 Table 08 C omparison of Employee Volunteerism 34 Figure 12 Bank Audi Kids Rewards Club Events 34 between 2013 and 2014 Figure 13  Be a Hero for a Day Volunteering 35 Table 09 Summary of Employee Training Hours 41 Program Examples Table 10 E mployee Development Programs and 41 Figure 14 Cultural Festivals Sponsored by Bank Audi 36 Number of Employee Participants Figure 15 A Spectrum of Community Development 36 Initiatives Table 11 E mployee Composition by Gender and 43 Figure 16 Investing In Employee Training A Continuing 40 Employee Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon Top Priority Table 12 E mployee Composition by Age Group 43 Figure 17 Bank Audi Employee Sponsorship Grants42 and Employee Category in Bank Audi Figure 18 Workforce Composition with Respect 43 Group Lebanon to Gender in 2014 Table 13 C omposition of Governance Body 43 Figure 19 Bank Audi Participation in Job Fairs 44 Committees by Gender and Age Group Figure 20 Turnover Rate at Bank Audi in 2014 45 at Bank Audi Figure 21 Number of Trees Saved since 201251 Table 14 E mployee Distribution by Contract Type 44 Figure 22 Total GHG Emissions per Year for Bank Audi 52 and Gender at Bank Audi Group Lebanon Figure 23 Bank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emission Sources 52 Table 15 New Employee Hires in Bank Audi Group Lebanon 44 Figure 24 Emissions per Sources in 2014 (%) 52 Table 16 R eturn to Work Rates after Parental Leave, 45 by Gender, in Bank Audi Group Lebanon Table 17 Paper Recycling between 2012 and 2014 51 Table 18 Total Weight of Waste by Type 51 Table 19 B ank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emissions 52 between 2012 and 2014 Table 20 ISO 26000 Core Subjects Reference Table 56 Table 21 Implementation of GRI Content Index for 57 “In Accordance” – Core – General and Specific Standard Disclosures Table 22 M apping Global Compact 10 Principles 61 to GRI G4 Guidelines Table 23 A wards for Bank Audi Group 62 Lebanon in 2014 2 3 Welcome Statement of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Bank Audi continued, in 2014, to reinforce its undisputed stakeholders, as reflected in our dedicated stakeholder employees’ development by increasing various training support, and for embracing with us our commitment to leadership position in the Lebanese banking sector, by all panel and diligent stakeholder inclusiveness and materiality and support programs intended to help them advance and responsible banking and common growth. business criteria, and to benefit from a differentiated visible process. It was also a year where we sought to integrate thrive in their careers. Cognizant of the wider sustainability brand in its main markets of presence. It also reinforced its CSR and sustainability, to a larger extent, at the core of challenges we face and finite planetary resources, we also Sincerely, position among the top 20 Arab banks at large. our business through the extensive involvement of our dedicated significant attention in 2014 to further reduce CSR Committee and continued implementation of the our carbon footprint, and build environmental awareness Raymond W. Audi The aforementioned results are the outcome of sound Environmental and Social Management System, which among our employees and the youth through different Chairman and General Manager business practices, and confirm the Group’s good mastery guides our approach for evaluating the environmental and programs and activities. over the operating conditions, and the diversification of its social risks associated with our Corporate and Commercial activity and profit sources. We are proud of having achieved banking activities. We also worked on facilitating increased We acknowledge that in our role as a financial services them, and equally proud that they were achieved, as in access to our banking services across the country, including provider, we are intricately connected to the society and the previous years, without compromising our Social objectives: in remote and disadvantaged communities. economy in which we operate, and that further advancing Throughout the year, we endeavored to balance our healthy in the realm of responsibility is a key determinant of our financial growth and returns with equal commitment to 2014 also witnessed the expansion of our employee success. The enclosed report will give you an insight into Samir N. Hanna wider responsibility, seeking to add value to stakeholders volunteering program “Be a Hero for a Day”. We are proud how we attended to our manifold responsibilities as a bank Group Chief Executive Officer and to society at large. of the extent to which our employees have embraced a and our determined efforts to fulfil them and to continue culture of ethics and responsibility. On a parallel note, we to improve on what we do year after year. In this respect, 2014 was a year where we accorded increased our support to various health social and cultural due diligence and meticulous attention to identifying causes that are relevant to the communities in which we In conclusion, we wish to extend our gratitude to our priority material issues from the perspective of different operate. As importantly, we focused more on our own shareholders, customers and employees for their continuous 4 5 Introduction Founded in Lebanon in 1830, Bank Audi has sustained rate in 20141. The Bank’s recent results faithfully reflect the sound Governance, Economic Development, Community Hence we realize that conducting our business responsibly its solid growth, building a strong legacy of excellence in strong strategic orientations set by Management, which Development, Human Development and Environmental entails a tactful balancing act, and reconciling the interests banking. The Bank is headquartered in Lebanon, yet had ensure long-term added value to all stakeholders. In this Protection. In 2014, we were proud to continue to steer of multiple stakeholders. We, however, are guided by our successfully expanded to 11 other countries located across respect and on the back of the Bank’s financial and business forward in being a leader in CSR in the local context, by commitment to the triple bottom line and to the health of the Near East, North Africa, the GCC and Europe, namely achievements, we look at the future optimistically, with a further integrating CSR at the heart of our business and the community we live in. In this context, we are proud to be Switzerland, France, Jordan, Syria, Egypt, Sudan, the reinvigorated commitment and the vision to be a leader in adding a menu of social initiatives that will be disclosed in constantly scrutinizing and reinvigorating our CSR strategy, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), Qatar, Monaco, Turkey and sustainability and to balance the healthy financial growth this report and that reveal our unwavering commitment to building on what we have done in previous years, but also the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Bank Audi is a joint stock and returns to shareholders with equal commitment, drive conducting our business ethically and responsibly. forecasting future trends, encouraging efficiency and the company (“société anonyme libanaise”) with a diversified and added value to stakeholders and to society at large. precautionary principle, looking downstream at impacts shareholder base that encompasses founding shareholders, Some of the most important achievements for this year but also upstream at causes, and taking into consideration large regional investors, international institutional investors, As we forge ahead, we are committed to continuing to include the significant strengthening of our materiality the social and environmental realities around us, as well as well as executives and employees. The Bank offers a full add value as a responsible corporate citizen by putting our process through a dedicated stakeholder engagement panel as the limits to the growth of our current ecosystem. This range of products and services in Commercial and Corporate people first, contributing to our society at multiple levels, held on October 30, 2014, where we probed our various has translated into a continuous learning and improvement Banking, Retail and Individual Banking, On-line Brokerage, and protecting the environment. Accordingly, year after stakeholders on the most relevant, pressing and material journey, and important changes to our business model Private Banking, Investment Banking, and Islamic Banking year, we continue to diversify and grow our Corporate CSR issues from their respective vantage points. We have and patterns of resource use that are more restorative and within a wide range of industries including manufacturing, Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy, and advance our mission also made progress in relation to each of the pillars identified inclusive, and that seek to make us a more sustainable trading, contracting, real estate development, hotels, food of being leaders in sustainability in the Lebanese context in our CSR strategy, strengthening our engagement, business which contributes to making this world a better and beverage, education, media services, health and social and beyond. In this respect, we are building on strong processes, and impact in relation to Corporate Governance, place. Our approach to CSR is thus an extension of our core services, and retailing amongst others. foundations from previous years, including the setting up Economic Development, Community Development, values which revolve around Transparency, Human Capital, of a stand-alone CSR unit in 2010, the establishment of Human Development and Environmental Protection. While Heritage, Quality, Civic Role and Innovation, and embodies Bank Audi continues to have an undisputed leadership a CSR Committee and a formal CSR policy in 2012, the non-exhaustive, Table 1 provides a snapshot of some of our important elements of partnering and collaboration, as position in the Lebanese banking sector and has further piloting of ISO 26000 Guidance in 2012, as well as the key achievements and outcomes in 2014 in the context of discussed in the enclosed report, all intended to make reinforced its position among the top 20 Arab banks, delineation and further extension of our CSR strategy our balanced CSR strategy and in relation to each pillar. Not a positive difference in the lives of people and societies among which it reported the third highest activity growth in 2013, now revolving around five core pillars, namely only does this highlight our assiduous strategic planning, around us. monitoring and implementation policies and processes in the domain of CSR; it also sheds the light on our continuous The current report, which covers the year 2014, is the fourth improvement ethos and unwavering commitment to edition of Bank Audi’s CSR Report and sits along the Bank’s continue going the extra mile in institutionalizing CSR and 2014 Annual Report, with the most recent previous report Figure 1: Our CSR Milestones making significant progress. being the 2013 CSR Report that was published in October 2014. In terms of the structure and scope of our reporting, 2014 As per our commitments and their outcomes (Table 1), we the 2014 Report, much like last year, maps and corresponds have expanded our materiality process this year, as well to the core subjects captured in the ISO 26000 guidance. 2013 as revisited and refined our core material issues identified In this respect, we were fortunate to be the first bank in 2012 and 2013. This continuous improvement effort in Lebanon to benefit from piloting ISO 26000 and to 2012 is important given that material issues are not static. We integrate its guidance in the various aspects of our strategy 2011 also comply with relevant laws and regulations on market and reporting year after year (Table 23). Our report also conduct and suitability of investments. Moreover, we are addresses the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact 2010 keen to be proactive in addressing the issues that are most (Table 25), and is prepared “in accordance” with GRI G4 important to our stakeholders (both internal and external). Guidelines and the Financial Services Sector Disclosures, as We are dedicated to continue to apply the precautionary a core application level (Table 24). In this respect, we are principle vis-à-vis silent stakeholders, and take a long-term proud to be the first organization in Lebanon to have been precautionary stance in relation to environmental issues formally accepted as a GRI Organizational Stakeholder, Formation of CSR Unit which are likely to impact our business, our clients and our leading the way towards adopting G4 Guidelines and communities, such as global warming and global climate standing by GRI’s vision of responsible management and Establishment of CSR Committee change, for instance. We have contracted a company transparent reporting. Adoption of CSR policy Crafting a CSR strategy in this respect to assess and continuously monitor our ISO 26000 piloting Four CSR pillars environmental footprint with a view to improving our GRI G4 Guidelines Core Five CSR pillars Further institutionalization environmental management and efficiency over time. GRI G4 Guidelines Core Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) GRI Organizational Stakeholder (OS) 1 The Business Year Article; VIP Interview Freddie C. Baz, Moving with the Times . 6 7 PILLAR WE PLANNED WE DID Table 1: Our Commitments and Outcomes Our Materiality Process in refining our CSR strategy. This meticulous materiality exercise formed the basis for defining our report content for 2014. Further institutionalize CSR at the Implemented an Environmental and Social Management System Drawing on our strong determination to use our industry heart of the business (ESMS) which guides our approach for evaluating the environmental and social (E&S) risks leadership and deep commitment to the communities in Building on the principle of stakeholder inclusiveness, we which we operate, we have gone a long way in 2014 to have therefore endeavoured to expand our engagement Corporate further bolster our materiality process. While building on Further mainstream human rights in Updated our Code of Ethics and Conduct to make explicit reference process and seek substantive and meaningful input from Governance the Code of Ethics and Conduct to human rights and initiated a Top Management training and a longefforts of previous years, we were keen on infusing new a variety of stakeholders, both internal and external to the term working group to follow up and make further progress blood and get some fresh and constructive input into our Bank. This year, we capitalized on extensive stakeholder Improve our financial performance Total revenue improved from USD 640.5 million in 2013 to materiality process from a range of internal and external engagement, using different channels. The feedback USD 689.6 mbillion in 2014 stakeholders. In fact, we take pride to be an organization obtained was important to us and instrumental in refining that engages in open and constructive dialogue with our our material issues and boundary aspects for 2014. Total shareholders’ equity and subordinated debt improved from stakeholders and give this feedback systematic attention USD 2.90 billion in 2013 to USD 3.64 billion in 2014 Table 2: Basis for Internal and External Stakeholder Selection and Engagement Process Increase total number of operations Total number of operations increased from 98,205,129 in 2013 to 117,599,198 in 2014 Stakeholder Stakeholders Included and Basis Channels Used Issues Identified Groups of Selection Economic Increase our employee base Number of employees increased from 2890 in 2013 to 2989 in 2014 Development Internal Increase branches equipped with Percentage of branches equipped with ramps increased from 71% in Employees The largest number of beneficiaries who uphold and convey the Bank’s e-newsletters Good employment practices ramps 2013 to 75% in 2014 image as they are the front liners in contact with external stakeholders. They Tailored Diversity and equal opportunity also contribute to the decision-making process by being the major reporter surveys Training, education Increase branches in remote areas Percentage of branches in remote areas increased from 14% in 2013 of information. Internal communication and talent development to 15% in 2014 Monthly Economic performance One of the Bank’s key pillars which includes decision-makers who set the Extensive due diligence Management overall strategic direction of the Bank and monitor its implementation. meetings Increase ATMs located in remote Percentage of ATMs located in remote areas increased from 15% in Workshops Risk assessment They are also the constituency accountable for repercussions of the Bank’s Management processes, bolstering core areas 2013 to 17% in 2014 contributions. Stakeholder governance foundations based on ethical engagement panel Increase support of health-related Support of health-related causes increased from USD 520,000 in 2013 conduct, compliance and due diligence causes to USD 557,000 in 2014 Investors who have a clear stake in the business and are important strategic Annual meetings Human rights issues Shareholders Social and environmental financial contributors with commitments that ensure the financial health and Workshops Enlighten children about donation Value of points collected increased from USD 20,000 in 2012 viability of our business. Stakeholder risk assessment to USD 59,000 in 2014 engagement panel External Increase support of culture-related Number of NGOs involved increased from 12 in 2012 to 16 in 2014 Community causes Suppliers Providers of services and raw materials with which the Bank has a Meetings Focus more on core business CSR issues Development mutual-benefit relationship. We are keen on maintaining a close working Stakeholder Systematic attention to product Improve our employee volunteerism Support of culture-related causes increased from USD 530,000 in 2013 relationship with key suppliers across different industries and we recognize engagement panel responsibility and indirect economic program to USD 1,470,000 in 2014 that our suppliers are also invariably affected by the Bank’s operations and impacts, reaching out to disadvantaged policies, especially with regards to quality and integrity standards. youth and a wider range of NGOs as part Number of employee volunteers increased from 23 in 2013 to 150 in 2014 of the Community Development Pillar Clients Critical stakeholders for the Bank, who sustain its continued vibrancy and Tailored surveys Building further awareness on CSR both vitality. They are at the heart of the decision-making process in terms of Meetings Number of beneficiaries increased from 284 in 2013 to 829 in 2014 internally and externally operations, products issuance, and services, and are the ones who benefit Stakeholder Enhancing the Bank’s reach and market Increase employee training Total number of employees trained increased from 1956 in 2012 to 2080 most from the Bank’s services. They contribute financially by endorsing the engagement panel presence in the most remote areas in 2013, and to 2345 in 2014 Bank and making use of its services. Focusing on various aspects of NGOs The most enduring partners of the Bank in the field of CSR, symbolizing the Meetings environmental protection Increase programs aimed at Number of programs aimed at supporting employee careers increased channels through which we contribute to the community and sustain our Stakeholder Human supporting employee careers from 22 in 2013 to 24 in 2014 scaling of social impact and our spill-over effect. They are chosen based on engagement panel Development the congruence and compatibility of their mission and strategies with the Various events Increase value of employee benefit Value of benefits and wellness programs offered to employees increased Bank’s values and social orientation. Volunteer program expenditures and wellness programs from USD 18,469,000 in 2013 to USD 19,358,000 in 2014 Regulatory The official institutions that frame the regulatory boundaries of the legal Meetings Increase in monetary value dedicated Monetary value dedicated to products and services designed to deliver a bodies and operations of the Bank. They are affected by the Bank’s operations and Stakeholder to products and services designed to specific environmental benefit increased from USD 30,464,100 in 2013 industry-related manifold economic contributions. They also influence the way we frame our engagement panel deliver a specific environmental benefit to USD 52,433,458 in 2014 associations decision-making in relation to key aspects of our operations, including CSR. Workshops Competitors Competing banks and financial institutions who are also collaborators in Meetings Increase paper recycling and save Paper recycling increased from 83 tons in 2013 to 104 tons in 2014, thus setting the operational, social, environmental and competitive standards. Stakeholder trees increasing the number of trees saved from 1414 in 2013 to 1763 in 2014 We also value our competitors in terms of helping promote and advance engagement panel Environmental CSR in Lebanon. Workshops Increase plastic recycling Use of recycled plastic has increased from 130 kg in 2013 to 157 kg Events Development in 2014 Community Local community stakeholders in various locations where our bank operates. Civil society We identify our well-being as closely tied to that of the community around us Reduce total greenhouse gas Reduced GHG emissions decreased from 22,199.80 tCO2 in 2012 and we seek to improve our external environment through various programs, emissions to 21,309.90 tCO2 in 2013, and to 21,065.6 tCO2 in 2014 events, activities and philanthropy. (5% decrease over 2 years) Media Various media groups and channels that transmit information and with e-newsletters which the Bank liaises to communicate in relation to various aspects of its Interviews Instil environmental awareness on Conducted internal and external environmental workshops activities, including CSR. Through the media, we stay in touch with the various Events both internal and external levels external stakeholders around us and convey and share our identity, programs and activities. 8 9 As described in Figure 2, both types of feedback allowed on-going journey of discovery and continuous improvement Figure 3: Process of Defining Material Aspects and Boundaries us to define our material issues and relevant aspect whereby we strive for continuous refinements and boundaries for 2014. This denotes our generic Disclosure adjustments year after year. on Management Approach (DMA). We consider this an 01 IDENTIFICATION OF CRITICAL ASPECTS 02 PRIORITIZATION Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness Principle of Sustainability Context OF ASPECTS Figure 2: Spectrum of Material Issues Identified Assessing relevant topics Principle of Materiality Identifying relevant aspects Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness Assessing internal impact of aspects Evaluating and prioritizing Assessing external relevant aspects and topics impact of aspects Ethical conduct Assessing materiality of topics to stakeholders ISSUES RAISED BY EXTERNAL Non-discrimination Anti-corruption 04 STAKEHOLDERS REVIEW Diversity ISSUES RAISED Risk and equal BY INTERNAL management Principle of Stakeholder opportunity STAKEHOLDERS 03 Inclusiveness VALIDATION Product responsibility Enhancing market reach Principle of Sustainability OF ASPECTS Context Training, Principle of Completeness education Employment Reviewing of material Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness and talent practices development aspects of the Report Validating the material Compliance aspects identiﬁed Awareness across Environmental protection supply chain Indirect economic impact Community development Awareness on CSR Figure 2: Spectrum of Material Issues Identified Figure 4: Our Materiality Process in Summary Beyond identification of core material issues and aspect This comprehensive and systematic materiality process was Engaging with Priority boundaries, we engaged in a process of prioritization. For useful in validating that previously identified issues are Internal Stakeholders Relevant Topics that, we tried to consolidate and analyze this feedback still relevant, and in integrating new emerging issues and e-newsletters Surveys Employment practices, diversity and equal opportunity, through various rounds of CSR Committee meetings considerations. The adopted materiality process thus reflects Internal communication training, education and talent development, economic which focused on prioritization of the key areas for CSR the principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness and Meetings, workshops performance, extensive due diligence, risk management and roundtables processes, ethical conduct, compliance, anti-corruption involvement for Bank Audi in 2014. The Committee also completeness, as delineated clearly in the G4 guidance. efforts, as well as promoting awareness and gradually Engaging with Priority focused on mapping these issues to the GRI G4 Sustainability Completeness is demonstrated in the fact that all material External Stakeholders institutionalizing policies and processes relating to human rights issues and social and environmental risk assessment. Reporting Guidelines. The entire materiality process is issues identified in 2014 fall under the five CSR pillars which Stakeholder engagement panel included customers, suppliers, Product portfolio, indirect economic impacts, reaching out to depicted in Figure 4 and leads to the materiality matrix constitute the roadmap of Bank Audi’s CSR strategy and are competitors, governmental regulator, disadvantaged youth and a wider range of NGOs as part of (Figure 5), further mapping to the five pillars that will serve comprehensive in scope and coverage. Our 2014 Report NGOs and CSR experts, and employees the community responsibility, building further awareness in relation to CSR, extending awareness across the supply chain as reporting basis for 2014. These were in turn shared with also meets the main quality reporting principles identified including to customers and suppliers, enhancing market the Bank’s Executive Committee and Senior Management, through the G4 guidance pertaining to the sustainability presence and environmental protection. including heads of Credit and Commercial Banking, Risk context, accuracy, timeliness, comparability, reliability Management, and Communications and Human Resources, and clarity. and validated against scope, aspect boundaries and time. Prioritization Materiality Matrix Identiﬁcation of Bank With the active involvement of Mr. Marc Audi, General Given that the materiality process was restricted to the and Validation Audi’s material pillars Manager for Lebanon, the CSR Committee confirmed that Lebanon group level, these material aspects are relevant Analysis of feedback Identiﬁcation of Bank Mapping to GRI G4 Audi’s material aspects the material issues identified will serve as the basis for the for all Lebanese entities and the scope of the Report and Guidelines and boundaries Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) for aspect boundaries are primarily focused on Bank Audi Group Bank Audi in 2014. Lebanon (Bank Audi sal and its Lebanon-based subsidiaries). 10 11 Figure 5: Materiality Matrix and Main Issues of Priority Concern for 2014 Creating Value through Partnerships • Intensive communication: we communicate regularly with our partners through different open and transparent channels/means. HIGH In 2014, we continued to embrace our work within a • Alignment of cooperation working capability: we External human development collaborative mode of engagement. We believe in the power share knowledge across the boundaries of our organizations Product portfolio Indirect economic impacts of partnerships and that we achieve greater outcomes by to ensure convergence in learning skills and speed. Anti-corruption Economic perfomance joining hands and leveraging our complementary strengths • Converging working cultures: we jointly develop a set of Local community support Procurement practices and learning experiences. This is anchored in our philosophy working practices and procedures to level out differences in of Collaborative Value Creation (CVC). In fact, partnerships the working style/culture. Ethical conduct Employment practices allow us to continue to focus on what we do best, while • Resource dependency: we recognize that what we Impact investment Emissions leveraging the complementary strengths of a range of actors achieve together could not be achieved working alone. Diversity and equal opportunity Local community development to maximize our reach and social impact. Accordingly, we • Monitoring and evaluation: we work closely with have continued to nurture and closely collaborate in 2014 our partners to monitor progress and to achieve our Training, education and talent development with a range of trusted partners including leading noncommon goals. Water Energy consumption Market presence profits, foundations, associations, academic institutions, Compliance social incubators, and various social initiatives in the country, Beyond our local partnerships, we are also keen on engaging Importance to Stakeholders Non-discrimination which has allowed us to maximize our reach and social with associations at the national, regional, and international impact. In other words, these partnering arrangements are levels. Indeed, we view these memberships as strategic since MEDIUM Efﬂuents and waste Materials Risk assessment and management key in helping us achieve the spill-over effect that we are they help promote cooperation and exchange ideas on key keen to promote through our various CSR initiatives. banking issues (Table 3). More specifically, these partnerships Supplier environmental assessment reflect our aspiration to be fully integrated in the various markets Anti-competitive behaviour in which we operate by offering our bank an opportunity to Corporate Governance Figure 7: Bank Audi's Spill-over Effect keep up with the latest trends, knowledge and techniques in Child labour the business. We regularly participate and attend seminars and Economic Development gatherings organized by these associations, which help us stay NGOs tuned to the latest innovations and address relevant challenges Public policy Community Community Development Media and concerns, hence contributing to the improvement of the banking sector as a whole. Our partnering strategy has Human Supplier assesment for impacts on society Development Clients particularly allowed us to stay abreast of latest innovations in the field, and to enhance our own understanding and Environmental LOW MEDIUM HIGH Protection Suppliers practice of core banking areas such as governance, control, Signiﬁcance to Bank Audi risk management, and others. Bank Audi's Spill-over Regulators Effect Our Updated CSR Strategy for 2014 and as will be fleshed out with greater detail in the sections that follow. Taken together, these represent a consolidation ABL Shareholders of our most significant impacts and our stakeholders’ key In light of the diligent materiality exercise described above, the concerns and expectations. They provide the core of Bank Table 3: Examples of Bank Audi's Membership in Industry Associations core CSR Strategy for Bank Audi for 2014 is a refined version Audi’s CSR strategy for 2014, which is closely tied to its core Employees of our 2013 strategy, revolving around our five core pillars, competence as a premier banking institution, and intimately Public and Management Association des Banques du Liban (ABL) namely Corporate Governance, Economic Development, aligned with its specific context. They also provide a platform authorities Positions held : Human Development, Community Development, and for sustaining our leadership in CSR, within the scope of a Competitors 1.Board of Directors: Dr. Freddie Baz (secretary) Environmental Protection. This year, we have refined through delimited set of core material areas of intervention. The rest our assiduous materiality process the core material issues that 2. Committee for Compliance and Fighting Money Laundering: of the Report will disclose in more detail our activities under fall under each of these five pillars, as illustrated in Figure 6 these five pillars and the material aspects identified. chaired by Chahdan Jebeyli, Esq. MAIN STAKEHOLDERS 3. Legal Committee: chaired by Dr. Georges Achi 4. Research Studies Committee: Dr. Marwan Barakat (rapporteur) Figure 6: Bank Audi CSR Pillars and Corresponding Material Aspects for 2014 5. Investment Banks and Capital Markets Committee 6. Committee for Organization, Standardization and Information Technology Corporate Economic Community Human Environmental Ingredients to Bank Audi’s Successful Partnerships 7. Communication Committee Governance Development Development Development Protection 8. Corporate Governance Committee We realize that success in partnering and scaling social impact 9. Human Resources and Social Committee is not a mere coincidence, but rather built around basic 10. Banking Terms and Conditions Committee principles and strong commitment on both sides. Here are 11. Islamic Banking Committee some of the basic principles guiding our partnership work: 12. Risk Committee • Careful partner selection: we are careful in selecting partners who are credible and neutral in terms of stance and affiliation. Ethical conduct Product portfolio Local community development Employment practices Emissions • Common goal symmetry: our partner goals are aligned Compliance Economic performance Local community support Diversity and equal opportunity Efﬂuents and waste with our overall CSR strategy, mission and objectives. Anti-corruption Indirect economic impacts Training, education and Energy consumption • Commitment symmetry: we are equally committed Risk management Procurement practices talent development in terms of time and resources, albeit different types of Non-discrimination Market presence External human development resources are invested at times. 12 13 Figure 8: CSR at a Glance at End 2014 CORPORATE CORPORATE ECONOMIC ECONOMIC COMMUNITY COMMUNITY HUMAN HUMAN ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCEDEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT PROTECTION PROTECTION 1.8% 1.8% 95% 95% USD 4.7USD 4.7 85% 85% 52 52 Environmental and Environmental Social and Social Management System Management (ESMS) System (ESMS) million million million million Further mainstreaming Further mainstreaming Human Human of the GDP of Lebanon of the GDP of Lebanon customer satisfaction total contributions customer satisfaction our community totaltocontributions to our community of successfully of successfully employees trained trained employees in environmental loans in environmental loans Rights Rights Collaborative Value (CVC) Collaborative (CVC) Creation Value Creation 2,989 2,989 employees employees USD 35USD 35 million million 500,000500,000USD 2.USD on health on health 4 2.4million “Grow Green”“Grow Improving paper million initiative Improving Green” initiative by recycling by recyclingpaper Further engaging Further stakeholders engaging stakeholders in taxes in taxes USD 535,000 USD 535,000 100% 100% in employee training in employee training Complying withComplying local and with local and 72 products 72 products 2.5 2.5 USD 8.6USD 8.6 international standards international and best standards and best million million practices practices in economic sponsorships in economic sponsorships on humanitarianon andhumanitarian social and social USD 15 USD 15 Drop of Drop of 1.47 1.47 million million Aligning with Sustainable Aligning with Sustainable 73 73 5% 5% Development Goals (SDG) as Goals (SDG) as Development services services educational programs programs in educational in proposed by UNproposed by UN million million million million on culture on culture 90,00090,000 328,947 328,947 in indirect economic in indirect impact economic impact 204 204 ISO 26000 ISO 26000 ATMs ATMs in GHG emissionin GHG emission beneﬁciaries beneﬁciaries Contributing toContributing economic growth to economic growth on sports on sports Spreading our environmental Spreading our environmental and revitalisation and revitalisation 73 73 1 1 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact operating branches operating branches community awareness awareness in the in the community Training and development Training and development Creating new jobs Creating and employment new jobs and employment million million Global Reporting Global Initiative Reporting (GRI) Initiative (GRI) Organizational Organizational Stakeholder (OS)Stakeholderopportunities (OS) opportunities beneﬁciaries beneﬁciaries Performance appraisal Further mainstreaming Performance appraisal paperless Further mainstreaming paperless banking banking Transparency Transparency Enabling small Enabling businessessmall to thrive businesses to thrive Volunteer Program: Volunteer Program: Talent management Talent management Human Capital Human Capital Online bankingOnline banking 829 829 Allowing local Allowing economieslocal to prosper economies to prosper Heritage Heritage Diversity and equal Diversity opportunity and equal opportunity Quality Quality Developing ﬁnancial literacy Developing ﬁnancial literacy beneﬁciaries beneﬁciaries carbon footprint Recognition of Recognition of carbon footprint Educational aidEducational in community measuring aid in community measuring Civic Role Civic Role 150 150 Enhancing responsible Enhancing lending responsible lending Innovation Innovation Accountability Accountability Spreading CSR Spreading awarenessCSR awareness Increasing digitalization Increasing digitalization volunteers volunteers Commitment Commitment Safest Bank in Lebanon Safest Bank in Lebanon (Global Finance 2014) (Global Finance 2014) 14 15 16 17 Corporate Governance Continuous Institutionalization In 2014 Our Corporate Governance practices and policies are at the environmental and social (E&S) risks, and ensures that heart of our business model and provide the accountability they are aware of those risks, if any, and are taking active and transparency we consistently aspire to uphold across various facets of our operations. In 2014, we maintained measures to reduce them. of CSR: CSR Policy, Code of Ethics 84 9-hour ESMS training employees attended a our commitment to a strong Corporate Governance In March 2014, the Group Executive Committee appointed and Conduct, International Standards 756 foundation, with rigorous checks and balances that we have a Group ESMS Officer who is responsible for the total number of and Frameworks put in place to develop a resilient and well institutionalized administration and oversight of the Group ESMS, including training hours on compliance culture, as well as a full set of mechanisms for the implementation of a formal E&S risk review process. ESMS control and risk management which we realize are crucial The Group ESMS Officer is responsible for ensuring that to keep the trust of our internal and external stakeholders. E&S risks identified within our Corporate and Commercial In 2014, we have also continued to refine our governance Banking activities are managed appropriately. The Group practices pertaining to CSR. Our CSR Committee is 117 ESMS Officer is supported by a Group ESMS Office and now part of the formalized standing committees of The Board in-country ESMS officers, responsible for coordination and the Bank. Our CSR policy, ratified by the Executive Committee of the Bank in 2012 and updated in 2014, total hours of coverage of Human Rights topics during the induction session management of the ESMS. Bank Audi’s Board of Directors plays an active and engaged provides a roadmap across various aspects of our CSR attended by 234 newly hired employees role in keeping abreast of key developments and ensuring Our ESMS provides a substantive framework for integrating involvement. We have also continued our adherence to sound governance. Our detailed Corporate Governance an analysis of potential environmental and social risks, and ISO 26000 guidance, as well as to the principles of the structure and guidelines are accessible on the Bank’s website impacts into decision-making involving Corporate and UN Global Compact. We are inspired by GRI standards for at www.bankaudigroup.com Commercial Banking transactions. The E&S risk review sustainability reporting which provides further clarity in Human Rights internal working group, including 14 employees, process is based on the standards of the International relation to our governance orientations and the important attended an 8-hour Train-The-Trainer workshop on human rights 112 Finance Corporation (IFC). Our ESMS defines certain refinements we need to introduce. Furthermore, in 2014, Environmental and Social total number of industries which we would decline to finance on the we also signed up to the GRI’s Organizational Stakeholders training hours basis of E&S impacts, and helps determine the scope of (OS) which are at the heart of the GRI’s global network. Management System (ESMS) review required for any given transaction by taking into consideration the client’s industry, as well as the transaction OS are GRI’s core supporters and their mission is aligned with that of the GRI. The OS program connects more In an effort to ensure that responsible financing has become size and use of funds. During the course of the E&S risk than 650 organizations from over 60 countries, committed 985 an integral part of our decision-making process, Bank Audi reviews, banking teams, supported by the Group ESMS to advancing sustainability reporting. These frameworks total number of training hours on introduced an Environmental and Social Management Office, may engage with clients and work with them to provide consistent guidance for us as we revise and bolster Human Rights, to the benefit of 332 System (ESMS) in 2014. This system evaluates the Bank’s help identify and implement measures to address these our activities and orientations in relation to our CSR strategy internal stakeholders corporate and commercial borrowing clients against their potential risks and impacts. and five CSR pillars every year. 18 19 2014 also witnessed the update of our long standing Code of Ethics and Conduct (Appendix 1) which provides the main roadmap for the ethical standards we seek to Moreover, our updated Code of Ethics and Conduct clearly upholds the principle of non-discrimination and maintaining a violence and harassment-free workplace. Special Feature Story uphold and makes explicit reference to human rights. A Top Management training and a long-term working group were We have also significantly increased our communication Further Mainstreaming Human Rights at Bank Audi initiated, which will be responsible for identifying initiatives, and training on anti-corruption policies this year, whereby monitoring practices, and making suggestions for further communication has reached different levels of Management mainstreaming this important principle across different and governance bodies, while 62% of our employees and facets of our operations. On a parallel note, we introduced Middle and Senior Management have been trained on our various initiatives aiming at promoting awareness and anti-corruption policies. We are very proud not to have engagement with human rights issues. any significant laws or regulation breaches, or any fines imposed on our activities. In 2014, Bank Audi made another concrete step forward Article 4.1.: Violence and Harassment-free Workplace to enhance human rights and make it an explicit part Table 4: Total Number and Percentage of Employees who Received Training on Anti-corruption by Category in the Reporting Year of its long-standing Code of Ethics and Conduct. While The Bank does not tolerate any type of conduct that respect for human rights is implicit in every aspect of threatens the safety and well-being of any individual. the Bank’s culture, we were keen, in 2014, to send a It is your responsibility to ensure that your conduct and Anti-corruption Total Employees Percentage strong, unequivocal signal in relation to the importance behaviour are in line with this policy. Training Eligible for Training of this established ethics principle, particularly in terms of ensuring a harassment and violence-free, Article 4.2.: Discrimination-free Workplace Employees 1205 2434 49% non-discriminatory working environment, and expressing Middle Management 214 474 45% our support for internationally recognized principles The Bank champions an inclusive culture that prohibits Senior Management 31 81 38% pertaining to human rights as embodied in the Universal all forms of discrimination based on gender, age, Declaration of Human Rights. Below are a few excerpts marital status, pregnancy status, race, citizenship, Total employees 1450 2989 48% of our updated Code of Ethics and Conduct: religion, union affiliation, belief or disability. Harassment-free Environment Article 10.2.: Human Rights Corporate Governance Highlights for 2014 Bolstering our Institutional CSR Infrastructure Having a high regard for dignity, Bank Audi maintains The Bank endorses and supports internationally Introducing the new Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) grounded in the IFC framework and standards. Adhering to the guidance provided in international frameworks including ISO 26000, UN Global Compact, and GRI. a work environment characterized by mutual respect recognized principles under the Universal Declaration Further mainstreaming human rights, non-discrimination and anti-corruption in the Bank’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. and, as such, has zero tolerance for all forms of violence, of Human Rights which promotes global respect for Introducing trainings and long-term working groups to translate our commitments to human rights and anti-corruption into a practical reality across harassment, discrimination and intimidation. At Bank human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, our operations. Audi, you are expected to behave in a courteous and without distinction of race, colour, gender, language, respectful manner with one another. religion, opinion, descent, or national or ethnic origin. Through the stewardship of our Board, the various committees we have put in place and the supporting policies and processes we continue to update and reinforce every year, we are confident to deliver the highest levels of quality and accountability to clients, shareholders and stakeholders at large. In this respect, we are proud that the measures we have taken in relation to bolstering our Corporate Governance foundation pillar have earned us recognition as the Safest Bank in Lebanon in 2014. This recognition reflects our undisputed commitment to act with utmost integrity and continue to apply best practice governance practices which earn us the respect, trust, confidence and admiration of our internal and external stakeholders. Bank Audi sal named Safest Bank in Lebanon for 2014 by Global Finance Magazine Global Finance’s rankings have been the recognized and trusted standard of financial counterparty safety for more than 20 years, and for the first time since inception, they have been expanded to include the safest banks by country. Winners are selected through an evaluation of long-term credit ratings – from Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch – and total assets of the 1000 largest banks worldwide. 20 21 22 23 Economic Development Being one of the largest banks in Lebanon, we recognize in Lebanon, with innovative start-ups or environmentally participation in the initiative launched by the Central Bank our responsibility as a leading banker to businesses and efficient initiatives in energy intensive sectors (e.g. industry, Bader 2014 Top Three Finalists of Lebanon under Circular 331, whereby Bank Audi is the organizations of all sizes on the Lebanese market. We are agriculture, tourism, crafts and technology). 437 SMEs were 1st Prize Energy24 largest provider of capital (USD 75 million) to be invested also aware that we have major direct and indirect impacts supported through these loans which have low interest rates, Introduced a new technology in Lebanon: ENERGY STORAGE in financing various entrepreneurs for the establishment of on the Lebanese economy, whether through creating new with our loans reaching a total value of USD 50,843,000 in TECHNOLOGY (ESS) allowing the storage of large amounts of electric innovative and promising businesses allowing at the same jobs and employment opportunities, or enabling small 2014. The Bank’s Sanad loans were also contracted by 149 energy into a new type of battery to power residential, commercial or time to retain inward competencies and enhance economic businesses to thrive and helping our local economy to SME beneficiaries, with a total value of USD 18,094,123. industrial loads during long power outages. By storing the electricity and social growth in Lebanon. prosper. In 2014, we strengthened various aspects of our Founded in August 2011, the Sanad Fund for MSME (Sanad) produced by EDL (Electricité du Liban) instead of burning diesel, it is economic involvement and the manifold spill-overs we have provides medium and long-term debt and equity financing possible to save up to 75% of electricity while avoiding generators’ on different stakeholders. Whether through sustaining our to commercial banks, microfinance institutions (MFIs) and pollution and unstable power supply. Energy24 also offers a number of peripheral products to include solar photovoltaic systems, wind Digitalization financial growth and our status as a premier employer other financial institutions in the Middle East and North energy systems and other energy saving solutions which allow the of talent in Lebanon and contributor to the Lebanese Africa (MENA), with the intent of strengthening the micro, customer to minimize his energy bill. Today, a bank is no longer a physical place where people economy through GDP and taxes, or through the various small and medium-sized enterprises (MSME) sector, as well go to manage their finances. With the rapid advances in targeted programs we continue to support and nurture, as local financial markets. 2nd Prize Kitchen Confidential technology and customization of new digital innovations, our economic spill-overs are wide ranging and impactful, Inspired by the latest research and discoveries in the nutrition people can now perform their banking transactions around as detailed below. field, Kitchen Confidential is a gourmet catering company that is the clock, wherever they are. This means that individuals transforming fast food, pastries and desserts into their healthy but tasty version. The end products are made with the finest organic and can manage their basic banking transactions without Economic Performance natural ingredients, and are free of gluten, refined sugar, GMOs, assistance. With this in mind, Bank Audi continued to trans-fat, aspartame, additives, preservatives, antibiotics, taste innovate with products and services that are in line with the enhancers (MSG, etc.), soy and oat. The products can be customizable latest trends in technology, thereby curtailing unnecessary In 2014, assets for Lebanon Group increased by to meet the needs of clients with intolerances to specific ingredients processes and working in simpler and more efficient ways. USD 1.5 billion, from USD 23 billion at end-December 2013 such as dairy products, eggs, egg white, nuts, beef, etc. We have implemented several services and taken several to USD 24.5 billion at end-December 2014 and reached measures which improve our routine work and replaced 3rd Prize Ki USD 29.4 billion when accounting for fiduciary deposits, A revolutionary solution that eliminates the need for usernames conventional servicing methods with simpler solutions and assets under management. By end-December 2014, and passwords. This USB device will securely log you into all of your including e-banking, mobile banking and Tap2Pay. These we were able to secure USD 689.6 million in total operating Figure 9: Bank Audi solutions are convenient, easily accessible and user friendly, Supporting accounts. With Ki, one no longer has to remember usernames and income, with total operating expenses at USD 372.6 passwords. By creating this product and its technology, and making it and are offered at very affordable costs. “Grow My Business” million and total shareholder’s equity and subordinated an “out of the box” readily available to all, a convenient, comforting, debt at USD 3.646 billion. This reflects a total number of fast, efficient and secure automated user identification and login Figure 10: Bank Audi’s Digital Platforms transactions of 47,225,446, a total of 72 products, and a We renewed our support to the “Grow My Business” experience will be within reach. total of 73 services. competition, launched in collaboration with the Beirut e-Banking Traders Association and the MIT Enterprise Forum for the Bank Audi continued its support to the Bader Young Pan Arab region. This was our fourth year of involvement Audi Online is a secure, free, fast and ﬂexible online tool to help We also comply with national and international regulatory Entrepreneurs Program. Bader is a promising initiative customers keep track of their ﬁnances 24 hours a day. Through this and tax policies. For example, we paid USD 20 million in in this initiative intended to help Lebanese SMEs to grow extending a helping hand to budding entrepreneurs across platform, customers can: income taxes on the Bank’s profits for 2014 and withheld to the next level. The “Grow My Business” 2014 winner, the Lebanese scene. In 2014, Bader hosted over 1,000 Make highly secure internal, local and international money transfers USD 13 million in personal income taxes from employees’ selected from a total of 51 participating entrepreneurs, Monitor their accounts, loans and cards’ activity anytime, anywhere potential entrepreneurs by organizing over 40 sessions, talks Pay their credit card bills easily in real time salaries and forwarded to the Ministry of Finance in 2014. was Kitchen Confidential, an innovative catering company and workshops addressing topics ranging from funding for Personalize their accounts We generate employment for 2,989 employees and which offers healthy, bio organic, gluten-free recipes to a start-ups, to introduction to new payment system Bitcoin. contribute to the broader economy through payment growing base of Lebanese consumers who value healthy It is worth mentioning that 2014 was an important year of taxes in excess of USD 16 million each year. Between food and healthy lifestyles. At the “Grow My Business” for Bader who hosted the “TechCrunch Meet Up Beirut” Mobile Banking employee salaries (roughly USD 90 million) and social 2014 closing event, Mr. Marc Audi, General Manager for event where 11 start-ups pitched and got a chance to travel security contributions (roughly USD 14 million), our total Lebanon, reiterated Bank Audi’s commitment to SMEs, the and participate in the New York version of the event. Bader Audimobile gives customers easy and free access to their accounts contributions amounted to 1.80% of Lebanon’s GDP in 2014. major engine of the Lebanese economy, and to investing in also launched its second round of the Startup Cup, its anytime, anywhere from their mobile phone. It allows customers to young talents who are “living proof that competence is the business model competition. More than 100 applications check their account balance, get mini statements, and make instant money transfers. On a parallel note, we stimulate entrepreneurship and job key to success and who give true meaning to the Bank’s were received, among which the top 15 were admitted to creation through various tailored initiatives. Many of our motto “Grow Beyond Your Potential”.” He added that a unique 6-month mentorship program. The Startup Cup indirect economic programs specifically target small and “the Bank’s involvement in such initiatives is an additional offers advisory and coaching services to entrepreneurs and medium enterprises (SMEs) which constitute a key player in proof of its dedication to make every necessary effort for helps them overcome obstacles as they seek to develop Tap2Pay the local economic ecosystem and a backbone of economic the development of Lebanese SMEs, which are a ray of scalable business models. At the end of the competition, health and prosperity in Lebanon. In this context, we sunshine for the national economy, and a key factor in its the top 3 start-ups were offered over USD 66,000 worth of A new fast and innovative payment method that allows consumers to have continued to offer Kafalat loans to SMEs operating development journey.1” securely process transactions simply by tapping their card, smart cash and in-kind prizes. phone or tag, or by waving their watch or bracelet against a contactless reader instead of swiping or inserting their plastic card in 1 Bank Audi Press Releases (2014). The Beirut Traders Association Announces the Winner of the Grow My Business Competition – 2014 Edition, in Collaboration with the Bank Audi is also contributing to the reshape of the a traditional point of sale (POS) machine. MIT Enterprise Forum – Pan Arab Region and in Partnership with Bank Audi . start-up landscape in Lebanon with a very important 24 25 Accessibility and Convenience economic activity. While the “Loubnani” card represented 6.31% of the total card portfolio in 2014, current figures Statistical Highlight “Loubnani” Card show that we have 27,184 cards in circulation and a total 6.31% Eager to facilitate the daily life of our customers and spending volume of USD 218,093,754 since its inception. Lebanese citizens at large, Bank Audi, in collaboration with of the total card portfolio the Ministry of Telecommunications in Lebanon, took the Similarly, various infrastructure investments inside and first steps towards implementing a new e-Government and USD 218 outside the Bank saw the light in 2014, with a view e-Payment system in Lebanon, a first-of-its-kind service that to improving services and positively impact the local facilitates the settlement of bills on-line, including public service monthly payments. Through this service, landline communities in which we operate. million total amount spent phone and Internet subscribers in Lebanon can settle their Figure 11: Bank Audi’s 27,184 monthly local and international bills remotely through Branch-less the Internet, simply by using their credit and debit cards and Conveniently (MasterCard and Visa) issued by local and international of the total card portfolio Located ATMs banks in Lebanon or abroad. The new e-Payment system has been operational since June 2014 and constitutes a first Table 5: Bank Audi's Indirect Economic Impact important step towards implementing e-Government and e-Payment systems at the public administration level, thus simplifying life for everyone, including the disadvantaged Microfinance Project Description Cost Investment and rural segments of the population. Rabieh garden The purpose of the project is to conduct landscaping USD 88,000 Pro-bono In 2014, we continued to support entrepreneurs and small works in an abandoned 280m2 public land in order to The above is part of a broader objective to make our products businesses in the most remote and disadvantaged areas ameliorate its existing condition. The project included and services accessible and convenient to all customers through microfinance loans, working in close collaboration building natural stone walls, laying plantation soil, through enhanced services including ATMs, ITMs and Novo with various NGOs and non-profits that share our goals. and planting multiple trees and shrubs. branches which are all easily accessible to our clients. We Hence we sustained our support to the Association for the Kfour Data Centre Construction of a new data recovery centre. USD 7,836,428 Commercial were indeed the first bank to launch the Novo interactive Development of Rural Capacities (ADR) by contributing branches, a new evolution in the field of electronic banking, to its programs of microfinance loans extended to the Dar Assayad Training Centre Internal fit-out works of a leased building to host an USD 609,342 Commercial underprivileged at significantly reduced interest rates. ADR is HR Training Centre. featuring online video conferencing with banking advisors. Novo’s main features and competitive edge are enhanced a Lebanese non-profit organization established in 1998 with Across locations Construction, expansion and renovation works of USD 6,490,304 Commercial by extended banking hours which give customers the a mission to empower and integrate marginalized people various branches to accommodate more employees opportunity of processing their operations swiftly and through sustainable economic and social development by and better serve customers. conveniently. Besides, with the advent of digital technology, facilitating access to financial training, tools and services, and by supporting income-generating projects. Beneficiaries we are looking to implement 24/7 self-service areas in all are fishermen, farmers, small entrepreneurs, women and our newly opened branches, in addition to remodelling the youth from the most impoverished areas in Lebanon. In our existing branches in such a way as to accommodate for self-service and e-sections, which will ultimately reduce waiting time at counters and unnecessary delays. 2014, our contribution had a very visible impact, affecting the lives of over 327 beneficiaries. Customer Satisfaction and Loyalty Table 6: Surveys Conducted to Measure Customer Satisfaction as per our Quality Program Specifications We likewise extended our support to Association Maak Customer satisfaction is one of our top priorities and we With a view to better serving our customers and catering to Surveying Tool Customers Percentage (NGO), which benefitted 22 families by microfinancing extend considerable efforts to measure it in multiple ways. Surveyed Satisfaction their every need, we have also adapted some of our facilities across various economic sectors including farming, cattle Today, we are glad to acknowledge that around 95% of and servicing methods to disadvantaged or handicapped and agriculture, tailoring, snacks, beauty services, and even our customers are satisfied with our products and services. Phone survey (on daily basis to 39,806 95% satisfied people. Accordingly, our Branch Network Management is scholarships (school and university), which went hand in Table 8 summarizes key findings from these surveys. We assess customer satisfaction) in the process of adding ramps to branches and ATMs. In hand with extending moral, technical and spiritual support 2014, 55 branches – representing 75% of our total number have also taken active steps in 2014 to show our gratitude In-branch survey (on daily basis 105,016 83% satisfied to the various beneficiary households. of branches – and 82% of our ATM machines became to loyal customers, among which the offering of a token of via “Happy or Not” tool) (“happy”) accessible to the disabled. appreciation in gratitude of their 25 years of loyalty. Indirect Economic Impacts On a parallel note, we have been adding ATMs in various locations in such a way as to accommodate for customer In 2014, we continued to have manifold indirect impacts, As an additional gauge of satisfaction, Bank Audi recently introduced “Happy or Not” devices in its various branches. Supply Chain needs in different geographical areas. In this context, 6 new With a simple push of a button, the customer can express whether through our unique products or through issuing all Our supply chain encompasses three important players, ATMs were added in rural areas during 2014, and 37 (or the his/her level of satisfaction regarding the quality of our our employee salaries in Lebanese Lira. In fact, we sustained namely our customers, our suppliers, and multilateral equivalent of 18%) out of a total of 204 ATMs are currently service. Besides helping the Bank improve service levels, institutions. Our customers are the main drivers of our located in rural areas. These ATMs are not part of any the “Let the Lira Have its Say” campaign, associated with customer satisfaction and customer loyalty, these devices organization and we constantly strive to give them the specific branch, but are found within building compounds, the “Loubnani” credit card launched in 2010. The card is also encourage and motivate branch employees to reach highest priority with respect to our services and banking restaurant areas, malls and other populated venues. In targeted to the middle income social group and intended their objectives and improve performance levels. transactions. addition, 15% of Bank Audi branches (11 branches out of to promote the Lebanese Lira (Lebanon’s local currency), 73) are located in remote areas. while highlighting the importance of the Lira in boosting 26 27 Financial and Economic Literacy Our suppliers are another important driver of our supply chain. They include: contractors, printing services, facilities suppliers, service suppliers, caterers and hospitality suppliers, academics, consultants, legal service providers, website In 2014, we pursued our efforts with respect to the financial developers, news agencies, marketing and advertising literacy of customers, individuals and organizations within our Special Feature Story experts. In the case of suppliers, our procurement procedure community. Our financial literacy programs extend across our explicitly outlines the rules and regulations that govern CSR pillars. Within the Economic Development pillar, we make the purchasing process, whereby all purchased goods sure to produce user-friendly and informative brochures on and services should be acquired in a fair, transparent, all our products and services, and to make them available on competitive, timely and efficient manner. The policy also our website and in our branches. These brochures include all favours ethical and eco-friendly suppliers who, through their necessary details about our specific products and services. On business practices, recognize and abide by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, fight corruption and generally a similar note, we continued to promote our “Clear All the Way” campaign, a transparency-oriented initiative launched in Taking Transparency to the Next Level aspire to adopt the ISO 26000 Social Responsibility Standard 2012 and intended to provide a full array of useful information guidelines as part of their business strategy. Relationships to our customers in relation to a multitude of products and with suppliers are managed by our expense managers and banking services across different industries. The campaign procurement channels, with various suppliers provided equal presents an opportunity to improve the sophistication of our opportunity to present quotations for provision of goods, customer base, as well as its ability to use the right products services and assets necessary for the Bank’s operation and and services and mitigate critical financial risks. Such is the aim satisfactory to our internal requestors’ specifications. Those of our “Transparency Banking Tips” campaign which alerts The Central Bank of Lebanon issued Circular 124 which In terms of cost, the Retail department re-printed all relationships are mainly defined by historical performance customers in relation to key or critical issues they need to be requests that banks use the Annual Percentage Rate their marketing material related to loans (brochures, and products/services quality which play a main role in the aware of when dealing with banks, and which was produced (APR) when promoting a lending product. The APR is teller sheets and loan applications) in order to include selection of quotations throughout the year. In the process, in Arabic to cater to the needs of local citizens. the annual rate applied on a loan for the whole life the notion of APR. Management is consulted and relevant approvals back up cycle period including some fees and excluding others. the issuance and communication of purchase orders to winning suppliers/bidders. The process ends with the delivery Financial and Economic Awareness A responsible approach was adopted towards this issue The Bank has been promoting and adopting a full “transparency” strategy since 2012 through a of procured products/services to requesters. The estimated monetary value of payments made to suppliers is over Building awareness on financial and economic issues was considering that the main stakeholders involved in mass media campaign entitled “Clear All the Way” USD 128 million, purchases from local suppliers accounting still on the agenda in 2014 through taking part in and/or this project are customers. Bank Audi invested a lot of which focused on the Bank’s full transparency when for 90% of our total procurement budget. sponsoring core banking conferences in the country, as well time to make sure that the notion of APR is assimilated dealing with customers. The campaign also included as various banking and youth empowerment associations. by all branches. Training sessions were completed in an educational part whereby pointers were given to Last but not least, we engage with several multilateral An example of that is the sponsoring of Al Bank Wal January 2014, enhanced by a product brief distributed customers to help them make better banking choices. organizations and international financial institutions which Mustathmer’s conference entitled “Current Trends and to all attendees, and followed by a test on APR taken provide important guidance to the Bank and help us secure Future of the Banking System”; the Union of Arab Banks’ by all concerned employees. medium and long-term funding in support of small and 2014 Congress and Annual Risk Management Forum; the medium sized enterprises (SMEs) which form the backbone 2014 US Commercial Guide and World Fair Trade; ArabNet of the Lebanese economy. Agreements are in place with the Beirut; BIFEX; First Protocol’s Socio-Economic Awards; and European Investment Bank (Luxembourg), Agence Française the Lebanese International Finance Executives (LIFE). Over de Développement (France), SANAD Fund for MSME USD 260,000 were allocated in 2014 to support these (Luxembourg), Arab Trade Financing Program (UAE), and events and associations, all of which have positive spill-overs Overseas Private Investment Corporation (USA), allowing the on the Lebanese economy through advancing knowledge Bank to serve more than 100 SMEs for an aggregate amount and building a more robust financial sector. of over USD 200 million. Bank Audi’s Customer Care Initiative on Labour Day Responsible Lending The Bank launched a customer care initiative on Labour Day which consisted in randomly selecting and rewarding 73 low and middle-income customers One of the main roles our bank plays is putting our depositors’ on May 1st, 2014. Winners were selected from different branches across money to good use by lending it out to organizations and Bank Audi’s Lebanon network. The cost of this initiative was approximately individuals who need it to run businesses, buy homes or USD 11,500. Different units of the Retail department worked together to send their children to school. Lending capital is therefore a come up with the idea and pursue its implementation. We chose this gesture critical activity aiming at catalysing economic growth and to show our customers that we stand by them and care for them every day, prosperity. Because we are cognizant that the impact of our including on Labour Day! business on the economy, society and environment extends beyond our direct activities, we have taken active steps We believe that the responsible business initiatives we have in 2014 to pass on economic, social and environmental implemented in 2014 under the Economic Development responsibility to our customers, insisting that they behave pillar are an integral part of our CSR strategy and contribute responsibly and adhere to commonly accepted principles in various ways to sustain and revive the Lebanese economy. of sustainable business conduct. Because we pay particular Through our collaborative engagements, we work hand in attention to the environmental and social standards of hand with other organizations to support entrepreneurship clients and/or transactions that we finance, we have and innovation, ultimately connecting small businesses formally integrated the principle of responsible financing in with entrepreneurial support mechanisms, incubators our credit policies by developing an extensive environmental and accelerators (e.g. MIT Enterprise Forum, Bader Young and social risk screening process for Bank Audi Group. We Entrepreneurs Program, ADR, Maak), and providing them also endeavour to prevent credit facilities from being used with the physical, material and cognitive competencies in violation of internationally recognised standards in the needed to cultivate start-ups and businesses that help spur areas of human rights, environment and anti-corruption. job creation and economic growth. 28 29 30 31 Community Development Community Development continues to be a core pillar of our CSR strategy in 2014, comprising philanthropic investments In 2014, we also partnered with Yaduna Foundation in support of their Women Heart Health Center (WHHC) Humanitarian and Social Initiative Table 7: Summary on Rewards Program Outcomes since 2012 targeting the areas of health, humanitarian and social project. This was an opportunity for us to introduce 2012 2013 2014 support, culture, children development, as well as employee preventive measures for cardiovascular diseases to our In 2014, we sustained our active engagement in the support volunteerism and sports activities. During this reporting female employees. Yaduna is an NGO that seeks to of various worthy humanitarian and social initiatives. Number of subscribers 80,000 80,000 145,000 period, our total contributions to the community amounted empower underprivileged Lebanese and Arab women, and What follows is a glimpse of our humanitarian and social Points donated 399,000 395,000 1.2 million to USD 4.7 million, divided into the following areas: improve their living conditions by providing quality services, engagements during the past year: Value of points USD 20,000 USD 20,000 USD 59,000 USD 557,000 on health, USD 2.5 million on humanitarian raising awareness, and spreading best practices. Purchasing end-of-year and religious feast (Ramadan and Christmas) and social, and USD 1.47 million on culture. In addition to gifts from organizations such as Ahlouna, IRAP (Institut de Rééducation NGOs involved 12 12 18 these direct contributions, we have developed opportunities to connect our customers and employees with social issues, Community Health Audio-Phonétique), Sesobel and Message de Paix to support their respective missions pertaining to helping disabled children, helping handicapped people and recovering substance abusers find new stemming from our longstanding partnerships with various job opportunities, and enhancing sustainable educational and social organizations to enhance our reach and impact and help In what pertains to our philanthropic donations to services targeting women, youth, children, the elderly and disabled To complement the Kids Rewards Program, the “Kids community health, we maintained our support to the individuals. These gift purchases amounted to over USD 340,000. Rewards Club” was launched as part of our ongoing build stronger local communities. Children’s Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL) the regional Co-hosting a workshop with Skoun to raise awareness on parents’ efforts to reward the youngest generations. To that end, pioneering centre for the complete and free treatment of role in keeping their children away from addictive substances. the Bank organized a Christmas event at Grand Cinemas Health Committing to various local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in ABC Ashrafieh whereby all Kids Rewards Club members kids with cancer: affiliated with St. Jude Children’s Research that support disadvantaged people in Lebanon such as Dar Al Aytam were invited to attend the premiere of a cartoon movie. Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.; and to Heartbeat, Al Islamiyah, the Lebanese Welfare Association of the Handicapped, The children also enjoyed a surprise visit by the five Employee Health a humanitarian and charitable organization whose mission the Sidon Orphan Welfare Society, Sesobel, and the Lebanese Autism Society. Total contributions in this area amounted to around cartoon characters of the Kids Rewards Program: “Bibi is to treat children suffering from heart diseases through the USD 74,000. the Penguin”, “Fifi the Cat”, “Pico the Rhino”, “Gigi the We are aware that promoting employee health contributes belief that “Music Saves Lives”. To cover the expenses of Committing to various local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) Giraffe” and “Ely the Elephant” who played with the kids that support different social causes such as Himaya, an NGO with to a healthy business. Healthy employees are more the treatments, Heartbeat doctors and volunteers sharing the mission to promote a global protection of innocence in danger; and entertained them. productive and have less absenteeism rates due to illness. the same passion for music unite every year and perform Tamanna, an NGO which aims at granting the wishes of children with a unique fundraising concert. We are also committed critical illnesses; MySchoolPulse which brings school to hospitalized Consequently, at Bank Audi, we strive to maintain a healthy and supportive working environment. Along these lines, to the other partnerships we had initiated since 2012, children undergoing treatment for life-threatening illness; and in Children and Financial Literacy general, helping the mentally challenged, disabled and autistic. Total we continue to provide internal medical services to our such as our support to the Chronic Care Center, the contributions under this area amounted to over USD 80,000 We believe that financial understanding and education begin at employees through our infirmary located at Bank Audi medico-social institution specialized in the treatment and Committing to ensure road safety by supporting Roads for Life, the Talal the early stages of life. Young children aged five or six commonly Kassem Fund for Post-Accident Care. The organization gives emergency Plaza, and have encouraged our employees to undergo free follow-up of childhood chronic diseases like thalassemia physicians, nurses and Red Cross volunteers world-class training to help start asking questions about money and financial transactions. vaccination for common diseases such as the flu. and Type I diabetes. improve the chance of survival for road victims in the 60 minutes of the Hence our conviction that financial literacy starts at a young age crash, a critical period of time called the “Golden Period of Trauma”, where proper care can help save lives or reduce disability. and our renewed commitment to KidzMondo initiated in 2013. In 2014 Extending our support to various national foundations including the KidzMondo gives young children the opportunity to familiarise During 2014: May Chidiac Foundation which is devoted to research and education on themselves with banking basics in a motivational environment. Over media, press, democracy and social welfare issues, and the Samir Kassir It is a reproduction of a real city in downtown Beirut, where USD 557,000 485 employees joined hands to collect USD 54,000 covering the full Foundation which brings together journalists and intellectuals with a cost of treatment for one sick child. to support passion for reviving Arab culture and protecting freedom of expression. children play adult professional roles in preparation for the real We contributed to facilitate the treatment of 20 children with health-related causes world. Bank Audi’s replica branch in KidzMondo aims at teaching congenital heart problems, with an annual donation of USD 150,000. children about the importance of working, earning a living, We sponsored the gala dinners of various organizations among which Over and spending wisely. It also introduces children to the world of Children Development USD 1,470,000 the Chronic Care Center and Skoun, Lebanese Addiction Centre banking including cash outs, deposits, savings, and the use of (Skoun is the first walk-in outpatient therapeutic facility in Lebanon to support that offers prevention, awareness and psychological treatment, credit cards and ATMs. This is part of a broader sustainability cultural events goal for Bank Audi, pertaining to increasing financial literacy to drug users and society at large), for an amount exceeding The Kids Rewards Program was initiated in 2012 with USD 55,000. the hope of enlightening children on the importance of and extending across different pillars of our CSR strategy. This In addition to our support of the Lebanese Red Cross, we participated Over to support donations from an early age and allowing them to account year, KidzMondo was able to attract more than 300,000 young USD 2,500,000 in various health initiatives, such as those launched by Donner Sang various social and for their own contributions. In 2014, we extended our minds from across Lebanon. Compter and Hôpital Psychiatrique de la Croix. Our employees participated in a blood donation drive by channelling humanitarian issues Rewards Program to allow Bank Audi cardholders to donate 65 calls for blood donations to various colleagues and their families their points to support one of eighteen local humanitarian At Bank Audi, it is a yearly tradition to host students at our to 124 respondents. associations, under the umbrella of the “Donate your Points premises to enlighten them on the world of banking. This year, We also supported various hospitals in Lebanon including Hôtel-Dieu 10th graders from Collège Notre Dame des Soeurs Antonines for a Good Cause” initiative. Those associations include St. de France, Hôpital du Sacré-Coeur and St. Georges Hospital. Jude, the Lebanese Red Cross, SOS, Balsam, Sesobel, Zakat in Kfarchima visited Bank Audi Plaza where they attended Fund, Heartbeat, AFDC, Jouzour Loubnan, and Chance. The a presentation about banking and finance, and watched a result was a total donation of 1.2 million points (equivalent documentary about the achievements of Maxime Chaaya, to USD 59,000) by 1000 customers. the Bank’s Corporate Ambassador and Lebanon’s foremost sportsman and climber, who surprised the students with his visit and gave a motivational intervention entitled “There is an Everest for Everyone”. 32 33 Figure 12: Employee Volunteerism Figure 13: Be a Hero for a Day Volunteering Program Examples Bank Audi Kids Ayadina Rewards Club Events To better connect with our communities, we moved ahead Association CCL with the “Be a Hero for a Day” Volunteer Program initiated in 2013. The program raises employees’ awareness on important social issues and links their fieldwork to our current philanthropic partnerships with various NGOs. “Be a Hero for a Day” has grown by some 400% since its inception, namely as regards the increasing number of partner NGOs, the total volunteered hours, the number of volunteers, and the number of departments and branches involved in the program (Table 10). To further extend our impact, we have aligned our volunteer efforts with our philanthropic priorities, whereby our employees strived to make a significant contribution by volunteering their time and expertise, and helped in Storytelling Drawing and painting developing various communities across Lebanon. The NGOs Handicraft Inviting and assisting children at KidzMondo we have partnered with in 2014 include Ayadina Association Inviting and assisting children at KidzMondo Entertaining children and handcraft Cartoon drawing training Hostessing at a fundraising event (an organization based in Nabaa and catering to deprived Football classes IT support children), Assabil “Friends of Public Libraries”, the Children’s Virtual travel with the community children (cultural Financial training Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL), SOS Villages d’Enfants and traditional introduction to various countries) Data basing calls during live telethon campaign on TV (Home for Orphans), in addition to G (a non-governmental Assessing and advising for a community center Copywriting and translating services Assessing IT needs and computer donation Last but not least, we continue to link our business processes to organization specialized in green living) and Injaz (a non-profit community development efforts through our various business non-governmental educational organization dedicated to units by innovating a range of programs to support worthy educating the youth on work readiness, entrepreneurship and social causes. In 2014, for instance, our e-Payment Solutions financial literacy). and Card Services department participated in 15 events and raised over USD 318,000 of donations via our GPRS machines deployed at the events’ premises. Assabil SOS Table 8: Comparison of Employee Volunteerism between 2013 and 2014 Storytelling, handicraft and various activities Games and sports afternoons Inviting and assisting children at KidzMondo Inviting and assisting children at KidzMondo Virtual travel with the community children Treasure hunt at Horsh Beirut in collaboration 2013 2014 (cultural and traditional introduction to various countries) with the Red Cross Youth and Assabil Book collection and computer donation 5 NGO partners 6 NGO partners 23 volunteers 150 volunteers 120 hours 530 hours 284 beneficiaries 829 beneficiaries Estimated 10% departmental and branch involvement 90% of departmental involvement (4 departments and 1 corporate branch) and branch involvement Injaz G Training our volunteers Raising awareness on environmental protection Giving leadership and business workshops and recycling to intermediate students 34 35 Culture Special Feature Story Several key cultural initiatives were sponsored by Bank Audi in 2014, including the Baalbeck, Jezzine, Jounieh, Al Bustan, Bank Audi Employees Help Cover the Expenses of Byblos, Zouk Mikael, Batroun and Al Bustan festivals. On a similar note, we showed our support to Arabic theatre by Five Children’s Open Heart Surgeries sponsoring “Tariq El Chams”, a musical by famous director Romeo Lahoud. Culture was also on the agenda through our sponsoring of Figure 14: Bank Audi’s 500 colleagues and their family members Thanks to the support of Bank Audi and the community, the book fair organized by the Antelias Cultural Movement, Cultural Festivals ran in the 2014 BDL Beirut Marathon to support the the Brave Heart Fund will be able to cover the expenses and the Bank’s hosting of the annual “Prix Phoenix de la Sponsored by Brave Heart Fund, an NGO based at the AUBMC and of five children’s open-heart surgeries, ultimately Littérature” which was granted to writers Gilbert Achcar and Bank Audi dedicated to providing financial assistance to children saving five lives. Sorj Chalandon. Our total philanthropic contributions in the with congenital heart disease, by helping cover their realm of cultural development in Lebanon alone amounted to marathons and fitness challenges, and bringing our support medical and surgical expenses. “Each member of the Bank Audi team is a hero in the over USD 1.4 million in 2014 and reached more than 900,000 to Lebanese sports teams. Furthermore, 500 Bank Audi eyes of the children whose lives have been saved“ said beneficiaries. employees participated in the Beirut International Marathon in Every year, the Brave Heart Fund strives to underpin Mrs. Reem Khalifeh Chaarani, Senior Administrative support of the Brave Heart cause (see feature story at the end its mission that stipulates that “no child should die of Officer at the Brave Heart Fund. Sports of this section). heart disease because of a lack of funds”. After twelve successful years of participation in the Beirut Marathon, 4,200 runners wearing the red t-shirts and caps made In 2014, we developed our dedication to sports-related causes the Brave Heart Fund team by far the largest this year. because we believe in the importance of sports as part of our As illustrated in this section, our commitment to the communities And the greater the number of runners, the higher the employees’ and communities’ lives. About USD 100,000 was we serve is grounded in solid foundations and will continue number of children saved… therefore allocated to sponsoring sports activities including materializing our pledge to give back in multiple ways. Figure 15: A Spectrum of Community Development Initiatives Bank Audi’s Community Development Employee Children Development Volunteerism and Financial Literacy KidzMondo Humanitarian/Social Culture Festivals, exhibitions, art and music Human Rights Social aid Social causes Sports Health Marathons Employee health Corporate Games Community health 36 37 38 39 Human Development Being one of the largest private sector employers in Lebanon development and opportunities to our employees in order Table 9: Summary of Employee Training Hours The learning programs implemented aim at assisting and reflecting upon our unwavering commitment to to help them progress in their jobs and continue to be employees in upgrading their competence and abilities in human capital, diversity and equal opportunity, cultivating rewarded for their achievements. Hence our commitment Employee Training Hours Hours areas related to technical skills, as illustrated in Table 10. human talent is one of our top priorities at Bank Audi. to sustain a high-quality work environment where our Average training hours/Employee 29.73 With this in mind, we ventured in 2014 to further advance employees feel valued and rewarded, and motivated to human development, a priority for our bank, whether at deliver the level of service our customers and shareholders Average training hours/Male 25.12 the internal or external levels. Internally, we seek to put our expect and deserve. Average training hours/Female 35.24 people first and consider them as our most vital asset as we Average training hours/Frontline employee 27.04 extend considerable effort to be recognized as a progressive In this context, high priority was given, once again, to Average training hours/Middle Manager 44.89 and responsible employer. Accordingly, we endeavour employee development considering its significant role in to keep developing our human capital and investing in improving quality, retaining talent, and meeting external Average training hours/Senior Manager 22.05 our employees’ well-being and skill development within environmental pressures relating to competition and change a culture of continuous motivation and empowerment. in work design. Consequently, we maintained our support Externally, we are strong supporters of education and youth to the three-tiered approach to employee development, an development and strive to build a stronger human capital approach adopted in 2013 and founded on three inter-related Table 10: Employee Development Programs and Number of Employee Participants talent pool for a more prosperous and resilient society. priorities pertaining to training and development, continuous Employee assessment, and coaching and mentoring. participants Branch This program provides qualified employees with an equal opportunity to assume Internal Human Development In 2014, invested more than USD 2.4 million in employee Management first line supervisory positions. It is designed to identify, train and develop future 19 Development branch managers and assistant managers through a 1 to 3-year program exposing training and development. More than 88,977 training hours Training and Development were deployed in 2014, covering a bulk of 2,345 employees Program (BMP) them to an intensive and learning environment. almost equally split in terms of gender representation and Our people being our most important asset, our success targeting all levels of employment (Table 9). This is a 30-day executive program delivered over 12 months and focusing on as a bank is contingent on providing the right training, Advanced providing participants with tools to: Management Figure 17: Investing in Employee Training, A Continuing Top Priority Program (AMP) • Effectively lead and manage people • Embrace and drive change initiatives • Create and deliver customer value Figure 16: Investing In Employee Training A Continuing Top Priority • Gain the confidence to make decisions needed to succeed • Be exposed to different functional areas 20 2012 2013 2014 Relationship This program was conceived with the aim of introducing the new role of 43 Management “Relationship Manager” in branches and empowering retail employees to think Program (RMP) forward and achieve sales targets. 2,345 Branch This program is designed to prepare office aids/administrative employees for Management functional roles in branches, and entails a coverage of all employee categories from 2,080 Development administrative assistants to tellers. 37 Total employees trained Program (BMP) 1,956 These trainings have led to a ratio of successfully trained annual strategic plan drawing on our mission and vision: employees to total employees of around 80%. In 2014, we departmental needs based on meetings with line managers further developed our “Bank Audi Corporate Academy” and the recommendations provided by them, and individual portfolio of in-house training schemes aimed at nurturing competency-based training needs identified and compiled Total training hours skills and talent, and creating a culture of performance and throughout the annual performance management process. continuous improvement. Over USD 40,000 were invested Furthermore, a comprehensive assessment phase follows in the 2014 edition of the Corporate Academy. the training stage to adequately measure the results of any training program. For technical trainings, our Training and Training needs are assessed at multiple levels before Development department runs post-course tests to ensure training decisions are made. This assessment covers the knowledge transfer; and for soft skill trainings, feedback needs of the organization, the needs of the tasks involved, is collected through evaluation reports and continuous and individual level needs. Accordingly, in 2014, the plans follow-up. 80,000+ 79,000 89,000 for training activities and programs were based on our 40 41 Table 11: Employee Composition by Gender and Employee Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon Talent Management In 2014 >USD 700,000 % of Staff % of Middle Managers % of Top Managers To nurture a pipeline of future talent, we have sustained the Lebanon (Below Grade 17) (Grade 17 to (Grade 22 and above) Talent Assessment Center (TAC) we had launched in 2013. Grade 21 inclusively) The TAC is an advanced assessment method that seeks to in supporting the educational development of our select qualified candidates based on performance inputs employees (advanced university courses, specialized F M F M F M from multiple exercises and assessors. Last but not least, banking studies and certifications, and executive Bank Audi sal 39.8% 39.6% 8.6% 11.3% 0.0% 0.6% coaching and mentoring form an integral part of talent education) management at Bank Audi to help our employees grow Other Lebanese entities 31.5% 50.4% 3.9% 11.3% 0.0% 3.0% 59 and advance in their careers. Bank Audi employees benefiting 2014 also witnessed continued efforts to invest in our from various sponsorship grants Table 12: Employee Composition by Age Group and Employee Category in Bank Audi Group Lebanon employees’ higher education attainment. We invested over USD 700,000 in supporting the development of our employees, including advanced university courses, Diversity and Equal Opportunity Bank Audi Group Lebanon % of Staff (Below Grade 17) % of Middle Managers (Grade 17 to % of Top Managers (Grade 22 and above) specialized banking studies and certifications, and executive Grade 21 inclusively) education. We are very much aware that developing At Bank Audi, we view diversity as a prerequisite for employees will reflect positively on their motivation and maintaining a pleasant and healthy working environment. <30 Between >50 <30 Between >50 <30 Between >50 performance, particularly when these employees apply Accordingly, we strive to support diversity in the organization 30-50 30-50 30-50 what they have learned in their current jobs. In 2014, 59 and ensure equal opportunities to all employees without employees benefited from the Bank’s sponsorship grants: regard to religion, gender or nationality. For example, Bank Audi sal 22% 42% 15% 0% 15% 5% 0% 0% 1% 8 benefited from support for advanced university studies in terms of gender composition of our workforce, the Other Lebanese entities 17% 42% 23% 2% 9% 4% 0% 3% 0% (masters degree), 28 from professional certifications percentage of our female employee representation has (Certificate of Quantitative Finance, CFA-Certified Financial been steadily increasing since 2012: from 45% of total Analyst, CIA-Certified Internal Audit, CMA-Certified employees in 2012 to 46% in 2013, to 46% in 2014 Table 13: Composition of Governance Body Committees by Gender and Age Group at Bank Audi Figure18:18:Workforce Figure WorkforceComposition Compositionwith with Management Accountant, CRISC-Certified in Risk and (1,360 female employees and 1,629 male employees). Respect to Gender in 2014 Respect to Gender in 2014 Information Systems, Dip IFR-Diploma in International While we try to systematically address any barriers to Financial reporting, FRM-Financial Risk Manager, female advancement, the representation of women in the Board and Committees Gender (%) Age (%) PHR-Professional in Human Resources, HRBP-Human middle and upper echelons of the Bank and key committees Resources Business Partner), 19 from banking studies remains on the low side (Table 11), but we always strive Males Females <30 30-50 >50 (intermediate and advanced banking knowledge), to alleviate the glass ceiling in all its guises as part of our Board of Directors 80 20 100 and 148 employees became certified in “Lebanese commitment to diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity. Financial Regulations”. In terms of age groups across different managerial levels, we notice that Senior Management positions are mostly When considering the type of employment contracts given occupied by employees who are older, and hence have to our employees, all Bank Audi Group employees have full more seniority, experience, and tenure within the Bank. time employment divided as follows (Table 14): Figure 17: Bank Audi Employee Sponsorship Grants • Total number of employees under Limited Employment Contract (contrat à durée déterminée CDD) is 104 of In 2014, 59 employees were sponsored to further pursue their education which 58 males and 46 females. • Total number of employees under Unlimited Employment Contract (contrat à durée indéterminée CDI) is 2,885 of which 1,571 males and 1,314 females. 28 applications were approved for specialized professional certiﬁcations In addition, 80% of all employees are covered by collective agreements. In 2014, Bank Audi Group hired 234 19 were sponsored to enroll and continue banking-related programs employees, as illustrated in Table 15. These new hires are Female Male almost equally split between males and females. employees employees 8 were granted sponsorships for MBA/Masters in local universities (such as AUB, USJ, ESA,USEK) including 1 MBA in IE international university 4 completed their General Management Program Executive Education programs at Harvard Business School 42 43 Table 14: Employee Distribution by Contract Type and Gender at Bank Audi Group Lebanon In 2014 Figure 20: Turnover Rate at Bank Audi in 2014 Bank Audi Group Lebanon Total Number of Employees Gender CDD Contract CDI Collective Agreement 888 Bank Audi employees aided with their children’s school tuition fees for a total of USD Year 4 million 2012 2013 2014 >USD 165 M F M F M F % Covered % Not Covered million in Lebanon constituting our highest HR costs for salaries Bank Audi sal 2,511 1,294 1,217 36 33 1,258 1,184 97.3% 2.7% and benefits Other Lebanese entities 478 335 143 22 13 313 130 63.7% 36.3% On a parallel note, we have succeeded in maintaining a Total 2,989 1,629 1,360 58 46 1,571 1,314 80.5 % 19.5% very low human capital turnover rate of 4.7% in 2014 in Bank Audi sal Lebanon. Looking closer, we also note that Unlimited employment contract (CDI) Limited employment contract (CDD) the female turnover rate (2.3%) is less than that of males (2.4%) in Bank Audi Group Lebanon. Table 15: New Employee Hires in Bank Audi Group Lebanon Total Number Total Number of New Turnover rate 4.22% 3.87% 4.70% Bank Audi Group Lebanon Total Number of New Hires by Age of New Hires Hires by Gender F M <30 Between 30-50 >50 Bank Audi sal 186 97 89 136 48 2 Table 16: Return to Work Rates after Parental Leave, by Gender, in Bank Audi Group Lebanon Other Lebanese entities 48 11 37 25 19 4 Total Number of Total 234 108 126 161 67 6 Employees who Total Number Returned to Work after Total Number of Employees Parental Leave of Employees who Returned and Are still Human Resource Planning insurance plans, work accident insurance, transportation allowances, family allowances, marriage allowances, child Bank Audi Group who Took to Work after Employed 12 Months Return to Retention Lebanon Parental Leaves Parental Leave after their Return Work Rate Rate birth allowances, children education allowances, death We continuously engage in Human Resource Planning (HRP) allowances, additional travel allowances, mobile allowances, F M F M F M F M F M as we strategically plan our growth and various needs. In end of service indemnities and other similar advantages and 2014, we made sure to be present in job fairs organized by Bank Audi sal 81 51 75 51 72 47 92.5% 100% 96% 92% privileges such as an infirmary, a gymnasium and a music various universities across Lebanon, such as the American studio. In 2014, for instance, we invested over USD 4 million Other Lebanese entities 6 10 5 10 5 10 89% 100% 100% 100% University of Beirut (AUB), the Lebanese American in support of 888 employees and their children’s tuition University (LAU), the University of Balamand, Université fees (around USD 2,500/child). We also make it a point to Total 87 61 80 61 77 57 91% 100% 98% 96% Saint Joseph (USJ), Notre Dame University (NDU), Lebanese maintain competitive and gender-balanced compensation University and the Holy Spirit University of Kaslik (USEK) schemes across the Bank. among others. Furthermore, we offered Internships to over 432 university students, amounting to over USD 80,000. Outstanding interns are flagged in our records for potential Rewards System • 3,270 5g gold units were offered to all bank employees (> USD 700,000) future recruitment at the Bank. and Employee Give-back • 2,998 10-liter gallons of olive oil were distributed to our employees (> USD 215,000) Compensation and Benefits At Bank Audi, we are aware that top performing employees need to be recognized for their hard work, commitment and Employee Retention Bank Audi seeks to offer its hardworking employees efforts. This is why the annual Silver Jubilee ceremony also fair and highly competitive compensations and benefits took place in 2014, to reward employees for their 25 years As part of our determination to retain our employees, we remuneration compared to market rates. Salaries and of service at the Bank. On the other hand, we make sure to care that they take the time they need to nurture their benefits constitute our highest HR costs, exceeding USD 165 acknowledge the work of our top performers throughout newborns and cater to their parental needs. We also million in 2014. We also complement our pay schemes our branch network on a monthly and yearly basis. provide space for them to return back to work refreshed Figure 19: Bank Audi with various significant benefits including performance before pursuing their career paths. Participation bonuses, medical insurance and coverage, paid leaves, life In line with our annual end of year tradition, we continue in Job Fairs insurance, educational sponsorships, special loans facilities, to distribute gifts to our employees. In 2014: 44 45 Employee Wellness In 2014 Special Feature Story In 2014, we enriched our employee wellness schemes to tap into new areas which ensure that Bank Audi remains an employer of choice. Hence we ventured to relieve our >USD 640,000 Financial Empowerment“Payment Technologies: Past and Future” employees from any work-related stress and encourage them to maintain a good work-life balance by joining in support of educational needs in Lebanon A Series of Workshops at Bank Audi USD 3.9 Bank Audi group hikes to various scenic destinations in Lebanon. These adventures improve our group dynamics as well as employee bonds within the Bank. On a million in loans at preferential interest similar note, we encourage our employees to engage in rates to university students sports-related activities such as basketball, table tennis, In 2014, Bank Audi launched an initiative consisting Following the presentation, students were treated to ball-room dancing, sports tournaments, and special in a series of workshops for university students, a tour inside the e-gallery where they discovered the celebration concerts. In 2014, more than USD 62,000 aid to various schools and universities across Lebanon, as entitled “Payment Technologies: Past and Future” latest payment solutions and banking technologies were invested in employee wellness programs and set well as student loans at preferential rates (around USD 3.9 and presented by Mrs. Randa Bdeir, Group Head of that were discussed during the workshop. Located in new priorities which increase efficiency across all our million in loans to 238 USJ students). Our philanthropy e-Payment Solutions and Card Services, with the aim of Bank Audi’s headquarters in Bab Idriss, the e-gallery is bank’s departments. Furthermore, six employee clubs are extended to support key educational institutions through exposing the youth to newly implemented technologies the first showroom of its kind. Set up like a museum, it actively promoting a variety of interests: Community Club; scholarships and donations, including scholarships to worldwide and to the future of payment trends. showcases the latest devices, technologies and payment Green Club; Music Club featuring Band Audi, Audiyat and underprivileged students offered to students from La solutions implemented by Bank Audi and features a mix MelAudi; Sports Club; Toastmasters and Travel Club. Sagesse (“Merite Blé Vert” scholarships) and Al Makassed schools. We also funded various university conferences and During these workshops, students were given an of informative display boxes, interactive applications overview on the evolution of payment methods, from and tablets, prepaid cards vending machine and other Human Rights events (e.g. plays, AUB's Got Talent, AUB Harvard MUN, AUB outdoors, Saints Coeurs Tripoli MUN Delegation and the barter era to modern credit cards and mobile state-of-the-art equipment. Institut Technique Franco-libanais among others) amounting banking, and the spread of payment technologies We recognize the rights of each employee and the diversity across the world, particularly in the Middle East. Since its inauguration in June 2013, the e-gallery has to more than USD 500,000. of opinion represented by the communities we employ Students were also introduced to the specificities welcomed over 5000 guests who were all impressed and serve. In 2014, we hosted the Foundation for Human and Humanitarian Rights of Lebanon (FHHRL) for a Spreading Awareness on CSR in the Community of payment cards, namely their different types and with the set up and showcase of the new technologies Train-The-Trainer workshop where Bank Audi employees categories, as well as international security features and which many had thought would not be available in learned how to be part of and spread human rights issues A stakeholder panel we conducted helped us identify market segmentation by taking a detailed look into Lebanon before another decade. at the Bank, an awareness that was shared with our Top the need for promoting CSR and raising awareness on its the product development process. Latest technologies Management through a special lecture on human rights. importance in Lebanon. Systematic efforts were therefore and payment solutions were also discussed through an The total number of training hours on human rights made in 2014 to reach out to the youth with regards to in-depth review of their evolution from the magnetic issues amounted to about 985 and benefited 332 internal building awareness and momentum on CSR. A Graduate strip to contactless payment, Tap2Pay NFC mobile stakeholders (11% of Bank Audi employees). Student CSR Competition was launched, whereby each payment, MPOS acceptance devices, emall, e-commerce student had to present a CSR-related project to Bank Audi and m-commerce. Spreading Awareness on CSR at the Bank after having attended an informative session on CSR. The winner was awarded an internship at Bank Audi to help We are keen on engaging our employees in our CSR efforts implement their idea. The best three ideas were granted and activities, which is why we ventured in 2014 to start a USD 750, USD 500, and USD 250 respectively. Also under CSR Awareness Series targeting our own employees and our external CSR umbrella, we participated in various CSR focusing on the importance of being responsible citizens. conferences and lectures to share the Bank’s CSR journey In this context, we invited Professor Dima Jamali, an with various audiences across universities and at business international CSR expert, to host a series of CSR presentations conferences both locally and regionally. aiming at raising awareness on the importance of CSR, both internally (at the Bank) and externally (in our community), taking collective action within Bank Audi’s CSR strategy, and extending responsibility to the homes and lives of each At Bank Audi, we do our best to be the workplace and of our employees in order to have a greater impact on the employer of choice, and this is one of our organization’s communities we operate in. guiding principles. The latter is reflected in our inclusive hiring philosophy, the way we treat our people, and the support we offer our employees to help them “grow External Human Development beyond their potential”. We are also engaged in promoting human development in its various aspects outside the Bank. Educational Aid in Community Our human development efforts empower individuals internally and externally by providing them with the tools Externally, human development continued to be an they need to develop their skills, competence, leadership important priority, particularly with regards to supporting and potential, and to ultimately forge their way through the Lebanese youth. In 2014, we provided educational rewarding career paths. 46 47 48 49 Environmental Protection Our commitment to environmental responsibility is as renovated lighting systems to the acquisition of photovoltaic All the above operations are performed instantaneously Figure 21: Number of Trees Saved since 2012 strong as ever. We build on the momentum of the past two panels, to landscaping implementations applied in private, and conveniently without the need to print any years and the integration of a stand-alone environmental residential or commercial buildings. We also extended more document or wait for conventional mail for paperworkTrees saved 1,102 1,414 1,763 pillar in 2013 to introduce and nurture a range of initiatives than USD 24,000 in sponsorships to various environmental delivery. Based on the fact that each tree can produce pertaining to environmental responsibility. In 2014, we projects recommended by our different branches, for the an average of 8,000 A4 sheets and that each individual managed to further develop our environmental initiatives maintenance of Al Diman gardens and for Sacré Coeur receives 3 paper statements every month and signs up and were proud to receive a certificate of acknowledgement Gemmayze hospital, among others. to 5 advices, and taking into consideration that we have from the Ministry of Environment in Lebanon for being an estimated total of 90,000 customers registered in the a leading institution in quantifying our Green House Gas (GHG) emissions. Measuring Our Environmental Impact AOL Service, we would be saving (yearly): • 16,200 kg of paper Solid Waste • 2.7 million km of car mileage Environmental Awareness The need to promote environmental protection within the 3.  • 100,000 square feet of forest Promoting Paperless Projects: the project Year 2012 2013 2014 and Environmental Stewardship Bank while engaging and sensitizing our stakeholders in the process remains an important goal for Bank Audi. With this prioritization process is an important part of the One of our main objectives for 2014 was to further instil in mind, we have sustained our “Grow Green” program organization overall planning process. Bank Audi uses scoring and prioritization methods in an effort to reduce GHG Emissions aimed at collecting recyclables of solid waste such as used environmental awareness at the internal and external levels. paper, metal, and plastic waste, and e-waste that were overall operating expenses and streamline the Bank’s We worked in tandem with a certified institution that helped Accordingly, we chose to help our employees act as good disposed at the Bank’s three special hubs. Collected plastic objectives. Despite the fact that we are profit-driven us conduct a comprehensive audit of our carbon footprint, environmental stewards at work and at home through bottle caps continue to be donated to Arcenciel to provide companies, CSR projects are actually logged and taken as well as monitor and communicate useful information various workshops, activities and initiatives: wheelchairs for the disabled. In 2014, we also made sure into account as a value-added factor. to our branches and offices. Total expenditure for this • An environmental awareness workshop entitled “My to track the impact of our “Grow Green” program since its 4. Operational Process Reengineering: as per the DMS investment amounted to USD 4,750. In this comprehensive Environment is My Country” and addressing employees’ inception in 2012, which led to: components, image capturing, workflows and e-forms study, 2012 was considered as base year since it is the year children with a view to further developing their knowledge are fully functional at the Bank. Thus all operational when the initiative was launched with a view to complying of climate change and their impact on the environment Saving the equivalent of 4,279 trees processes have been re-designed to take the paperless with the GRI G4 guidelines on environmental impact. Data (more at the end of this section); Recycling 317 kg of plastic spirit into consideration. Branch employees are now able on the total surface area occupied by Bank Audi in Lebanon • The Zero Waste ACT conference aimed at helping Improving our paper recycling by 100% to send and receive answers about any transaction that as well as on the number of employees per branch was also participants make simple changes in their lifestyle and taken into account. This organizational boundary was set requires the approval/input of the head office without Over and above, we bolstered our Paperless Banking by the Bank for two reasons: to conduct the Report using teaching them how to recognize the source of waste and any document exchange. Strategy initiated in 2013 and aiming at converting our the equity share concept and to develop an audit report to turn, “the refuse into reuse”. As a result of this conference, be used for operational management improvements. operations into paperless operations. As of November we engaged several households to recycle their waste; 2014, active steps were taken to significantly reduce our • A presentation by our Group Corporate Banking in the paper consumption throughout all our branches: all printers Table 17: Paper Recycling between 2012 and 2014 Probing into our GHG emissions revealed a significant context of a workshop entitled “Enhancing Financing which have the option of printing on both sides were set to improvement trend since 2012. As per our GHG inventory Mechanisms for Renewable Energy (RE) and Energy print on duplex mode by default. Year Kilograms of Paper Collected for Recycling based on the GHG-Protocol Corporate Standard, we Efficiency (EE) Projects” for two of ESCWA’s member have reported on the following seven greenhouse gases: states, Yemen and Sudan. The objective of this presentation Through our Paperless Banking Strategy, we implemented 2012 51,770 carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), was to explain to central banks and relevant ministries in the following four main projects: hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur 2013 83,192 Yemen and Sudan, Bank Audi’s experience in financing 1. Document Management System (DMS) provided hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). a remedy for removing thousands of files and freeing 2014 103,722 renewable energy and energy efficiency projects, and the considerable space, thus resulting in considerable money Results revealed that GHGs are from several sources grouped subsidy mechanism implemented by the Central Bank saving. Today, DMS is applied in all branches and in the into 3 scopes: Scope 1from own generation of power and of Lebanon. Table 18: Total Weight of Waste by Type refrigerants; Scope 2from purchase of electricity from majority of head office departments. Document copying, Environmental protection and prevention management Electricité Du Liban (EDL) and shared generators and from distribution and storage have all been eliminated. We costs amounted to USD 14,574 in 2014. believe that by end 2015, we would have saved around Waste Management per Category Kg in 2014 selected indirect emission sources; and Scope 3from paper 60% of the following expenses: transportation, paper consumption, flights undertaken for work reasons and Environmental Loans consumption, storage/retention and destruction. 2. Online Banking Solutions: Bank Audi implemented a new Donated e-waste Recycled e-waste 640 6,896 courier services. The total GHG emissions from Bank Audi Group Lebanon in 2014 were 21,065.6tCO2e, equivalent and Sponsorships Online Banking solution which now allow customers to: • Transfer money securely between customer accounts Recycled paper 103,722 to 7.0 tCO2e per employee and 0.218 tCO2e per m2 when accounting for the employees and total space occupied by or to accounts at other banks; Recycled plastic 157 the Group’s amenities respectively. It is important to note that Externally, we continued to promote environmental • Pay credit card and others bills; this number has significantly decreased over the last three sustainability through our environmental loans, • Check balances of Audi checking and savings accounts, In 2014, we continued to assess our environmental footprint years of observation (Figure 22). Scope 2 was responsible sponsorships, and for-cause or benefit sponsorships. For and sought means of reduction by quantifying the nature for 72.8% of the total GHG emissions (15,338.3 tCO2e) credit cards, home equity, loans or lines of credit and example in 2014, we extended over USD 52 million of and breakdown of our energy consumption, Greenhouse where the GHG emissions from EDL electricity was the main mortgages; environmental loans subsidized by the Central Bank of • Consult statements and review up to 4,000 transactions; Gas (GHG) emissions (in CO2e), particularly those resulting contributor, accounting for more than 76.9% of the Scope Lebanon at preferential interest rates. These loans cover • Apply online for most retail products (car, personal and from regular daily operations, and the effluents and waste 2 value. On the other hand, Scope 1 (4,486.2 tCO2e) and a spectrum of environment-friendly modifications from home loans). in all Bank Audi subsidiaries in Lebanon for the year. Scope 3 accounted for the rest of the total GHG emissions 50 51 (1,241.0 tCO2e), 21.3% and 5.9% respectively. Flight trips for business purposes constitute the core components of Scope 3 and are responsible for 68.4% (849.5 tCO2e) of This information will be very useful in our struggle to improve our environmental footprint across various facets of our operations and as we design relevant and appropriate Special Feature Story total indirect emissions in this scope. Paper consumption constitutes 23.4% (290.1 tCO2e) of total Scope 3 emissions energy saving programs to increase the efficiency of electrical energy usage and combat climate change. My Environment is My Country Environmental Awareness Workshop and Competition and courier services account for 8.2% (101.4 tCO2e). Figure 24: Emissions per Sources in 2014 (%) Figure 22: Total GHG Emissions per Year for Bank Audi Bank Audi launched a pilot program during the Bank Audi also launched a competition where each “Back to School” period in September 2014, aimed family was invited to measure its carbon footprint at enlightening the youth, specifically generation Y, at home over a period of 4 months. Children were on the means of protecting the environment through requested to fill out a data file with all the necessary reducing, reusing and recycling. information on electricity, fuel and gas consumption, as well as on the quantity of paper used in their Under the patronage of the Minister of the daily activities. Out of 56 files distributed, 21 were Environment and in collaboration with V4 Advisors submitted. The winners were Elie, Karen and Roger and IUCN (International Union of Conservation of Khoury, children of Bank Audi staff members Michel Nature Lebanon Chapter), Bank Audi’s CSR Unit held and Soulayma Khoury. The winning team commented: an Environment Awareness workshop entitled “My “At first, it was very hard to change our lifestyle With respect to the GHG emissions intensity ratio for Scopes Environment Is My Country” and addressing 90 Bank and become more responsible when it came to our 1, 2 and 3, we notice that in 2014, each employee at Bank Audi employees’ children between the ages of 10 and electricity and paper consumption. But with time, we Audi Group Lebanon was responsible for 7,008.7 kg of 15. The main topics included climate change, carbon learned to adapt.” CO2e and total emissions were 218.1 kg of CO2e per m2. If footprint, and the means of reducing environmental we compare 2012 to 2014, there is a 5% improvement in impact and decreasing daily energy consumption. The winning team had reduced their household Table 19: Bank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emissions total GHG emissions. The GHG calculations were performed consumption by 53% and had made some serious between 2012 and 2014 using well-established tools and methodologies following The session was inaugurated by Mr. Nizar Hani, changes to their lifestyles to achieve this outstanding the GHG Protocol developed by the World Resource Institute representing the Ministry of Environment and also the result. The children proudly explained that they had 2012 2013 2014 (WRI, 2006b, c). Using an internationally recognized tool Shouf Biosphere Reserve Manager, who gave a brief installed solar panels, switched from traditional 60W Total GHG emissions 22,199.8 tCO2e 21,309.9 tCO2e 21,065.6 tCO2e allows for the standardization of the procedures and on Lebanese protected areas and explained to the light bulbs to energy saving bulbs (24W) and then to calculations, which is key in order to quantify and compare audience that a wide variety of animals and plants in LED (4W). They added: “We got used to turning off the GHG emissions per employee 8.0 tCO2e 7.7 tCO2e 7.0 tCO2e emissions accurately. In addition, we applied the most Lebanon have become endangered species. The session light and unplugging the TV when we left the room. GHG emissions per m 2 0.230 tCO2e 0.220 tCO2e 0.218 tCO2e up-to-date emission factors to ensure the transparent was followed by a presentation by Mrs. Lea Aboujaoude We insisted on using both sides of papers and reducing calculation of a reliable footprint. Because every GHG from the UNDP Climate Change Unit at the Ministry the number of trips in the family car.” assessment is different, it was crucial to modify existing of Environment who informed the participants on the The winning team also received a USD 500 cash prize. Figure 23: Bank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emission Sources tools to come up with accurate results. The calculation impacts of climate change on Lebanon and provided tips of the emission factors and the global warming potential on what can be done to fight global warming. Native Bank Audi aims at maintaining this program in the From liqueﬁed From diesel petroleum gas (GWP) rates used is based on GHG-Protocol which uses the trees and plants were distributed to the children. The coming years and developing it to target a wider Scope 1 consumption (LPG) used for From refrigerants IPCC emission factors provided in the IPCC guidelines of exhibition included environmental awareness materials audience. in owned cooking in used generators Bank Audi 2006, the IPCC Second Assessment Report (1995), and the and authentic rural products by environmental NGOs. Group cafeterias local emission factor for electricity communicated by the Lebanese Ministry of Environment. From electricity From electricity Energy Consumption Scope 2 purchased from purchased shared generators from EDL Quantifying the energy consumption within Bank Audi Group Lebanon revealed that the total fuel (Diesel) consumption is 1,439,665.8 litres; total electricity consumption is 23,922 MWH among which 75.9% was From air ﬂights From paper purchased directly from EDL, while the rest was either Scope 3 taken by From courier employees for consumption services produced by owned generators (12.7%) or purchased from work reasons shared generators (11.4%). Sources of conversion factors used are same as those used in 20131. 52 1 CSR Report 2013, Figure 20. 53 Supplementary Information 54 55 Reporting and Ratings This report complies with a number of external reporting guidance and standards. Primary among these is the Fair Operating Practices Issue 1: Anti-corruption • Bank Audi is a member of the Association of Banks in Lebanon ISO 26000 Social Responsibility Guidance. In 2012, Bank Audi was the first banking institution to pilot the ISO 26000 Social [GC Principles 3-10] Issue 2: Responsible political involvement (ABL) and complies with all its principles relating to labour issues Responsibility Guidance in Lebanon. Accordingly, the Report addresses the seven core subjects of responsibility defined in Issue 3: Fair competition • More than 72% of the Bank employees are covered by collective the ISO 26000 Standard (Table 23). It also addresses many of the guidelines and indicators set out in the Global Reporting Issue 4: Promoting social responsibility in the value chain agreements. Issue 5: Respect for property rights • The Bank’s Code of Ethics and Conduct makes explicit reference Initiative (GRI), and is prepared “in accordance” with GRI G4 Guidelines and the Financial Services Sector Supplement, at to anti-corruption and has been updated to detail our a core application level (Table 24). GRI is an internationally recognized voluntary guideline which defines principles and commitment to anti-corruption policies and procedures. We indicators that companies can use to report on the triple bottom line. GRI is currently observed by over 5,000 organizations have also made significant strides to strengthen our various in 70 countries. The Report also complies with the principles defined by the UN Global Compact (UNGC), and we are a proud controls over operational, compliance, anti-money laundering and regulatory measures. recent official signatory of the UN Global Compact (as of May 11, 2015) (Table 25). • We have significantly increased communication and training on anti-corruption policies, with communication reaching all governance body members. Moreover, 62% of our governance body members have been trained on our anticorruption policies. • 49% of employees, 45% of Middle Management and 38% Table 20: ISO 26000 Core Subjects Reference Table of Senior Management have been trained in relation to anti-corruption policies and procedures specifically. Our CSR activities can be classified based on the core subjects of ISO 26000 as follows: Consumer Issues Issue 1: Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information • Anti-counterfeit measures. and fair contractual practices • “Clear All the Way” campaign. Core Subjects Core Subjects Issues Issues Reference Reference Issue 2: Protecting consumers' health and safety • Increasing financial literacy among various customer segments. Issue 3: Sustainable consumption • Responsible product design and product portfolio. Organizational Governance Subject 1: Organizational Governance • Stakeholder engagement. engagement Issue 4: Consumer service, support, and complaint and • Digitalization and convenience. • Due diligence and ethical conduct under the Corporate dispute resolution Governance Pillar. Pillar Issue 5: Consumer data protection and privacy Issue 6: Access to essential services Human Rights Issue 1: Due diligence • Code of Ethics and Conduct makes explicit reference to the Issue 7: Education and awareness [GC Principles 1-6] Issue 2: Human rights risk situations respect of human rights. rights Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity • CSR policy makes explicit reference to “contributing to alleviate Community Involvement Issue 1: Community involvement • Various social, health, humanitarian, cultural and sports activities Issue 4: Resolving grievances challenges related to human rights high-risk situations on a and Development Issue 2: Education and culture pertaining to community development. Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups case-by-case basis”. basis” Issue 3: Employment creation and skills development • New employee volunteering program “Be a Hero for a Day”. Issue 6: Civil and political rights • Our procurement procedures favour ethical and eco-friendly Issue 4: Technology development and access • Support and partnerships with well-known NGOs and corporate Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights suppliers who, through their business practices, recognize Issue 5: Wealth and income creation foundations. Issue 8: Fundamental principles and rights at work and abide by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, fight Issue 6: Health corruption, and generally aspire to adopt the ISO 26000 Social Issue 7: Social investment Responsibility Standard’s guidelines as part of their business The Environment Issue 1: Prevention of pollution • Environmental management. strategy strategy. [Principles 7-9] Issue 2: Sustainable resource use • Carbon footprint assessment and youth competition. • Human rights accorded highest regard across various facets of Issue 3: Climate change mitigation and adaptation • Supporting environmental loans. employment relationships and contracts. contracts Issue 4: Protection of the environment, biodiversity and • Various programs to minimize environmental footprint including • Train-The-Trainer workshop where Bank Audi employees learned restoration of natural habitats solid waste, GHG emissions, and energy consumption. how to integrate and spread human human rights withinthe issueswithin rights issues theBank. Bank • No incidents of discrimination reported during 2014. 2014 • No grievances with human rights impacts filed during 2014. 2014 • Females represented 46% of employees in 2014. 2014 Table 21: Implementation of GRI Content Index for “In Accordance” • Total number of employees under Limited Employment Contract (contrat à durée déterminée CDD) is 104 of which 58 males and – Core – General and Specific Standard Disclosures 46 females. females • Total number of employees under Unlimited Employment General Standard Disclosures Description Reference Contract (contrat à durée indéterminée -CDI)CDI) isis 2,885 2885 of which 1,571 1571 males 1,314females and1314 malesand females. Strategy and Analysis • Progressive working conditions for staff. staff • Diversity and inclusion philosophy and practices. practices G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the P. 5 • Responsible employment including diversity and equal relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for opportunity, occupational health and safety, training education addressing sustainability and talent development, external human development. development Organisational Profile Labour Practices Issue 1: Employment and employment relationships • Bank Audi is a member of the Association of Banks in [GC Principles 3-6] Issue 2: Conditions of work and social protection Lebanon (ABL) and complies with its main principles relating to G4-3 Report the name of the organization P. 6 Issue 3: Social dialogue labour issues. issues G4-4 Report the primary brands, products and services P. 65, Appendix 3 Issue 4: Health and safety at work • More than 72% of the Bank’s employees are covered by collective Issue 5: Human development and training in the workplace agreements. agreements G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters P. 6 • Progressive labour conditions that embody respect for G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of P. 6 human rights. rights countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are The Environment Issue 1: Prevention of pollution • Environmental management. management specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the Report [Principles 7-9] Issue 2: Sustainable resource use competition • Carbon footprint assessment and youth competition. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form P. 6 Issue 3: Climate change mitigation and adaptation • Supporting environmental loans. loans Issue 4: Protection of the environment, biodiversity and • Various programs to minimize environmental footprint including G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and P. 6 restoration of natural habitats solid waste, GHG emissions, and energy consumption. consumption types of customers and beneficiaries) 56 57 General Standard Disclosures Description Reference General Standard Disclosures Description Reference G4-9 Report the scale of the organization, including: P. 24 Stakeholder Engagement Total number of employees G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization P. 9 Total number of operations Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage P. 9 organizations) G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of P. 9 Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the organizations) engagements was undertaken specifically as part of the Report’s preparation process Quantity of products or services provided G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, P. 9 G4-10 a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender P. 42 & 43 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers, and by gender and concerns d. Report the total workforce by region and gender Report Profile e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided P. 7 employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) P. 7 of contractors G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) P. 7 f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the Report or its content P. 62 G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective P. 43 G4-32 a. Report the “in accordance” option the organization has chosen P. 57, Table 24 bargaining agreements b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the Report has been G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain P. 27 & 28 externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance, but it is not a G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the Annual Report requirement to be “in accordance” with the Guidelines organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-33 a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Applicable only for our carbon Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, assurance for the Report footprint assessment by contracted closings, and expansions b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report consultant. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, the scope and basis of any external assurance provided and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in d. Report whether the highest governance body or Senior Executives are involved in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by P. 7 Governance the organization G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest P. 18 & Annual Report G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or P. 66, Appendix 4 governance body other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Ethics and Integrity G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or P. 13, Table 3 international advocacy organizations in which the organization: G4-56 Describe the organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour, such P. 7, 20 & 64, Appendix 1 Holds a position on the governance body as Code of Ethics and Conduct Participates in projects or committees Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Views membership as strategic SPECIFIC STANDARD & FINANCIAL SECTOR SERVICES DISCLOSURES Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Reference G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or Annual Report & website equivalent documents P. 10 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial Generic DMA: P. 10 statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the Report Why the aspect is material, the impacts that make this aspect material, and the evaluation of Management approach G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the Report’s content and the aspect boundaries P. 9 to 12 How the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts b. Explain how the organization has implemented the reporting principles for defining the Report’s content Category: Economic G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining the Report’s content P. 11, Figure 4 Economic Performance G4-EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed P. 24, 32 & 50 G4-20 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organization P. 10 & 11 Market Presence G4-EC5: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage P. 44 G4-21 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organization P. 10 & 11 Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7: Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported P. 25 & 27, Table 5 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, As a result of changes in measurement Procurement Practices G4-EC9: Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation P. 28 and the reasons for such restatements methods, one may find variations for calculation of indicators G4-11 Category: Environmental & G4LA12 when comparing 2013 Energy G4-EN3: Energy consumption within the organization P. 52, Figure 24 results to 2014. Emissions G4-EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) P. 51 & 52 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect P. 12 boundaries 58 59 Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Reference Table 22: Mapping Global Compact 10 Principles to GRI G4 Guidelines UN Global Compact Principles GRI Guidelines Examples of Implementations at Bank Audi G4-EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) P. 51 & 52 G4-EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) P. 51 & 52 Human Rights Principle 1 Sub-category: Human rights (all aspects) Code of Ethics and Conduct to make explicit reference to respect for G4-EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity P. 51 & 52 Businesses should support and respect the Sub-category: Society human rights Effluents and Waste G4-EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method P. 51, Table 18 protection of internationally proclaimed Local communities CSR policy makes explicit reference to “contributing to alleviate human rights challenges related to human rights high-risk situations on a Overall G4-EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type P. 50 & 51 case-by-case basis” Category: Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Our procurement policies favour ethical and eco-friendly suppliers who, through their business practices, recognize and abide by Employment G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by P. 44, Table 15 & P. 45, Figure 19 the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, fight corruption and age group, gender and region generally aspire to adopt the ISO 26000 Social Responsibility G4-LA2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary P. 44 Standard’s guidelines as part of their business strategy or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation - Human rights accorded highest regard across various facets of employment relationships and contracts G4-LA3: Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender P. 45, Table 16 Train-The-Trainer workshop where Bank Audi employees learned Training and Education G4-LA9: Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee P. 40 & 41, Table 9 how to integrate and spread human rights issues within the Bank category No grievances on human rights impacts filed during 2014 G4-LA10: Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the P. 41 & 44 Principle 2 Sub-category: Human rights (all aspects) Same as above continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per P. 42 & 43 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and Labour other indicators of diversity Principle 3 G4-11 Bank Audi is a member of the Association of Banks in Lebanon (ABL) Equal Remuneration for Women G4-LA13: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee P. 44 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Sub-category: Labour practices and decent work and complies with all its principles relating to labour issues and Men category, by significant locations of operation association and the effective recognition of Labour/Management relations More than 72% of the Bank’s employees are covered by collective the right to collective bargaining Sub-category: Human rights agreements Labour Practices Grievance G4-LA16: Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed and resolved Procedure only, P. 68, Appendix 6 - Freedom of association and collective Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms bargaining Category: Social Human Rights Principle 4 Sub-category: Human rights Progressive labour conditions that embody respect for human rights Investment G4-HR2: Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures P. 21 & 46 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Forced and compulsory labour concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the all forms of forced and compulsory labour percentage of employees trained Principle 5 Sub-category: Human rights N/A Category: Social Society Businesses should uphold the effective Child labour abolition of child labour Local Communities G4-FS13: Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type P. 26 Principle 6 G4-10 Females represented 46% employees in 2014 G4-FS14: Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people P. 26 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Sub-category: Labour practices and decent • Total number of employees under Limited Employment Contract Anti-corruption G4-SO4: Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures P. 20 discrimination in respect of employment work (all aspects) (contrat à durée déterminée CDD) is 104 of which 58 males and and occupation Sub-category: Human rights 46 females Compliance G4-SO8: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary P. 20 Non-discrimination • Total number of employees under Unlimited Employment Contract sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations (contrat à durée indéterminée-CDI) is 2,885 of which 1,571 males Category: Social Product Responsibility and 1,314 females Progressive working conditions for staff Product and Service Labeling G4-PR5: Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction P. 27 Diversity and inclusion philosophy and practices G4-FS16: Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary P. 28, 33 & 67, Appendix 5 Responsible employment including diversity and equal opportunity, Product Portfolio G4-FS7: Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social P. 25, 27 & 33 occupational health and safety, training education and talent benefit for each business line broken down by purpose development, external human development No discrimination incidents reported during 2014 G4-FS8: Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific P. 50 environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Environment Principle 7 Category: Environmental (all aspects) Carbon footprint assessment Businesses should support a precautionary Precautionary approach in relation to solid waste, GHG emissions approach to environmental challenges and energy consumption Youth competition 60 61 Internal Audit UN Global Compact Principles GRI Guidelines Examples of Implementations at Bank Audi Objective Principle 8 Category: Environmental (all aspects) Carbon footprint measurement Businesses should undertake initiatives to “Grow Green” program Review and evaluate the development of the Corporate promote greater environmental responsibility LEED program Social Responsibility activities Report in line with ISO Environmental loans and sponsorships 26000 Standard, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI – G4), Partnership with IUCN United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles and Environmental awareness best practices. Paperless banking strategy Executive Summary Principle 9 Category: Environmental (all aspects) Carbon footprint measurement Businesses should encourage the development Environmental loans and sponsorships and diffusion of environment-friendly technologies Group Internal Audit conducted a review of Bank Audi’s AntiCorruption 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities and Principle 10 Sub-category: Society Code of Conduct makes explicit reference to anti-corruption. Bank’s Report based on the objective outlined above. Businesses should work against corruption Anti-corruption Code of Ethics and Conduct was updated to detail our commitment in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Public policy to anti-corruption policies and procedures. Significant strides to strengthen our various controls over operational, compliance, We conducted a review of CSR significant activities and anti-money laundering and regulatory measures processes, and performed verification procedures on test We have also significantly increased the communication and basis on some G4 reported indicators. training on anti-corruption policies, with communication reaching all governance body members. 62% of our governance body members The Bank is continually exerting efforts to enhance have been trained on our anti-corruption policies - 49% of employees, 45% of Middle Management, and 38% of CSR-related activities, and has established an operating Senior Management have been trained in relation to anti-corruption mechanism to ensure alignment with the International policies and procedures specifically Standard (ISO 26000), the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines (GRI-G4), and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles and best practices. Conclusion and Looking Forward remain committed to this course of continuous innovation and improvement, and look to differentiate ourselves Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention to through our responsible engagement by thriving not only make us believe that the information contained in the CSR As outlined in this report, we are making systematic efforts financially, but also through our social commitment and to mainstream CSR into all facets of our organization and by creating new opportunities, more inclusiveness, and Report has not been fairly presented in all material respects. we recognize that operating responsibly is an integral more hope and faith in our common future. We have every Nevertheless, we identified the following opportunities component to our success. Our mission is to create multiple intention to stay the course and to reap the fruit of this for improvement: streams of value for our clients, shareholders, the economy, responsible business orientation as widely as possible, both the community and the environment through our five key locally and across the entire group, in the years to come. Continue efforts to further standardize the interdependence pillars: good governance, local economic development, of responsibilities among the various concerned parties community development, human development and across the Bank, including the reporting process, taking environmental protection. We consider each of these areas to be relevant and important to our business, our Awards and Recognition into consideration the effectiveness of the data collection mechanism, the controls in place, as well as the reliability, stakeholders and our common future. In 2014, we were honoured by a variety of organizations traceability, timeliness and quality of the reported CSR for our innovative banking practices and our progressive information. The activities conducted under the five pillars cohere and employment policies. We take pride in highlighting some complement each other, allowing us to create value at of the key awards and recognitions received by our bank Continue efforts to improve the data collection process multiple levels and to stay true to our leading vision in in 2014. and accelerate the pace to finalize the implementation of the field of CSR and sustainability. Looking ahead, we will the automated readily accessible CSR intranet window, a project currently in progress. Table 23: Bank Audi Awards for Bank Audi Group Lebanon in 2014 Continue to engage the Bank employees at various levels Banker Middle East Product Awards Best Corporate Account in 2014; Best Web/Mobile Site in 2014 towards applying and promoting the Bank’s CSR principles. Euromoney Best Private Banking Services Overall in 2014 Social Economic Award (SEA) 2014 Best initiative The Volunteer Program “Be a Hero for a Day” Continue to integrate CSR across the Bank’s operating “Social Mainstreaming” category activities and related decision-making processes, as well as Ministry of Environment Certificate of Acknowledgment for quantifying and reporting Bank Audi greenhouse raise awareness and build social responsibility competencies. gas (GHG) emissions Mahmoud Majzoub For information about the Report, please refer to: Bank Audi’s CSR Unit csr@banqueaudi.com Bank Audi Palladium – Bab Idriss; Beirut Lebanon Head of Group Internal Audit 62 63 Appendix Appendix 1: Highlights of Code of Ethics and Conduct Appendix 2: Highlights of Bank Audi’s CSR Policy Appendix 3: Sampling of Bank Audi's Brands, Products and Services Proactive, cooperative and collaborative commitment to integrate social and environmental concerns in Accounts Services business operations and contribute to the well-being of • Sight deposit account • Bancassurance Compliance with laws, rules and regulations: “It is the Group’s objective to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in all localities where the society • Payroll account • Audimobile it does business.” • Spring account • Tap 2 pay Raising ethical issues: “All of the Group’s representatives, including Directors and employees, are expected to consider compliance with ethical standards Integrity and open communication in • Wedding account • PinPay as a vital element of their responsibilities.” interacting with internal and external stakeholders • Current account • ADSL service • Deposit account • Calculator Guiding Ethical Principles Commitment to honesty, integrity and trustworthiness Integrity in business Commitment to fair competition • Bill domiciliation and payment Adherence to local and international standards • Audi Online Human development, • Safe deposit box Fostering a Professional Conduct valuing teamwork and talent rewarding Loans • Car Tax Payment • Home Loan • Wide selection of credit Supporting a Positive Work Environment Violence and harassment free workplace Role model for socially • Car Loan cards satisfying an array of Discrimination free workplace responsible behaviour in Lebanon Alcohol and drug free workplace • Personal Loan consumer trends and needs Smoke free workplace Positive influence on our value chain Generic personal loan • Debit cards to abide by socially responsible guidelines Public sector • Prepaid cards Acting Responsibly Respect of working hours Teachers’ loan • Insurance programs Use of Group property Doctors’ loan • Audi Assist Code of Ethics and Conduct Minimizing the negative impacts Use of telephones, internet and email • High tech loan of our activities on the environment • Audi Rewards Personal belongings • University loan • IAPA Political and religious affiliations • Schooling loan Betting and gambling Accountablility for decisions and actions we take Workplace proper etiquette Communication with the media and the public Consciousness and corporate citizenship Business lines • Corporate Banking Ensuring Mutual Security Secure workplace • Commercial Banking Diversity and equal opportunity among all employees • Retail Banking Access to Group premises • Private Banking • e-Payment Solutions Managing Information External activities & Card Services • Investment Banking Civic behaviour and sense of belonging Personal relationships Personal finances Gifts and benefits Promoting healthy ecosystems, social equity and good organizational governance Being Good Global Citizens Involvement in social responsibility Respect of human rights Abide by ISO 26000 Guidelines Reporting Concerns Alleviate challenges related to human rights Investigations as per the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Administration of the Code Violation of the Code Review and amendments of the Code 64 65 Appendix 4: Bank Audi's Economic, Environmental and Social Charters, Appendix 5: Financial Literacy across our Products and Services Principles and Initiatives Endorsed and Subscribed to Initiative Target Group Category Goal Subject Area Activity-related Beneficiary Language Information Material Our Group Anti-Money Laundering & Combating the Financing of Terrorism Policy (AML/CFT) Policy meets the principles and Spring Account Youth (18-23 year-olds) All youth Practical access to money and special Promotion Campaigns, Youth Arabic/English Online and brochure requirements set out in the: services sponsorships AML/CFT laws and regulations of the various jurisdictions where Sight Deposit All Low income Saving account and additional benefits Promotion All Arabic/English Online and brochure the Group operates – these are of course mandatory at local level. Account individuals Recognized international industry groups. Schooling Assurance Parents Each age group has Help parents ensure their children's Promotion Parents and children Arabic Brochures The international standards set out by major global correspondent Account its own formula schooling fees banks and their regulators – some are mandatory for Bank Audi sal as per BDL Circular 126. Housing Assurance All All Insure house against accidents Promotion All Arabic Brochures Account Life Assurance All All Insure individuals against accidents Promotion All Arabic Brochures Examples of Initiatives Endorsed by Bank Audi University Studies Parents Youth Insure university studies fees Promotion Youth Arabic Brochures Insurance Cultural festivals Personal Loan All Low-income Assist in spending Promotion All Arabic/English Online and brochure Various business forums individuals Multitude of educational institutions Transparency Banking All All Inform clients about car loans Informative All Arabic/English Online and brochure Tips Roads For Life: post-accident care Grow My Business All Micro businesses Encourage small businesses Promotion Competition and Businessmen Arabic/English Online and brochure Open Mind Fund: community awareness and education, and award winning clinical services for families in need Wedding Account All Newly weds Help newly weds guarantee their future Promotion Newly weds English Online and brochure Himaya: child abuse prevention, rehabilitation, and social Housing Loan All Low-income Help individuals buy houses Promotion All Arabic Online and brochure reintegration of victims individuals Zero Waste ACT: recycling Visa Business Debit All Businessmen Help businessmen control their internal Promotion Businessmen Arabic/English Online and brochure Card spending Children Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL): children’s health care All you need to know All cardholders All Educate cardholders on the evolving Informative All English Online and brochure about “Chip” cards “chip” technology that was introduced Ayadina Association: help for underprivileged children to their card to combat the growing and the elderly levels of fraud Assabil: public library for the underprivileged All you need to know All cardholders All Educate cardholders on the latest Informative All English Online and brochure about “PayPass” “PayPass” contactless payment technology, SOS: children’s orphan village a new feature that makes their purchases much easier since they simply have to tap Injaz: motivational and entrepreneurship their card on a secure reader to pay Heartbeat: children with heart diseases Employee’s guide to Employees All Summarize Bank Audi cards split by chip Comprehensive All English Brochures Brave Heart Fund: children with heart diseases “Chip Cards” type: “Chip & PIN” or “Chip & Signature” Embrace: mental health support My School Pulse: running for a cause Beirut International Marathon: running for a cause 66 67 Appendix 6: Bank Audi's Employee Grievance Mechanism in Employee Handbook 1. Definition A grievance is a complaint related to any type of work situation that causes distress. It includes, but is not limited to, concerns regarding work, working conditions and relationships with colleagues. Examples of grievances may include unresolved conflicts, discrimination, harassment, gross misconduct, etc. 2. Eligibility All employees have the right to file and pursue a grievance. 3. Principles of Grievance Handling Grievance handling initiates a process whereby employees who feel dissatisfied or aggrieved can have their concerns addressed fairly and promptly. Effective and proper use of this procedure aims at: Reassuring staff they are treated fairly Ensuring consistent and standardized practices Avoiding escalation of issues or disagreements Maintaining professional standards of performance All grievances are treated seriously and sensitively with regards to employee confidentiality and privacy, and all efforts are spent to reach a constructive and holistic resolution of the grievance raised. 4. Handling Grievance Issues Immediate supervisors/Managers play a major role in the successful implementation of the grievance resolution procedure and ensure that their employees clearly understand the entire grievance handling process. In line with the above, HR is committed to providing continuous and ongoing support to the parties involved. In the event that their immediate supervisor/Manager is directly involved in the grievance, employees should raise their grievance directly with HR, which will coordinate with the next level of Management. Stage 1: Informal Approach Many grievances arise from simple misunderstandings and can readily be resolved through informal discussions. Employees are thus encouraged to resolve issues informally through open and direct communication with the other party involved, and try to negotiate a satisfactory resolution as quickly as possible. All immediate supervisors/Managers are responsible for encouraging this direct negotiation route and, if possible, supporting it by trying to propose a solution in order to avoid the unnecessary escalation of the grievance. Stage 2: Formal Procedure Should all informal attempts to achieve resolution fail, or if the matter is of a more serious nature, employees should raise the problem with their Relationship Manager (RM) (in consultation with their immediate supervisor/manager), using the “Grievance Notification Form”. In filing a grievance, employees must record the main points of the complaint and highlight how it is affecting them both personally and professionally. The grievance should be reported within a reasonable timeframe, not exceeding 7-10 working days following an incident (except in cases of travel or serious illness). * 1st Meeting On reception of the Grievance Notification form, the RM will formally consider the grievance. A meeting between the RM and the employee who filed the grievance is held privately and confidentially; allowing the employee every opportunity to explain his/her complaint. * 2nd Meeting A second meeting, also held in private, involves the RM and the other employee(s) concerned in the grievance. Based on both meetings, the RM investigates the matter and a detailed report is prepared accordingly. Immediate supervisors/managers are responsible for ensuring that the grievance is fully and fairly investigated. * 3rd Meeting This meeting brings together the RM and all parties involved in the grievance. It is held to discuss the findings of the investigation and its probable results and/or solutions. Depending on the nature and severity of the situation, the RM chooses to take one of the following actions: -M ediation: a semi-formal approach whereby a mediator facilitates discussion between the concerned parties, allowing them to reach a mutual agreement. In these meetings, the immediate supervisor/Manager is involved and the RM assumes the role of the mediator. A final decision regarding the resolution of the grievance is reached. Arbitration: an approach used in emergency situations where the nature of the grievance is very critical. The arbitrator is responsible for reaching a decision regarding the final outcome. In these meetings, the RM assumes the role of the arbitrator and makes the final decision in coordination with the employee’s immediate supervisor/Manager. If the grievance is still not resolved at this stage, or if the employee feels that he/she has not been treated fairly, the grievance may be pursued further at the next level of Management. Acknowledgements Final Stage A final written decision and response, setting out the proposed action to be taken within a set timeframe, is presented to the employee. For this report all departments, branches and numerous individuals have made a significant contribution. We would like to All employees are expected to commit to and abide by the final resolution decided, having been given various chances to resolve the issue both informally and formally. thank them all, as well as employees and stakeholders who have participated in the assessment process, providing feedback Immediate supervisors/Managers, in coordination with the RM, are responsible for ensuring that the agreed upon grievance resolution and its sustained implementation and helping our continuous improvement. We would also like to thank our consultants for their comments and suggestions are achieved. which have contributed to our efforts to integrate best practices in this report. 68 69 The paper used for the print version of this report is from sustainable sources, largely recycled and abides by guidelines for responsible forestry. It is completely biodegradable and recyclable.
