Issue 2015 Balance Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group Innovation – The key to a successful future Contents 1 About this report 2 At a glance 4 The Lufthansa Group / 6 Innovation – The key to a successful future 1/ 16 Sustainable Business Practice 18 Doing business responsibly and sustainably 20 “The environment always flies with us.” – Interview with Carsten Spohr 23 Stakeholder dialogue 26 Corporate governance and compliance 28 Fleet development 31 Sustainability in the procurement process 2/ 32 Climate and Environmental Responsibility 34 Strategy and management 39 Fuel consumption and emissions 50 Energy and resource management 54 Active noise protection 57 Commitment to science 3/ 58 Product Responsibility 60 Safety, health, satisfaction 62 Customer satisfaction 64 Flight safety and health protection 67 Data protection and data security 68 Offsetting carbon emissions 4/ 70 Social Responsibility 72 Seizing the opportunities of change: Thinking the future, meeting new challenges, living out responsibility 74 Interview with Åsa Lautenberg 75 Diversity and equal opportunity 80 Employment policy based on partnership 83 Talent management 88 Employee health and safety protection 5/ 90 Corporate Citizenship 92 Lufthansa Group Social Care – For a culture of shared responsibility 93 Humanitarian emergency aid 95 Social commitment 101 Environmental sponsorship 102 Cultural commitment 103 Sports sponsorship 6/ 104 Service and Information 106 Glossary 112 Editorial information 113 Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology for calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions 114 Most stringent noise standards for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet 115 The operating fleet of the Lufthansa Group 116 Corporate Responsibility: Prizes, awards and indices About this report // 1 Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, informs stakeholders and the interested public about the Group’s goals, activities and advances in the areas of business, social responsibility, environment, product and corporate citizenship. The data presented in this report refer to the financial year 2014. Across the Lufthansa Group, Corporate Additional information on the Internet The Lufthansa Group goes to great Responsibility is understood to comprise the In addition to this report, the Lufthansa lengths to check and update the inforfollowing dimensions: Group also informs readers via the Internet mation it publishes. It cannot, however, about its activities in the area of sustainassume any obligation to adapt forwardEconomic sustainability ability: looking statements to accommodate Corporate governance and compliance events or developments that may occurat Climate and environmental responsibility www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility some later date. Accordingly, it neither Social responsibility expressly nor conclusively accepts liability, Product responsibility Disclaimer in respect of nor does it give any guarantee for the Corporate citizenship forward-looking statements actuality, accuracy and completeness of The data included in this report has been this data and information. Scope of consolidation and comparability collected and processed with the utmost You will find explanations concerning the care. Nevertheless, errors in transmission scope of consolidation and calculation cannot be ruled out entirely. Information methods used to determine the absolute published in this report with regard to the and specific resource consumption at the future development of the Lufthansa Lufthansa Group on page 113. Due to Group and its subsidiaries consists purely changes in the portfolio over the past of forecasts and assessments and not of years, the figures for personnel and envidefinitive historical facts. Its purpose is ronmental performance cited in this report exclusively informational, identified by the are only to a limited extent comparable with use of such cautionary terms as believe, those reported for previous years. There expect, forecast, intend, project, plan, are also certain differences in approach estimate, count on, or endeavor. These compared to the Annual Report when forward-looking statements are based on calculating passenger numbers and their all the discernible information, facts and derivative performance indicators (see expectations available at the time. They explanations relating to the overview on can, therefore, only claim validity up to page 2, At a glance). the date of their publication. As forward1 Taken from the Annual Report 2014 of the Lufthansa looking statements are by nature subject Group. 2 Previous year‘s figures have been adjusted due Publication dates of this report to uncertainties and imponderable risk to IFRS 11. 3 For the reporting year 2014, the following companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Susfactors – such as changes in underlying (including Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti and Eurowings), tainability Report, is published once economic conditions – and rest on Germanwings, Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss (including Edelweiss a year in German and in English. The assumptions that may not or divergently Air) and Austrian Airlines. Excluding the services of third parties as Lufthansa can influence neither performance preceding edition was published at occur, it is possible that the Group’s actual nor the equipment operated (see also table “Share of the end of June 2014. results and development may differ matethird parties“ on page 44). 4 Types of flights taken into account: all scheduled and charter flights. 5 See also table rially from those implied by the forecasts. “Fuel consumption“ on page 44. 6 Balance: segments (operational perspective); Annual Report: Distance (customer perspective). One distance can include several segments, e.g. in the event of stops en route. 7 Balance: on the basis of all passengers aboard; Annual Report: on the basis of all revenue passengers. 8 Companies referred to as in 3, but including the services of third parties, as these contribute to the Group’s results. Types of flights as in 4, but including ferry flights, as these represent costs. At a glance // 2 Business performance data 1 2014 2013 2 Change Revenue million € 30,011 30,027 – 0.1 % of which traffic revenue million € 24,388 24,568 – 0.7 % Operating result million € 954 699 + 36.5 % Profit/loss from operating activities million € 767 851 – 9.9 % Net profit/loss for the period million € 55 313 – 82.4 % Total assets million € 30,474 29,108 + 4.7 % Cash flow from operating activities million € 1,977 3,290 – 39.9 % Capital expenditure (gross) million € 2,777 2,499 + 11.1 % Equity ratio percent 13.2 21.0 – 7.8 PP Personnel data 2014 2013 Change Number of employees (on December 31, respectively) 118,781 118,285 2 + 0.4 % of these, in Germany 67,155 66,866 + 0.4 % of these, outside Germany 51,626 51,419 + 0.4 % Staff costs million € 7,335 7,356 2 – 0.3 % Revenue/employee thousand € 252 256 – 1.4 % Staff costs/revenue percent 24.4 24.5 – 0.1 PP Average age years 42.3 41.9 + 0.4 years Part-time ratio, absolute percent 28.0 28.1 – 0.1 PP Part-time ratio, men percent 14.3 14.1 + 0.2 PP Part-time ratio, women percent 45.0 45.6 – 0.6 PP Share of women in management (Germany) percent 16.0 16.7 – 0.7 PP Share of women in management (worldwide) percent 14.2 14.5 – 0.3 PP Environmental data 3, 4 2014 2013 Change Resource consumption Fuel consumption 5 tonnes 8,825,774 8,764,774 + 0.7 % Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation l /100 pkm 3.84 3.91 – 1.6 % Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport g / tkm 221 223 – 0.8 % Emissions Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 27,801,092 27,609,039 + 0.7 % Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation kg /100 pkm 9.69 9.84 – 1.6 % Nitrogen oxide emissions tonnes 132,257 131,091 + 0.9 % Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 45.8 46.7 – 2.0 % Carbon monoxide emissions tonnes 19,251 18,976 + 1.5 % Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 7.3 7.4 – 1.9 % Unburned hydrocarbons tonnes 1,952.5 1,990.8 – 1.9 % Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation g /100 pkm 0.7 0.7 – 3.6 % Transport performance data Balance 3, 4 ± 2013 Annual Report 8 ± 2013 Flights 6 953,669 – 1.5 % 1,001,975 – 2.6 % Passengers carried 7 104,018,126 + 1.3 % 105,988,268 + 1.3 % Freight and mail carried tonnes 1,920,328 – 2.2 % 1,923,529 – 2.1 % Seat kilometers offered, SKO million pkm 266,397 + 2.6 % 268,105 + 2.1 % Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO million tkm 14,310 – 1.7 % 14,659 – 1.6 % Tonne kilometers offered, TKO million tkm 40,917 + 1.8 % 41,548 + 0.8 % Passenger kilometers transported, PKT 7 million pkm 219,372 + 2.8 % 214,641 + 2.4 % Freight tonne kilometers transported (incl. third-party performance), FTKT million tkm 9,408 + 0.1 % 10,249 – 0.4 % Tonne kilometers transported, TKT million tkm 31,408 + 1.9 % 31,308 + 1.4 % Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 3 Dear Readers, During the production phase of this Sustainability Report, the tragic accident involving one of our Germanwings aircraft occurred on March 24, 2015. We immediately did everything in “After safety it is future our power to assist the family members of the accident victims quickly and unbureaucratically at that terrible time. And we continue to do so today. The suffering caused by this tragviability that has the edy is immeasurable. For us, March 24 marked a break in the history of our Company. Even highest priority for us.” though we are now looking ahead again, it will still take a long time for us to work through the shock caused by the worst accident since the foundation of the new Lufthansa. In the aviation industry, we have always learned from accidents and have taken measures to make flying even safer. This is what we have done in this situation as well. Safety remains our highest priority. We will continue to strengthen our leading position in air safety by further developing our safety structures, even if Group-wide we currently score significantly above the legally required standards. After safety it is future viability that has the highest priority for us. In the reporting year 2014, we defined seven central action fields by means of our strategic program “7to1 – Our way forward” and thus created the basis for a sustainable improvement of results and a successful evolution of the Lufthansa Group. For us, entrepreneurial responsibility means not only cultural and social commitment, but above all future-oriented action. With this program, we Carsten Spohr also set the course for an even more climate-compatible form of air transport. And this is paying off. Last year, our passenger airlines needed only 3.84 liters of kerosene on average to carry one passenger over a distance of 100 kilometers – a new efficiency record! We continuously invest in environmentally friendly technologies and currently have 272 quiet and highly efficient aircraft on order (as of December 31, 2014). In early 2015, we received the “Eco-Airline of the Year” award for the second time for our role as a front-runner in the area of climate protection. Environmental and climate protection are a central part of our entrepreneurial responsibility. With our membership in the UN Global Compact, we pledge ourselves further to the principle of sustainable entrepreneurial leadership that aims at enabling people to achieve a shared performance and to react to changes by means of shared values, goals and structures as well as training and continuing education. In this context, we have also evolved our personnel strategy. Through new instruments and processes, we wish to ensure that we will have the very finest employees on board in future as well. And in the area of corporate citizenship, to address a remaining important area, we will focus much more strongly than before on social issues. You will find more in-depth information about these and other subjects in this issue of Balance. The special section “Innovation Management” leads this year’s report. It gives you a well-founded overview of one of our most important action fields, which is closely associated with our commitment to applying sustainable principles. I wish you a sustainably captivating read. Carsten Spohr Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO Deutsche Lufthansa AG www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility The Lufthansa Group At a glance The Lufthansa Group is the world’s leading aviation group. The Company’s portfolio comprises network airlines, low-cost airlines and aviation service companies. In the financial year 2014, the Company was organized in five business segments: Passenger Airline Group, Logistics, MRO, Catering and, until the end of 2014, IT Services. Each of these business segments occupies a leading position in its respective market. Overall, the Lufthansa Group includes about 540 subsidiaries and equity investments. www.lufthansagroup.com North America 367 weekly frequencies At a glance to 22 destinations in 2 countries Cologne Corporate headquarters Passenger Airline Group 118,781 flight destinations employees* Frequencies per week by Lufthansa German Airlines, Swiss and Austrian Airlines 143 nationalities* 105.9 million passengers in 2014 Central and South America Frankfurt, 63 weekly frequencies to 8 destinations Munich, Zurich, in 7 countries Vienna, Brussels hubs 615 aircraft in the fleet* > 1.9 million tonnes freight/mail in 2014 * as of December 31, 2014 A day in the life of the Lufthansa Group 2,745 1,700 takeoffs/landings aircraft are maintained a day by us every day. 290,379 1.6 million passengers a day meals a day 5,270 tonnes of freight a day Asia / Pacific Europe 261 weekly frequencies 7,405 weekly frequencies to 24 destinations to 160 destinations in 11 countries in 42 countries The business segments of the Lufthansa Group Middle East 184 weekly Passenger Airline Group frequencies The largest business segment is the Passenger Airline Group. All Lufthansa Group airlines position themselves as to 15 desinations quality carriers within their respective industry segments. Africa in 11 countries 140 weekly frequencies to 21 destinations in 13 countries Lufthansa Germanwings Eurowings Swiss www.LH.com www.germanwings.com www.eurowings.com www.swiss.com Austrian Airlines Brussels Airlines SunExpress www.austrian.com (equity investment: 45 %) (equity investment: 50 %) www.brusselsairlines.com www.sunexpress.com Logistics The Lufthansa Cargo AG, headquartered in Frankfurt, is one of the leading providers of services for standard, express and special freight worldwide. The company offers a comLufthansa Cargo AG AeroLogic prehensive route network with more than 300 destinations in (equity investment: 50 %) about 100 countries. www.lufthansa-cargo.com MRO Catering The Lufthansa Technik AG, headquartered in Hamburg, is LSG Sky Chefs is the largest provider worldwide of serthe world market leader in the areas of MRO of passenger vices in the area of airline catering and in-flight manageaircraft. Its product offering ranges from the repair of a ment. The Group’s parent company, LSG Lufthansa Service single component to global maintenance support for an Holding AG, is headquartered in Neu-Isenburg. entire fleet of aircraft. www.lufthansa-technik.com www.lsgskychefs.com 6 // Innovation – The key to a successful future Innovation – The key to a successful future The Lufthansa Group is making a concerted effort to make flying even more efficient, sustainable and attractive. The automobile, the aircraft, the Internet – each of these innovations has changed the world. The word innovation is derived from the Latin verb innovare and means renewal and change. Without innovation and research, there can be no progress. Ideas become innovations when they evolve into new products, services, processes or business procedures that permeate the market and perceptibly change it. In the digital era, the ability to innovate is more than ever a basic prerequisite for economic success. For a Company such as the Lufthansa Group, that means thinking and acting strategically in a highly competitive environment. As we do so, new materials, technologies and innovations offer significant opportunities to make the services we provide our customers even more attractive and ecologically efficient. The ability to identify trends and customer needs early on and to develop corresponding new services will become ever more important in future. Therefore, innovations secure the Group’s competitiveness and guarantee its future viability. @ 8 // Innovation – The key to a successful future 92 innovation projects competed in 2014 for the Lufthansa Group’s first-ever internal Innovator Award. 500 million euros Innovation@Lufthansa Group are to be invested by the Lufthansa Group by 2020 for internal and external The Lufthansa Group has a proven track record innovations. of turning new ideas into successful products and services. Yet innovation management is to receive even greater importance in future. The goal: To be the industry’s pacesetter. To secure the Lufthansa Group’s competitiveness, to guarantee its future viability and to expand its position in the growing market “For us, innovation means thinking and of civil aviation, the Company has launched the strategic program acting strategically in an extremely com“7to1 – Our way forward”. One of the seven key action areas defined by this internal initiative is “Innovation and digitalization”. The petitive environment. That is something campaign aims to make the Lufthansa Group the benchmark again we’ve done before very successfully, as and thus the first choice in aviation for customers, employees, the foundation of the Star Alliance and shareholders and partners. the very first formations of joint ventures Group-wide, the aviation company will invest 500 million euros in the airline industry show.” by 2020 in innovations aimed at further improving products and services. For example, a newly-established innovation fund, endowed with a double-digit million euro amount, is to help ideas take flight in the future. An expert committee of top managers can allocate up to 500,000 euros per project in an unbureaucratic way to ensure that especially promising ideas are able to progress especially swiftly. For the Lufthansa Group, innovation means both Sadiq Gillani aligning its internal culture appropriately and incorporating imSenior Vice President, Group Strategy pulses from the outside. It is particularly important in this context Deutsche Lufthansa AG to correctly structure and steer innovations within the Company. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 9 How we strengthen the innovative force across the Company: How we channel external impulses into the Lufthansa Group: To coordinate the numerous innovation-related activities within In September 2014, the Lufthansa Group opened an Innovation the Company and to develop even more new ideas, the Lufthansa Hub in Berlin to move closer to the world of start-ups and the Group has set up a cross-business segment Innovation Unit digital technology scene. The new hub’s task is to feed addiwithin its Group Strategy Department. This unit also ensures that tional impulses into the Group and above all to develop digital existing projects are advanced and supported in a concentrated contents for products, services and processes along the entire and consistent manner. air travel chain (see page 14). In 2014, the Lufthansa Group presented its ﬁrst-ever Innovator Additionally, the Lufthansa Group is establishing close cooperaAward. The innovation prize not only promotes the spirit of tions and partnerships in Silicon Valley. They are designed to innovation within the Company but is also an important building help gain access to future-oriented ideas. block for establishing a Group-wide innovation network. Award categories were preset as follows: Sustainability, Efﬁciency, Customer Orientation, Partner Solutions, and a Special Jury Prize. All employees were able to vote in the preliminary phase; after that an expert jury examined the ideas entered “Strengthening the culture of change by 14 business segments. In 2015, the Innovator Award will is an important building block for proenter its second edition. moting innovations within the Lufthansa A recognizable symbol for the growing culture of innovation at Group. Good ideas must prevail. We’re the Lufthansa Group is the Red Box. In 2014, it made its way laying the foundations for this through around the Company for several months to make the topic of the Innovation Fund, the Innovator innovation within the Group even more visible. Each time the Award and other platforms.” mysterious box was opened as a part of an event, it revealed a groundbreaking development from within the Lufthansa Group, such as the environmentally friendly TaxiBot system (see page 11). At the same time, an exhibit provided information on 20 successful innovations from various Lufthansa Group companies. Further building blocks of innovation management are the InnovaDoris Krüger tion Lunch, Innovation Days and digital platforms. Director Group Innovation Unit Deutsche Lufthansa AG 10 // Innovation – The key to a successful future From “sharkskin” to TaxiBot: Innovations at Lufthansa Technik When it comes to innovation within the Lufthansa Group, Lufthansa Technik plays an important role through its participation in numerous research and development projects. Innovation is part of everyday business for the world’s leading provider of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) services. To implement more innovations between now and 2018, the Executive Board of Lufthansa Technik has approved a budget of 200 million euros, as part of the 500-million-euro Group-wide package. To date the engineering specialist already has about 70 new projects in the pipeline. The focus is on innovation that provides both economic and ecological advantages, as the following examples illustrate. 01 Learning from nature: “Sharkskin” for aircraft In the framework of the research project FAMOS, Lufthansa 70 Technik – together with its partners Bremer Werk für Montagesysteme (bwm) and Airbus – is working to develop a highly automated system to clean, strip, paint and apply new research projects low-drag aircraft surfaces by 2017. According to the latest are being planned at Lufthansa Technik. findings, these surfaces, which are modeled on the surface structure of sharkskin, can lead to fuel savings of around one percent. Hence they lower operating costs and reduce the burden on the environment. If the paintbased riblet-structured surface coating proves marketable, it will be a quantum leap for civil aviation in terms of fuel efficiency and environmental friendliness. In an earlier project, the experts of Lufthansa Technik tested and proved the durability of technically simulated sharkskin under operating conditions on the fuselages and the wing leading edges of two Lufthansa Airbus A340-300s. 02 Improved aerodynamics: Vortex generators reduce noise emissions Besides the sharkskin coating, Lufthansa Technik has set in motion several other aerodynamic improvements aimed at reducing kerosene consumption and noise emissions while flying. Since fall 2014, the Company has fitted Lufthansa’s Airbus A319, A320 and A321 aircraft with noise-reducing vortex generators in front of the circular fuel-tank pressure equalization vents on the underside of the wings. These components are based on research results produced by the Lufthansa Group and the German Aerospace Center (DLR) (see page 54, Active noise protection). In addition, Lufthansa Technik is developing vortex generators for the upper wing surface. These are likewise to be used for refitting Airbus A320 aircraft. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 11 04 03 Cyclean®: The revolution in engine washes Environmentally sound solutions: Cyclean® Engine Wash, developed by Lufthansa Technik, Taxiing and towing with electrical power is a particularly efficient way to clean aircraft engines. In Lufthansa Technik is ahead of the game in the area of this way, airlines can save about 0.5 percent of their keroelectrically-powered mobility as well. Given the enorsene requirements. The water-based procedure can now mous ecological and economic savings potentials, the be used at temperatures down to minus ten degrees company has been researching alternative power conCelsius. In a parallel move, Lufthansa Technik is researchcepts for aircraft movements on the ground since 2008. ing the use of alternative blasting materials, such as CO2 The goal is to significantly reduce an aircraft’s kerosene dry ice pellets, to make engine cleanings possible in consumption and thus its emissions of CO2 and noise permafrost regions as well. Lufthansa Technik also offers a during taxiing and towing at airports. To this end the dry washing method for aircraft fuselages using a cleaning hybrid aircraft tug TaxiBot, which was developed with paste; this alternative takes more effort than wet washes extensive support from Lufthansa Technik and its subsidbut consumes significantly fewer natural resources. iary Lufthansa LEOS, has been deployed in real flight operations at Frankfurt Airport ever since its certification by the European Aviation Safety Authority (EASA) (see page 50, Energy and resource management). “Our capacity for innovation gives us enormous drive. It is getting room to 05 develop, so that we can offer our clients DishwashAir: The flying dishwasher added value through new products. In DishwashAir is the name of a new minimal-water-conthis way, we have created all the presumption dishwasher specially designed for use aboard requisites for further growth.” passenger aircraft. Developed by a consortium headed by Lufthansa Technik, this innovation lets airlines load only as much cutlery and dishware aboard aircraft as is actually needed for in-flight service. The appliance, which is equipped with complex safety mechanisms, allows the crew to wash a load of dirty dishes and cutlery in only six minutes with a mere three liters of water. The first VIP Dr. Helge Sachs clients of Lufthansa Technik have already decided in favor Head of Corporate Innovation of installing the DishwashAir aboard their aircraft. Management and Product Development Lufthansa Technik AG 12 // Innovation – The key to a successful future Tapping the green potential of flying All business segments and companies within the Lufthansa Group continuously work to develop innovative technologies and concepts that reduce the environmental effects of their business activities at all levels. In this way, the Group companies have already set numerous pioneering developments in motion. Here is a selection: 01 Even higher fuel efficiency One of the Lufthansa Group’s most important goals is to use the kerosene it needs as efficiently as possible and to fly into the future in environmentally friendly ways. The Group has bundled all measures serving to 02 improve fuel efficiency together in a special departEn route to the paperless cockpit ment. Fuel Efficiency’s interdisciplinary team of experts Lufthansa German Airlines, Lufthansa CityLine and works on identifying and utilizing economic and ecoLufthansa Cargo first equipped their pilots with in-house logical savings potentials. With all its fuel efficiency innodeveloped Electronic Flight Bags (EFBs) as long ago as vations and projects, the Company is aiming to save 1999. In 2006, further development was begun on an EFB about 148 million euros by the end of 2015 (see page to be used during all flight phases. These “electronic 39, Fuel consumption and emissions). pilot’s cases” have since largely replaced route maps and technical manuals weighing several kilos in the cockpit. At the end of October 2014, the rollout of the EFB’s third generation, called EFB 2.2, was initiated. This project provides the necessary infrastructure aboard aircraft and on the crews’ new tablets to digitalize all processes and with time to introduce the fully paperless cockpit. EFB 2.2 is part of the e-Enabling Program, in which Lufthansa coordinates a number of individual projects and innovations in the area of digitalization. 03 Pioneering achievements for alternative fuels Alternative fuels with a significantly lower net carbon footprint are an important building block in reducing emissions sustainably. In 2011, Lufthansa became the first airline worldwide to test the use of biosynthetic fuel in routine operations as part of a long-term study. On September 15, 2014, the Company laid the next milestone: Lufthansa flight LH190 from Frankfurt to Berlin’s Tegel airport was the first European scheduled flight to run on a 10 percent blend of the new sugar-based biofuel component “Farnesan”. Alongside this step forward, the Lufthansa Group is committed to many other future-oriented projects that focus on alternative fuels. (see page 39, Fuel consumption and emissions). Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 13 04 Ever-lighter containers and pallets In 2014, Lufthansa Cargo completed the replacement of its more than 5,500 standard aluminum freight containers with a nearly 14-kilogram lighter version made from composite materials. To conserve even more 05 kerosene, the company and its subsidiary Jettainer, Crunching numbers for the environment together with partners from business and science, are Swiss has developed a new process to optimally advancing the development of the next generation of calculate the daily arrival times of its long-haul flights in lightweight containers and pallets. Tomorrow’s standard Zurich. Both its passengers and the environment benefit lightweight pallets are expected to weigh as much as from this procedure: Not only do 10 percent more pas25 percent less than their predecessors, which tip the sengers reach their connecting flights, but the airline also scales at about 100 kilos each. Should the current test conserves about 500 tonnes of kerosene and avoids series yield positive results, the first standard pallets about 1,500 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. This could be replaced at the end of 2015. leading-edge process received a Lufthansa Group Innovator Award in 2014. 06 Clean as a whistle With Waliclean, Austrian Airlines has revolutionized the cleaning of low-pressure toilet systems: A solution of citric acid and warm water circulates at low pressure through an aircraft’s wastewater system. The flushed water can be conveniently disposed of via the public sewage system. This new method eliminates the purchase, storage and disposal of special cleaning fluids as well as an involved cleaning process. The airline received the Environmental Award of the City of Vienna for this innovation. 14 // Innovation – The key to a successful future Digital innovations for a perfect travel experience Innovative developments – and above all digitalization – produce ever more new services along the entire air travel chain, further enhancing the travel experience. In the front line of innovation: the Lufthansa Group. Apps, electronic baggage receipts, in-ﬂight entertainment and super-fast WiFi are only a few examples of such improvements. A clear advantage for passengers, who beneﬁt from the wide variety of new digital innovations. 01 Ideas for the future: The Innovation Hub To ﬁnd responses to the digital era’s rapid market changes is the task of the new Innovation Hub. Comprising internal and external employees with start-up experience, the Lufthansa Group founded the Hub in 2014 in Berlin. The Hub’s team – together with partners – has the speciﬁc 02 aim of advancing the development of digital contents Standardized reservations: The airline.com program for products, services and processes along the service In the future, airline.com will give passengers access to chain from reservation to arrival. Among the other objecthe Lufthansa Group’s entire offer of ﬂights and additional tives for these creative thinkers is to ensure that the products via a digital marketplace in a personalized Group identiﬁes future customer needs and trends at an format. In addition to the sales process, digital service early stage and participates in shaping them. The longprocesses such as Group-wide check-in and rebooking term goal: Each traveler is to come into contact during will be further simpliﬁed. Lufthansa German Airlines, his or her trip with a product initiated by the Innovation Swiss, Austrian Airlines and Brussels Airlines will particiHub – and this worldwide. The Hub’s team also counts pate in this Group-wide program. on external partners: Start-ups can use the internet page http://hub.lh.com to propose their ideas for cooperating with the Lufthansa Group. 03 Personalized offers: The SMILE program New technologies and social media are increasingly changing passengers’ expectations. Lufthansa has launched the SMILE program to view its own processes and products more intensively from a customer perspective and to move the holistic passenger experience more to the fore. The aim is to serve and exceed changed customer needs with personalized products, services and communications and thus create added value for passengers over the long-term. The goal is to make Lufthansa the leading customer-centered airline. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 15 04 Lightweight and wireless: The in-flight entertainment Lufthansa is equipping its long-haul fleet with the new in-flight entertainment system RAVE. Depending on the 05 type of aircraft, the airline saves 30 to 40 percent of Faster than everybody else: weight when compared with previous on-board enterThe WLAN access from Lufthansa Technik tainment systems. This reduces kerosene consumption Lufthansa Technik has developed the fastest WLAN and CO2 emissions correspondingly. Additionally, a access in civil aviation. It takes full advantage of the wireless in-flight entertainment system will initially be performance of latest-generation computers, tablets installed on 20 selected medium-haul aircraft, making and smartphones. Additionally, integrated antennas entertainment contents available on the passengers’ own reduce cabling and thus installation work. The first of devices by means of WLAN streaming. This system is Lufthansa’s Airbus A321s have already been equipped based on Lufthansa Systems’ BoardConnect entertainwith this access, so that customers on shortand ment product, which received the Crystal Cabin Award, medium-haul routes can use their own mobile devices and for which Lufthansa Technik specifically developed to watch movies, for example. At the Aircraft Interiors and certified parts. Expo 2014, Lufthansa Technik received the Crystal Cabin Award as well as a Lufthansa Group Innovator Award for this WLAN access. “Quality, efficiency and innovation are the prerequisites for our future success. We want to be pacesetters among the competition rather than follow others. To achieve this, the Lufthansa Group needs to identify trends earlier than the 06 competition.” Saving printing and paper: The electronic baggage receipt Since October 2014, Lufthansa has offered its customers electronic baggage receipts, a move that has advantages for both sides. The airline saves printing and paper costs, while passengers benefit from greater convenience when checking in baggage. Thus, electronic baggage receipts give quick access to additional serAlexander Schlaubitz vices, such as baggage tracking and information in the Vice President Marketing event of delayed delivery. Deutsche Lufthansa AG Sustainable Business Practice Sustainable business practices are firmly anchored in our Company strategy. We actively seek an open dialogue with our stakeholder groups to jointly shape the future. 7 500 272 action fields comprise our new strategic million euros to be invested in innovations quiet and efficient aircraft to join the program “7to1 – Our way forward”. by the Lufthansa Group by 2020. Group fleet between 2015 and 2025. 18 // Sustainable Business Practice Doing business responsibly and sustainably The Lufthansa Group assumes its entrepreneurial responsibility in a comprehensive manner. It has set itself the goal of conducting business across all areas according to sustainable and responsible principles and thus securing its future viability. Sustainability – along with corporate value creation, market leadership and customer satisfaction – is an important pillar of the Lufthansa Group’s strategy. Social developments and megatrends At the same time, environmental protection Risk and opportunity influence the business activities and the sustainability agenda of the Lufthansa is also becoming even more important in the face of climate change and the growing management Group in significant ways. scarcity of resources. To secure economic success, the Lufthansa The Lufthansa Group meets these chalGroup identifies risks and opportunities lenges with a comprehensive sustainability relevant for its business at an early stage agenda. It comprises the following action and at regular intervals – and incorporates Among the present and fields of entrepreneurial responsibility: them into the process of steering the Comfuture challenges figure pany. The management of risks and opportunities is integrated into all business proEconomic sustainability not only global populaCorporate governance and compliance cesses. This allows the Company to be tion growth, increasing (see page 26), prepared for positive and negative influmobility and demoClimate and environmental responsibility (see page 32), ences, so that it can react in a proactive and flexible manner (see from page 100, graphic changes, but Social responsibility (see page 70) Annual Report 2014). also the trend towards Product responsibility (see page 58) service-based societies, Corporate citizenship (see page 90). the spread of the InterBy maintaining memberships in the UN Sustainability paramenet and people’s rising Global Compact, the International Chamber ters part and parcel of need for security. of Commerce, Transparency International, the German Network for Business Ethics variable remuneration and in various institutions supporting individual aspects of human rights, the Group At the Lufthansa Group, the remuneration specifically acknowledges its intent to of members of the Executive Board and respect the standards set by each of these managers is tied to the Company’s sustainorganizations and thus human rights as able success. Therefore, the variable part well (see page 27, Balance 2014). of remuneration is also influenced by sustainability parameters such as environmental protection, customer satisfaction and employee commitment (see page 132, Annual Report 2014). Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 19 Strategic program In July 2014, the Lufthansa Group launched its new strategic program “7to1 – Our way forward”. It aligns the Company with the requirements of the future by depicting the most important higher-level fields of action for its successful further development: The 10 principles of the towards a globally unique integrated aviation group that generates important synerUN Global Compact gies from its broad setup and thus creates added value for its customers, employees, The Lufthansa Group is committed to the principles of the UN Global shareholders and partners. The goal is to Compact, the largest initiative worldwide for responsible corporate management. In 2002 Lufthansa was the first aviation company to make the Lufthansa Group the first choice become a member of the initiative that had been set up two years earlier for its stakeholders and to live up to these by the then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan. ambitious standards for many years to come (see from page 24, Annual Report The participating companies have agreed to align their business activities 2014). and strategies with ten universally accepted principles: To achieve this goal, the Group has identiHuman rights fied seven fields of action covering three Businesses should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence and thematic areas of focus: continuous quality make sure their own corporations are not indirectly linked to human improvement, efficiency and the ability to rights abuses. innovate. At the same time, these fields of action ensure the Lufthansa Group’s future Labor viability while taking into account the key Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective success factors of financial stability, market recognition of the right to collective bargaining; position and average fleet age: eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; effectively abolish child labor; and 1. Customer centricity and quality focus eliminate any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2. New concepts for growth Environment 3. Innovation and digitalization Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 4. Effective and lean organization challenges; 5. Culture and leadership undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 6. Value-based steering and 7. Constantly improving efficiency encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. www.unglobalcompact.org 20 // Sustainable Business Practice “The environment always flies with us.” Interview with Carsten Spohr, Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO Deutsche Lufthansa AG Mr. Spohr, a year ago you presented me to take advantage of the innovation history of our Group. Every day we test the strategic program “7to1 – Our way potential of the entire Group. This is why we anew what we could do better, such as forward”. In which of these action fields created a number of new internal formats reducing aircraft weight. In our initiative is the topic of sustainability to be found? last year, including the Innovator Award. “Fly Greener” we’re investigating how we Sustainability is actually present in all seven Ninety-two pioneering projects from eleven might avoid even more waste on board. action fields. Here’s an example: Over the countries were presented to the jury last We’ve developed lightweight freight connext five years we will invest 500 million year. It was quite impressive to see what tainers, onboard trolleys and a wireless euros across the Group in innovations. As our employees produced! entertainment system. All of this saves a result, we will be making flying even more weight, conserves kerosene and reduces efficient, more environmentally compatible What role do climate and the environCO2 emissions. We get better every year. and more attractive. Innovations also help ment play in the daily business of an Our new long-haul aircraft, the A350-900s us break into new markets. I’m thinking airline? and Boeing 777-9Xs to be delivered to us here for example of Lufthansa Technik’s At Lufthansa, the environment always flies in the years ahead, will consume less than new procedures for efficient engine washes with us. So far, our employees have develthree liters per 100 passenger kilometers. or the research projects in which the airoped over 1,300 ideas and projects for And a lot has changed at Lufthansa Cargo craft surfaces with structures modeled on boosting fuel efficiency. Our specialists in as well: Our freight airline now flies five sharkskin were developed. the areas of aerodynamics, flight operanew Boeing 777Fs. These freighters are tions and network planning are all on a especially efficient and quiet. This gives our Or think of the dynamic developments in highly innovative path here. The figures customers yet another reason to rely on the the area of digitalization. These are opendemonstrate this as well. We established services of Lufthansa Cargo. And for people ing up entirely new opportunities for comanother round of record lows in fuel conliving near airports that is a perceptible, or municating with our customers. In future, sumption last year. Our passenger fleets better an audible relief. we would like to enthuse our passengers now only need 3.84 liters of kerosene per with a broad spectrum of digital services passenger and 100 kilometers on average. Are there also environmental measures along the entire service chain and offer In other words, we were able to reduce the taken on the ground? them a perfect travel experience. It was specific kerosene consumption by another Indeed there are. At our largest hub in from this point of view that we founded our 1.6 percent compared with the year before. Frankfurt we’ve launched together with Berlin-based “Innovation Hub” in SeptemAnd we are continuing our investments in partners a number of projects in the elecber 2014. When it comes to developing fuel efficiency – more intensively than ever. tromobile handling of aircraft. We currently new ideas, we’re counting on close links have three “TaxiBots” in operation. With with the global start-up scene so strongly At the moment, we’re carrying out the these hybrid aircraft tugs, our pilots can tow present there. It is especially important for largest fleet modernization program in the their aircraft all the way to the runway with Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 21 The essence of “7to1 – Our way forward” is to expand the strengths of the service companies while openly identifying and harnessing the improvement potentials in the passenger business. In a parallel move all current initiatives, such as the successfully established steering logic of SCORE, are being transferred into the new strategic program. The future-oriented SCORE program, which was launched in 2012 and is scheduled to run through 2015, has served to utilize synergies within the Group, lower costs, increase revenues and optimize processes. the engines turned off – without emissions European Sky, one of Europe’s largest and noise. In the case of our office builclimate protection projects. Unfortunately, dings or our training center in Seeheim, there hasn’t been any progress worth we’ve also paid attention to obtaining the mentioning for 20 years. We’ve just reiterNew concept for valuehighest-possible levels of energy efficiency. ated – together with other airline CEOs – our demand in Brussels to accelerate and based management: What do you think? How important will to realign the implementation of a standardEACC replaces CVA the topic of sustainability be for the ized air space over Europe. Shorter and aviation industry in the future? more direct flight routings without unneSince 1999, the Lufthansa Group’s corpoThe worldwide need for mobility increases cessary detours could reduce the CO2 rate management has been guided by the year after year – in 2014 alone, passenger emissions of European air transport by ten goal of increasing the Company’s value numbers rose by 5.9 percent. Sustainabilpercent a year. sustainably and thus across industry cycles. ity, climate protection and environmental This approach has become an integral part responsibility are becoming ever more And what significance will sustainability of all planning, steering and control procesimportant because of this growth. As the have for the Lufthansa Group in the ses. Since the introduction of this valueworld’s largest aviation group, we are an future? oriented management system, the Lufthansa essential part of this development. With I’m convinced that only a sustainable way of Group has used Cash Value Added (CVA) innovative products, we want to set new steering our Company will secure our longas the main performance indicator. In order standards and to make our contribution term success. But the basic condition for all to anchor this value-based orientation even toward an environmentally compatible of our activities is economic success. I’ll more firmly in the Company, Earnings After type of air transport in the future. repeat it here as well: After safety, it’s future Cost of Capital (EACC) replaced CVA as the viability that has the highest priority for us. main performance indicator at the beginning The largest lever available to us is the of the financial year 2015 (see from page investment in new technologies as aircraft 30, Annual Report 2014). The calculation of will continue to depend on the use of EACC is less complex and thus more readily kerosene for the foreseeable future. The comprehensible for all stakeholder groups. aviation industry has set itself ambitious EACC therefore reflects shareholder fuel efficiency goals. We are all doing a lot demands for an appropriate return on capito reach these. But I also recognize the tal and sustainable increases in the value of responsibility of policy makers to create the Company now and in the future. the necessary framework of conditions. For example, by implementing the Single 22 // Sustainable Business Practice Materiality analysis external experts in order to reveal weak Awards for commitment points and to explore further potentials for optimization. to sustainability In order to strike a balance between key fields of action in the area of sustainability from the stakeholder and Company perFurthermore, LSG Sky Chefs commisExternal experts and rating agencies again spectives respectively, the Lufthansa Group sioned a team within the Group-wide talent honored the Lufthansa Group’s commitconducted its second survey of interest management program “explorers” to evalment to sustainability in 2014. For example, group representatives at the beginning of uate some of its worldwide activities with the Company was again represented in the 2014. It thus gained important insights with regard to corporate responsibility and to sustainability indices FTSE4Good and regard to the sense of responsibility within develop an action plan. The basis for this Ethibel Excellence Investment Register. In the Company and the further development work were an international stakeholder addition, the Lufthansa Group is listed on of its sustainability agenda. For example, survey and best-practice examples from the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excelagainst the backdrop of demographic inside and outside the Lufthansa Group. lence Europe, which comprises European change, the stakeholders advocated that A senior management team selected focus companies that received top grades in the management place even greater emphasis topics adapted to the catering business area of corporate responsibility. In 2014, on training, continuing education (see page segment from the suggestions made by the Group managed again to achieve an 83) and work-life integration (see page 79) the explorers team. These topics are now improved evaluation from the Carbon Disin future. Moreover, the Group had the being further developed. closure Project (CDP) compared with the impulses from this survey analyzed by year before. Similarly, oekom research, a globally leading rating agency in the market for sustainable investments, awarded the Lufthansa Group its Prime Status as a particularly sustainable company. Since June 1, 2015, the Group has also been part of the MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series. In addition, the companies of the Lufthansa Group received numerous prizes and awards in the course of the reporting year – including several with regard to corporate responsibility (see cover page, Corporate Responsibility: Prizes, awards and indices). “The insights we gained from our materiality analysis give us important impulses for future areas of emphasis in our corporate responsibility activities. The dialogue with our stakeholders is an important building block in this process.” Astrid Messmer Rodriguez Director Segments, Group Strategy Deutsche Lufthansa AG Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 23 Stakeholder dialogue The Lufthansa Group actively seeks an ongoing exchange with its numerous stakeholder groups with the goal of incorporating their experiences, expectations and wishes into its business practices and principles. Besides customers, employees, shareholders and suppliers, the aviation company’s stakeholder list includes legislators, municipalities, neighbors, NGOs and scientific researchers. In 2014, the Company also carried out a programs for the Lufthansa partner The basis for the diaqualitative stakeholder survey, which prouniversities, people living near the airport, logue with stakeholder vided important impulses for the further development of its sustainability agenda. citizen’s initiatives, associations and research institutions. In 2014 alone, the groups on the subject Below is a selection of activities in 2014/15: Lufthansa visitors’ service organized 481 of sustainability is the events for 4,833 guests. The Group airlines present report, Balance, Customers The continuous dialogue with its customers Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss and Austrian Airlines offer their own visitors’ services. Furwhich provides comis a central concern for the Lufthansa thermore, Swiss conducted a passenger prehensive information Group (see page 62, Customer satisfacsurvey in 2014 to assess the potential of about activities and tion). A key function in customer relations care is carried out by “Discover Lufthansa”, “green products” such as carbon emissions offsetting as a meaningful way to expand advances in the area of the visitors’ service in Frankfurt, the its current offers. corporate responsibility Company’s largest location. Aimed in part at the Lufthansa Group. at top German and international customers, its offers also include tailor-made visitor Also in 2014, the Lufthansa Group took part once again in “Kunst privat!”, an initiative in which over 30 companies in the federal state of Hessen make their private art collections public for two days each year. In this context, the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt opened its doors on 10 and 11 May to visitors interested in art and architecture. The Lufthansa Aviation Center at Frankfurt Airport was inaugurated in 2006. It is also a venue for works of art – which many art and architecture enthusiasts came again to admire in 2014 in the context of “Kunst privat!” 24 // Sustainable Business Practice “Speaking openly ...” is the Lufthansa Group’s new internal dialogue format. Employees In 2014, the Lufthansa Group also launched Investors Since summer 2014, internal communica“Speaking openly ...”, a new internal diaContinuous dialogue is a crucial prerequitions at the Lufthansa Group have featured logue series in which the Company’s chief site for the shareholders’ trust in the Coma new core element: the news app. By executive responds in person to questions pany. Therefore, in 2014 the Lufthansa introducing this new application, the from employees during a live videocast Group again informed institutional shareaviation company stays abreast of the on the intranet. Before the transmission, holders promptly, extensively and factually trend driving more and more people to employees may address their questions by means of quarterly conference calls, use mobile devices such as smartphones directly to CEO Carsten Spohr via eTeam26 road shows, 13 investor conferences and tablet PCs to access information. ing, the Group-wide platform for communiand six special forums organized for private Thanks to this innovation, employees are cation and cooperation. He then answers investors. Detailed information is also now able to stay informed anywhere and the questions with the highest number of provided by annual and interim reports, at any time. Many employees in operative “Likes”. Other formats such as “Dialogue the monthly “Investor Info”, the annual areas draw a special benefit from this Cockpit”, town meetings and live chats with “Creditor Info” for creditors and bondchange, as previously they were unable to members of the Executive Board compleholders, as well as the “Shareholder Info” access the intranet and company news at ment the aviation company’s internal compublished twice a year especially for pricertain times. munications offer. vate shareholders. The Group makes all publications, financial reports, presentations, background information, speeches, news updates and a financial calendar available at www.lufthansagroup.com/ investor-relations (see page 17, Annual Report 2014). The Lufthansa Group’s “news app” now allows employees to get up to date anywhere and at any time. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 25 The diverse stakeholders of the Lufthansa Group Suppliers Customers Capital market Contractual partners Consumers Investors LOHAS (Lifestyle Shareholders Lawmakers and public administrations of Health and Analysts The Lufthansa Group has maintained an Sustainability) Rating agencies intensive and uninterrupted exchange with representatives from politics and public administrations for many years. In addition, the “Lufthansa Policy Brief” regularly provides information for decision-makers in politics, business and the media about Employees Governments current developments in the aviation indusEmployee Legislators try and the Company’s concerns and posirepresentatives Politicians tions. Since 2014, Swiss has familiarized Authorities these target audiences with aviation-related topics by means of its quarterly publication “Aeropolitics”. Austrian Airlines likewise informs policy-makers in detail about its activities and participates actively in the “Vienna Airport Dialogue Forum”, of which it is a founding member. Science Nongovernmental Neighbors Research organizations Local communities Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group places Education (NGOs) Society great emphasis on open and permanent Organizations Publicity exchange with the municipalities and Consortia Social networks neighbors at all its Company locations. A symbol for this local dialogue at the Frankfurt location is the “Environment and Neighborhood House” in Kelsterbach. In Frankfurt, the Group has also been actively involved in the “Forum Airport and Region” since 2008 (see page 54, Active noise protection). Cargo Climate Care Environmental Conference The fourth Cargo Climate Care Environmental Conference organized by Lufthansa Cargo took place on June 10, 2015. More than 150 experts from business and science gathered at Frankfurt’s Städel Museum to discuss environmental strategies in the air freight industry under the title “More logistics with less CO2”. The event’s focus was on alternative fuels in aviation as well as the role of customers and consumers in environmentally friendly air freight. “More logistics with less CO2” was the motto of the fourth Cargo Climate Care Environmental Conference, organized by Lufthansa Cargo in 2015. 26 // Sustainable Business Practice Corporate governance and compliance Corporate Governance at the Lufthansa Group is expressed as responsible corporate management and control which targets sustainable value creation in accordance with the highest international standards. Such corporate governance is of central importance for the Company’s transparency vis-à-vis its shareholders and for continuously increasing trust in its management. The German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) Code was updated in December 2014 Compliance program and the German Corporate Governance and is published on the Internet at Code are key elements in this context. www.lufthansagroup.com/ Compliance describes all measures that The Company’s declaration of compliance declaration-of-compliance. ensure the lawful conduct of companies, with the German Corporate Governance their executive bodies and employees with regard to adhering to legislation. The Lufthansa Compliance Program, established in 2004, aims at helping its employees adhere to legal norms and keeping them from breaking the law. As an aviation company with global activities, the Lufthansa Group advocates fair competition, integrity and responsible action. Ombudsman system Group Compliance Office A further basic component of the Lufthansa Compliance Program is the The Compliance Office, which was set up on globally implemented and proven ombudsman system. Introduced on October 1, 2007 within the central legal December 1, 2007, it serves as an additional preventive measure against department, is responsible for the implemeneconomic crimes. Relevant information can be given by employees or by third parties to an ombudsman outside the Company, by telephone, tation, development and communication of in writing or in person. The ombudsman function is fulfilled by Frankfurtthe Lufthansa Compliance Program. In based lawyer Dr. Rainer Buchert, who is fully bound by the professional addition, there is a network of Compliance obligation of secrecy and also has the legal right to refuse to give eviCommissioners and Compliance Managers dence to public investigative authorities. The ombudsman communicates any information he receives to Lufthansa while respecting absolute conacross the various Group companies. fidentiality concerning the name and identity of the informant. In this way, the disclosure of an informant’s identity to Lufthansa or to third parties The Compliance Office coordinates the without his or her consent is ruled out. investigation of circumstances relevant to Furthermore, Lufthansa is listed in the joint transparency register of compliance and in this context serves as a the European Commission and the European Parliament. The goal of contact point for cartel and investigative this public register is to increase the transparency of decision-making authorities. In such cases, Lufthansa processes within the EU on a voluntary basis and to ensure that the interactions between EU institutions and organizations, associations or cooperates fully with the authorities. The companies are in conformity with current law and are carried out on the core components of the Lufthansa Complibasis of ethical principles. ance Program are its compliance guideSustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 27 lines. These are binding internal regulations Company bodies concerned receive inCompliance training that give employees a precise framework for depth insight into the regulations of the Automated IT processes ensure that all action which guarantees a standardized and German Securities Trading Act (WpHG). employees participate regularly in those law-abiding external conduct for Lufthansa. Web-based Compliance trainings (e-LearnThe Company is not willing to tolerate Integrity Compliance ing courses) that are relevant for them. The possible violations of law on the part of its With the module Integrity Compliance, employees of the subsidiary companies also employees. Culpable breaches of law lead Lufthansa documents its fundamental have access to these e-Learning courses to consequences under labor law and may approach of law-abiding conduct in busiand are either included in automatic mailalso entail personal liability. The Lufthansa ness relationships. The obligation to adhere ings of materials or have their own comCompliance Program currently comprises to non-corrupt and ethically correct conpany-specific processes. To complement four building blocks: Competition, Capital duct flow naturally from current law, the such online courses, the Compliance Market, Integrity and Embargo. internal compliance guidelines and Office regularly carries out trainings requirLufthansa’s memberships in relevant nationing the participants’ physical presence. Competition Compliance al and international organizations. ExamCompliance trainings are also an integral The module Competition Compliance introples of the latter include Lufthansa’s compart of leadership seminars, management duces employees to the relevant regulations mitment to the principles of the UN Global courses and other internal continuing eduof competition and cartel legislation, so as Compact and its membership in Transparcation and training events at Lufthansa. to minimize or exclude risks for Lufthansa in ency International. The Integrity Complithis area. All employees handling issues ance Guideline provides support in hanMonitoring and reporting relevant to competition or cartels are trained dling invitations, gifts and other attentions. In keeping with current requirements in in the fundamental regulations of German the framework of the German Accounting and European antitrust legislation. Embargo Compliance Law Modernization Act, self-audits and The module Embargo Compliance serves external audits take place to evaluate the Capital Market Compliance to ensure that the Lufthansa Group, as a effective implementation of the Compliance The module Capital Market Compliance globally active corporation, adheres to Program. Furthermore, the Supervisory gives employees an overview of current countryand person-specific sanctions Board’s Audit Committee is informed twice capital market law, such as regulations regulations in the area of foreign trade. The a year about current developments relevant relating to insider trading or ad hoc publicity. Embargo Compliance guideline provides to compliance issues and the current state Accompanied by specialized training, this the employees concerned with a binding of the program’s implementation within module assures that all employees and framework of conduct. the Group. The Lufthansa Compliance Program Competition Capital Market Integrity Embargo Program consisting of four modules The Group Compliance Office is responsible for implementation, development and communication. 28 // Sustainable Business Practice Fleet development 272 new aircraft by 2025 The fleet operated by the Lufthansa Group is by far the Company’s largest asset. Modern aircraft that are both economically and ecologically efficient are the basis for business success and secure the Group’s competitiveness in an extremely demanding market environment. Currently, the Lufthansa Group’s fleet is The Group has ordered a total of 116 On December 31, 2014, the Lufthansa undergoing a fundamental modernization. aircraft from the A320neo family and has Group’s fleet comprised 615 aircraft with an As of December 31, 2014, the aviation chosen both the LEAP-1A engines manuaverage age of 11.5 years. Thus, the Comcompany had a total of 272 aircraft with a factured by CFM International and the pany operates one of the largest aircraft list-price value of 38 billion euros on its order PW1100Gs by Pratt & Whitney. Both types fleets worldwide. Here is an overview of the list, all for delivery by 2025. In 2014 alone, are highly efficient and set new standards fleet development at the Group airlines: the Group integrated into its fleet 23 new, concerning noise reduction by cutting in highly efficient aircraft, including 11 longhalf the usual noise footprint an aircraft haul aircraft. Also in 2014, orders were generates during takeoffs and landings. placed for 15 Airbus A320neo (new engine Furthermore, both engines types burn Lufthansa German option) and ten Airbus A320ceo (current engine option) aircraft. The Lufthansa Group 15 percent less fuel than other types. Delivery of these Airbuses will start at the Airlines will take delivery of 17 new aircraft in 2015. end of 2015. During the reporting year, Lufthansa German Airlines took delivery of two Airbus A380s, six Boeing 747-8s and one Airbus A330. In addition, the last two of 14 Airbus A380 wide-body jets on order were delivered to the airline in early 2015. At the end of April 2015, the last Boeing 747-8 of 19 ordered aircraft was delivered. The Boeing 747-8 is an entirely newly-developed aircraft that delivers palpable improvements in terms of ecological efficiency. For example, the aerodynamic properties of the wings have been significantly improved and the new wing tip design is now raked. The highly efficient GEnx-2B67 engines cut fuel burn and CO2 emissions per passenger by 15 percent. To mark its 60th anniversary, Lufthansa took delivery of one Boeing 747-8 painted in a 1970s retro livery. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 29 Austrian Airlines new CS100s, which are set to operate on Europe’s leading freight airline in February European routes, will be 10 to 15 decibels 2015. In addition, Lufthansa Cargo has Austrian Airlines received one Fokker 70 quieter on average than the currently operalready secured options for a further five during the reporting year. In mid-2014 the ated Avro RJ100s. “Triple Sevens” with staggered delivery airline also put into service another Boeing dates until 2020. The Boeing 777F is con777-200ER, which flies extremely efficiently sidered the most efficient and quietest and quietly while offering the highest levels freight aircraft in its class. of customer comfort. Eurowings Under the brand name “Eurowings”, the Lufthansa Group airlines Eurowings and More fuel-efficient and Swiss Germanwings, along with other flight operquieter – The Airbus ators in Europe, are to offer a quality product Starting in 2019, Swiss International Air at advantageous prices from winter 2015 A350-900 Lines will receive 15 Airbus A320neo aironwards. With this “New Eurowings” concraft, for which the Lufthansa Group placed cept, which comprises both shortand In 2013 the Lufthansa Group placed orders an order in 2014. They are to replace older long-haul flights, the Lufthansa Group is for 59 highly advanced long-haul aircraft: aircraft of the same type. Moreover, in responding in a customer-oriented manner 34 Boeing 777-9Xs and 25 Airbus A350March 2015 the Group approved the to price-sensitive demand for point-to-point 900s. The first A350-900 is slated for delivacquisition of another three Boeing 777flights. By the end of 2017, Eurowings will ery to Lufthansa as early as the end of 300ERs, which will be delivered to Swiss take delivery of up to 23 new A320ceos, 2016 and will be stationed at the Munich from 2017 and are to replace older Airbus which are set to replace older Bombardier hub. Both types of aircraft consume about A340-300s. Overall, Swiss will put nine CRJ900s. In 2014, Germanwings received 25 percent less kerosene than today’s Boeing 777-300ERs into service from two new Airbus A319s. aircraft; their CO2 emissions are also corre2016. In the first half of 2016, the airline is spondingly lower. The A350-900’s noise also set to receive the first of 30 Bombarfootprint will be at least 30 percent smaller dier CSeries aircraft on order, which will as well – an important step in the direction replace the Avro RJ100 aircraft step by Lufthansa Cargo of active noise protection. Moreover, the step. Swiss is the launch customer for the aircraft’s structure will feature a more than CSeries. Above all, this generational In 2014, Lufthansa Cargo took delivery of 70 percent share of state-of-the-art materichange means an audible reduction of two Boeing 777Fs. The last of five freighters als. Its robust, latest-technology systems noise for people living near airports, as the of this type on order was delivered to will also help to lower future MRO costs. Important impulses for the preparation of processes and cabin fittings came from a test flight with the A350 on June 3, 2014. In addition, Lufthansa German Airlines, “In civil aviation, investments in new Lufthansa Technik and Airbus extensively technologies are the best strategy to checked the onboard and ground processes related to the twin-engined wide-body lessen the burdens on people and the aircraft during its first visit to Frankfurt Airenvironment.” port on July 25, 2014. Finally, Lufthansa Technik received the certification on January 14, 2015 from the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) to carry out maintenance work on the new long-haul Airbus, which the Company will offer in Frankfurt and Munich initially. Nico Buchholz Executive Vice President Group Fleet Management Deutsche Lufthansa AG 30 // Sustainable Business Practice With the new Eurowings concept the Lufthansa The Lufthansa Group’s most advanced long-haul Group responds in a customer-oriented way to aircraft: the Airbus A380 and the Boeing 747-8. price-sensitive demand for point-to-point flights. Swiss will receive the first of 30 CSeries aircraft “My Austrian” – An Airbus A321 sporting ordered from Bombardier in the first half of 2016. Austrian Airlines’ new livery. The Lufthansa Group fleet As of December 31, 2014 (changes compared to 2013) In possession 1 Age 1 In operation 2 Age 2 Lufthansa 362 (+ 2) 10.5 (± 0) 272 (– 1) 11.1 (– 0.6) Lufthansa CityLine 23 (– 7) 10.0 (+ 0.3) 49 (– 12) 5.7 (– 0.3) Air Dolomiti 0 (– 5) 10 (± 0) 3.9 (+ 1.0) Eurowings 0 (± 0) 23 (± 0) 4.7 (+ 1.0) Germanwings 38 (+ 2) 7.8 (+ 0.6) 60 (+ 16) 12.9 (+ 3.4) Swiss (including Edelweiss Air) 92 (– 2) 13.3 (+ 0.9) 92 (± 0) 13.3 (+ 1.0) Austrian Airlines 80 (+ 3) 15.5 (+ 0.7) 80 (+ 6) 15.5 (+ 0.9) Passenger Airline Group business segment 595 (– 7) 586 (+ 9) Lufthansa Cargo 20 (± 0) 13.0 (– 1.2) 19 (± 0) 12.5 (– 1.3) Logistics business segment 20 19 Lufthansa Group 615 (– 7) 11.5 (+ 0.2) 605 (+ 9) 11.4 (+ 0.4) 1 Aircraft in the Group’s possession 2 Aircraft operated by the Group Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 31 Sustainability in the procurement process As a globally operating aviation company, the Lufthansa Group stands for fair competition, integrity, and responsible action. The Group is unreservedly committed to compliance with all applicable laws, directives, and regulations. The Lufthansa Group expects this not only from its employees, but from its suppliers and competitors as well. Group purchasing Compliance with the International Labour Lufthansa assumes corg ­ uidelines approved Organization’s (ILO) four fundamental porate responsibility principles for labor. These concern freedom of association, the right to collective by integrating sustainIn May 2013 the Executive Board approved bargaining, the elimination of forced ability into the procureGroup purchasing guidelines requiring labor and child labor, and prohibition of ment process. At the suppliers to enter into a commitment to social and ecological responsibility. The discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. same time, we minimize guidelines are meant as an umbrella risks and thereby avert directive for all of the Group companies’ Consent to announced and unanpotential damage to purchasing guidelines. They also serve as a manual for purchasers and all employnounced audits of the supplier by companies of the Lufthansa Group. the Company. For us ees with contacts in the procurement maras a globally operating ket. They are regularly updated and adRecognition of Lufthansa’s right to terGroup with about 540 justed. The guidelines prescribe, among other things, that the following duties be minate the contractual relationship in the event of a breach of the aforemensubsidiaries and affiliincluded in contracts with suppliers: tioned agreements. Suppliers must also ated companies, this is observe the Lufthansa Group’s Environa challenging task. Compliance with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. The principles mental Protection Guidelines. range from respect for human rights By including these commitments in conthrough commitments to labor standards tracts, the Group ensures that sustainability and environmental protection to working is taken seriously as an issue and that it against corruption. In 2002 Deutsche becomes a way of life all across the supply Lufthansa AG became the first aviation chain. To familiarize our purchasers with company to join this strategic United the Group purchasing guidelines, we train Nations initiative for companies, thereby them in our Procurement Academy, which agreeing to uphold the 10 principles forprovides continuing education opportunities mulated by it (see overview on page 19). for employees from throughout the Group. Climate and Environmental Responsibility Climate and environmental responsibility is a guiding principle of our value-oriented corporate management. Fuel efficiency in flight operations is of major importance for our success according to economic and ecological benchmarks. 3.84 1,300 100 liters of kerosene consumed on average ideas and projects for more fuel efficiency aircraft in the A320 family are already to carry one passenger 100 kilometers equipped with noise-reducing technology. in 2014. 34 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Strategy and management Keeping people, the environment and mobility in balance Environmental care has been one of the Lufthansa Group’s primary corporate goals for many years. The Company has been working resolutely for a long time to further reduce the effects of its business activities on the environment – and thus on the Earth’s climate – and to use resources ever more efficiently. The worldwide connections provided by air The Lufthansa Group’s and ecological success and therefore a transport are a central condition for economic growth, employment and individual goals and strategy central field of action. The efficient use of kerosene not only reduces costs, but also mobility. For 2015 alone, the International improves flight operations’ ecological Air Transport Association (IATA) forecasts an The Group has a clear strategy to further balance sheet. The most significant increase in passenger numbers of 7 percent limit the environmental effects of flying advances can be achieved by operating worldwide (2014: 5.9 percent). Despite and to make traffic growth as environmenaircraft with the latest technology. For this these significant growth rates, air transport’s tally compatible as possible. As long ago reason, the Group is due at current order share in worldwide CO2 emissions has as 2008, the Lufthansa Group adopted status to take delivery of 272 new aircraft actually been declining for years. According a strategic environmental program (see by 2025 – all characterized by low fuel to the International Energy Agency (IEA), page 36). In addition, it supports the aviaburn (see page 28, Fleet development). this value reached 2.42 percent in 2011 tion industry’s goals of improving fuel (2000: 2.81 percent). efficiency by 1.5 percent on average per In May 2013, the Lufthansa Group set up year until 2020 and to make all transport a Company-wide department which has growth CO2-neutral thereafter. By 2050, since coordinated all activities concerning net CO2 emissions are to be cut by 50 perfuel efficiency. A significant potential for cent, compared with 2005. The generally improving the environmental balance sheet The Lufthansa Group acknowledged basis for this approach is is also opened up by alternative fuels low in aims to make mobility the aviation industry’s established fourpillar strategy for climate protection (see CO2 emissions, to whose development and testing the Group has shown an ongoing as environmentally graphic 43). commitment (see page 43). friendly as possible for its customers – now and Another important field of action is active noise protection. Here, the Lufthansa Group in the future. Central fields of action counts on investments in new aircraft and in climate and environretrofitting the existing fleet with noisereducing technologies. Moreover, the Group mental protection cooperates with partners in industry, public administrations, universities and research Passenger and freight transport is the institutions to identify noise sources and Lufthansa Group’s core business. Fuel develop perceptible noise-reduction meaefficiency in particular is of fundamental sures, such as the quietest approach and importance for the Company’s economic takeoff procedures possible (see page 54). Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 35 Energy and resource management in its Over the past decades, Lufthansa has Strategic environmental ground operations and catering processes is also of great importance for the Lufthansa repeatedly been involved in the development of new aircraft models and has also program 2020 Group. The key element in ground operacontributed to new insights and perceptible tions is the research into and operation of improvements in active noise protection as The Lufthansa Group adopted guidelines electro-mobility for taxiing and towing of a result of its commitment to research (see for environmental protection as long ago aircraft (see page 50). Building managefrom page 8, Balance 2014, More quietly as 1996 and thus assumed the role of an ment as well must satisfy clear, resourceinto the future). Important advances from industry pacesetter. In 2008, the Group set efficient requirements when modernizing new materials and technical improvements up a strategic environmental program, existing buildings or planning new ones. were also achieved in the area of reducing aimed at achieving further progress in LSG Sky Chefs, the Group’s catering speaircraft weight. climate and environmental responsibility cialist, has set itself ambitious goals for until 2020. Looking back shows that the avoiding waste and using the resources In February 2015, the U.S. trade publication Lufthansa Group has made progress in all needed as efficiently as possible. Air Transport World awarded Lufthansa the areas. For example, the CO2 emissions of title “Eco-Airline of the Year” for the second the Lufthansa Group’s aircraft per passenMoreover, the Lufthansa Group cooperates time in three years for the Company’s ger and 100 kilometers fell by 12.3 percent with scientific and research institutions to commitment to climate and environmental between 2006 and 2014. Simultaneously, further optimize environmental protection protection. The reasoning: “The Lufthansa the Group phased 203 more efficient and on the basis of sound data and facts. The Group works not only for the most stringent quieter aircraft into the fleet between 2006 Company has been actively involved in goals worldwide for environmentally-conand 2014, while decommissioning 145 noise and climate research for many years scious air transport, but it also invests a older aircraft over the same period. An (see page 57). It thus participates in lot of time, money and effort in efficiencyoverview of the Lufthansa Group’s environresearch projects, such as those concernimproving measures.” mental program can be found on the next ing the use of alternative fuels and propuldouble page. sion systems as well as aerodynamics. 60 years of Lufthansa – 60 years of progress Since the start of flight operations by the new Lufthansa on April 1, 1955, aviation has achieved significant advances in climate and environmental responsibility thanks to technological quantum leaps. For example, highly efficient jet engines have significantly “Increasing eco-efficiency has been the cut kerosene consumption in comparison with earlier years. While aircraft in the Lufthansa Group’s focus for many years 1970s needed about 12 liters of kerosene and will continue to have our undivided to carry one passenger over a distance of attention in the future.” 100 kilometers, the Lufthansa Group’s fleet needed a mere 3.84 liters on average for the same performance in 2014 (see page 39, Fuel consumption and emissions). At the same time, today’s aircraft are 80 percent quieter than those of 60 years ago. Dr. Karlheinz Haag Vice President Group Environmental Issues Deutsche Lufthansa AG Strategic environmental program 2020 01 / 02 / Reduce CO2 emissions Cut emissions of nitrogen oxides The Lufthansa Group has increased the Since 1991, emissions of nitrogen fuel efficiency of its passenger fleet by oxides per tonne kilometer transported 12.3 percent since 2006. By 2020 the within the Lufthansa Group have 03 / specific CO2 emissions of the passenger already been cut by 26 percent. The Modernize the fleet fleet are to be cut by 25 percent in Lufthansa Group specifically supports Investments in new aircraft and technolocomparison with 2006. In addition, the the goal set by the Advisory Council gies are the most effective way to reduce Group actively supports the aviation for Aviation Research and Innovation the environmental effects of flying further. industry’s ambitious efficiency goals in Europe (ACARE), which calls for a The Lufthansa Group’s fleet is currently (see page 34). further 80-percent reduction of nitrogen undergoing a comprehensive modernioxide emissions by 2020, relative to zation. The Group will take delivery 2000. Furthermore, the Company of 272 new aircraft with a list price of encourages aircraft and engine manu38 billion euros by 2025 (see page 28). facturers to implement low-NOX technologies. 04 / 05 / 06 / Promote alternative fuels Increase operational efficiency Improve infrastructure The Lufthansa Group is committed to The Lufthansa Group consistently Inefficient or lacking infrastructures in numerous future-oriented projects that counts on operative measures as well the air and on the ground cause unnecfocus on alternative fuels. On Septemto further increase fuel efficiency. This essary fuel consumption. It is chiefly the ber 15, 2014, Lufthansa flight LH190 includes optimum flight routings and task of the political process to create an from Frankfurt to Berlin’s Tegel airport flight speeds, efficient aircraft capacities, appropriate framework of conditions. was the first European scheduled flight programs for long-term weight reducThis applies to the need-oriented expanoperated with a 10-percent blend of the tions on board and optimum aircraft sion of airports and above all to the new sugar-based biokerosene Farnesan loading procedures (see page 45). introduction of the Single European Sky, (see page 43). an area where Lufthansa supports the implementation of technical components (see page 44). 07 / 08 / 09 / Implement emissions trading Continue to offer CO2 compensation Develop further incentive systems on a global scale Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines The Lufthansa Group supports ecologiThe Lufthansa Group advocates a offer their customers the option to cally oriented incentive systems deglobally-valid, market-based and comcompensate the CO2 emissions unsigned to be revenue-neutral, such as petition-neutral system for climate proavoidably generated by their flights emissions-based airport fees. This tection charges and actively supports with a voluntary donation. These funds scheme eases the financial strain on this goal through its participation in directly benefit climate protection projinnovative airlines with low-emission international bodies (see page 46). ects (see page 68). aircraft while placing higher charges on fuel-intensive aircraft. The airports in Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart, Dusseldorf, Cologne, Hamburg and Hannover have already introduced such fees in relation to emissions of nitrogen oxides. 10 / 11 / 12 / Reduce aircraft noise Improve aircraft Optimize flight procedures For many years, the Lufthansa Group In order to reduce the noise emitted by The Lufthansa Group advances the has been committed to active noise current aircraft, sources of noise need to development of low-noise flight proceprotection. It invests in ever-quieter airbe researched in greater depth. Along dures. In this context, it is important craft, retrofits its existing fleet and introwith research partners, the Lufthansa that these new procedures take into duces noise-reducing flight procedures. Group’s experts analyze these noiseaccount the aspects of safety, capaciThis commitment has produced lower generating mechanisms on a continties and economic viability. Therefore, burdens on the communities surrounding uous basis and use their findings to all system partners – airports, air traffic the main hubs (see page 54). develop noise-reducing solutions, such controllers and airlines – must pull as the vortex generators for the A320 together (see page 45). family (see page 54). 13 / 14 / 15 / Develop comprehensive Build green Expand environmental management mobility concepts When it comes to planning, modernThe department Group Environmental The Lufthansa Group supports – wherevizing and constructing Company buildIssues coordinates all Group-wide er ecologically and economically senings as well, the Lufthansa Group goals, strategies and measures in the sible – measures that interconnect optiplaces great emphasis on the careful area of environmental care. In the mally different modes of transport. One use of natural resources. For example, years ahead, the Company is planning successful example is AIRail project, the Lufthansa Technik is planning to exceed to expand its environmental manageoptimum combination of train and plane, the requirements of Germany’s Energy ment at all levels and to have it evaluawhich has also existed in Austria since Saving Ordinance by 30 percent when ted by external experts (see page 38). December 2014. In addition, Lufthansa constructing its new wheel and brake has also expanded its airport bus offers. workshop in Frankfurt. 38 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility During the reporting year, Lufthansa Cargo included its subsidiary LSG Sky Chefs operates a highly structured Jettainer in the certification process for the first time. environmental management system. Organization of climate Lufthansa Cargo has operated a certified tal standard ISO 14001. Lufthansa CityLine and environmental environmental management system since 2008 in accordance with ISO 14001. was the first airline worldwide to be certified according to both environmental standards. management All locations in Germany were recertified during the reporting year. For the first time, Austrian Airlines has successfully particiThe department Group Environmental a subsidiary company – Jettainer, the spepated in the project ÖkoBusinessPlan Issues assumes the leading role in coordicialist for stowage equipment management Wien since 2006 and thus already fulfills nating the Company-wide goals, strategies – was successfully included in this certificacertain aspects of an environmental and measures in the area of climate and tion. This system is set to be expanded to management system, which is expected to environmental responsibility. Additionally, locations in Europe, America and Asia in be implemented in 2016. all larger subsidiaries have environmental 2015 to achieve worldwide certification. departments and commissioners or coordiLSG Sky Chefs operates a highly strucnators. These experts meet twice a year at Lufthansa German Airlines is expected tured and comprehensive environmental the Environmental Forum to discuss current to begin the introduction of an environmenmanagement system, which is guided by topics and new ideas. tal management system in 2015. The the ISO 14001 standard and the leading subsidiary’s Board of Management made such system in the catering industry. An overview of the Group companies’ this decision at the end of 2014. AdditionAmong the central elements are a binding environmental management systems: ally, the Group-wide initiative “Fly Greener” environmental policy, goals set by region, was launched, which aims at reducing the environmental managers, a database for In 1996, Lufthansa Technik became the quantities of waste materials on board and best-practice examples and an annual first Group company to be certified acavoiding waste whenever possible (see environmental report. cording to the international environmental page 50, Energy and resource managestandard ISO 14001. Today, the company ment). Since July 2014, LZ-Catering has offered also operates an integrated management at least one CO2-friendly main course every system, which was recertified in 2014 in Lufthansa CityLine was recertified anew day in a majority of its company restauaccordance with the quality standards in May 2015 for its company-wide environrants. These are either vegetarian, poultry EN 9100 and 9110 as well as ISO 14001 mental management system. The airline or fish dishes. By contrast, red meat does and the international standard for job safety received the certificates of the European not belong in a climate-friendly meal due and health protection OHSAS 18001. Environmental Management and Audit to its high environmental impact. All company locations worldwide will be Scheme EMAS for the 15th year in a row. certified by the end of 2015 (see page 47, Additionally, the company was recertified Balance 2014). according to the international environmenSustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 39 Fuel consumption and emissions Lufthansa Group’s airlines achieve new efficiency record The Lufthansa Group again set a new efficiency record in 2014: On average, the aircraft of the passenger fleets consumed only 3.84 liters of kerosene to carry one passenger over a distance of 100 kilometers (3.91 l/100 pkm in 2013). This is an improvement of 1.6 percent compared with the preceding year. Thus, the Lufthansa Group again met the aviation industry’s ambitious goal of increasing efficiency by 1.5 percent per year. Be it Lufthansa, Swiss, Austrian Airlines or Germanwings – all Group airlines further improved their specific consumption values (see pie charts, page 40). In the same way the freight aircraft of 3.8 l* Lufthansa Cargo flew more efficiently More Higher Better Lower than ever before with a fuel consumption lightweight efﬁciency aerodynamics fuel consumption value of 0.183 liters/tonne kilometer. This design corresponds to a 5.2 percent improvement compared with 2013. Group-wide, Less CO2 the efficiency in freight transport increased by 0.8 percent in 2014. The Lufthansa Group’s absolute fuel consumption increased slightly by 0.7 percent during the reporting year, while transport performance rose by 1.9 percent. Thus, the aviation company successfully continued the trend of decoupling transport performance and fuel consumption. The Group’s transport performance has increased by 347 percent since 1991, while fuel consumption only rose by 182 percent (see graphic, page 40). Specific fuel consumption Passenger transportation 40 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Active fleet in 2014, in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm) Definitions of traffic areas Long-haul more than 3,000 km Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km Short-haul under 800 km Group fleet Lufthansa Germanwings Long-haul Average specific fuel conLong-haul (59 %) sumption in l /100 pkm (cen(66 %) 3.45 l /100 pkm ter of the circle) and propor3.60 l /100 pkm tion of the entire passenger fuel consumption of the Medium-haul Medium-haul Medium-haul 3.84 active fleet contributed by each traffic area (segments (18 %) 3.88 l /100 pkm 3.91 l /100 pkm (100 %) 4.18 l /100 pkm 4.18 l /100 pkm (26 %) l /100 pkm of circle) in 2014 3.99 l /100 pkm Short-haul (16 %) Short-haul 6.11 l /100 pkm (15 %) 6.32 l /100 pkm Swiss Austrian Airlines Long-haul Long-haul Specific fuel consumption (61 %) (37 %) of passenger transportation compared 3.03 l /100 pkm 2.92 l /100 pkm in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l /100 pkm) Medium-haul Medium-haul (30 %) 3.48 (38 %) 3.87 4.05 l /100 pkm l /100 pkm 4.08 l /100 pkm l /100 pkm 2014 2013 Changes in % Short-haul Short-haul Group fleet 3.84 3.91 – 1.6 (9 %) (25 %) ­Lufthansa 3.91 3.98 – 1.8 8.56 l /100 pkm 6.38 l /100 pkm Swiss 3.48 3.54 – 1.5 Austrian Airlines 3.87 3.93 – 1.7 Germanwings 4.18 4.22 – 0.9 Specific CO2 emissions of passenger transportation Fuel Dumps Active fleet in 2014, Active fleet in 2014 in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg /100 pkm) Overall Changes compared Long-haul Medium-haul Short-haul average 2014 to 2013 Group fleet 8.69 10.07 15.92 9.69 Events, total 16 – 15 Lufthansa 9.08 9.77 15.41 9.85 thereof medical reasons 7 – 6 Swiss 7.63 10.21 21.57 8.78 technical reasons 8 – 7 Austrian Airlines 7.36 10.28 16.07 9.75 other reasons 1 – 2 Germanwings 10.55 10.55 Quantity, total 513 t – 45.2 % Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption Change compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group 360 + 347 % 340 320 300 280 Û 260 Efficiency gain 240 Transport performance 220 Ü 200 180 160 + 182 % 140 120 100 80 60 40 Fuel consumption 20 0 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Fuel consumption 1 Passenger transportation 2014, in tonnes Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 41 CO2 emissions NOX emissions Passengers Freight Total Share in kilograms /100 passenger kilometers in grams /100 passenger kilometers 2014 9.69 2014 45.8 Scheduled flights 2, 3 Lufthansa 4,701,726 1,588,703 6,290,429 70.7 % 2013 9.84 2013 46.7 Germanwings 372,027 0 372,027 4.2 % 2012 10.24 2012 48.4 Swiss 1,094,037 402,411 1,496,448 16.8 % 2011 10.53 2011 49.4 Austrian Airlines 577,847 88,992 666,839 7.5 % 8,825,774 99.2 % 2010 10.58 2010 48.8 Third parties 4 49,764 1,754 51,518 0.6 % 2009 10.84 2009 50.0 Other flights 5 22,668 0.3 % 2008 10.93 2008 50.6 All flights 8,899,929 100.0 % 2007 10.88 2007 49.8 2006 11.05 2006 50.5 2005 11.07 2005 50.8 Emissions 3, 6 2014, in tonnes CO emissions UHC emissions in grams /100 passenger kilometers in grams /100 passenger kilometers Passengers ± 2013 Freight ± 2013 Total ± 2013 2014 7.3 2014 0.72 CO2 21,248,759 + 1.1 % 6,552,333 – 0.6 % 27,801,092 + 0.7 % 2013 7.4 2013 0.74 NOX 100,478 + 0.7 % 31,779 + 1.5 % 132,257 + 0.9 % 2012 7.8 2012 0.80 CO 15,918 + 0.8 % 3,333 + 4.5 % 19,251 + 1.5 % 2011 8.2 2011 0.87 UHC 1,569 – 0.9 % 383 – 5.8 % 1,952 – 1.9 % 2010 8.4 2010 0.87 2009 8.5 2009 0.91 2008 8.5 2008 0.96 Share of third parties 4 2007 8.6 2007 0.99 2006 8.4 2006 0.96 2014 2005 8.4 2005 0.97 Flights 1.7 % Passengers 1.0 % Tonne kilometers transported, TKT 7 (tkm) 0.3 % Freight transportation 8 Fuel consumption (tonnes) 0.6 % CO2 emissions (tonnes) 0.6 % CO2 emissions NOX emissions in kilograms /tonne kilometers in grams /tonne kilometers 2014 0.70 2014 3.4 Specific fuel consumption 2013 0.70 2013 3.3 Passenger transportation 2012 0.72 2012 3.5 2011 0.73 2011 3.5 in liters /100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm) 2010 0.73 2010 3.5 4.39 4.38 4.32 4.34 4.30 4.20 4.18 4.06 3.91 3.84 2009 0.77 2009 3.7 2008 0.74 2008 3.6 2007 0.72 2007 3.4 2006 0.58 2006 2.6 2005 0.58 2005 2.6 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CO emissions UHC emissions in grams /tonne kilometers in grams /tonne kilometers Specific fuel consumption 2014 0.4 2014 0.04 Freight transportation 8 2013 0.3 2013 0.04 2012 0.4 2012 0.05 in liters / tonne kilometers 2011 0.4 2011 0.05 0.231 0.228 0.285 0.295 0.304 0.289 0.289 0.287 0.278 0.276 2010 0.4 2010 0.05 2009 0.4 2009 0.06 2008 0.4 2008 0.06 2007 0.4 2007 0.06 2006 0.3 2006 0.05 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2005 0.3 2005 0.05 1 Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all flight events under the 4 Includes flights operated by airlines that do not belong to the Group, which carry out services respective operative flight number. Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. on Lufthansa’s behalf at short notice, e.g. in the event of capacity bottlenecks. including taxiing on the ground, holding patterns, and detours in the air. 5 Ferry flights, special flights, training flights, test flights, aborted flights. 2 Scheduled flights, charter flights. 6 Absolute emissions in tonnes resulting from flight operations (all scheduled and charter 3 For the reporting year 2014, the following companies have been included in Balance: flights). Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the Lufthansa (incl. Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti and Eurowings), Germanwings, Swiss (incl. ground, holding patterns, and detours in the air (see notes on page 113). Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding the services of third parties 7 Excludes road feeder service and partial capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no fuel as the Company can influence neither their performance nor the equipment operated (see consumption and emissions values are available for this performance. table Share of third parties). 8 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger aircraft. 42 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility A view of the Pier A-Plus at Frankfurt Airport New department as well as with partners across the Star Four pillars for climate Operations Efficiency & Alliance. Therefore, the Company’s fuel experts meet every two months to exprotection Strategy change knowledge in the context of the Fuel Efficiency Group (FEG) meetings, while The basis for the Lufthansa Group’s fuel Fuel efficiency is and will remain a central FEG members will receive new information efficiency activities and further successes in action field for the Lufthansa Group, as the about fuel efficiency and are updated about improving its environmental balance sheet cost of kerosene is the Company’s largest new ideas, measures and goals. is the established four pillar strategy develindividual cost item. Therefore, the Group oped by the aviation industry for climate has an economic and ecological interest in According to current plans, fuel efficiency protection purposes. This strategy interlinks using the kerosene required as efficiently measures are to contribute 148 million different measures with relevance for the as possible. euros to the Lufthansa Group’s 2015 result. environment (see graphic on page 43). Its Lufthansa German Airlines is to have a scope ranges from technological progress Since July 1, 2014 fuel efficiency has been share of 93 million euros in this effort. and improved infrastructure to operational the responsibility of the new department measures and economic measures. Operations Efficiency & Strategy, headed So far, fuel efficiency experts have already by Flight Captain Jens Ritter. Under this developed more than 1,300 ideas and organizational umbrella, the department projects in the areas of flight operations, Pillar 1: Technological Fuel Efficiency Lufthansa Group steers all topics related to fuel efficiency Companynetwork planning, ground processes, aerodynamics, reduction of flight weight and progress wide. Its goal is to bundle the forces of technical optimization of performance. In innovation and know-how to achieve an the reporting year alone, the Group impleEfficient aircraft and engine technologies even more efficient use of kerosene at the mented 145 related projects, which takes Investments in modern and efficient aircraft Group level and to establish an innovation the number of projects in implementation to and engine technologies are the most management system at the same time. more than 266. Their progress is monitored effective way to further reduce fuel conby means of the ProFuel database. sumption. Currently, the Lufthansa Group is One of the department’s tasks is to ensure in the process of implementing the largest the continuous exchange of ideas between fleet modernization program in its history the Group’s airlines and other companies (see page 28). Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 43 Four pillars for climate protection 1 2 3 4 Technological Improved Operational Economic progress infrastructure measures measures N 3 33 6 30 E W 12 24 15 21 S More efficient aircraft sizes A global, sensibly designed, Improved use of airspace Optimal flight routes market-based system for Innovation in aircraft and Airport infrastructures and speeds reducing emissions to comengine technologies adapted to needs Optimized processes on plement the other three pillars Alternative fuels the ground Four pillars for climate protection: The Lufthansa Group is constantly increasing its fuel efficiency by applying the industry’s four-pillar strategy for climate protection. In pursuit of technological progress, it is continuously investing in the newest generation of fuel-efficient aircraft as well as testing and using alternative fuels in flight operations. In addition, it strongly supports infrastructure improvements, such as the optimum use of airspace and the needs-based expansion of airport capacity. Moreover, it is taking operational measures such as using more efficient aircraft sizes, introducing improved procedures on the ground, making better use of aircraft capacity and flying optimum routes to increase fuel efficiency in flight operations. To complement the three pillars already mentioned, it advocates the use of global market-based economic measures. Alternative fuels at Lufthansa Technik in Hamburg, which biokerosenes certified or undergoing certifiThe use of alternative fuels is another was part of the EU project Blending Study. cation (published at www.HBBA.eu). important lever for reducing air transport’s It proved that the emissions characteristics CO2 emissions over the long-term. The could be improved by adding Farnesan. In Moreover, an estimated 5 percent of the Lufthansa Group continuously works on the April 2014, the production of Farnesan was Lufthansa Group’s fuel requirements at further development of these environmencertified as being sustainable by the Oslo Airport is set to be covered by biotally friendly fuels. It is actively involved in Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials kerosene from late 2015. The supplier Air BP research projects for this purpose and in (RSB). Additionally, in June 2014 the fuel will feed the sustainably produced and numerous initiatives such as aireg (Aviation was certified for blending with crude-oil certified biofuel into the fuel supply system Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany) based kerosene. at Oslo Airport. The launch of this project and SAFUG (Sustainable Aviation Fuel was originally planned for March 2015. Users Group). The research work also Likewise, the Lufthansa Group, together A total of about 5,000 Lufthansa, Swiss, includes testing newly-certified alternative with the Bundeswehr Research Institute for Austrian Airlines, Germanwings and fuels in regular flight operations. Materials, Fuels and Lubricants (WIWeB), Brussels Airlines flights will then be flying conducts research in the project Blending on a biokerosene mixture. For the Lufthansa Thus, on September 15, 2014 Lufthansa Study concerning the blending properties of Group, this is the next step from its previflight LH190 from Frankfurt to Berlin Tegel conventional fossil kerosene and different ous test flights as part of the recently conbecame the first European scheduled flight new biokerosenes (e.g. alcohol-to-jet, see cluded burnFAIR Project (see page 67, using fuel containing 10 percent of the page 56, Balance 2014). This research was Balance 2012) toward the use of alternative sugar-based biokerosene Farnesan. This concluded in February 2015 with an overfuels in regular flight operations. flight was preceded in fall 2013 by a rig test view report of the blending properties of all 44 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility On September 15, 2014, Lufthansa flight LH190 from Frankfurt to Berlin’s Tegel airport was the first European scheduled flight operated with a 10-percent blend of the new sugar-based biokerosene Farnesan. Pillar 2: Improved This would help Lufthansa alone to cut its launched the Single European Sky Air infrastructure annual kerosene consumption by about 270,000 tonnes. Overall, airlines would emit Traffic Management Research Program (SESAR) with the aim of realizing the stanup to 10 percent less CO2. dardized European airspace by 2020. Single European Sky Currently, the companies of the Lufthansa The standardized European airspace, or To advance the SES, the EU is providing Group provide their expert knowledge from Single European Sky (SES), is planned to 3 billion euros. These funds go to airlines, different specialty areas in more than 50 be implemented by 2020 and is the largest airport operators and air traffic control SESAR projects. The spectrum ranges from climate protection project in European organizations, so that they can jointly flight route planning to operations centers aviation. Currently, supervision of the EU’s modernize Europe’s air transport manageand training divisions to information techairspace is the fractured task of 27 different ment. On December 5, 2014, the EU Comnology and finances. national air traffic control systems and more mission signed a partnership agreement to than 650 sectors monitored by about 60 this end with the key participants of air For example, the specialists at Lufthansa control centers. The result is that flights in transport management assembled in the German Airlines and Swiss participate in the Europe often cannot take a direct route and consortium SESAR Deployment Alliance. EU research project Free Solutions, which have to fly a “detour” of 42 kilometers on helps determine how more direct and more average. By contrast, the SES is intended to In 2008, the EU Commission and the Euroflexible flight routes can be realized in steer traffic flows significantly more efficiently. pean air traffic control agency Eurocontrol Europe. The airspace analyzed stretches Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 45 from France to Germany, Switzerland and tween cruising altitude in the upper airPillar 3: Operational Italy to Malta. Another project in which Lufthansa Passenger Airlines and Swiss space and the airports’ terminal control areas by the end of 2016. The goal is to measures participate is iStream. It is working on increase the vertical flight efficiency and improving the approach management at environmental compatibility without ignoring Among the operational measures are the Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris and at capacity aspects. For this purpose, the deployment of efficiently-sized aircraft, the Zurich Airport in order to avoid late arrivals consortium airlines are conducting test determination of optimum flight routes and and unnecessary holding patterns in the air flights in scheduled operations, among flight speeds, and improvements of proby optimizing planning, thereby reducing other measures. In 2015, Lufthansa, DFS cesses on the ground. The experts in the the related fuel consumption. New proceDeutsche Flugsicherung and Eurocontrol Lufthansa Group’s Operations Efficiency & dures in this context are tested in “live received the “IHS Jane’s ATC Award” in Strategy department are working on trials” in actual flight operations. Concepts the environmental category for their projnumerous projects aimed at helping to for optimized navigation and approach ect “Free Route Airspace Maastricht and use kerosene ever more efficiently, as an procedures are applied under everyday Karlsruhe” (FRAMaK). overview of the areas emphasized in 2014 conditions in flight operations, aiming at illustrates: transferring future-oriented technologies Apart from an improved utilization of airfrom SESAR into operation without delay. space, it is also important to optimize condiOptimum flight routes and flight speeds Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group airlines tions on the ground. There, it is above all The Lufthansa Group airlines are currently are participating in a new consortium within adapting airport infrastructures to actual introducing software to analyze flight data, the SESAR framework to develop optimized needs that allows efficient flight operations. called OMEGA (Operations Monitoring and descent profiles for the route section beEfficiency Gap Analyzer). In the future, it will The largest climate protection project in European aviation is the creation of a standardized air space above Europe. The Single European Sky (SES) would help Lufthansa alone to reduce its annual fuel consumption by about 270,000 tonnes. 46 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Further examples from the Group companies The overview on the following pages presents a selection from the multifaceted activities implemented by the Group companies to reduce fuel consumption even further. Lufthansa An optimized approach management at London’s Heathrow Airport has ensured Prototypical display on the Electronic Flight Bag (EFB) since 2014 that Lufthansa aircraft can avoid holding patterns during times of dense traffic. This type of cooperation with neighboring air traffic control centers – and thus across air space boundaries – reduces allow the experts at the Fuel Efficiency trajectory. Tests conducted to date have kerosene consumption and is an initial step department to analyze the current levels proven a conservation potential of more in the direction of cross-border arrivals of fuel consumption even more precisely than 250 liters of kerosene per long-haul management. and to derive further optimization options flight. for processes and flight routes. The new In September 2014, Lufthansa introduced tool will allow the subsequent comparison the altered takeoff procedure “1,000-foot of planned, actual and optimum values acceleration” in Germany. The airline for different flight phases, so that data from Pillar 4: Economic expects to conserve more than 3,000 actual flight operations can be used to improve the efficiency of future flights. measures tonnes of kerosene per year, which would reduce CO2 emissions by about 10,000 tonnes. E-enabling program Among the economic incentive systems The Lufthansa Group uses the e-enabling and measures that the Lufthansa Group Likewise, Lufthansa optimized the vertical program to coordinate different digitalizaadvocates is a globally valid, market-based approach profile at Munich Airport. Contintion projects, including the EFB 2.2 projand competition-neutral system for climate uous Descent Operations (CDO) make ect, the rollout of the third generation of protection charges. In October 2013 the approaches more economical, which helps the Electronic Flight Bag (EFB). With EFB International Civil Aviation Organization the airline conserve about 600 tonnes of 2.2 in 2014, the aviation company created (ICAO), a United Nations agency, develkerosene per year. That the Continuous the necessary infrastructure aboard the oped a globally valid system for climate Descent Approach indeed reduces keroaircraft in its fleet to allow the digitalization charges by 2016, which is to become sene consumption was confirmed by the of all processes and the introduction of the effective by 2020. This makes the aviation results obtained by the Task Group Optientirely paperless cockpit later on. industry a front-runner with regard to a mized Flying, which were published at the globally valid climate protection agreement. end of 2014. This management committee Another new software being deployed is By contrast, there is the EU emissions joins the Federal Association of German electronic Flight Folder (eFF), which digitatrading system for civil aviation, which Airlines (BDF) and DFS Deutsche Fluglizes and archives all briefing processes creates a significant competitive disadvansicherung (German air traffic control) to and strategic flight processes. Moreover, tage for European network airlines (see develop solutions that help reduce costs, the Flight Path Optimizer allows long-haul page 59, Balance 2014). fuel burn and CO2 emissions. Airlines and crews calculations to optimize a flight’s DFS are planning to continue the successSustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 47 ful cooperation, to increasingly use CDO in regular operations and to expand this approach procedure to additional airports. At the same time, Lufthansa works continuously on further reducing the weight of its aircraft. One of these measures was to adapt the number of magazines offered on board closer to actual demand in the continental fleet’s Business Class cabins. From February 2015, the compactors for plastic waste aboard the Lufthansa Airbus A380s started being removed and replaced with two significantly more lightweight waste trolleys. Another measure: By the end of 2015 the Company will replace the carpets fitted in aircraft cabins with a more lightweight and more robust type. Additionally, the Group-wide initiative “Fly Greener” is working for a reduction of waste volumes aboard, not only to conserve resources, but also to further reduce weight (see page 53, Energy and resource management). Jörg-Stefan Fritz, Team Manager Fuel Efficiency Lufthansa German Airlines, and Jens Ritter (right), Director Operations Efficiency & Strategy, with flight attendants at the “Fly Greener” information stand at Lufthansa in Frankfurt. Swiss In fall 2014, Swiss put a new flight planning software into operation. In the “Godwit” project the participating experts develop new planning options and strategies on the basis of current technologies, which is expected to lower fuel consumption by up to 13,000 tonnes per year from 2017. For example, the new software allows the more efficient use of runways and more flexible flight routings, among other features. It also helps pilots to react even better to changing weather conditions in flight. Moreover, with Strategic and Tactical Flight Steering, Swiss developed a procedure that guides the morning arrivals of long-haul flights at Zurich Airport with down-to-theminute precision. During a flight’s planning phase an arrival time is assigned to the pilots, to which they have to adhere exactly to avoid holding patterns. Operations control monitors the arrival time on the basis of Information concerning the approach sequence for the cockpit crew. 48 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility the latest data from the aircraft in flight and adapts it if needed. In this way Swiss conserves 500 tonnes of kerosene per year and avoids 1,500 tonnes of CO2 emissions. The new method optimizes the assignment of time windows practiced so far in the context of the approach procedure “Greener Wave” (see page 72, Balance 2012) and received a Lufthansa Group Innovator Award in 2014. At New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport (JFK) Swiss developed ways to reduce the energy Swiss has developed a new process to calculate the optimum consumption and running times of auxiliary arrival times of its long-haul flights in Zurich on a daily basis. power units (APUs) during ground handling in the framework of a Kaizen workshop. The use of ground power units (GPUs) was extended for this purpose; a method that has already been successfully implemented at Zurich Airport. The insights gathered at the workshop are to become the basis for a new standard that can be applied at other airports as well. Austrian Airlines In Vienna the airport, air traffic control, Austrian Airlines and other carriers, as well as handling operators have coordinated Lufthansa Cargo has five Boeing 777Fs in its fleet. The “Triple Seven” their activities in the framework of Airport is considered the most efficient and quietest aircraft in its class. CDM (Collaborative Decision Making) for many years. Standardizing processes is aimed at increasing punctuality and reducing fuel consumption. The Fokker fleet operated by Austrian Airlines has applied the modified takeoff procedure “1,000-foot acceleration” since June 2013. Optimized thrust reduction and acceleration conserve kerosene and thus reduce CO2 emissions. Austrian Airlines‘ Fokker fleet has followed the modified takeoff procedure “1,000-foot acceleration” since June 2013. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 49 Lufthansa Cargo Above all by operating the new Boeing 777F freighters, Lufthansa Cargo now flies more efficiently than ever before. Since 2005, the Company has successfully increased its fuel efficiency by 15.8 percent Cyclean®, the water-based engine wash developed by Lufthansa Technik, saves airlines time, and thus already achieved over half of its maintenance costs and above all fuel. The company is researching the use of alternative blasting materials, such as CO2 dry ice pellets, to make engine cleanings possible in permafrost regions as well. long-term goal of 25 percent. In order to reduce the weight of loaded aircraft perceptibly, Lufthansa Cargo has Lufthansa Technik cooperation with other partners, are deintroduced freight containers made from veloping a highly automated system for ultra-light composite materials. FurtherFor many years, Lufthansa Technik has cleaning, stripping, painting and applying more, the freight specialist has continuously worked on making flying more efficient aerodynamic aircraft surfaces by 2017. The optimized the loading of its Boeing MD-11F through its innovations. In this spirit the surfaces, which are modeled on the strucaircraft in recent years. Distributing the company developed the Cyclean® engine ture of sharkskin, save about one percent weight and volume of cargo optimally wash which saves time, maintenance costs of kerosene, lighten the burden on the improves aerodynamics and consequently and above all fuel. At the beginning of environment and lower operating costs. lowers fuel consumption by 494 tonnes 2015 the 40,000th engine wash was carper year. ried out. The water-based procedure can now be used in temperatures down to -10 In addition, since April 2014 Lufthansa degrees Celsius thanks to further developLufthansa CityLine Cargo has used empirical values to determent (see page 10, From “sharkskin” to mine with greater accuracy the quantity of TaxiBot: Innovations at Lufthansa Technik). As the first Group airline to do so, Lufthansa kerosene its aircraft need for taxiing. The CityLine systematically uses actual flight data ensuing lower takeoff weights have cut fuel Another example of an innovative idea from to improve efficiency in flight operations. consumption by about 270 tonnes per year. Lufthansa Technik that has found its way Among these in-flight data are location The freight airline also saves fuel by using into everyday aircraft maintenance is the information such as longitude and latitude updated taxiing times and an optimized overhaul of turbine blades in CFM56-5C as well as central parameters such as selection of runways at Frankfurt Airport. and CF6 engines. The background is that altitude, speed and fuel consumption. the turbine blades’ edges roughen with Compiled, this data helps the airline to Yet the most significant contribution to fuel time as a result of erosion. Their perforoperate flights more efficiently. To accomconservation in the years ahead will come mance decreases due to wear, while keroplish this goal, intelligent software interlinks from fan blade recontouring. The leadingsene consumption increases. The overhaul three dimensions: the characteristics of the edge contours of the thrust-producing of these parts involves computer-guided planned flight, the actual flight and the engine fan blades are progressively eroded abrasive finishing of the edges at Lufthansa most economical flight. On basis of this in daily operations. Polishing these contours Technik, so that they function as efficiently broad scope of data, flight routings can be improves the fan blades’ aerodynamics, as new ones, which saves the airline the further optimized or the required quantity of which in turn increases an engine’s efficiency expense of replacement blades. reserve fuel can be calculated even more by 0.4 percent. As a result, Lufthansa Cargo accurately, for example. will be able to conserve about 1,600 tonnes In the framework of the research project of kerosene per year. FAMOS, Airbus and Lufthansa Technik, in 50 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Energy and resource management Numerous initiatives for greater efficiency Sustainable business practices and the sparing use of natural resources are not contradictions for the Lufthansa Group. Over the past years, the Group has steadily delivered impulses for innovations which benefit not only the environment, but also the entire aviation industry. In 2014, the Lufthansa Group again advanced numerous initiatives to further increase its energy and resource efficiency on the ground and in the air, as the following examples from everyday practice show. Environmentally compatible air transport electro-mobility for aircraft taxiing and Air Transport Association (IATA) to reduce starts on the ground. Therefore, an effective towing on the apron – an area in which the CO2 emissions on the basis of the establever for more energy and resource effiGroup is active in numerous ways. All initialished four pillar strategy (see page 43). ciency is researching and implementing tives support the goals of the International The TaxiBot hybrid aircraft tug allows pilots to tow the aircraft to the runway under their own command by using the Pilot Control Mode. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 51 Electromobility at Frankfurt Airport En route to green handling: E-PORT AN The Lufthansa Group is a partner of the E-PORT AN initiative, which is committed to a sustainable reduction of emissions at the Frankfurt aviation hub. The goal in the area of aircraft handling is to replace mobility supported by internal combustion engines with electro-mobility whenever it is sensible and possible. For this purpose, E-PORT AN considers all ground traffic, meaning airThe eSchlepper diesel-electric hybrid aircraft tug is craft taxiing to their takeoff and gate posiparticularly suited for environmentally friendly maintenance tions, as well as the movements of more and positioning tows of large passenger aircraft. than 1,000 vehicles related to ground services, taking passengers, freight and catering to aircraft. In addition to the Lufthansa Group, the airport operator Fraport AG, the state government of Hessen and the Model the runway for takeoff without thrust from mentally friendly maintenance and positionRegion Electro-Mobility Rhine-Main particitheir engines (see page 62, Balance 2014). ing tows of large passenger aircraft such pate in E-PORT AN. The initiative, which In 2014, the European Aviation Safety as the Airbus A380 or the Boeing 747-8. was awarded the “Lighthouse project Agency (EASA) certified this innovative It is expected that the eSchlepper will help E-mobility” by Germany’s federal governvehicle. One year after the start of the test cut the related CO2 emissions by 70 perment in 2013, is supported by the Federal phase, three TaxiBots are in operation in cent. Simultaneously, fuel costs are to fall Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastrucregular handling settings at Frankfurt Airport. by more than 60 percent and maintenance ture. Technische Universität Darmstadt and TaxiBot is based on technology patented costs by more than 50 percent. In May others provide the scientific supervision of by Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI), in 2015, Lufthansa LEOS received the first this joint project. In April 2014, E-PORT AN whose development Lufthansa LEOS parprototype of the tractor it developed jointly won the renowned GreenTec Award in the ticipated. In early 2015, the subsidiary of with Kalmar Motor AB. aviation category. The Lufthansa Group Lufthansa Technik and IAI signed a declaparticipates with the following projects in ration of intent for the certification tests with Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group is driving E-PORT AN: wide-body aircraft. Initial tests with a Boeing the projects eTaxi and eLift forward. The 747-400 are expected to begin in January latter is a future-oriented catering lift truck TaxiBot: Hybrid aircraft tug receives 2016 in Frankfurt. that is being developed under the superviEASA certification sion of Lufthansa Sky Chefs on the basis of An important contribution to reducing fuel eSchlepper: First prototype an electrically powered truck chassis (see consumption and emissions in airport arrived in Frankfurt from page 61, Balance 2014). settings comes from the TaxiBot. This dieThe eSchlepper is also a towbarless aircraft sel-electric hybrid tug can be controlled tug equipped with diesel-electric hybrid www.e-port-an.de from the cockpit and maneuvers aircraft to drive. It is particularly intended for environ52 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Other projects Emphasis on waste States by 2015 (see page 63, Balance management 2014). By the end of 2014, 35 LSG locations had recycled a total of 11,469.54 In addition to its involvement in E-PORT AN, the Lufthansa Group participated in tonnes of waste materials. Since the start other initiatives to promote electro-mobility As the worldwide market leader in airof ZLF in spring 2013, this raised the overin 2014. For example, LSG Sky Chefs now line catering and the management of all all total to 20,163.81 tonnes of waste. operates ten gas-driven lift-trucks at in-flight services, LSG Sky Chefs takes Frankfurt Airport that are based on the advantage of all options to recycle as Recycling on board Mercedes-Benz Econic model with Natural much waste material as possible and to National laws and local regulations deterGas Technology (NGT). Moreover, the reduce waste quantities. The base for mine worldwide how waste materials are Lufthansa subsidiary ensures that newly waste management is a comprehensive handled on board and on the ground. LSG acquired vehicles meet current emissions system of performance indicators (see Sky Chefs aims at exceeding legal requirestandards (see page 83, Balance 2013). page 63, Balance 2014). ments and reducing waste quantities to And Lufthansa Cargo acquired another the unavoidable minimum. The Company ten energy-efficient electric forklifts of the Recycling on the ground distinguishes three types of waste worldlatest generation during the reporting year By implementing the “Zero Waste to Landwide: recyclable on-board waste materi(see page 64, Balance 2014). fill” (ZLF) program the Lufthansa subsidiary als, non-recyclable on-board waste mateaims at recycling 100 percent of its waste rials and other waste materials (see page First e-charging station for employees materials at all 41 stations in the United 84, Balance 2013). with electric cars Since early 2015, Lufthansa Group employees in Frankfurt benefit from a charging station for their electric cars. This has become possible thanks to a pilot project in which Lufthansa cooperates with Süwag, RWE and Goethe University. The new e-filling station offers two charging bays. Accompanying workshops ensure the link between science and practice. The pilot project will run until December 2015. Effects of the EU With the intention of facilitating the transfer of know-how and best-practice examples Energy Efficiency Directive within the Company, the Lufthansa Group set up an internal energy forum in February On December 4, 2012, the EU Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) took 2014. The event is aimed at energy experts effect. It is to be ratified by EU member states to become national law. In Germany, this step followed in April 2015. With help from the EED, from all Company areas and in the future the European Union aims to lower the consumption of primary energy will be held on a regular basis. In addition, by 20 percent by 2020. To this end, non-SMEs (small and mediumthe Lufthansa Group’s environmental sized enterprises) in Germany are obligated to carry out energy audits experts regularly exchange information at by December 5, 2015, and subsequently at least every four years. This the Company-wide Environmental Forum. obligation applies to Deutsche Lufthansa AG and – depending on the legal requirements in other EU countries – also to EU subsidiaries in In January 2015, participants discussed which the Group holds at least a 25-percent stake. Group-wide, this the new EU Energy Efficiency Directive, affects about 250 companies. In Germany, exemptions from energy among other items (see insert at right). audits apply to those companies that already have a certified energy management system according to ISO 50001 or an environmental management system according to EMAS III or will have started one by December 2015. At Lufthansa, the timely implementation of the Energy Efficiency Directive is managed by the energy experts of the department Group Infrastructure Commercial in cooperation with the department Group Environmental Issues and the business segments. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 53 Initiative “Fly Greener” Ambassadors. To generate synergy effects Waste separation saves disposal costs Concern for the environment was also the during the implementation phase, the Remarkable ecological and economic inspiration for the Group-wide initiative “Fly Group airlines regularly exchange informasuccesses are also achieved by Lufthansa Greener”, which was launched in Munich in tion on the subject. The initiative also mainCargo. The logistics specialist managed to 2014 by Munich-based Cabin Crew Mantains close contact with the department cut its waste disposal costs from previously ager Rebecca Emmerling. “Fly Greener” Operations Efficiency and Strategy. For up to 80,000 euros per year to zero. This is aims at avoiding waste in flight operations example, on test flights between March due to consistent waste separation, which in particular and considers the entire waste 17 and April 30, 2015 in Munich, “Fly generates higher revenues from materials chain – from loading to separating waste Greener” checked the returns of beverages recycling. Active recycling has also been materials on board to disposing of waste in Economy Class together with LSG Sky a long tradition at Lufthansa Technik. The on the ground. In addition, awareness of Chefs on two selected routes. The results Company has separated waste materials how to conserve resources is to be further are to provide input for further optimization for more than 20 years and achieves a raised among flight attendants by means measures. recycling quota of more than 70 percent. of communications and “Fly Greener” The “Fly Greener” innovation workshop 2015 was held in green surroundings at the Allianz Arena in Munich. 54 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Active noise protection Comprehensive commitment produces audible successes The airlines of the Lufthansa Group set milestones worldwide for responsible mobility – also when it comes to active noise protection. They are active in many ways to continuously reduce the inevitable noise emissions in the vicinity of airports. Noise contours compared The Lufthansa Group’s activities span the Vortex generators: (B 747-400 vs. B 747-8 and B 777-9X) entire scope from investments in the most modern aircraft to retrofitting of the existing Retrofit for the For each of the contours shown, the intensity fleet with noise-reducing technologies to A320 fleet of sound at takeoff is 85 decibels. noise research. In addition, there is the development of new flight procedures for At the beginning of February 2014, Lufthansa 10 km approach and departure in cooperation with became the first airline worldwide to start system partners as well as a constructive operations with a new Airbus A320 equip– 30 % dialogue with people living near airports ped with so-called vortex generators. Since and other interest groups (see page 8, then, all newly delivered aircraft have been 8 km Balance 2014, More quietly into the future). equipped with this part, which reduces noise by up to 5 decibels during the – 40 % The largest fleet modernization program in approach phase between ten and 17 kilothe history of the Lufthansa Group (see meters before touchdown. At greater dis6 km page 28) contributes significantly to lowtances from an airport the effect is even ering noise emissions and lessening the more pronounced, according to Airbus. burden on people living near airports. 602 Aircraft in the Airbus A320 family have two of 605 aircraft in the Lufthansa Group’s fuel-tank pressure equalization vents on the 4 km active fleet fulfill the stringent requirements underside of each wing. In flight, the air of the Chapter 4 noise limits of the Internaflow passing over these cavities generates tional Civil Aviation Organization, which unpleasant whistling sounds, similar to 2 km have been in force since 2006 for new blowing across the opening of a glass aircraft (see page 114). bottle. Vortex generators installed in front of Point of brakerelease Boeing Boeing Boeing 747-400 747-8 777-9X MTOW 395 t 442 t 351 t First flight 1989 2012 ~ 2020 The noise footprint of a Boeing 747-8 on takeoff is, despite its 10% higher maximum takeoff weight, about 30% smaller than that of the Boeing 747-400. The Boeing 777-9X ordered by Lufthansa will have a noise footprint that is about 40% smaller than that of the Boeing 747-400, according to the manufacturer’s specifications. The chart shows the 85 dB maximum level contours for a takeoff according to standard Lufthansa takeoff procedures (modATA) and with the takeoff weights as shown. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 55 Flying more quietly: The vortex generators produce an air ﬂow in front of the fuel-tank pressure equalization vents that effectively prevents sounds of an unpleasant frequency. these cavities prevent the generation of these sounds. Together with the German Aerospace Center (DLR) Lufthansa developed such parts for the ﬁrst time and tested them successfully. When the reﬁt kits became available from Airbus in fall 2014, Lufthansa – again as the ﬁrst airline – started updating its existing ﬂeet. Of these 150 aircraft, 100 had already undergone the reﬁt by end of June 2015. Thanks to this innovation, more than 200 on September 3, 2014. For the ﬁrst time, one year, is to see if the noise reductions Lufthansa aircraft will ﬂy even more quietly GBAS makes satellite-supported precision occur as forecasted and if punctuality in in the future. Equipping these aircraft with approaches possible at an international ﬂight operations can be maintained. With vortex generators is one of the most comhub airport in Europe. Over the midand this joint voluntary agreement, airport, air prehensive voluntary measures in the area long-term, this system opens up opportunitrafﬁc control, airlines, aviation associaof active noise protection by the Lufthansa ties for the development of a myriad of new tions and the state government of Hessen Group, lessening the burden in particular approach routes that will further reduce intend to further reduce the burden of noise on people and towns near the large hubs noise exposure. emissions from ﬂight operations at the in Frankfurt and Munich. Frankfurt hub on people living close by. Beyond that, the state government of Hessen and the aviation industry have The “Alliance for noise breaks” compleagreed the voluntary introduction of noise ments the “Alliance for noise protection” Improved procedures respites in an “Alliance for noise pauses”. agreed in 2012 (see page 88, Balance for approach and Accordingly, Lufthansa, Fraport and DFS have implemented a seven-hour noise 2013 and page 87, Balance 2012). At that time, the state government of Hessen and takeoff phases pause at Frankfurt Airport since April 23, representatives of the aviation industry 2015. During west-wind operations, some jointly deﬁned a number of innovative New noise-reducing procedures for runways are not used between 5 and 6 a.m. measures to protect people living near the approach and takeoff as well as changed and between 10 and 11 p.m., giving up to airport from aircraft noise. This includes ﬂight routings have also contributed over 40,000 people living east of the airport a the retroﬁt of the A320 aircraft with vortex the past year to lighten the burden on respite from aircraft noise. Frankfurt is the generators and phasing out the Boeing people near airports. A new precision ﬁrst international hub airport to have intro737 aircraft, planned to be completed by approach system, the Ground Based duced a noise pause in addition to the mid-2016. At the beginning of 2015, more Augmentation System (GBAS), promises six-hour curfew for night ﬂights. Experts at than 50 percent of these aircraft had further improvements in Frankfurt, where the Lufthansa Group made a signiﬁcant already left the ﬂeet. Lufthansa, Fraport and Deutsche Flugcontribution to the development of this sicherung (DFS) ofﬁcially inaugurated it concept. The trial operation, which will last 56 // Climate and Environmental Responsibility Research for quieter flying The Lufthansa Group has been active in noise research since 1999. The goal is to continuously make air traffic more quiet – also by measures applied to aircraft in the existing fleet (such as vortex generators). To achieve this complex and demanding task, the aviation company closely cooperates with partners in industry, administrations, universities and research institutions. For example, the Lufthansa Group heads up the aviation research program that is part of the MODAL project (Models and Data for the Development of Active Noise Protection Measures in Aviation) of Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economics The Lufthansa Group’s environmental experts and Technology. This research project regularly exchange information at the Environmental primarily serves to better understand the Forum, for example on active noise protection. noise emissions of different types of aircraft. Furthermore, the participating experts intend to improve the assessment of active noise protection measures by means of more accurate calculations. In the context of MODAL, further flyover measurements with two Lufthansa Cargo Boeing MD-11Fs took place in late June 2015 at MagdeburgCochstedt Airport to test noise-reducing modifications to engines and landing gear. Moreover, the Lufthansa Group supports the noise effect study NORAH (NoiseRelated Annoyance, Cognition and Health). Ever fewer people affected by This research, designed with a broad scope and based on scientific methods, aircraft noise examines the effects of noise from air, rail and road traffic on cognitive abilities, health For many people, flying has long since become a matter of course. For and quality of life for people living in areas example, passenger numbers at German airports nearly tripled between 1991 and 2014 to 208 million per year. By contrast, according to new affected by such noise. Initial results were noise maps produced by the Federal Ministry for the Environment, the presented in November 2014. The full number of people affected by aircraft noise in Germany declined from NORAH report will be published in the 746,500 in 2007 to 738,000 in 2012. And that even though the Ministry second half of 2015. added data from two more airports in comparison to the first measurements made in 2007. Information such as this and further comprehensive explanations of the aviation industry’s commitment to noise protection have been available since July 2014 on the new aircraft noise portal of the German Aviation Association (BDL). www.fluglaerm-portal.de Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 57 Commitment to science The Lufthansa Group expands its support for climate research For more than 20 years, the Lufthansa Group has been a reliable partner for climate research. Its aircraft are the ideal platforms for scientific measuring instruments. The data they collect at cruising altitude around the world is of particular importance for understanding the Earth’s climate. This year, the Company has once again expanded its support for climate research. Through its commitment to science, the Lufthansa Group contributes significantly to establishing a worldwide measuring infrastructure for the observation of the Earth’s atmosphere through civil aviation. Currently, the aviation group supports several important climate research projects. IAGOS: Lufthansa CARIBIC: Ten years of equipped second Airbus support from Lufthansa with flying climate research laboratory In addition, the Lufthansa Group supports the research project CARIBIC (Civil Aircraft To support the climate research project for the Regular Investigation of the atmoIAGOS (In-service Aircraft for a Global sphere Based on an Instrument Container). Observing System) managed by ForSince December 2004, the Lufthansa Airbus schungszentrum Jülich (Jülich Research A340-600 “Leverkusen” has been equipped Center), the Lufthansa Group equipped for several days each month with a measurIn 1994, the Lufthansa Group began a second aircraft with special scientific ing container that is unique worldwide. It its commitment to climate research with the project MOZAIC (Measuremeasuring instruments. Since March 2015, simultaneously records data concerning ment of ozone, water vapor, carbon the Lufthansa Airbus A330-300 with the over 50 gases and particle compounds. In monoxide and nitrogen oxides aboard registration D-AIKO has collected data 2014, the experts at Lufthansa Technik Airbus in-service Aircraft). Since then, concerning atmospheric trace elements replaced the measuring probe for the first the MOZAIC measuring devices have been replaced by IAGOS instruments. and cloud components at cruising altitude time, after more than 340 measuring flights. In March 2015, a second Lufthansa on each flight. This data is used by Previously stationed in Frankfurt, the Airbus was equipped as a “flying IAGOS numerous research institutions around the “Leverkusen” has been based in Munich laboratory”. world. The first IAGOS aircraft, the Lufthansa since August 2014. Airbus A340-300 “Viersen”, has been in operation since July 7, 2011. www.caribic-atmospheric.com www.iagos.org Product Responsibility Continuously increasing customer satisfaction is one of our strategic cornerstones. We constantly optimize our products along the entire service chain. 1,000,000 9,000 16,000 euros a day on average have been medical doctors worldwide support the tonnes of CO2 were offset voluntarily by invested to refit the cabins of Lufthansa Lufthansa program “Doctor on Board”. our passengers in 2014. long-haul aircraft since 2011. 60 // Product Responsibility Safety, health, satisfaction Product Responsibility across the Lufthansa Group Product Responsibility means for the Lufthansa Group that all business segments and companies continuously review and improve their offers and services along the entire service chain. It is of fundamental importance for the Group’s business success to increase customer satisfaction continuously and to guarantee the safety and health of passengers, crews and employees in the most effective way. It is equally important to protect personal data with the greatest of care. Increasing customer satisfaction on a perbusiness responsibly and sustainably). The prehensive modernization of cabin interiors manent basis is one of the Lufthansa aviation company’s goal is to become the in its history by fall 2015. Regular customer Group’s strategic cornerstones. In this area, recognized quality leader in all markets surveys and the further development of the the Group counts above all on quality and and business segments and to develop feedback management processes also play innovation, which are two of the central Lufthansa German Airlines into the Western an important role in increasing passenger action fields in the strategic program “7to1 world’s first five-star airline. To this end, the satisfaction (see page 62). – Our way forward” (see page 19, Doing airline will have completed the most comThe aspect of “Service and Hospitality” in customer orientation will be given even more emphasis in the future. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 61 For the Lufthansa Group, flight safety and extended its health-related offers for pasThe Lufthansa Group’s commitment in the health protection have the very highest sengers for many years and has succesarea of voluntary CO2 compensation is priority. With the crash of Germanwings sively set benchmarks in the area of cabin firmly anchored in the Group-wide Strategic flight 4U9525 on March 24, 2015, an air quality (see page 66). Environmental Program 2020; moreover, it emergency situation arose for the Lufthansa is an integral part of the aviation industry’s Group. In response, the Lufthansa Group Data protection and data security are the four-pillar strategy for climate protection airlines introduced a new procedure for basis for a trusting business relationship. (see page 42). The options offered by the cockpit occupancy directly following the Daily, the Lufthansa Group companies proGroup airlines Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian accident. Under the new procedure, two cess enormous volumes of data and in so Airlines and by the Lufthansa subsidiary authorized persons must now be present in doing always handle personal data with the AirPlus all do their part to keep the environthe cockpit at all times for the duration of a utmost care. In addition, such data are mental impact of flying as low as possible flight. As a further precautionary measure, protected and secured in accordance with (see page 68). the Lufthansa Group immediately expanded the most stringent standards and the very its internal flight safety structures. Beyond latest technical norms (see page 67). this, the aviation company has continuously 62 // Product Responsibility Customer satisfaction The Lufthansa Group will place an even greater emphasis on its customer orientation in all business segments. On this path, a key role is given to the topics of innovation and quality, which are central action fields in the strategic program “7to1 – Our way forward”. Carsten Spohr, in his role as Chairman of the Executive Board, has assumed direct responsibility for the Group’s planned innovation and quality offensive. Important building blocks in this strategy The Lufthansa Group’s goal is to achieve passengers an excellent service and a are continuous investments in quality as quality leadership in all market and business significantly improved travel experience. well as products and services that are even segments. At the same time, the Company Skytrax, the industry-leading airline rating more clearly aligned with individual customer is working on personalizing its offers more system, will be evaluating this aspiration preferences. Therefore, the Lufthansa Group clearly as part of its quality offensive, for by means of a comprehensive audit until will invest 500 million euros for innovations example with the project SMILE (see page early 2016. In this context, Lufthansa by 2020 in order to further optimize the 14, Digital innovations for a perfect travel has launched the most far-reaching cabin quality of its product and services portfolio experience). modernization program in its history and will (see page 6, Innovation – The key to a refit its entire long-haul fleet by fall 2015. successful future). Likewise, the aviation The initiatives to improve quality are already company is consistently pursuing its fleet advancing successfully at all airlines and On its more than 100 long-haul aircraft modernization with investments in modern companies. For example, Lufthansa Gerabout 39,000 seats are being replaced, and efficient aircraft with low fuel-burn man Airlines stresses its commitment to modified or in the case of new aircraft profiles (see page 28). becoming the first five-star airline in the installed at delivery – in Economy Class, western hemisphere and to offering all the new Premium Economy Class, Business Class and First Class. New travel class Premium Economy Since November 22, 2014, Lufthansa has offered its customers a new travel class: Premium Economy. Its central feature is a new, wider and more comfortable seat that gives passengers up to 50 percent more space. Additionally, each seat has its own armrests, which ensures a more private sphere. The new product is complemented by more comfort and higher-quality service. Premium Economy class seats will in the future represent about 10 percent of the The new travel class Premium Economy aboard Lufthansa’s long-haul aircraft: total seat capacity on long-haul aircraft. In comparison with Economy Class, this seat offers up to 50 percent more space. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 63 Lufthansa is installing between 21 (Airbus A330-300) and 52 (Airbus A380-800) new seats per aircraft. Aboard the Boeing 747-8 the Company is dedicating 32 seats to Premium Economy. It is expected that about 1.5 million passengers will travel in this new travel class per year. Focus on service optimizations Many topics are being addressed in the framework of the improvements the Company is introducing for its passengers. This includes an optimized premium check-in Lufthansa German Airlines is actively committed and enhancements of the transfer services to becoming the first five-star airline in the western hemisphere. at the Frankfurt and Munich hubs. Moreover, there are higher-quality amenity kits (pouches with comfort items) in First and Business Class as well as increased quality and At Lufthansa Passenger Airline, for tomers who place an emphasis on envigreater diversity of food and beverages at example, such customer ratings are fed ronmental protection and sustainability. the Business Class Lounges. into the Customer Profile Index (CPI), which represents a weighted average evaluation A further central aspect concerning cusIn the context of service optimization it is of various services from a passenger pertomer satisfaction is how the Lufthansa above all the projects in the “Service and spective. In 2014, this value was 7,322 Group handles its customer feedback Hospitality” segment that play a significant points. Due to a change in survey methodmanagement and dialogue with passenrole as they aim at intensifying the personal ology, a direct comparison with the previgers. One of the Group’s principles is that customer contact on the ground and in the ous year’s CPI score is not possible. As a employees respond to each customer cabin. A key project on the way to becoming parallel measure, Net Promoter Scores reaction worldwide as quickly as possible. a five-star airline is therefore the “Signature (NPS®) have been determined regularly Under the umbrella of the Passenger Service” in Business Class. Here, the sersince 2014. Customers are asked whether Dialogue Services program the aviation vice sequence is to resemble an excellent they would recommend their current travel company realigned its feedback managerestaurant experience with the focus on the experience with Lufthansa to friends or ment in 2013. It is now based on the four guest’s wishes. This more personalized acquaintances. To calculate an NPS, the pillars of reachability, speed, problem in-flight service is characterized above all by percentage of passengers who are less solving and learning from feedback (see accentuating the flight attendants’ role as than enthusiastic about their experience page 73, Balance 2014). The goal is to be hosts and thus their service responsibility for (Detractors) is subtracted from the percent“best in class” in handling customer reac“their” passengers. age of those who would strongly recomtions. Moreover, customer comments are mend it to others (Promoters). an important basis for the Company for further improving customer satisfaction. In 2014, Swiss cooperated with scientists Lufthansa German Airlines alone receives Regular customer at St. Gallen University to determine how about 200,000 valuable customer observasurveys satisfied passengers are with “green” products, such as CO2 compensation, as tions via diverse communications channels. an additional offer and what potential such To measure its customers’ satisfaction, the products might have. The survey showed Lufthansa Group regularly conducts online that 14 percent of all passengers are surveys that cover the entire passenger particularly interested in such products. experience and service chain. Specific At the same time, there is a general wilscales show the performances with which lingness to pay a higher price for green 1 Net Promoter® and NPS® are registered trademarks and Net Promoter Score and Net Promoter System are customers are especially satisfied and products. According to the survey there is trademarks of Bain & Company, Satmetrix Systems and which ones might need improvements. a continuously growing segment of cusFred Reichheld 64 // Product Responsibility Flight safety and health protection have top priority for the Lufthansa Group For the Lufthansa Group, the safety and health of passengers, crews and employees rank first and foremost. With the crash of Germanwings flight 4U9525 on March 24, 2015, the Lufthansa Group faced an emergency the like of which we all hoped would never occur. Germanwings and Lufthansa announced immediately their intentions to do everything within their power to accompany and support the family members and friends of the accident victims in the best possible way. In coordination with Germany’s federal For the purposes of flight safety, all airlines IOSA Audit – aviation authority, the other German airlines and the German aviation association, the within the Lufthansa Group have Safety Management Systems (SMS) that follow The most comprehenLufthansa Group airlines introduced a new the requirements of the International Civil sive safety standard in procedure for cockpit occupancy immediAviation Organization (ICAO). The aims of aviation ately following the accident. Under the new these systems are to assess the safety procedure, two authorized persons must level of flight operations, to detect and An independent assessment of the safety be present in the cockpit at all times for the evaluate any safety hazards in advance, standards at the airlines within the duration of a flight. and to lower the risk of accidents by Lufthansa Group is carried out every two implementing suitable countermeasures years by means of the IATA Operational As a further precautionary measure, the (see page 74, Balance 2014). Safety Audit (IOSA). Internationally, IOSA is Lufthansa Group has expanded its safety structures. Supplementary to the safety pilots at the individual member airlines, a new group-wide function was created and assigned comprehensive responsibility for examining and further refining all processes relevant to flight safety. Alongside his current function as safety pilot at Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Captain Werner Maas has held the new post of Group Safety Pilot Special Assistance Team since March 27, 2015. In this new capacity, he reports directly to the Chief ExecuThe Lufthansa Group has a qualified Special Assistance Team (SAT) at tive Officer of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, its disposal. About 1,500 employees from different companies across the Lufthansa Group have voluntarily completed training and continuing Carsten Spohr. education units to be knowledgeable in providing “psychological first aid” in the event of an emergency situation. Only a short time after the Germanwings accident, more than 200 SAT members gave support to family members. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 65 the most widely recognized and accepted standard for flight safety. All airlines within the Lufthansa Group fulfill the IATA safety standards in their entirety. In 2007, Lufthansa Cargo became the very first IOSA-registered freight airline worldwide. Ever since that first successful completion of an intensive audit, the Lufthansa Group’s freight specialist has been trailblazer in the area of flight safety The Patient Transport Compartment (PTC) – a standards for cargo airlines. unique service worldwide – was jointly developed by Lufthansa’s Medical Service and Lufthansa Technik. In 2014, Lufthansa became the first Lufthansa Group airline to be audited in accordance with the new Enhanced IOSA Standard, which is set to become mandatory from September 2015. www.iata.org/iosa interior offers room for one patient couch, With the program “Doctor on Board”, which Broad portfolio two seats for a physician and a Lufthansa currently consists of more than 9,000 phyof medical offers escort (PTC Medical Crew Member) as well as for all medical equipment, medications sicians worldwide, Lufthansa again assumes responsibility for its passengers (see page and consumable supplies required. 75, Balance 2014). In addition, the ComTo meet the rising demand for medical pany puts passengers in contact with transport and the clarification of passenIn comparison with conventional ambuselected panel doctors at all of its destinagers’ medical issues, the Lufthansa Group lance aircraft, the use of the PTC offers tions (a fee is charged) should they need has for some time continuously expanded numerous advantages. For example, urgent medical attention. the health-related services it offers cuspatients benefit from time savings of up to tomers (see page 75, Balance 2014). For 50 percent as the PTC module is fitted www.LH.com/uk/en/Travelling-healthily this reason, the aviation company’s Mediaboard a commercial airliner. Since June cal Service has offered the Passenger 2015, the PTC has been available on all Austrian Airlines and Swiss also offer their Medical Care division since 2009, among Lufthansa Group long-haul flights leaving passengers a broad scope of medical other options. from or arriving in Frankfurt and Munich. services. For example, Swiss passengers Lufthansa’s Medical Service developed may consult the “Health and travel” guide With the so-called Patient Transport Comthe PTC jointly with Lufthansa Technik. The online to access information on “Flying partment (PTC) Lufthansa offers a service central contact point for advice on and and health”. Moreover, this Lufthansa that is unique worldwide. The technical coordination of all patient transport aboard Group airline was certified in May 2014 by equipment of this “airborne intensive care Lufthansa aircraft is the Medical Operathe foundation ECARF (European Center unit” leaves nothing to be desired in comtions Center (MOC). Up to 100 intensivefor Allergy Research Foundation) as the parison with those in hospitals and allows care patients are transported in the PTC first airline worldwide to cater for allergy seamless medical care and monitoring of every year. sufferers. patients in critical conditions. The spacious 66 // Product Responsibility Study on cabin air quality on short-haul flights as well The Lufthansa Group also sets milestones in the area of cabin air quality. To guarantee the best possible air quality and to identify hazards from pollutants at an early stage or to rule them out entirely, the Company conducted a comprehensive series of measurements in the cockpits of Airbus A380s. The study, which drew data from more than 800 flight hours, centered on the use of a measuring kit jointly developed The Laboratory Services department at Lufthansa Technik serves customers inside and outside the with Hannover Medical School (MHH) and Lufthansa Group. did not show any pollutant load in a single case (see page 75, Balance 2014). The same applies to the occurrence of socalled smell events. The measuring kit identifies and quantifies nearly 200 subLaboratory Services Recognized fire laborastances that could potentially be present in cabin air. analyze on-board fluids tory for aviation In November 2014, the aviation company Aircraft systems require a multitude of An important safety and quality function is extended the cabin air research to shortfluids, the operational capability of which also fulfilled by the five test laboratories of haul Airbus A321s. Measurements of cabin must be checked at regular intervals. This Lufthansa Technik’s Central Materials Techair were conducted until April 2015 and is the responsibility of Lufthansa Technik’s nology in Hamburg. The task of this recogcomprised data from 44 flights within Laboratory Services division in Frankfurt, nized fire control institution is to test all Europe. The study’s results are expected to which looks after customers within and materials used in the construction of aircraft be published in the course of this year. outside of the Lufthansa Group. The focus for their flammability and certify them of its laboratory chemical and physical according to the fire protection regulations analyses is on parameters such as appearof the relevant aviation authorities. This ance, acid value, density, water content, applies equally to serially manufactured conductivity and viscosity. The results mass products and materials used on VIP enable inferences to be made concerning aircraft. Not only the Lufthansa Group the condition and functionality of motor oil airlines rely on the expertise of Central and hydraulics fluids. Beyond this, the Materials Technology at Lufthansa Technik, experts also test on-board kerosene sambut also aircraft manufacturers, airline ples for pollution with germs, as this can operators and suppliers. The background cause damage through corrosion. to this is that only a few companies maintain their own fire control laboratories and are allowed to issue aviation certifications. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 67 Data protection and data security Careful and secure handling of personal data is the basis for trusting business relationships. Protecting data shields the Lufthansa Group’s customers, employees, shareholders, and suppliers from violation of their privacy rights through improper use of sensitive personal data. The Lufthansa Group protects and secures data according to the highest standards. The Corporate Data Protection department of data protection, they spell out concrete Systematic training ensures that Germany’s Federal Data obligations regarding compliance with data Training and informational measures conProtection Act (FDPA) is applied across the protection laws. These guidelines also cerning data protection are aimed at familLufthansa Group. It familiarizes our employdefine rules to ensure Group-wide conduct iarizing employees and managers with the ees with the relevant legal provisions and that is compliant with data protection law, necessity of data protection, the key conducts regular data protection audits. make risks related to data protection transterms, the organization of data protection In addition, the Group’s data protection parent, and safeguard against such risks. within the Lufthansa Group, and specific experts advise the departments when new issues concerning individual areas. systems are introduced and procedures An updated version of the Data Protection are designed or modified. This allows for Guidelines has been in effect since The Web-based training course “The the coordination of data protection and December 2, 2014. In particular, the new fundamentals of data protection” is manbusiness concerns at an early stage. chapter “Responsibility for data protection datory for many Lufthansa employees. abroad” takes into better account the After signing an agreement to compliance The all-important first step is to make rising data protection requirements in with data confidentiality, new hires and job employees and managers aware of the countries outside of the EU. Furthermore, changers must complete this training risks related to data protection, so that they these rules were integrated into the Group within a short time. Since September are able to detect and avoid them. During guidelines for the purposes of handling 2014, the ensuing training certificates are the reporting year, the emphasis of advice data relating to orders. valid for only three years, as opposed to was on using customer data in ways that the previous five years. In addition, the conform to data protection standards. Data protection is the responsibility of the Group offers short specialized trainings Meanwhile, the conflict between German Executive Board and the management of online for certain target groups to intensify data protection legislation and ever-more the respective Group company. They are their knowledge concerning sensitive frequent demands for passenger informaassisted in the discharge of this responsibilissues and particularities in their work tion from foreign authorities remains unreity by the Corporate Data Protection departareas. solved (see page 76, Balance 2014). ment, headed by Dr. Barbara KirchbergLennartz. As in 2013, the Lufthansa Group Furthermore, employees can obtain Mandatory guidelines ensure recorded no significant risks or sanctionable information on this subject at any time on data protection violations concerning the protection of perCorporate Data Protection’s intranet The framework for secure data handling sonal data in 2014. Moreover, data disclopages. The department also reports on within the Lufthansa Group is defined by its sure requests and customer feedbacks were current data protection topics via a weekly Data Protection Guidelines. Based on laws handled in a timely fashion as a rule. internal blog. such as the FDPA and established principles 68 // Product Responsibility Offsetting carbon emissions Investing billions of euros in the world’s most modern aircraft as well as developing and introducing innovative technologies and processes are important levers for the Lufthansa Group to conserve kerosene and limit emissions. Yet as long as aviation depends on fossil fuels such as kerosene, CO2 emissions cannot be avoided altogether. Therefore, the Group companies Lufthansa, Swiss and Austrian Airlines as well as the Lufthansa subsidiary AirPlus offer their customers programs for voluntary CO2 compensation. The aviation company’s involvement in the voluntary offsetting of CO2 emissions is firmly anchored in the Group’s Environmental Strategy 2020 and part of the aviation industry’s four-pillar strategy for climate protection (see page 42). An emissions calculator is available on the Internet portals of all Lufthansa Group airlines. Passengers can use this calculator to determine the individual CO2 emissions caused by their journey and offset that amount accordingly. Calculations are made on the basis of actual flights and take into consideration a range of diverse parameters (see page 79, Balance 2014). The offer to fly in a climate-neutral way attracted the interest of the Lufthansa Group’s customers in 2014 as well. In total, passengers compensated emissions of over 16,000 tonnes of CO2 (2013: over 14,000 tonnes), which corresponds to 54 flights from Frankfurt to New York with a Lufthansa Airbus A380. Using compensation payments from Swiss passengers, myclimate supports this project in Kakamega, Kenya. Local materials such as clay are used for the production of efficient stoves. Later, indigenous trees are planted where the clay was dug out of the ground. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 69 AirPlus received the myclimate Award for its innovative product “Green Company Account” at the travel fair ITB 2015. Different partners, Lufthansa Cargo Support focuses on one goal offers customer-specific sustainable projects CO2 reports While Lufthansa and Swiss cooperate Numerous projects benefited in 2014 from with the Swiss charitable climate foundaProviding optimized reporting is a goal the voluntary climate protection donations tion myclimate www.myclimate.org, pursued by Lufthansa Cargo. Since 2015, made by the Lufthansa Group’s customers. Austrian Airlines works with the climate the freight airline has furnished companyFor example, Climate Austria supported protection initiative Climate Austria specific CO2 reports to its Global and Busiinter alia a biomass heating system at www.climateaustria.at. At myclimate, ness Partners. These carbon emissions Alpenzoo Innsbruck. Long-term, the new at least 80 percent of the CO2 compensation reports not only increase data transparency, system will allow the zoo to avoid over 1,100 payments go to selected climate protection but they also support customers in comtonnes of CO2 emissions. myclimate used projects in emerging and developing counpiling their environmental balance sheets. compensation payments from Lufthansa tries. They all have in common that they and Swiss customers inter alia to support work towards lower emissions of greenprojects that provide locally produced, house gases and promote development efficient cookers to the rural populations that is viable for the future. In addition, they AirPlus permits climatein certain parts of Kenya. These cookers are registered under the Gold Standard, which guarantees adherence to the highest neutral business trips replace traditional open fires, promote health, and prevent the clear-cutting of requirements concerning sustainability – further forest areas. Donations from AirPlus especially with regard to the environmental Lufthansa subsidiary AirPlus, which likewise customers were passed on by myclimate to balance sheet and social compatibility. enables its existing customers to offset their a communal reforestation project in NicaraCO2 emissions through myclimate, has also gua. There, newly planted forests protect Climate Austria’s stringent requirements achieved measurable success in the area communities of small-holding farmers from also guarantee that the climate protection of climate-friendly products. With AirPlus seasonal drought and flooding. donations from Austrian Airlines passengers Green Reports (introduced worldwide in benefit only selected projects – primarily 2011) and AirPlus Green Company http://lufthansa.myclimate.org http://swiss.myclimate.org in Austria. Here the focus is on initiatives Account (available on the German market www.climateaustria.at in the areas of energy efficiency and renesince 2014), two environmentally friendly www.airplus.com wable energies. The decisive aspect is that solutions already feature in the portfolio of they avoid emissions and deliver added the world’s leading provider of business positive ecological and socioeconomic travel payment and settlement solutions effects. In 2008, Austrian Airlines founded (see page 79, Balance 2014). At ITB 2015, Climate Austria together with Austria’s the international tourism fair in Berlin, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Green Company Account received a mycliEnvironment and Water Management, mate Award honoring AirPlus’s pioneering Kommunalkredit Public Consulting (KPC) role in the field of innovative and sustainable and Vienna Airport. financial products for the travel industry. Social Responsibility Motivated, highly qualified employees are decisive for the Company’s business success. As a socially responsible employer, we support our staff with transparent structures and processes as well as an attractive work environment. 143 16 9 nationalities are represented worldwide at percent is the share of women at the dimensions form our new talent managethe Lufthansa Group. management level in Germany. ment philosophy. 72 // Social Responsibility Seizing the opportunities of change: Thinking the future, meeting new challenges, living out responsibility The world is spinning faster and faster: Megatrends such as technological change, the digitalization of all areas of life and the constant increase in complexity are leaving their mark on all levels of society. The same is true of developments such as demographic change, growing globalization or the new demands being placed on the working world, to name but a few. Individually and collectively, they change the way in which companies do business and how employees work and communicate. The Lufthansa Group is determined to seize cultures in a targeted manner across all “Culture and Leaderthe opportunities produced by change in order to strengthen its competitive position business segments. This includes the project “Cultural Transition and Leadership”, ship” – A Group-wide and secure its future viability. To achieve which combined all approaches, resources strategic action area this goal, the aviation company is counting and measures concerning change manageinter alia on a personnel strategy that tackment, transformation support and leaderOn July 9, 2014, the Executive Board les current and future challenges in a couship development. In 2013, Lufthansa named “Culture and Leadership” as one of rageous and consistent manner. The Group reformulated its personnel strategy, which seven fields of action within the strategic launched initiatives as far back as 2012 to has served as the basis for all HR initiatives Group program “7to1 – Our way forward” develop its corporate and management launched since. (see page 18). This new dimension was added in turn to the strategic program “Forward with HR”. The focus on “Culture and Leadership” reflects the conviction that a modern, feedback-oriented leadership culture is essential in order to give timely responses to external factors of influence and to be perceived as an attractive employer in future as well. It likewise lays the foundation for motivated, entrepreneuriallyminded employees who are able to question familiar processes and to modify them in the Company’s interest in a future-proof HR Campaign Days at the Lufthansa Aviation Center at Frankfurt Airport: On October 14-15, 2014, internal and external experts briefed managers and employees at numerous information stands about career planning, reorientation and current trends in the working world. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 73 manner. To accelerate this transformation “Spirit” Strategic personnel process, the Lufthansa Group concentrated on the following aspects during the reporting With “Spirit” the Lufthansa Group aims at creating – under the roof of the Lufthansa planning year. These measures are accompanied by School of Business – made-to-measure made-to-measure change management. instruments, methods, formats and In January 2014, the Lufthansa Group contents that support the Company’s HR launched its “Strategic Personnel Planning” Sustainable implementation of the new strategy. The key idea behind this new program with the goal of guiding and leadership principles concept is the necessity of lifelong learning. managing risks related to demographic An important building block in personnel For this reason, “Spirit” focuses inter alia changes. This not only makes an important strategy are the five leadership principles on topics such as reflecting on personal contribution to the early analysis of possible “Driving Business”, “Leading Change”, ways of handling change, cooperating on discrepancies between future personnel “Creating Spirit”, “Fostering Talent” and strategic topics across hierarchies and levels and actual personnel needs. But “Mastering Complexity”. They serve as a disciplines, introducing dialogue and partiit also supports the Company in securing leadership model and support the Lufthansa cipative formats particularly for operative the personnel resources of the future by Group’s managers in directing their emstaff, expanding digitalization and using means of appropriate measures. In a ployees and departments across the Group social media. departure from previous approaches, the according to a unified set of values. In the aviation company combines qualitative course of the reporting year, a number of Talent management and quantitative analyses in a dynamic measures helped to anchor the leadership Since last year, the Lufthansa Group has model that comprises a planning timeprinciples even more deeply within the also applied a new talent management frame of 10 to 15 years. Another novelty is organization. These included the perforphilosophy guided by the principle “Every that the project team acts as a Group-wide mance potential tool “Profile”. employee has talent!” Its nine core mescompetency center which supports the sages provide a clear orientation concernbusiness segments in implementing stra“Profile” ing the aspects that the Lufthansa Group tegic personnel planning. At the beginning of 2014, the Lufthansa will emphasize in future in the area of talent Group launched “Profile” to provide a new management. In implementing this apbasis for assessing the talent and perforproach, all HR instruments and processes mance of managers. This tool is a central are consistently assessed, adapted or instrument for employee performance evolved (see page 84). evaluations and reviews. In the interest of the highest possible transparency, evaluations are carried out under the principle of multiple-assessor verification by several superiors within an area. Another innovation is that performance evaluations according to the Leadership Principles now consider not only the results, but also how they have been achieved. “Profile” is to be used Group-wide by the end of 2015. Furthermore, managers now have The Lufthansa Group’s HR strategy a wider margin of discretion concerning non-monetary incentives for their team The strategic program “Forward with HR” concretizes the Lufthansa members’ individual performances. An Group’s goals in the area of personnel. Developed further in 2014, these goals are to be implemented in the years ahead by means of specifically open dialogue ensures that employees adapted instruments and measures: receive differentiated feedback concerning work results, conduct and individual Increasing the organization’s ability to transform talents at regular intervals. Maintaining and expanding the Company’s attractiveness as an employer Strengthening leadership and employee commitment Promoting sustainable and social responsibility Advancing efficient and future-oriented talent management processes Improving the culture of dialogue within the Lufthansa Group 74 // Social Responsibility Interview with Åsa Lautenberg Vice President Corporate HR & People Strategy Deutsche Lufthansa AG You have been heading the departrate values are actually lived out in the Thus, we have not only introduced job ment Corporate HR & People Strategy company. That’s why in future leadership at rotation for management positions, but also since July 1, 2014. What challenges are Lufthansa will mean above all helping launched a pilot project that allows employyou facing? talents to develop their full potential. There ees to transfer from one Lufthansa Group The Lufthansa Group is going through the is no question that managers will clearly airline to another as smoothly as possible. greatest upheaval in its history, which have to assume a good bit more responsimeans an enormous challenge for each bility, as they must motivate and inspire Have you already set some goals employee. In the HR area, our task is to their colleagues more than ever to achieve for 2016? support the ensuing process of transformatop performance. It is also clear that the Indeed we have. Next year, a focus area tion with the targeted use of modern, synLufthansa Group wants to offer solutions will be the strategic project “HR Digitalizachronized HR instruments. For example, that improve work-life integration and open tion”. Here we will be investigating the jobs we’ve made the process of posting vacanup individual career paths more attuned to of the future and evaluating which procescies, filling jobs and managing performance specific life phases. Therefore, we will be ses can be digitalized to an even greater transparent, professional and standardized expanding our part-time and sabbatical extent. With this project, we are also aiming across the Group. We aim to provide imoffers in the course of this year. to increase efficiency further. pulses in the right places in future as well, so that our Company will be able to act What are you doing to drive the Besides, we’re working on maintaining and even more flexibly and cost-efficiently. necessary cultural change forward? deepening the commitment and trust of our Many of the changes the Lufthansa Group employees – despite the current difficult How do you intend to shift more has set in motion demand a rethink on the climate. To achieve this, it is indispensable responsibility to employees and part of employees and managers. We want to establish a modern, open and less hiermanagers and grant them more to act in more innovative, courageous and archical management culture. Here the HR freedom at the same time? risk-accepting ways. This assumes, for function stands by our managers as a Studies show that employees today are example, that we compose our teams more sparring partner and supports them with motivated only to a limited degree by diversely in terms of age, gender, cultural effective instruments. One example is monetary incentives. To a much greater backgrounds, experience and compe“Profile”, a tool introduced Group-wide in degree, they are seeking a meaningful type tence, as this has proved to produce better 2014 for assessing performance and talent. of work. In addition, employees observe performance. It is also crucial to provide Another is the new Group-wide employee with a critical eye how decision-making creative impulses for questioning our consurvey “involve me!”, which will begin in and communication processes and corpoventional or habitual way of doing things. September this year. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 75 Diversity and equal opportunity Diversity as a strategic factor of success Commonalities reunite; differences take us further. To take advantage of this potential, the Lufthansa Group has counted on systematic diversity management for many years – and thus also secures its ability to innovate and its competitiveness. The focus is on activating and fostering the multitude of talents, experiences, competencies and values that have always characterized the workforce of the globally active aviation group. One area of emphasis in this context is effective concepts, instruments and measures that help employees make family and work increasingly more compatible. To develop and implement these is the task of the HR staff of Group companies, who work closely with the Lufthansa Group’s commissioners for equal opportunity. Lufthansa Group transparent on women’s quota To guarantee equal opportunities for men and women has been a matter of course at the Lufthansa Group for a long time and is anchored in in-house agreements, among others. The Company is working in a focused manner on filling management positions up to the Executive Board level with qualified women. Currently, two of five – and thus 40 percent – of the members In 2014 the Lufthansa Group signed the “Diversity Charter”, a corporate initiative to promote diversity in of the Executive Board are women. In companies and institutions. Under the patronage of Federal Chancellor Dr. Angela Merkel, the charter aims addition, the Company already fulfills the to further acceptance, appreciation and inclusion of diversity in Germany’s business culture. Organizations are to create a work environment that is free of prejudices. All employees are to be valued – independent of women’s quota of 30 percent for the supergender, nationality, ethnic origin, religion or ideology, disability, age, sexual orientation and identity. Pictured visory boards of listed and fully codeterhere are Ana-Cristina Grohnert, Chair of the Board of Charta der Vielfalt e.V. and (right) Dr. Bettina Volkens, mined companies from 2016, which was Executive Board member and Chief Officer Human Resources and Legal Affairs at the Lufthansa Group. Part-time employment Average age 2 ­Lufthansa Group, in percent ­Lufthansa Group, in percent Female employees Male employees Total Female employees Male employees Total 50 45 40 30 40 20 10 35 41.1 42.6 43.8 42.7 42.7 43.9 44.2 45.3 45.6 45.0 41.1 41.3 41.4 41.5 41.5 41.8 41.9 42.4 42.7 43.1 24.6 25.7 26.8 26.5 26.9 26.9 27.1 27.9 28.1 28.0 40.1 40.2 40.3 40.4 40.3 40.7 40.8 41.3 41.9 42.3 13.0 13.7 14.3 14.0 14.0 13.6 13.3 13.7 14.1 14.3 38.8 38.9 39.0 39.1 39.0 39.5 39.6 40.2 40.9 41.3 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Part-time work by Group companies Age structure at the Lufthansa Group 2 2014, in percent 2014, in percent Passenger Airline Group 45 60 and older 4.0 Logistics 19 55 – 59 8.3 MRO 9 50 – 54 15.1 IT Services 22 45 – 49 18.7 Catering 13 40 – 44 14.2 Service & Finance 24 35 – 39 14.0 Total 28 30 – 34 12.0 25 – 29 9.1 20 – 24 4.0 18 – 19 0.5 under 18 0.1 Share of women in management positions 1 Share of women with staff responsibility 1 Lufthansa Group, in percent Lufthansa Group, in percent 20 50 15 40 10 30 5 20 12.7 12.9 15.0 14.6 14.7 13.1 13.6 13.6 14.5 14.2 32.5 34.7 35.8 38.0 41.5 36.8 35.5 34.5 34.1 35.1 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1 Scope of consolidation without LSG outside Germany, Swiss Aviation Training AG, LH 2 Scope of consolidation partially without LSG outside Germany, Lufthansa Malta Holding Ltd., Flight Training Berlin GmbH, Edelweiss Air AG, Swiss European Airlines AG, Swiss Aviation LH Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., Aerologic GmbH (consolidation partially with 25 percent), Software AG, TraviAustria GmbH, LH Malta Holding Ltd., LH Malta Aircraft-Leasing Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Philippines Inc., Shannon Aerospace Ltd., Lufthansa Technik Malta Ltd., Aerologic GmbH (consolidation partially with 25 percent), Shannon Aerospace Ltd. Co., Lufthansa Technik Budapest Repülögeb, Hawker Pacific Aerospace Inc. (US), Lufthansa LH Technik Malta Ltd., LH Technik Airmotive Ireland Ltd., LH Technik Budapest Repülögeb, Technik Landing Gear Services UK Ltd. (formerly Hawker Pacific Aerospace Ltd., UK), Hawker Pacific Aerospace (US), LH Technik Landing Gear Services UK Ltd., BizJet Int. Sales BizJet International Sales & Support Inc., Lufthansa Technik North America Holding Corp., & Support Inc., LH Technik North America Holding Corp., LH Technik Sofia OOD, LH Technik Lufthansa Technik Sofia OOD, Lufthansa Technik Component Services LLC, Lufthansa Malta Component Services LLC, AirPlus Air Travel Card Vertriebsges. mbH, AirPlus International Finance Ltd. Ltd., AirPlus International S.r.I., AirPlus Payment Management Co. Ltd., AirPlus International AG, AirPlus International Inc., LH Malta Finance Ltd. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 77 In the reporting year, the share of women pilots reached 5.4 percent. passed by the German parliament on March 6, 2015. The legal basis is the German law for equal participation for women and men in executive positions, which came into effect on May 1, 2015. In 2011, the Lufthansa Group set itself Cross Company Menmanagement, but also job and family. the goal of increasing the percentage of women in management positions by 30 toring: Sparring partners Current participants in Cross Company Mentoring are Axel Springer, Robert Bosch, percent by 2020 compared with 2010. for career advancement Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank, Fraport, Under this premise, the Group has been Hewlett-Packard, Merck and Sanofi successful despite comprehensive restrucWell trained employees are the key to the Deutschland. At the moment, ten mentors turings in increasing the share of women Lufthansa Group’s success. To accompany and ten mentees from Lufthansa are parat the management level in Germany from and support young female managers in ticipating in the program. 15.5 percent in 2010 to 16.0 at the end of particular in their professional advance2014. On a worldwide scale, the share ment, the Group initiated the Cross ComThe internal program “Go ahead”, which of women in management positions at the pany Mentoring program as long ago as was launched in 2012 as a supplement, is Lufthansa Group rose from 13.1 percent in 1998. Here, one mentee and one manager addressed at women aiming at a manage2010 to 14.2 percent in 2014. To achieve from different companies respectively form ment-level position. This training format its goal as planned, the Company energetia “tandem” for one year. The focus of places particular emphasis on the topics cally pursues its commitment to increasing regular exchanges is on topics such as of networking competence, personality, the share of women in management. professional goals, positioning within the self-management and career planning (see company, conflict management, time page 51, Balance 2013). Women on Boards Index: Jump into the Top 3 At a glance That the Lufthansa Group’s efforts are paying off is also evidenced by the results Of our 118,781 employees of the current Women on Boards Index 44.65 percent are women. (WoB), which has been established during the last four years by the cross-partisan They represent initiative “Women into supervisory boards”. 35.1 percent of all employees with responsibility for other staff, 14.2 percent of all managers, The index shows that the aviation company 5.4 percent of all pilots. improved its position by one place to third rank, compared with 2013. The WoB aims The employees’ average age is at making transparent the development of 42.3 years. women’s share in management positions at 160 listed companies, including the DAX The quota of employees with severe disabilities in Germany is 30 corporations. 4.0 percent. As per 31.12.2014 78 // Social Responsibility Same pay for same Work and private lives in which the Lufthansa Group has cooperated performance healthy balance for many years. Counseling and placement of nursing staff are free of charge for employees. Presentations on topics such Equal opportunities are enjoyed by Lufthansa The Lufthansa Group supports its employas care, powers of attorney or support employees in the area of remuneration. For ees with a range of measures in finding a obligations complement the service example, collective labor agreements in healthy balance between professional and provider’s offer. areas with binding collective pay agreeprivate lives over the different phases of life. ment have guaranteed since the 1970s that When the balance between work and family men and women receive the same salary can be achieved, both the employees and for the same work. Only in areas outside of the Company benefit. A wide selection of Extension of collective agreements are salaries negotiated individually. However, the Lufthansa work models and working time formats have supported employees for many years vacation care Group strictly observes that only experiin organizing family life. These are compleence, task relevancy and the measure of mented by offers for childcare, such as In the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group responsibility for employees, and budget places in daycare centers or support from again offered the internal summer vacation are the differentiation parameters. To pme Familienservice GmbH in the event of childcare program “Luftikusse – Kinder ensure that other criteria do not play a role care emergencies or during vacation time erobern die Lufthansa Welt” (Children in determining the level of remuneration, (see page 89, Balance 2014). Employees discover Lufthansa’s world). During each the aviation company also had its procewith family members who are ill or in need week of school vacation it offers 30 places dures audited by independent experts in of care find specific support options in Frankfurt for Lufthansa employees’ chil2013, who confirmed this as being so. through the pme Familienservice, with dren aged between six and twelve years to explore together the world’s largest aviation group. Given its enormous success, the full-day vacation program will take place in summer 2015 in Frankfurt for the third time. Thanks to the program’s expansion to Munich, employees’ offspring can now also go on a journey of exploration at the Munich hub. In addition, in fall 2014 children of Lufthansa employees had the opportunity to join a Company vacation program for the first time during the school fall vacation. The summer vacation childcare program “Luftikusse” offers employees’ children thrilling insights into the fascinating world of the Lufthansa Group. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 79 Parent-child office for “LH New Workspace”: Indispensable: Interculcare bottlenecks Pilot project concluded tural competencies successfully In the context of making the care infrastrucPeople from 143 nations work at the ture more flexible, the Lufthansa Group In April 2014, the Lufthansa Group sucLufthansa Group. Therefore, it is an imporopened a parent-child office in July 2014 at cessfully concluded the pilot project “LH tant goal for the Group’s personnel strategy the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt. New Workspace”. Over the course of six to understand, manage and take advanTwo workstations equipped with computers months, controlling and human resources tage of the related cultural diversity as a and telephones are available for parents employees tested innovative workstations resource. The aviation company continuwith unexpected or short-term care bottleand work setups at the Lufthansa Aviation ously develops its management approach necks, so that that they can work while their Center (LAC) in Frankfurt, designed to take and adapts it to changing basic conditions. children play or read in the same room. into account the increased demands on a This pilot project is set to run for a year and mobile and flexible work environment and Cosmopolitanism and tolerance are is an initiative of the “Familienkongress” an improved compatibility of professional a matter of course for an aviation group (“Family Congress”), which Lufthansa and family lives. Following positive feedwith international activities. Consequently, organized in 2014 for its employees. back from participants, the Executive it is a central concern for the Lufthansa Board decided to implement the concept Group to further develop the dialogue and at the entire LAC by the first quarter 2016. the understanding between the cultures, Other locations have already started the both internally and externally. For this purSupporting new role introduction of the New Workspace. Inforpose the Company has made a number models for fathers mation events accompany the changeover from conventional, primarily closed office of tailor-made continuing education modules available. structures to open space concepts incorMore and more fathers are leaving tradiporating “hot desking”, in which employees tional role concepts behind to actively use temporary workstations instead of fixed participate in family-related tasks. The desks (see page 89, Balance 2014). Lufthansa Group supports this fundamental change of paternal roles in society by cooperating with “Väter gGmbH” (“Fathers Ltd.”) at the Frankfurt and Hamburg locations. The offer is aimed at fathers working partor full-time or being on parental leave, and comprises presentations and workshops on all aspects of fatherhood and work-life integration. This includes a recurrent presentation entitled “Being an enthusiastic manager and father – and how both can be in harmony”. In addition, activities for fathers and their children are being planned. The goal is to facilitate the equal division of family and work for couples, so that professional achievement and a fulfilled family life are no longer mutually exclusive for men and women. The parent-child office at the Lufthansa Aviation Center at Frankfurt Airport. 80 // Social Responsibility Employment policy based on partnership Creating viable conditions for the future The ­Lufthansa Group’s success depends greatly on the ideas, enthusiasm and commitment of its employees. Therefore, the aviation company attaches the greatest importance to providing its employees with an attractive work environment and appropriate salaries. Likewise, it is an established tradition always to balance the economic interests of the Company with the expectations and needs of its employees. It is tried-and-tested Company policy to employee groups within the Company fairly labor committees and employees. The settle clashes of interests between Comand justly – a desideratum that the multipliCompany is a party to collective wage pany management and the bodies reprecity of unions within the Company presents bargaining with employees in about 25 senting employees in a transparent manwith an array of increasingly challenging countries. In all countries where L­ ufthansa ner. A fair approach to coexistence in all conditions. You can find the latest informaacts unilaterally, the Company uses benchareas creates the balance needed to tion on the ongoing collective bargaining marks and macroeconomic data such as advance the ­Lufthansa Group’s position in negotiations at inflation figures to review salaries at least the market. The growing plurality of opinonce a year on the basis of market and ions and opinion leaderships, much like www.lufthansagroup.com/media competitiveness criteria. In countries with developments in society as a whole, is very high rates of inflation, this assessment increasingly a challenge for all parties is performed more often, given the circumconcerned. The guiding principles for joint stances, and usually leads to pay increases. efforts are flexibility and responsiveness. Active pay and social In this way the L­ ufthansa Group offers policy abroad continual review and adjustment of working conditions for its locally employed staff. Partnership in Internationalization and globalization offer As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, collective agreements a broad range of opportunities for the Group’s business and personnel processes. ­Lufthansa has documented its support for freedom of association and the right to As a company with international operations, collective bargaining for all of its employees L­ ufthansa employs its staff under condi­Lufthansa’s pay and social policies are worldwide. Employees in any country tions that guarantee them social and mateguided by conditions in the various counwhere ­Lufthansa companies are active are rial security not only during but also after tries. The focus is on long-term definition free to lawfully organize themselves and their working years. These are established of the conditions of employment, which become involved in defining their working on the basis of collective agreements that depend on the needs of the employees, conditions. the Company negotiates with its union operational requirements, and the local partners Vereinte Dienstleistungsgewerklabor market – with the inclusion of comschaft (ver.di), Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), pensation rules, working conditions, and and Unabhängige Flugbegleiter Organisapension schemes. ­Lufthansa defines these tion e.V. (UFO). The goal is to treat all agreements in cooperation with internal Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 81 Lufthansa Group: Distribution of employees 1 Employees as of December 31, 2014 2014 2013 change Group employees 118,781 118,285 + 0.4 % of which Passenger Airline Group 54,960 55,272 – 0.6 % of which Logistics 4,663 4,660 + 0.1 % of which MRO 20,079 19,917 + 0.8 % of which IT Services 2,721 2,718 + 0.1 % of which Catering 32,843 32,307 + 1.7 % of which Service & Finance 3,515 3,411 + 3.0 % Lufthansa Group: Jobs throughout the world New company Employees as of December 31, 2014 pension scheme Frankfurt 37,133 Hamburg 9,561 Today’s attractive company pension Munich 10,751 scheme has been in place for Lufthansa Cologne 1,243 employees since 1994. The aviation group Berlin 1,079 attaches great importance to rewarding Rest of Germany 7,388 the performance of its employees in this Total in Germany 67,155 additional way. In order to respond to the Rest of Europe 23,251 developments of the capital markets as thereof Vienna 5,373 well as the consequences of demographic thereof Zurich 7,250 change, the Company terminated the bargaining agreement with employees Africa / Middle East 2,182 North / Central regarding the company pension plan in 14,902 America September 2013. The goal is to agree with South America 3,503 the collective bargaining partners on Asia / Pacific 7,788 modern, market-oriented retirement beneGroup total 118,781 fits that sustainably secure the Company’s competitiveness (see from page 92, Balance 2014). All pension entitlements previously earned under the company pension scheme are secured and remain Lufthansa Group: unchanged in any case. Number of employees by professional group and gender Employees as of December 31, 2014, in percent The Company’s management has proFemale employees Male employees posed a new company pension scheme by which Lufthansa would pay amounts Female 44.6 53,032 into an individual capital account for each Male employee and invest these funds on the 55.4 65,749 capital market. Under this new system, the Apprentices 27.8 amount of the pension payments would be 1,057 72.2 based on actual investment performance Ground 2 37.8 rather than on guaranteed pension levels. 82,724 62.2 In addition, each employee would have Flight 3 61.2 35,000 38.8 the option of increasing the level of his or Cockpit 5.4 her company pension by paying in addi9,012 94.6 tional amounts themselves. Upon reaching Cabin 80.6 retirement age, employees would also be 25,988 19.4 able choose individually either to have their retirement benefits paid out in a lump 1 Previous year’s figures have been adjusted sum or to receive a lifelong monthly pen2 Without apprentices sion payment – a flexible solution that 3 Consists of cockpit and cabin among other things would make it easier to bequeath pension claims. 82 // Social Responsibility dure is that themes, questions and indices cially in the area of jobs paid according to can be harmonized and results can be tariff. An integrated map function allows compared. The new survey concept will the display of the searching company’s be known under a new name: “involve geographical location. For employees at “involve me!”: me!” Employees of the Lufthansa Group Lufthansa German Airlines and in central First Group-wide selected this name from among four alternatives. functions the program also offers a free job application service with external advisors. standardized employee survey Program participants who wish to apply for a suitable job via the portal can also use For many years the Lufthansa Group has COMPASS program: this service to have their application docucounted on regular employee surveys. With the introduction of the strategic proJob exchange offers ments checked, to obtain tips on how to optimize them and to be prepared for gram “7to1 – Our way forward”, which more than jobs upcoming job interviews. also includes the action field “Culture and Leadership” (see page 18), the imporThe Lufthansa Group pursues a sustainCOMPASS is addressed to employees tance of a modern, feedback-oriented able personnel policy that takes into and managers whose jobs are threatened, leadership culture has further increased. account not only the Company’s requirewho seek new professional challenges or The goal of employee surveys is to find ments, but also the employees’ interests. who would like to become self-employed. out how satisfied employees are with their This also applies to times of change, To support the latter in an optimum way, work, to what degree they identify with which are unavoidably accompanied the program also includes comprehensive, their employer and where they have identiby operational restructurings. For this reaindividual counseling for setting up a fied weak spots (see from page 93, son, the aviation company has offered business as a self-employed entrepreneur. Balance 2014). The results and open COMPASS (see page 93, Balance 2014), An online forum, where current and former comments thus obtained are the basis for which was launched in 2013, in an expandusers can exchange information anonyan in-depth dialogue between managers ed format since the beginning of 2015. mously, completes the range of counand employees and the drivers of continseling offers and online services within uous improvements within the Company. Since then, employees have been able to COMPASS. access in an even simpler, more efficient While each Group company conducted its and direct way daily updated vacancies at In this way, COMPASS has evolved into an own survey in the past, 2015 marks the first more than 50 renowned partner compaintegral part of sustainable personnel policy year in which a Group-wide standardized nies, including the job portal JobStairs. As at the Lufthansa Group. polling process is to be implemented. a further advantage, the job exchange lists A significant advantage of the new procesignificantly more offers than before, espeSustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 83 Talent management Charting tomorrow’s course today Success and the ability to innovate depend largely on qualified and motivated employees. Therefore, talent management is an important field of action for HR management at the Lufthansa Group and an integral part of its valueoriented Company policy. Taking individual needs into account and providing matching measures ensure the methodical, professional and personal development of employees. Leitmotif: “Every Promoting horizontal The early identificaemployee has talent!” career paths tion of internal and external talent and the The basic principle of the new talent Careers do not have to climb steadily continuous developmanagement philosophy is that all employupwards – on the contrary. Instead of ment and qualification ees have talent. One of the aims here is to create an environment in which employees always aiming at the next step on the hierarchical ladder, the Lufthansa Group’s of employees are core are increasingly empowered to shape their talent management would also like to building blocks of HR development themselves. The Lufthansa enthuse employees to engage in horizonmanagement. Group supports this path with corresponding talent management instruments and tally-oriented internal and external career paths. After all, a change on the same level processes. These offer each employee can also guarantee a multitude of opportumore individual scope for shaping and nities for further development. A large assuming responsibility for their personal potential for this type of a move is offered To this end, the Lufthansa Group developed development. An example for the success by the about 540 companies within the a comprehensive talent management phiof this approach is the response to the new Lufthansa Group. In future, a number of losophy in 2014. It provides for a clear and transparent process for filling vacancies at measures will make it easier to fulfill rotauniform understanding of talent managethe upper management levels: More than tion requests by managers and employees ment across the entire Group and gives all 1,700 candidates applied during the between business segments. A current employees a clear means of orientation. reporting year for nearly 250 managerial pilot project is investigating which factors At the same time, all talent management positions. are relevant for employees when changing processes and instruments were adapted jobs between Lufthansa, Swiss and to the Lufthansa Group’s five Leadership In addition, a stronger focus is placed on Austrian Airlines and how such changes Principles (see page 73) and supplemented the fostering of talent as a central task can be facilitated. This may include transby new innovative concepts. of all managers. For this purpose, talent parent conditions for transfers or assistance management creates adequate measures in finding child care solutions or a tax for all job phases an employee passes advisor. This question becomes even more through within the Company – from recruitimportant when a job change involves a ment to retirement. move to another country. The Lufthansa Group’s talent management: Nine key messages A shared understanding of “talent management” at the Lufthansa Group is of decisive importance. The following nine key messages illustrate our Talent Management Philosophy. 01 / Every employee has talent! All employees are encouraged to enrich their working environment by using their different talents. The scope of Talent Management at Lufthansa includes all employees. 02 / Different needs, different ways! Talent, performance and flexibility of each employee match the business needs in different ways. Therefore, the intensity and pace of individual development activities will vary. 03 / Talents shape their own future! Having ambition and being proactive are the driving forces in career advancement. Talents can – and should – take ownership of their next career steps. 04 / Up is not the only way! Talent Management is about growing one’s capabilities in the current role, in a new role on the same level and possibly on a different level – or also pursuing various careers. 05 / Fostering talent is the key! All leaders within the Lufthansa Group have to take responsibility for their employees’ talents and focus on their further development to add value to the business. 06 / Turn the spotlight on leading people! Monitoring performance and managing both positive and negative consequences are a part of every leader’s agenda. HR equips managers with the appropriate tools and processes. 07 / Share and benefit! All employees think and act as a part of the Lufthansa Group, personal development takes place across company borders. This makes the whole greater than just the sum of its parts. 08 / Welcome diversity! A multitude of perspectives enhances the competitiveness of the business. And sometimes it‘s not the familiar way that leads to the best results. 09 / Employer of choice! All Talent Management activities aim to become the employer of choice both for our current and for our future employees – in all markets we operate in. 86 // Social Responsibility Setting up a uniform search on the applicant’s personality. Every Accompanying commutalent landscape applicant has the opportunity to show his or her motivation and enthusiasm for Lufthansa nication measures in a two-minute video message. For the first Along with the investment in the exchange time, the Company also paid special attenThe Lufthansa Group continuously provides of talent between the Lufthansa Group tion to whether individual trainees fit well information about the new talent managecompanies, a uniform talent landscape is together as a team. The 18-month program ment philosophy by means of workshops being set up Company-wide. A central role is characterized by a pronounced focus on and roadshows as well as internal media in this area is played by the new perforchange, culture and innovation. In addition, such as the Group’s staff newspaper, the mance and talent assessment instrument it gives trainees the opportunity to work news app or the intranet. In addition, the “Profile” (see page 73). Introduced in 2014 intensively on themselves – be it in a social HR Campaign Days took place in 2014 at for the majority of managers, it is to be business in India or by means of a mutual the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt, rolled out step by step for additional empeer coaching with other trainees of the offering information stands and presentaployee groups across the Company. Every same generation. tions on a wide range of topics including year, this HR instrument appraises afresh talent management. not only “what” an employee achieved but also “how” he or she did so. The insights gained in the process make it possible to assign suitable development measures to each employee. Unlike the logic applied until recently, “Profile” no longer focuses solely on the relatively small group of “high potentials” within a company. Instead, it considers all Group employees taking part in the assessment. “Are you a nerd?” trainee program is looking for personalities A contribution to winning highly qualified talent for the Lufthansa Group also comes business@school from the newly-aligned ProTeam trainee program, which specifically addresses The Lufthansa Group has supported business@school, an educational university graduates who would like to partiinitiative of the global management consulting firm The Boston Consulting Group (BCG), since 2002. Each year, the project gives over 2,000 highcipate in shaping the Company’s cultural school students the opportunity to experience business firsthand, acquire change. The selection considers neither key skills for their future working lives and develop their own business grades nor subject of study: Instead the ideas over the course of ten months. Launched with two schools in GerLufthansa Group places the emphasis of its many in 1998, the student competition today involves over 90 schools in Germany, Austria, Italy, Switzerland and the United States. In January 2015, the Lufthansa Group gave its first-ever special award for Best Corporate Analysis in Phase I of the initiative – a field day at the Lufthansa Aviation Center at the Frankfurt hub. Currently, more than 30 Lufthansa employees are actively involved in business@school. Simone Menne, member of the Executive Board and Chief Officer Finance and Aviation Services at the Lufthansa Group (center), with the winners of the special prize. www.business-at-school.net Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 87 An attractive employer For many years, the Lufthansa Group has been among Germany’s most popular employers. This is not least evidenced by the 130,000 applications the Company received during the reporting year. With about 6,000 visits a day, the career portal www.Be-Lufthansa.com serves as an initial contact point, providing comprehensive information about the numerous professional options available. The same goes for the Be Lufthansa career blog and the world’s largest aviation group’s Facebook page. Right from the start, the Lufthansa Group has offered a broad spectrum of training and continuing education options. In 2014, the Group smoothed the way The Lufthansa career portal www.Be-Lufthansa.com towards a professional career for more was honored as “best career website” in Germany than 370 apprentices in 40 occupations by research institute Trendence. requiring formal training. During the reporting year, high-school leavers and university graduates could choose from 61 different entry-level options, including study and training programs. A total of 1,350 junior employees at the Lufthansa Group pursued an apprenticeship or university studies in 2014. For the training year 2016, the Company is again on the lookout for 230 young people. Employer rankings 2014 Regular top positions in all relevant employer rankings underscore impressively that investments in employee development and continuous education pay off. In 2014, the aviation group managed to achieve even better scores than for the preceding year: For example, business students chose the Lufthansa Group as Germany’s fourth most attractive employer in the trendence Graduate Barometer 2014. And in the trendence European Graduate Barometer, Europe’s largest survey of graduates with more than 300,000 respondents, the Company ranked among the top 20 business employers. Moreover, Swiss made it into the ranks of Switzerland’s ten most attractive employers on a regional level in the Universum Study 2014. 88 // Social Responsibility Employee health and safety protection Fit for the future The Lufthansa Group’s comprehensive employee health and safety protection aims at promoting and maintaining its employees’ individual performance and motivation. In the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group’s Medical Service began realigning itself as a Corporate Health Management center. The organization of the Lufthansa Group’s In 2014, the Medical Service began reAward for social employee health and safety management is for the most part decentralized. This aligning itself as a Center for Corporate Health Management. Its goal is to further counseling approach is against the background of the increase the links between the Group Group’s heterogeneous portfolio of compacompanies’ health managers and to Crisis and conflict situations can affect any nies, which leads to pronounced variations promote the exchange of information on of us. That is why the aviation company in the requirements of individual business medical subjects. Furthermore, the newly offers Lufthansa Social Counseling as a segments. A key supervisory position in the created “Health Steering Committee” is to voluntary staff support service. This unit Company’s health protection concept falls develop new guidelines and programs for provides support for employees and manto the Medical Service, whose team of occuall Group companies. Last year, one area agers in the event of job-related problems, pational, aviation and tropical physicians are of emphasis for the Medical Service was as well as private, financial or family-related responsible for all health-related issues to provide comprehensive information and difficulties. Its wide-ranging service portfolio concerning employees. This unit, whose advice on Ebola for the Lufthansa Group’s is available at numerous locations in Gerquality management is certified according flying personnel. many (see page 101, Balance 2014). to DIN EN ISO 9001, has been headed by Dr. Lothar Zell since September 1, 2014. In 2014, Social Counseling organized a total of 133 workshops, training sessions and information events. The service’s overall score in related participant satisfaction surveys was 1.67 (on a school grade scale from 1 to 6). Its offer includes half-day workshops on resiliency in times of change as well as a range of formats on healthpromoting (self-)leadership, team building and conflict management. Social Counseling was also an established part of the HR Campaign Days, which again took place at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt during the reporting year. In March 2015, Lufthansa Social Counseling received the Soul@Work Award for its health-oriented accompaniment of organizational change processes. Lufthansa Social Counseling received the Soul@Work-Award in March 2015. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 89 Continuously optimized OHS processes All significant activities in the area of workplace safety at the Lufthansa Group are coordinated by its Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) department – together with physicians, social counselors, work councils and those responsible at the respective Group companies. All activities aim to maintain and improve the employees’ health and fitness for work by means of continuously optimized job safety processes (see page 101, Balance 2014). Just All materials used to manufacture Lufthansa how successful these measures are is uniforms regularly undergo human demonstrated by the example of Lufthansa ecological laboratory analyses. Technik: The MRO specialist’s Hamburg location was again rated as “Company with an exemplary occupational safety system” Lufthansa uniforms by Hamburg’s Office for Occupational Safety in July 2014, receiving another manufactured according six-year certificate to follow those from to OEKO-Tex® Standard 2000 and 2007. 100 Lufthansa equips its pilots, cabin crews and ground personnel with uniforms that are Health campaign manufactured without harmful substances “Cargo fit: Join the fun” as well as in accordance with sustainable and fair principles. To guarantee this, all at Lufthansa Cargo materials such as fabrics, yarns and buttons are tested in laboratories according to In 2014, the Lufthansa Group’s employhuman ecological parameters. Only if each ees again benefited from a multitude of and every component meets the stringent Corporate Health Management offers. For independent tests for pollutants carried out example, Lufthansa Cargo organized the by the OEKO-Tex® Association does the health campaign “Cargo fit: Join the fun” uniform manufacturer receive the quality in October in Frankfurt. It invited employees label “Confidence in textiles – Tested for to test their flexibility, stress resistance and harmful substances according to OEKOfitness over the course of one week and to Tex® Standard 100”. In addition, regular immerse themselves into the topic of nutrisupplier audits at the production sites tion through interactive media. Participants ensure adherence to the aviation company’s also received health tips and individual supplier standards. These audits are fitness plans. carried out by a general contractor on Lufthansa’s behalf and supervised regularly by Lufthansa employees. Corporate Citizenship To increase the efficiency of our social commitment, we will bundle our corporate citizenship activities under the umbrella of Lufthansa Group Social Care. 15 22,500 30 years of Help Alliance – free medical treatments by Cargo Human More than 30 years of cooperation 15 years of help for self-help Care during the reporting year with “Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main e. V.” 92 // Corporate Citizenship Lufthansa Group Social Care – For a culture of shared responsibility The Lufthansa Group advocates responsible mobility, network links and worldwide connections. As targeted civic engagement secures and strengthens general, long-term cohesion within society, the aviation group strongly supports social issues (corporate citizenship) at home and around the world. To fulfill this responsibility even better in future, the Lufthansa Group has realigned its social commitment in 2015 by bundling all its corporate citizenship activities under a single roof: Lufthansa Group Social Care. organizations. This cooperation with the can combine personal involvement and From now on the focus is emergency aid alliance “Aktion Deutschfuture-oriented action. Facilitating this to be above all on social land Hilft” and its strategic partner “World Vision Deutschland” gives aid organizadesire greatly increases a number of factors such as staff motivation, job satisfacand humanitarian projtions direct access to Lufthansa Cargo’s tion, company loyalty, intercultural compeects. Complemented by logistics competencies for relief support tence and self-esteem. The community selected activities in the outside of Germany. benefits as well: Practice shows that the greater a project’s long-term utility for areas of culture, sports Lufthansa Group Social Care has also desociety, the better people are able to conand the environment, all fined and developed new social care guidetribute their individual expertise. Consethese efforts are also to lines. These stipulate that the aviation group is to support only those projects fulfilling its quently, the Group-wide trainee program “ProTeam” is to be expanded in future by aim at creating utility for new funding criteria in future. A detailed a four-week trainee assignment in a social social issues. evaluation matrix shows if this is the case. business abroad. Applying expertise – Providing impulses Last year, employees from various departAn important building block in the Lufthansa ments across the Lufthansa Group had a Group’s corporate citizenship concept is to special opportunity to combine entrepreMoreover, the Group has provided rapid foster the social commitment of its employneurial initiative and social commitment at and professional ad-hoc aid in the event of ees and managers in ever more targeted the Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp 2014. humanitarian crises and natural disasters ways. Its systematic expansion of CorpoAmong the project’s strong supporters is the for many years. Since February 2013, rate Volunteering takes into account that Help Alliance, the aid organization founded Lufthansa Cargo has also been part of a today’s top talents seek not just a job, but by Lufthansa employees (see page 95). professional network of renowned aid rather a professional setting in which they Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 93 Humanitarian emergency aid For many years, the Lufthansa Group has provided swift and uncomplicated help in the event of catastrophes – as a rule in close consultation with the German government and noted German aid organizations. The focus of this commitment is on aid flights providing initial logistical supplies to people in acute need as a result of flooding, drought, earthquakes or epidemics. Ebola epidemic: against the backdrop of the largest ever Aboard the logistics specialist’s MD-11 Special flight with aid Ebola epidemic, which broke out simultaneously in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone freighter were 200-plus tents, which were used locally as special isolation wards at or materials last year. According to the World Health near hospitals. These Ebola Treatment Units Organization’s Ebola Situation Report on (ETUs) allow care for Ebola patients at the On October 28, 2014, Lufthansa Cargo flew April 29, 2015, over 25,000 people in these strictest security and protection levels. more than 70 tonnes of aid materials to West African countries have been infected West Africa on behalf of the United Nations by the Ebola virus and over 10,000 have Children’s Fund (Unicef). This action was died as a consequence. Preparations for a Lufthansa Cargo aid flight to West Africa. 94 // Corporate Citizenship Evacuation aircraft for Ebola patients At the initiative of Germany’s Federal Foreign Office, Lufthansa Technik refitted a Lufthansa Airbus A340-300 in only 11 days as an evacuation aircraft to fly highly infectious Ebola patients from the areas affected by the epidemic. Unlike smaller specialized aircraft, the A340 allows intensive medical care of critically ill patients during the flight. The central element of the evacuation aircraft is the Patient Transport Isolation Evacuation aircraft: The complex and Unit. It is located in a hermetically sealed technically challenging refit was carried out by the low-pressure tent that is connected to two experts at Lufthansa Technik. further air and gas-tight tents, which serve as safety locks and for disinfection when entering and leaving the isolation unit. On November 27, 2014, the Lufthansa Group “Africa is not Ebola”: “Africa is not Ebola” on February 12, 2015. handed the fully operational refitted Airbus over to Federal Foreign Minister Dr. FrankNoncommercial initiative The goal is to remind the public – by joining forces with personalities from business, Walter Steinmeier and Federal Minister of of Brussels Airlines science, sports and culture – that only three Health Hermann Gröhe. of the 54 African nations are affected by To help bring more objectivity to the the Ebola epidemic. Hence it is high time to The complex and technically demanding debate about the potential hazards of end prejudices concerning Africa so that refit of this passenger aircraft was possible Ebola, Brussels Airlines launched the tourists, investors and companies return to due to Lufthansa Technik’s many years of noncommercial awareness campaign the world’s second-largest continent. experience with the construction and fitting of special cabin interiors for government, VIP and business aircraft. All work was carried out in close cooperation with the Robert Koch Institute in Berlin, the German government’s central authority in the area of disease monitoring and prevention. The evacuation aircraft’s humanitarian mission was initially limited to six months. More Earthquake in Nepal: than 700 Lufthansa pilots and flight attendants volunteered within a very short time Help Alliance calls for donations for duty on the evacuation aircraft “Robert and plans aid for reconstruction Koch” and thus expressed their solidarity for the people in the areas affected by Ebola. Following the earthquake in Nepal in April 2015, the Help Alliance launched a call for donations. In addition, the aid organization will support reconstruction projects in Nepal – as it has done previously in the wake of other natural catastrophes such as the tsunami in the Philippines or the earthquake in Haiti. To this end it cooperates with local professional partners. All project suggestions are carefully analyzed and evaluated by the Help Alliance. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 95 Social commitment Making a commitment to less privileged people around the world and a difference to society as a whole has a long tradition at the Lufthansa Group. This attitude is illustrated by numerous long-term aid projects and initiatives brought to life by its socially engaged employees and supported by its management. alliance Help Alliance – The employee organization’s record is 15 years of Help Alliance Closer to the world. impressive: It looks back on 130 successfully supported projects and provides – In 2014, the Help Alliance celebrated its 15th anniversary at the Lufthansa Aviation Closer to its people. together with the Lufthansa Group – emerCenter. Joining in the celebrations were gency and reconstruction aid worldwide in about 150 friends and supporters, including As long ago as 1999, employees from all the event of catastrophes. The bottom line the association’s new patroness, Vivian parts of the Lufthansa Group brought the is that the association has invested almost Spohr. She took the baton from her predeHelp Alliance to life. The main task of this 10.5 million euros for humanitarian purcessor Bettina Lauer, who had championed charitable association is to collect donaposes over the past 15 years. More than 90 the Help Alliance since 2009. For her tenure tions and to use these funds in a meaningpercent of all donations it administers flow the wife of the Lufthansa Group’s Chairman ful way for humanitarian causes. Since its directly into its aid projects. To ensure that and Chief Executive Officer Carsten Spohr early days, the aid organization has conpeople dependent on support will in due is planning among other things to increase centrated on the areas of education, health course successfully take charge of their awareness of the employee organization and nutrition while paying special attention own lives, all measures are guided by the and to open up new sources of revenues. to children and teenagers. principle of providing “help for self-help”. An Furthermore, the aid organization’s website annual report and its own website provide www.helpalliance.org received a fresh The scope of aid projects is varied and information about the association’s work. look to mark the 15th anniversary. includes schools, training facilities, orphanages and projects for street children in Africa, Asia, Central and South America and Eastern Europe. To ensure long-term success, a Lufthansa Group or Condor employee is assigned to each project. He “Companies, such as the Lufthansa or she accompanies the project personally; this includes quality-assuring visits on Group, which embody certain values location as well as reporting duties. The have an obligation to get involved in necessary planning security is provided by social issues. It is a stroke of luck that the Lufthansa Group, which has supported the Help Alliance since its foundation with Lufthansa can count on employees funds, logistics and communications. who pull together.” Vivian Spohr, Patroness Help Alliance e. V. 96 // Corporate Citizenship Below is an overview of the Help Alliance’s key projects during the reporting year. Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp During the reporting year the Help Alliance supported the first Haiti Entrepreneurship Camp, which took place in the capital Port-au-Prince. The pilot project aims at motivating young people to set up their own businesses and thus to disprove the widely held belief that success depends solely on social origins. Under the motto “driving business – driving future” lecturers from around the world – including many Lufthansa employees from different Group companies as well as local nongovernment organizations and institutions – taught about 30 young Haitian entrepreneurs between the ages of 24 and 42 business know-how in theory and practice over the course of two weeks. Given last year’s great success, the camp will take place again in 2015. Child Sponsoring Circle India Vivian Spohr, the patroness of the Help Alliance, during her The Help Alliance has been committed to visit to boarding schools run by Child Sponsoring Circle India. Child Sponsoring Circle India since 2004. This central Indian association maintains 20 boarding schools in Khandwa in the state of Madhya Pradesh. The project’s focus is on 3,000 children from the ostracized “untouchables” caste who can be supported by neither their families nor their village communities. At the boarding schools they receive food, shelter, medication and education. Every year, 200 of them “The approach that we can achieve graduate from secondary school. In addition, Child Sponsoring Circle has operated more together than alone has proven a mobile hospital ward since 2008 with itself a resounding success. A big support from the Help Alliance and the ‘thank you’ to all who have supported frequent flyer program Miles & More. us during the past 15 years.” Rita Diop, Chairwoman Help Alliance e. V. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 97 The Help Alliance has supported the preschool project iThemba School Capricorn in South Africa since 2006. iThemba School Capricorn The iThemba School Capricorn is a preschool project in the townships of Cape Town, South Africa, that every year gives 75 underprivileged children the opportunity to attend school. The Help Alliance has supported this project since 2006. Given the positive response from both parents and the Capricorn district municipality, the iThemba School started construction of a primary school at the beginning of 2015. It is to accommodate 600 children and is slated for inauguration in January 2017. Small Change – On-board collection program Fundraising activities Since 2012, the association has cooperIt’s a Big Help Development of donation volumes in euros 1 ated with betterplace.org, a charitable 2014 497,823 donations platform that permits users to With the aim of building bridges into a better support projects directly. The same is true future for people in need, the Help Alliance 2013 301,566 launched the on-board collection program for the more recent cooperation with 2012 318,380 Small Change – It’s a Big Help in 2001. ammado.com, thanks to an initiative It offers Lufthansa Group passengers the 2011 205,362 by the ninth generation of the management opportunity to donate coins and bills in 2010 286,184 development program “explorers”: Visitors any currency they might be carrying on homeward bound long-haul flights. For this 2009 224,053 can now reach this online platform, which purpose, the seat pockets on board aircraft 2008 230,433 meets the requirements of German and contain small sealable envelopes, which the European data protection laws, via links flight attendants then collect and forward to 2007 260,939 on www.helpalliance.org and the Help Alliance. In addition, valuable small 2006 279,575 www.LH.com. The Lufthansa Group change is also collected in donation pillars 2005 294,870 placed in employee areas, the Lufthansa companies and cooperation partners particiLounges at all German and selected inter2004 238,023 pate as well in fundraising campaigns. Via national airports, and in the public areas 2003 216,539 Facebook, YouTube and the Help Alliance at the Frankfurt and Munich hubs. blog, the humanitarian aid organization 2002 232,692 maintains contact with its supporters and 2001 207,175 informs them about the progress of individual projects. October 2002: start of Condor’s participation 1 As the final figures were not yet available at press September 2011: start of Brussels Airlines’ time, all figures in this article mentioned for the participation reporting year 2014 are preliminary. July 2012: start of Austrian Airlines’ participation 98 // Corporate Citizenship “Flight Mode app”: – the “flight mode”. All off-line minutes Digital time out for a good cause registered worldwide by the app by With the aim of supporting four Help Alliance December 24 were added up and turned school projects in India, Brazil, Benin and into donations by the Lufthansa Group. Vietnam, the Lufthansa Group published the “Lufthansa Flight Mode app” in DecemTraditional ways of supporting the work of ber 2014 LH.com/flightmode. The goal the Help Alliance are a Supporting Memof this Christmas campaign was to motivate bership, direct donations, the on-board the app’s users to take digital time out on collection (see page 97), Miles to Help, and board or on the ground for a good cause. child sponsorships. To do so, they merely had to switch their mobile or smart phone to the off-line mode www.helpalliance.org 15 years of Help Alliance 130 projects since 1999, of which: 57 in Asia 46 in Africa 21 in Central and South America 6 in Europe 10,402,500 600 euros total funding since 1999 volunteers 1,500 > 3,000,000 Countries where the supporting members euros collected on board since 2001. Help Alliance is active. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 99 Cargo Human Care: At Mothers’ Mercy Home the first graduates celebrate the successful completion of their course work. Cargo Human Care: Nairobi has added up to more than 2,000 the Federal Republic of Germany on Take off, land, help days. What is more: In 2014 the CHC provided without charge about 22,500 treatMay 9, 2015 for his volunteer work in Kenya. Three years earlier, Fokko Doyen, ments for about 6,500 patients – a new MD-11F Fleet Chief at Lufthansa Cargo Cargo Human Care (CHC) is a registered record. During the reporting year, the CHC and initiator of Cargo Human Care, charity set up jointly by Lufthansa Cargo again expanded the range of medical received the same award. employees and German physicians in 2007. options it offers. Among these new treatFrom the start, Lufthansa Cargo has supments are plastic surgery and laparoscopic www.cargohumancare.de ported the initiative with air tickets and freight procedures, which German specialists capacities provided free of charge. The perform on an inpatient basis at the local basic idea of this Kenya-based aid project Nazareth Hospital. Furthermore, the aid is to provide professional medical care to organization cooperates with an eye clinic Cargo Social Care: sick and needy people in an uncomplicated manner. Treatments are given at the Medical to treat cataracts. Cooperation with Center run by Cargo Human Care in Nairobi. Since 2011, Cargo Human Care has ofsheltered workshops It mainly looks after people living in the fered full or partial child sponsorships for vicinity who cannot afford to see a doctor, as sick, disabled and neglected children living For more than 30 years, Lufthansa Cargo well as the children living at the orphanage in the area surrounding the Mothers’ Mercy has joined forces with the registered assoMothers’ Mercy Home. The latter, the CHC’s Home. There were 60 such cases in 2014. ciation “Werkstätten für Behinderte Rheinsecond important area of activity, is currently In addition, the CHC created education and Main e. V.”. This cooperation secures the home to more than 115 orphans. training sponsorships during the reporting jobs of 280 disabled persons, who each year – a support option that currently beneweek produce about 2,400 lashing straps CHC draws from a pool of about 40 medifits more than 30 young people. and each month repair about 11,000 cal doctors from six specialty areas. Three straps used to secure air freight loaded times a month, physicians board an aircraft Dr. Sven Sievers, founding member and on aircraft. All products meet the stringent for a four-day stint as voluntary care proformer second chairman of Cargo Human Lufthansa Cargo quality requirements viders in Kenya. Since 2008, their work in Care, was awarded the Order of Merit of derived from the relevant ISO standards. 100 // Corporate Citizenship Swiss and SOS Children’s Village together champion conditions that will allow children to take their lives into their own hands later on. Swiss Austrian Airlines Brussels Airlines For many years, Swiss has maintained The Austrian Group airline assumes it reAfter 2011 and 2014 (see page 109, close ties with the aid organization SOS sponsibility for social issues and supports Balance 2014), employees of the Lufthansa Children’s Villages. For example, the globally relevant charities, social organiGroup airline Brussels Airlines will once child welfare agency receives the “small zations, institutions and projects. This also again participate in “Bike for Africa” in 2016. change” in various currencies that the airincludes the Life Ball. It is one of the largest This mountain-bike event is an initiative of line collects from passengers on board its AIDS charity events worldwide and takes Brussels Airlines’ b.foundation, which flights and at a number of coin collection place every year at Vienna’s city hall. Its supports the social involvement of its points. During the reporting year, a total goal is to help people with the immune employees. The route planned for next of 185,000 Swiss Francs were collected deficiency disease in unconventional ways year covers 460 kilometers across Senegal in this way. Beyond that, Swiss supports and to remove the taboos surrounding HIV/ and Gambia in West Africa. Revenues the efforts of SOS Children’s Villages AIDS. To mark the occasion of the Life Ball from the five-day cycling tour will benefit with communications campaigns and 2014, Austrian Airlines branded a Boeing humanitarian projects. transportation services. Also the Swiss 777, which has been flying around the globe Children’s Foundation, set up by staff and in this special livery since April 1, 2014. In managed by volunteers, can rely on finan2015, the Life Ball took place on May 16. cial, logistical and infrastructural support from the Lufthansa subsidiary. Moreover, Swiss employees can choose to have a voluntary donation to the Swiss Children’s Foundation deducted from their salaries. The foundation uses these donations to finance the livelihoods of families in the SOS Children’s Villages it supports around the world. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 101 Environmental sponsorship Today, nearly a third of all known animal and plant species is considered to be endangered. This includes the crane, the Lufthansa Group’s heraldic bird, for at least ten of the 15 crane species around the world are threatened in their existence. With the aim of putting a stop to the ongoing destruction of crane habitats, the Group has been active in crane protection for over 30 years. Lufthansa supports numerous crane proOctober 2015. The project “Treasure on No profit from tection projects through the charitable working group Crane Protection Germany, the Coast” is supported by Germany’s Federal Agency for Nature Conservation. wild animals which was founded in 1991 by Lufthansa, Naturschutzbund Deutschland (NABU) Responsibility for the “bird of luck” was At Lufthansa Cargo “live freight” always and the environmental foundation WWF also assumed by a number of volunteer flies safely and species-appropriately. In the Deutschland. Special emphasis is placed crane rangers from the ranks of Lufthansa interest of protecting wild animals, the freight on the Crane Information Center (CIC), employees in 2014. They used several airline refuses all commercial shipments of which Crane Protection Germany operates days of active vacation to lend a helping endangered species (see page 84, Balance in Groß Mohrdorf (see page 110, Balance hand to Crane Protection Germany. 2010). For the same reason, the transport of 2014). The CIC again drew about 15,000 endangered animal trophies has been visitors in 2014. Banding campaigns in Turkey strictly forbidden on Lufthansa Cargo flights and Ethiopia for many years. To take its measures to During the reporting year, Crane ProtecIn an effort to save the last 150 crane pairs protect wildlife a step further, the airline has tion Germany inter alia developed guidein Turkey, Crane Protection Germany joined decided not to accept trophies in Africa from lines for the 92.2-hectare grassland area forces with partners to band and radio-tag species such as lions, elephants and rhinoit received from Bodenverwertungsund a number of birds in 2014. Also in the ceroses – including those that are legally -verwaltungs GmbH (BVVG ) as a transfer pipeline are various banding and radioshot or acquired. In this way, Lufthansa from national natural heritage land stocks. tagging projects in Ethiopia. Cargo makes another contribution to animal The goal is to preserve and expand the and species protection. marshes and meadows surrounding the www.kraniche.de Günzer See, a coastal lake in the rural www.facebook.com/kranichschutz www.lufthansa-cargo.de district of Vorpommern-Rügen, as breeding and resting grounds for aquatic and migratory birds. To maintain visitor access to this area, Crane Protection Germany is currently constructing a barrier-free observation deck (“Utkiek”), set to open in Impressions of the crane ringing campaign in Ethiopia 102 // Corporate Citizenship Cultural commitment Art is a precious resource which no society can do without. To underscore this conviction, the Lufthansa Group has been active in the cultural domain for many decades. Currently, the focus of our support is on musical institutions and performances of distinction. Since 2010, the Lufthansa Group has Star-studded charity (see page 98), “wir helfen” looks after supported the renowned Gürzenich Orchestra as First Global Partner. Resident concerts children and teenagers in distress across the Cologne region. Performing works by at Cologne’s Philharmonie, it is consideTchaikovsky and Beethoven, star violinist red one of Germany’s leading concert On the first Sunday of the 2014 Advent Midori and conductor Michael Sanderling and opera orchestras. In February 2014, season, Lufthansa joined forces with the proved to be absolute crowd pullers. The Lufthansa flew the 130-musician-strong Gürzenich Orchestra and regional newspanext edition of this charity concert series ensemble to Asia for a concert tour, as per “Kölner Stadt-Anzeiger” to organize a will take place on October 18, 2015 – this part of its first long-term commitment to charity concert. The sold-out performance year with cellist Gautier Capuçon and guest a symphonic orchestra (see page 113, generated net revenues of 20,000 euros conductor James Gaffigan. In addition, the Balance 2014). for the benefit of the Lufthansa employee Gürzenich Orchestra ensures musical organization Help Alliance and “wir helfen”, delights of the highest order for Lufthansa’s the aid association of Cologne publishing employees at selected in-company events house DuMont-Schauberg. Whereas the throughout the year. Help Alliance’s activities are worldwide The Gürzenich Orchestra supports the Help Alliance and “wir helfen” by giving a charity concert. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 103 Sports sponsorship For many years, the Lufthansa Group has extended its social commitment to high-performance sports as well. The “Airline of Sports” is a trusted and reliable partner of numerous renowned sports institutions, associations and clubs. German Sports Aid Foundation Since 2007, Lufthansa has been a National Sponsor of the German Sports Aid Foundation, an organization that currently supports about 3,800 athletes. Furthermore, the aviation group supports the foundation’s initiatives “Your Name for Germany” (see page 104, Balance 2013) and “Springboard Future – Sports and Career”. The latter helps world-class athletes start to prepare the way for their later professional development while still in their active sports careers. Currently, five Lufthansa managers serve as mentors for the same number of athletes, giving advice and practical support. The Boeing 747-8 named “Potsdam” shows both the words “Fanhansa” and the heartfelt www.sporthilfe.de thanks in the word “Siegerflieger” (Winners’ Plane) from Lufthansa and all fans to the German football team for its brilliant performance in Brazil. German Olympic Sports Confederation and victory at the FIFA World Cup in Brazil in the bids of German cities competing to host National Paralympic Olympic and Paralympic Games. summer 2014, Lufthansa brought the Committee Germany World Champions back home aboard a www.dosb.de / www.dbs-npc.de brand-new Boeing 747-8 – with the word As the official carrier of the German Olympic “Siegerflieger” (“Winners’ plane”) painted Sports Confederation and National Paralymon the fuselage. In November 2014, pic Committee Germany, Lufthansa flew the Football Lufthansa opted for an early extension of German national teams to both the Olympic its partnership with the German Football Games and the Paralympic Winter Games Lufthansa has been a close partner of the Association until 2018. In addition, it is the 2014 in Sochi. In June 2015, the “Airline of German Football Association since 2005. Official Carrier of FC Bayern München as Sports” also flew the German teams to the Ever since, the airline has flown all German well as an official partner of the Eintracht Azerbaijani capital, Baku, where the Euronational soccer teams to their away games Frankfurt team. pean Games took place for the first time. as well as to European and world champiIn addition, Lufthansa traditionally supports onships. Following Germany’s brilliant www.dfb.de / www.lufthansagroup.com/sports Service and Information Glossary / Editorial information / Methodology of calculations / Overview of the Lufthansa Group’s fleet 106 // Service and Information Glossary A level at the poles. The temperature in the C tropopause, the transition layer between troposphere and stratosphere, drops to Aerosols about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It rises Carbon dioxide (CO2) Aerosols are solid and/or liquid particles again in the stratosphere. The so-called Gas resulting in nature from the burning or that are suspended in the air. They reach ozone layer is also located in the stratodecomposition of organic substances (e.g. the atmosphere by means of natural prosphere at altitudes of about 25 to 30 kiloplant material) and from human or animal cesses (wind, desert storms, volcanic erupmeters. Today’s commercial aircraft fly at respiration. The greenhouse gas CO2 tions) or human activities (combustion of cruising altitudes of between eight and remains in the atmosphere for about 100 biomass and fossil fuels). The most impor13 kilometers. According to the latest years. Scientists attribute the increase in tant aerosols are mineral dust, sea salt, research, air traffic emissions do not conatmospheric CO2 over the last 100 years cellular (biological) particles, soot, organic tribute to the reduction of the ozone layer. to the burning of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil, compounds, and sulfates. From a climatic natural gas) by humans. Per tonne of fuel, perspective, aerosols are the opponents of 3.15 tonnes of CO2 result from the combusgreenhouse gases, as they can reflect incident light and thus have a cooling effect. B tion process. Currently, about 2.42 percent of the CO2 emissions due to human activities are caused by global air traffic. aireg e. V. – Aviation Initiative for B.A.U.M. – Bundesdeutscher Arbeits(Source: International Energy Agency (IEA) Renewable Energy in Germany kreis für Umweltbewusstes Manage2013, 2011 values) aireg is a registered association of leading ment e.V. (Federal Working Group for German research institutions, Lufthansa Environmentally-Aware Management) Carbon monoxide (CO) and other companies in the aviation indusB.A.U.M. was founded in 1984 as the first Chemical compound consisting of one try, and bioenergy producers. The goal of independent environmental initiative of carbon and one oxygen atom, formed in this initiative, which was founded in 2011, German business. With more than 500 the incomplete combustion process of is to advance the development and intromembers, it is the largest of its kind in substances containing carbon. For aircraft duction of regenerative aviation fuels in Europe today. Lufthansa has been a memengines, the level of CO emissions Germany and to inform the public at large ber of the Working Group since 1997. depends greatly on the thrust level: The about this topic. emissions per kilogram of fuel burned are www.baumev.de higher at idle settings, while taxiing, and www.aireg.de on approach than during the climbing and BDL – Bundesverband der Deutschen cruising phases. ATM – Air Traffic Management Luftverkehrswirtschaft (German Air traffic management ensures both the Aviation Association) CDA – Continuous Descent Approach safe and the efficient movement of aircraft Lufthansa is a founding member of the Procedure for a flight’s approach phase in all phases of operations. German Aviation Association (BDL), which that requires less engine thrust and is has represented the interests of the Gertherefore quieter and more fuel efficient. Atmosphere man aviation industry with a single voice However, this type of approach is possible The whole mass of air surrounding the since December 2010. Its main goals are only if there are no constraints due to heavy Earth. It is divided into various layers, distinto make politicians and journalists more air traffic in the airspace concerned. guished from one another by distinct difaware of aviation’s economic and employferences in vertical bands of temperature. ment-related importance and to strengthen CDP (previously Carbon Disclosure Important for air traffic are the two lower Germany as a business location for aviation Project) layers: the troposphere and, above it, the in general. The CDP is an independent, charitable stratosphere. The troposphere’s upper organization with a current membership of boundaries vary depending on season and www.bdl.aero more than 820 institutional investors worldlatitude. They lie at altitudes of 16 to 18 wide. The goal of this initiative, which was kilometers above sea level at the equator, founded in 2000, is to motivate the world’s and at eight to 12 kilometers above sea largest listed corporations to make data on Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 107 their greenhouse gas emissions and their Corporate Responsibility (CR) DLR – Deutsches Zentrum für Luftclimate protection strategies transparent. Corporate responsibility expresses the und Raumfahrt (German Aerospace For this purpose, the CDP and its partners degree to which a company assumes Center) jointly developed two indices: the Carbon accountability for the effects its business The DLR serves scientific, economic, and Disclosure Leadership Index, which includes activities have on employees, customers, social purposes. It maintains 32 institutes companies that make their emissions transsociety, and the environment. and research centers. Its declared goal parent to a particular extent, and the Caris to help – using the means of aviation bon Performance Leadership Index, which and space flight – to secure and shape takes concrete climate protection achievements into account. D the future. In its work, the DLR also seeks cooperation and allocation of research tasks among European partners. Chapter 4 aircraft Decibel Aircraft that comply with the strictest noise Measuring unit for the intensity and preswww.dlr.de protection standard currently in force – the sure of sound. The difference in intensity Chapter 4 noise standard. The Environbetween the softest sound the human ear DNWE – Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtmental Committee (CAEP) of the ICAO can perceive and the pain threshold is schaftsethik (German Network for agreed on this standard in September 1:10 trillion. To depict this enormous range Business Ethics) 2001. As a result, all aircraft newly certified objectively, acoustics uses the logarithmic DNWE is a nonprofit organization of which since 2006 must remain cumulatively decibel scale. On this scale, the value “0” ­Lufthansa has been a member since below the Chapter 3 noise levels by 10 is assigned to the perception threshold January 1998. DNWE has more than 600 decibels or more. The maximum noise (for a sound of 1,000 Hz) and the pain current members, including many from emission values for aircraft were introduced threshold at the value “130”. An increase of German business, politics, religion, and by the ICAO under Annex 16 to the Con10 dB corresponds to a tenfold increase in science. At the same time, DNWE is a vention on International Civil Aviation. Noise sound intensity. For the perceived volume, national association of the European Busilevels depend on the aircraft’s maximum a difference of 10 dB corresponds to half ness Ethics Network (EBEN). takeoff weight and number of engines. or double the volume. However, the human ear is not equally sensitive across the entire www.dnwe.de CO range of frequencies. Low and high sounds see “Carbon monoxide” are not perceived as being equally loud even at the same intensity. For measurements, this difference is equalized and E CO2 see “Carbon dioxide” noted accordingly. The best known such notation is the A value, marked by the econsense – Forum Nachhaltige EntCodeshare index dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, the wicklung der Deutschen Wirtschaft A codeshare is a flight segment that is sold EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Decibel) e.V. (Forum for Sustainable Developunder the flight number of one airline while unit is used internationally. ment of German Businesses) being operated either partly or entirely by An association of globally active corporaanother airline. Both companies maintain Diversity tions and organizations in German industry their independent profiles in the market. In a corporate context, diversity refers to all that have integrated the guiding principle of characteristics that distinguish employees sustainable development into their corporate Compliance from one another. Diversity management strategies. ­Lufthansa is a founding member Compliance describes in their entirety all offers approaches for handling human of this cross-industry network, which was set measures that ensure the lawful conduct of differences for the benefit of company and up in 2000. companies, their management bodies, and employees alike. their employees with regard to legal direcwww.econsense.de tives and interdictions. 108 // Service and Information EMAS – Environmental Management F G and Audit Scheme European regulations concerning environmental management and certification; Freight performance (FTKO/FTKT) Global Compact colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit Airlines distinguish between freight perforsee “UN Global Compact” regulations. mance offered (FTKO, freight tonne kilometers offered) and its sold freight perforGreat-circle distance mance (FTKT, freight tonne kilometers The shortest distance between two points Equivalent continuous noise level transported). See also “Tonne kilometers” on the Earth’s surface, measured in kilome(Leq) ters (great circle kilometers) or nautical The Leq is a measure for the energetic FTSE4Good miles. The center of a great circle is the average of all sound pressure levels over The index was introduced in 2001 by FTSE, center of the Earth. a defined period of time. All sound events a wholly owned subsidiary of the London that differ in intensity and duration are Stock Exchange. It lists only those compasummarized according to mathematical nies that meet the internationally accepted Greenhouse gases rules. The resulting average value is an standards for corporate responsibility in the Gaseous substances that contribute to the accepted and proven measurement of the following dimensions: environmental greenhouse effect and have both natural noise quantity occurring over an observed management, climate change, human and and human (anthropogenic) causes. The time interval. labor rights along the supply chain, corpomost important natural greenhouse gases rate governance, and anti-corruption efforts. are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide Lufthansa has been listed since 2001. (CO2), and methane (CH4); the most imporEthibel – Ethibel Sustainability Index tant anthropogenic greenhouse gases are The independent Belgian agency Ethibel www.ftse.com carbon dioxide from the combustion of has listed Lufthansa in its Ethibel Investfossil fuels and methane, primarily from ment Register and the Ethibel Sustainability Fuel Dump agriculture and industrial livestock farming. Index (ESI). The ESI offers institutional Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency Other artificial greenhouse gases are niinvestors, asset managers, banks, and situations. A procedure used on long-haul trous oxide (N2O), fluorocarbons (FCs and private investors a comprehensive overview aircraft before unscheduled landings (e.g. HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and chloof the financial results of companies that in the event of technical problems or serirofluorocarbons (CFCs). distinguish themselves by pursuing susous passenger illness) to decrease the tainable business practices. Since the aircraft’s weight to the maximum permissimerger with Vigeo and Stock at Stake in 2005, this index has been part of Vigeo. ble landing weight. In the event of a fuel dump, special air space is assigned to the H However, Forum Ethibel continues to be aircraft, if possible above uninhabited or responsible for the ethical criteria and the thinly populated areas. Fuel is usually Hub composition of the ESI. Updates of and dumped at altitudes of 4–8 kilometers. A In air transport, a hub is a central traffic calculations for the index are performed minimum altitude of 1,500 meters and a point or an airline’s transfer airport. Passenby the internationally renowned index minimum speed of 500 km/h are required. gers and freight are transported from their provider Standard & Poor’s. The aircraft may not fly a fully closed circle. point of departure to one of the airline’s The dumped kerosene forms a fine mist in “home airports“ (hub). From there, they are www.ethibel.org the turbulence behind the aircraft. Despite carried to their destination by a second the use of highly sensitive methods of analyflight alongside passengers and freight sis, no contamination has been detected so from other departure points, but with the far in plant or soil samples after fuel dumps. same destination. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 109 I K 2010. The MCSI index family comprises seven environmental, two value-based and 15 best-of-class indices. These include IATA – International Air Transport Kerosene shares of companies with high and Association Fuel for jet and propeller engines that is medium market capitalization and are The umbrella organization of international chemically similar to petroleum. Like diebased on the MSCI World Index. They commercial aviation. sel fuel or gasoline, kerosene is produced depict companies that are particularly by distilling crude oil; unlike these fuels, committed to environmental, social and www.iata.org kerosene does not contain halogenated governance (ESG) issues. Lufthansa has additives. been included in this index series since ICAO – International Civil Aviation June 2015. Organization A United Nations agency that develops internationally binding norms for civil L www.msci.com/esg-indexes aviation. MTOW LHSB – Lufthansa School of Business Acronym standing for maximum takeoff www.icao.int The LHSB supports processes of change weight of an aircraft within the Group and promotes a shared ICC – International Chamber of management culture. It has received multiCommerce The ICC was founded in 1919 as the World ple awards for the worldwide standards it establishes for the development and traiN Business Organization. More than 1,500 ning of professionals and managers. business organizations and over 5,000 Nitrogen oxides (NOX) corporations are organized in the worldLow-cost segment Chemical compounds consisting of one wide framework of the ICC. Lufthansa has Airlines offering predominantly low fares, nitrogen and several oxygen atoms. NOX been a member since 1955. but featuring reduced or separately charis defined as the sum of NO and NO2 comged services on the ground and in the air. pounds. Natural sources include lightning www.iccgermany.de Flights are most often operated to/from and microbes in the soil. Nitrogen oxides airports outside of major population cenare also generated in combustion procesILO standards ters. ses under high pressures and temperaWork standards of the International Labor tures. Both of these parameters have been Organization, which include, among increased in modern aircraft engines to others, the bans on child labor, forced labor, and discrimination as well as the M significantly reduce fuel consumption as well as emissions of carbon monoxide and fundamental right of freedom of associunburned hydrocarbons. However, future ation for employees. Mentoring combustion chambers of an advanced Instrument for targeted support of junior design could help reduce NOX emissions ISO 14001 – International environemployees. Focuses on regular personal by 85 percent. Air traffic contributes 2-3 mental management system contacts between mentor and mentee. percent of man-made NOX emissions. Companies thereby receive an effective Climate models show that nitrogen oxides instrument that allows them to take environMRO have increased the concentration of ozone mental aspects into consideration in deciAcronym standing for maintenance, repair, at cruising altitudes by a few percentage sions relating to corporate policies and to and overhaul of aircraft points. continuously improve the situation of environmental care in relation to all daily tasks. MSCI Global Sustainability Index NOX Series see “Nitrogen oxides” www.iso.org The US index provider MSCI launched a series of sustainability indices in September 110 // Service and Information O P Seat kilometer Measure for the transport capacity available (SKO, seat kilometers offered). oekom Passenger kilometer (PKO/PKT) The oekom Corporate Rating evaluates Measure for transport performance in Seat load factor (SLF) the social and environmental compatibility passenger carriage (number of passengers Passenger-related measure of aircraft of companies according to a selection of multiplied by distance flown). A distinction capacity utilization: the ratio of transport 100 industry-specific indicators on average. is made between available transport perforperformance (PKT, passenger kilometers Companies that rank in the top of their mance (PKO, passenger kilometers offered, transported) to capacity (PKO, passenger respective industries in the context of an or, synonymously, SKO, seat kilometers kilometers offered). oekom Corporate Rating and fulfill the offered) and actual transport performance industry-specific minimum criteria are (PKT, passenger kilometers transported). SES – Single European Sky awarded the oekom Prime Status by Describes the efforts of the European Comoekom research. Pro Recycling Paper Initiative mission since the late 1990s to restructure Founded in 2000, the initiative unites variEuropean airspace for the purpose of www.oekom-research.com ous industries and aims at promoting intenoptimizing traffic flows and dissolving the sive use and the acceptance of recycling airspace’s fragmented structure, which is OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health paper. Lufthansa is one of the initiative’s defined by national borders and interests, and Safety Assessment Series founding members. by creating a limited number of Functional Job safety management system developed Airspace Blocks (FABs). by the British Standards Institution in www.papiernetz.de cooperation with international certification Slot organizations. Designated point in time at which an airline R may use an airport’s runway for takeoff or Ozone landing. Molecule formed in the stratosphere and consisting of three oxygen atoms. The RSB – Roundtable on Sustainable Stakeholder ozone layer located in the stratosphere Biomaterials Groups or individuals who formulate their has an important protective function, as it International initiative to develop a global demands on a company (e.g. attainment of absorbs harmful ultraviolet light. While standardization and certification system for corporate goals) and pursue these either ozone at higher altitudes is broken down agrofuels. personally or through representatives. This massively by chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), includes shareholders, employees, cusit develops close to the ground under the http://rsb.org tomers, suppliers, and others. influence of sunlight from numerous precursor substances (summer smog) and Sustainable development irritates the mucous membranes. At current levels, nitrogen oxide emissions from air S According to the guiding principle of sustainable development formulated in 1987 traffic at cruising altitudes cause an inby the World Commission for Development crease in atmospheric ozone, analogous SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel and the Environment (Brundtland Commisto the generation of summer smog, estiUsers Group sion), “sustainable development is […] a mated by scientists at 3-4 percent on the Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufacturers, form of development that meets the needs heavily-flown North Atlantic routes. and providers of refinery technology whose of today’s generation without jeopardizing goal is to accelerate the development and the abilities of future generations to satisfy commercialization of sustainable fuels for their own.” For businesses, this means the air transport industry. acting responsibly not only in economic matters but also in environmental and www.safug.org social issues. All three aspects – economic, ecological, and social – must be kept in balance. Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 111 T V Tonne kilometer (TKT / TKO) VOC – Volatile Organic Compounds Measure of transport performance (payload Volatile organic substances that are charmultiplied by distance). A distinction is acterized by high steam pressure and thus made between available transport perforevaporate easily into the atmosphere at mance (TKO, tonne kilometers offered) and room temperature. VOCs are present in the actual transport performance (TKT, solvents, cleaning agents, fuels, and other tonne kilometers transported). In calcusubstances. In the presence of nitrogen lating payloads, passengers are taken into oxides and intense sunlight, VOCs lead to account by means of a statistical average the generation of ozone. weight. Town Meeting Information event for employees at different W locations of a company. Water vapor Transparency International The most important greenhouse gas, even Anti-corruption organization, of which ahead of carbon dioxide. Without water Lufthansa has been a member since 1999. vapor from natural sources, the Earth’s surface would be around 22 degrees www.transparency.de Celsius cooler. This makes water vapor responsible for two-thirds of the natural greenhouse effect (33 degrees Celsius). U For each kilogram of kerosene burned, 1.24 kilograms of water vapor are released. Concerns that air traffic might increase the UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons concentration of water vapor in the stratoOrganic mixture of carbon and hydrogen sphere and thus change the climate have that results from the incomplete combusbeen refuted by scientific research. The tion of fuels containing hydrocarbons or German Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded from the evaporation of fuel. that even a one hundred-fold increase in the quantity of water vapor emitted by air UN Global Compact traffic would not result in a detectable cliGlobal network in whose context the United matic signal. Nations cooperates with private-sector corporations and civil action organizations to advance human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption measures. Deutsche Lufthansa AG has been a member since 2002. www.unglobalcompact.org 112 // Service and Information Editorial information Published by Photo credits Deutsche Lufthansa AG Jens Görlich (title, cover page contenta, Lufthansa Group Communications pages 4/5, 8, 15, 16, 30, 31, 38, 45, 60, Senior Vice President: Barbara Schädler 61, 63, 105, 106, 116) Gregor Schläger (title, cover page contents, Concept, text, and editors pages 24, 25, 32, 35, 51, 56, 74) Lufthansa Group Communications Sonja Brüggemann (title, pages 11, 49, 66) Corporate Responsibility & Events Dominik Mentzos (cover page contents, Director: Susanne Kotysch pages 14, 15, 58, 62) Swiss (cover page contents, pages 13, 32, Steffen Milchsack 47, 48, 70) Claudia Walther Jens Allendorff (cover page contents, pages 90, 96) Design and production Christian Schlueter (page 3) organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH, Jürgen Mai (pages 8, 10, 11, 12, 42, 44, 50) Frankfurt am Main Rolf Bewersdorf (pages 8, 9, 11, 20) Oliver Rösler (pages 9, 14, 23, 24, 32, 47, Copy deadline 75, 79, 88) June 30, 2015 Andreas Ritter (pages 12, 46) Uwe Schoßig (page 13) Paper Alex Schwarz (pages 32, 48) Contents: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper Matthias Just (pages 36/37) made from 100 percent recycled paper. Lufthansa Cargo (page 38) Produced without optical brightening agents Jörg Ladwig (page 48) or chlorine bleach. Certified with The Blue Franziska Köhler (page 53) Angel environmental label – RAL-UZ 14. myclimate (pages 68, 69) Cover: Hello Fat Matt (FSC-certified) Ingrid Friedl (page 77) Kristina Schäfer (page 78) Martin Bursch (page 89) carbon neutral Jan Brandes (page 94) natureOffice.com | DE-197-588722 Help Alliance (page 97) print production Arno Pfeifer (page 99) Philipp Scheidiger (page 100) Dr. Günter Nowald (page 103) Matthias Baus (page 104) Reprints, including excerpts, only with www.fotolia.com: Artco (pages 4/5, 36/37), written permission from the publisher and radoma (pages 36/37), max_776 (page 98) by citing Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the Other: Lufthansa Group photo archive source (text and images). In this case we ask that you send us a copy or clipping. Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany ISSN 1612-0906 Sustainability Report Balance // Issue 2015 // Lufthansa Group // 113 Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology for calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions Scope of consolidation the standard estimate; for freight, it is its must be added to the great-circle distance scale weight. Each aircraft/engine combiaccording to the guidelines of the EU emisReporting on transport performance, keronation present in the fleet is considered sion allowance trading scheme. The Intersene consumption, and emissions from separately, and the associated values are national Air Transport Association (IATA) flight operations in 2014 is – unless noted calculated with the aid of computer prohas separately developed its own calculaotherwise – based on the following scope grams provided by the aircraft and engine tion proposals, which deal with the division of consolidation: manufacturers. The annual average flight of fuel consumption between freight and profile for each subset of the fleet is then passengers and attribute a larger share of Lufthansa (including its regional partfed into these programs. This allows us to fuel consumption to passengers because ners Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, determine emissions in relation to flight of the passenger-specific infrastructure. Eurowings), Germanwings, Swiss (inaltitude, distance flown, thrust, and load. Although this method has no effect on the cluding Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines This approach is necessary for nitrogen overall efficiency of a flight, it changes the and Lufthansa Cargo. Not included are oxides (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO), and apportionment between passengers and services performed by third parties, as unburned hydrocarbons (UHC) in particular. freight. There are still divergences between their performance and the aircraft they Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions do not the two methods (including from the method use are beyond our control. require special calculation methods, as used up to now by Lufthansa). We would they are generated in a fixed ratio to the welcome a standardized, internationally Types of flight service: all scheduled and quantity of kerosene burned. The combusharmonized and accepted method. charter flights. tion of 1 tonne of kerosene generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2. Environmental management system The Lufthansa Group collected the environSpecific consumption and mental data used in this report with the aid Methodology of emission values of its environmental management system. calculations Calculating specific consumption and emissions entails expressing absolute This system also defines how data are verified and transmitted to the Group Envivalues in relation to transport performance. ronmental Issues division. The basis for Kerosene in absolute terms For example, the ratio liters per 100 pasdata collection is Lufthansa’s own environKerosene consumption is calculated on the senger kilometers (l/100 pkm) is calculated mental database. basis of actual flight operations (i.e. using on the basis of actual load factors along actual load factors and flight routings) with the quantity of kerosene actually conAccuracy according to the gate-to-gate principle. sumed. The distances used in the calculaFor presentation purposes the figures in the This covers all phases of a flight, from tions are great-circle distances. In combinacharts and tables are rounded. Changes taxiing on the ground to flying detours and tion flights (freight and passenger transport from the previous year’s figures and share holding patterns in the air. in one aircraft), fuel consumption is attribpercentages refer in each case to precise uted on the basis of its share of the total figures, however. For this reason it is possiEmissions in absolute terms payload to calculate the passengerand ble that a reported value may remain the The emissions from flight operations are freight-specific figures. same from one year to the next even calculated on the basis of actual transport though a relative change is reported. performance and hence on actual load Since 2013 the DIN EN 16258 standard Because of the rounding of share percenfactors and the actual absolute quantity of has provided a guide for standardized tages, it is also possible that the sum of kerosene consumed in the reporting year. calculation of greenhouse gas emissions their addition may differ from the sum of the Transport performance is measured in for transport processes. This guide uses unrounded percentages. For example, as a tonne kilometers; i.e., payload transported the same estimates for calculating payload result of rounding, share percentages may over a distance. For passengers and their as the Lufthansa Group. When traveled not add up to 100 percent even though it luggage, an average of 100 kilograms is distances are calculated, 95 kilometers would be logical to expect them to. Most stringent noise standards for the Lufthansa Group’s fleet Margins below the noise limit of ICAO Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 Active fleet of the Lufthansa Group on December 31, 2014 in EPNdB 0 – 10.0 * Of the 605 aircraft in the Lufthansa A330-300 LH – 18.4 Group’s active fleet, 602 fulfill the stringent Chapter 4 noise standard of the A330-300 LX / WK – 18.4 International Civil Aviation Organization A330-200 WK – 14.5 (ICAO). The most important element of A340-300 LH – 22.6 Chapter 4 is the minus 10 EPNdB criterion (Effective Perceived Noise dB); see A340-300 LX – 22.1 the vertical broken line in the overview A340-600 LH – 23.0 on the left. The limits depend on the aircraft’s maximum takeoff weight and A380-800 LH – 26.7 number of engines. B747-400 LH – 13.1 / – 13.6 B747-830 LH – 25.6 The bar chart indicates the sum of the B767-300 OS – 16.6 / – 16.8 differences between the measured value and the threshold value at the three B777-200 OS – 20.9 / – 21.1 measuring points by type of aircraft B777F LH – 17.0 (cumulated margin). Where necessary, the values based on the reduced maxiMD-11F LH – 13.4 / – 13.5 mum takeoff weight prevailing in flight A319-100 LH – 15.3 / – 19.3 operations are indicated. To allow a A319-100 LX – 18.2 more transparent depiction, an improved method of analysis was developed for A319-100 OS – 19.3 the previous issues of Balance, which A319-100 4U – 16.6 / – 19.4 include the individual noise certificate data of all Group aircraft. Different verA320-200 LH – 13.4 / – 15.9 sions of an aircraft and its engines by A320-200 LX – 13.7 / – 15.9 year of construction are thus better A320-200 WK – 13.7 / – 14.1 taken into account. While the conservative approach used until reporting year A320-200 OS – 15.0 / – 15.9 2008 meant that only the values of the A320-200 4U – 13.4 sub-fleet with the lowest cumulated margin were reported to describe an aircraft A321-100 LH – 15.5 fleet, the new analytical method used A321-100 LX – 10.0 / – 10.8 since reporting year 2009 means that A321-100 OS – 11.5 the value ranges from the lowest to the highest cumulated margin are now indiA321-200 LH – 14.1 / – 14.7 cated for many fleets. The analysis also A321-200 LX – 14.4 takes into account any modifications to aircraft or engines that have been A321-200 OS – 9.0 made in the meantime, thereby leading B737-300 LH – 13.8 to modified noise data and cumulated B737-500 LH – 14.3 margins in certain cases. In addition, numerous additions and withdrawals in AVRO RJ-100 LX – 16.4 individual fleets lead to changes in the CRJ-700 CL – 16.3 value ranges reported. CRJ-900 CL – 16.6 CRJ-900 EW – 16.6 Grouping of aircraft types according to DHC8-400 OS – 23.9 /– 25.9 MTOW (maximum takeoff weight): ERJ-190 CL – 15.1 under 50 t 50 to 150 t ERJ-195 CL – 14.9 more than 150 t This division generally corresponds to a ERJ-195 EN – 14.9 grouping of regional, continental, and interFokker F-70 OS – 24.3 / – 25.9 continental aircraft Fokker F-100 OS – 16.2 4U = Germanwings CL = Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti EW = Eurowings LH = Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo LX = Swiss * New ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for new aircraft since 2006: OS = Austrian Airlines – 10 EPNdB when compared to Chapter 3. WK = Edelweiss Air Corporate Responsibility: Prizes, awards and indices Every year, the Lufthansa Group and its Group companies receive numerous prizes and awards. This overview shows a selection of those relevant to sustainability: 2014 2015 The Lufthansa Group is currently listed The joint project E-PORT AN, in which the The US trade publication Air Transport in the following sustainability indices and Lufthansa Group participates, secured World named the Lufthansa Group has received the following ratings: the renowned GreenTec Award 2014 in Eco-Airline of the Year in 2015 – for the category “Aviation” (see from page the second time in a row. FTSE4Good 50, Energy and resource management). Ethibel Excellence Investment Register At the tourism and travel fair ITB in Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) The US airport Washington Dulles Berlin, the Swiss climate protection Excellence Europe and the local LSG Sky Chefs Catering organization myclimate bestowed a ECPI operation received the award Best of myclimate Award 2015 on the AirPlus oekom Prime Rating Buildings 2014 from US Green Building Green Company Account of Lufthansa MSCI Global Sustainability Index Series Council (USGBC). The decisive factor subsidiary AirPlus as a pioneer for for the award was the progressive use of sustainable financial products in the modern products and methods, such as travel industry. the microbiological system BIO-Amp™. The project “Free Route Airspace A study commissioned by the German Maastricht and Karlsruhe” (FRAMaK) magazine Focus Money entitled “Mit by Lufthansa, DFS Deutsche Fluggutem Gewissen” (“With a clear consicherung and Eurocontrol won the IHS science”) honored Lufthansa in 2014 Jane’s ATC Award 2015 in the category with the Gold Seal for ecological, environment. FRAMak aims to prove economic and social responsibility. that cross-border direct routes and trajectories in the airspace over Belgium, Lufthansa Technik received two prizes Luxembourg, the Netherlands and large in 2014 at the Aircraft Technology parts of Germany are feasible from an Engineering & Maintenance Awards: operational point of view and offer many the first as best maintenance and advantages. overhaul operation in Europe and the second for its commitment in the area The initiative Ludwig Erhard Prize of employee qualification and training. awarded the distinction Recognized for Excellence 4 Stars to LZ-Catering. In 2014 Hamburg’s Office for OccupaWith the four-star certificate the former, tional Safety rated Lufthansa Technik a subsidiary of the European Foundation for the third time as Company with for Quality Management, honored the an exemplary occupational safety high-level entrepreneurial achieve-ments system. of the expert for company restaurants. Lufthansa LEOS, a subsidiary of The Lufthansa career portal Lufthansa Technik AG, won fourth place www.Be-Lufthansa.com was in the innovation category of Aviation honored by the research institute Award 2014 presented by Flughafen Trendence as best career website Stuttgart GmbH for the operational launch in Germany. The jury praised inter of the hybrid aircraft tug TaxiBot. alia its convincing and highly recognizable design, its clear presentation of contents, its lively animations and its clear navigation. The operating fleet of the Lufthansa Group (as of December 31, 2014) Lufthansa and regional partners Boeing 737-300 LH: 9 aircraft, 140 seats, 2,000 km range Airbus A380-800 LH: 12 aircraft, 526* seats, 12,000 km range Embraer 195 CL: 24 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,450 km range EN: 10 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,450 km range Boeing 747-8 LH: 15 aircraft, 386* seats, 13,100 km range Embraer 190 CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,390 km range Boeing 747-400 LH: 17 aircraft, 352 * seats, 12,500 km range CRJ900 CL: 12 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,260 km range EW: 23 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,260 km range Airbus A340-600 LH: 24 aircraft, 306* seats, 12,600 km range CRJ700 CL: 4 aircraft, 70 seats, 2,310 km range Germanwings Airbus A340-300 LH: 17 aircraft, 266 * seats, 12,700 km range Airbus A330-300 LH: 19 aircraft, 221* seats, 10,000 km range Airbus A320-200 4U: 17 aircraft, 174 seats, 3,020 km range Airbus A321-100 / 200 LH: 62 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,900 /4,350 km range Airbus A319-100 4U: 43 aircraft, 150* seats, 3,500 km range Lufthansa Cargo Airbus A320-200 LH: 55 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,020 km range Airbus A319-100 LH: 30 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,260 km range Boeing MD-11F LH: 15 aircraft, 516 m3/ 89.4 t, 7,000 km range Boeing 737-500 LH: 12 aircraft, 120 seats, 1,950 km range Boeing 777F LH: 4 aircraft, 653 m3/102.9 t, 9,045 km range Swiss and Edelweiss Air Austrian Airlines Airbus A340-300 LX: 15 aircraft, 219 seats, 10,500 km range Boeing 777-200 OS: 5 aircraft, 312 * seats, 11,500 km range Airbus A330-300 LX: 13 aircraft, 236 seats, 8,400 km range Boeing 767-300 OS: 6 aircraft, 225 * seats, 9,800 km range Airbus A321-100 / 200 LX: 8 aircraft, 200 * seats, 3,200 km range Airbus A321-100 / 200 OS: 6 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,360 / 3,500 km range Airbus A320-200 LX: 23 aircraft, 168 * seats, 3,650 km range Airbus A320-200 OS: 16 aircraft, 174 * seats, 4,300 km range Airbus A319-100 LX: 5 aircraft, 138 * seats, 3,000 km range Airbus A319-100 OS: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 4,500 km range Avro RJ100 LX: 20 aircraft, 97 seats, 3,000 km range Fokker 100 OS: 15 aircraft, 100 seats, 2,000 km range Airbus A330-300 WK: 2 aircraft, 315 seats, 10,000 km range Fokker 70 OS: 7 aircraft, 80 seats, 2,085 km range HB-IQZ Airbus A330-200 WK: 1 aircraft, 275 seats, 11,500 km range DHC 8-400 OS: 18 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,630 km range HB-IHX Airbus A320-200 WK: 5 aircraft, 168 * seats, 4,950 km range Range indicated in general with maximum number of passengers or payload, respectively. Legend * Different versions in operation 4U = Germanwings EW = Eurowings LX = Swiss CL = Lufthansa CityLine LH = Lufthansa, OS = Austrian Airlines EN = Air Dolomiti Lufthansa Cargo WK = Edelweiss Air Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group Communications Lufthansa Aviation Center 60546 Frankfurt am Main Germany E-mail: lufthansa-group@dlh.de Balance is a registered title. © July 2015 www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility
