MAY 2015 EFICO Group Communication On Progress Year 2014 Based on the COP of the United Nations Global Compact Foreword T he annual communication tools for clients and suppliers As part of the learning process, report or this EFICO Group’s to promote responsible busiwe proposed a GC ACTIVE LEVEL. May 2015 edition is based ness practices in the coffee and on the Communication On cocoa sector. We share our UNGC engageProgress (COP) requests of the ment in all communication mateUnited Nations Global Compact Being a coffee and cocoa trarial and in meetings with our (UNGC). It reflects our commitding company since 1926, EFICO stakeholders. ment to the UNGC and its ten shares its know-how with its partprinciples. ners, stakeholders and approxiWe also actively participate to mately 450 European coffee roasthe events of the local UNGC The UN Global Compact provides ting companies. Network Belgium. the basis for EFICO’s corporate citizenship model. With offices in Belgium, Germany, We adhere a lot of importance to Switzerland, Brazil, Ethiopia and exhanging ideas with people in Being a signatory since 2003, we Guatemala we also operate in an the same or other sectors. developed tools to implement international context. best practices in our company. Thanks to this cross-polination of thoughts, we can continue learThis strategic multi-stakeholder This report reflects our corporate ning and improving. Because approach improves sustainable engagement with regard to the learning and exploring new entrepreneurship. ten principles and our implementhings is a constantly evolving ted activities and progress in 2014. process, it never stops. As mentioned in our previous report, sustainability is part of By publicly communicating to our Similar to our previous reports, EFICO’s DNA. internal and external stakeholders this COP report is published about the progress we made, we o n w w w.u n g l o ba l co m pact. With our sustainability initiatives, want to contribute to the recogniorg and on w w w.efico.com/ we additionally aim to create tion of the UNGC-framework. un-global-compact. i Table of Contents Foreword ..................................................................................................................................................................i Statement of continued support 2014 ................................................................................................................1 EFICO Group’s Vision and Commitment ..........................................................................................................2 Implementation UNGC Principles throughout EFICO Group’s Supply Chain ...........................................4 Because we care about: Our COFFEE ...................................................................................................................................8 Our PEOPLE ..................................................................................................................................12 Our ENVIRONMENT .....................................................................................................................16 EFICO FOUNDATION ............................................................................................................................................20 Into the future ......................................................................................................................................................25 with a personal touch. ii Drying coffee on patio Guatemala Statement of continued support 2014 Dear Partner, Dear Stakeholder, The EFICO Group subscribed to the ten United Nations Global Compact Principles covering Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and Anti-Corruption since 2003. This UNGC Framework is rooted in our corporate values, “IMPROVE”. These values reflect what our Team strives for and shape our integrity, our commitment to behave ethically, responsible and transparent in our business activities. Established in 1926, EFICO has a longstanding family history. The Group differentiates itself by offering a complete concept throughout the Green Coffee Supply Chain, from Flower to Cup. This means we consider it not only our duty to deliver a high-qualitative product, COFFEE, but also take into account and limit our impact on society PEOPLE and our ENVIRONMENT. In this report, we therefore zoom in on these three important parameters, per entity of our Group. EFICO comprises our Trading activities. Our Trading Team is the “nerve center” of the Group. Coffee is tracked, traded and traced from order up to delivery. We are proud of this Team, composed of experienced, multi-lingual traders with excellent knowledge. Together with our Quality Control Team, they evaluate coffees at frequent intervals. Our Quality Laboratories are quite unique in Europe. We consider them the “heart” of EFICO. Coffee is a very sensitive product. Special attention has to be adhered during Storage and Transport. This brings us to SEABRIDGE. This state-of-the-art sustainable logistics centre takes care of coffee storage, handling, product enhancement and distribution. Our EFICO FOUNDATION, a private Foundation within the EFICO Group, established in 2003, supports sustainable multistakeholder development projects and aims to improve hereby the livelihoods of many in coffee and cocoa producing countries. BINARY SERVICES, the IT entity within our Group, takes care of IT solutions. Going through the realizations of our entities and teams, we see 2014 has been a year of growth and progress. Our Corporate values “IMPROVE” can be taken to the letter. 2014 was also a year of decisions, ensuring the Group’s future. Recently, NOORD NATIE reinforced its participation in the EFICO Group. This decision was taken to further strengthen EFICO’s position as a competitive and innovative international coffee trader and to preserve the Group’s well-known cornerstones and values. Based in Antwerp since the 16th Century, NOORD NATIE operates water linked commodity terminals. NOORD NATIE has expertise in coffee handling, -storage and -logistics since decades and shares a long history of coffee passion with EFICO. NOORD NATIE’s President, Philip Van gestel, joined EFICO’s Board of Directors in 2004 and remains Chairman. Michel Germanès, Managing Director, continues to preside the EFICO Team. By taking this step, EFICO remains faithful to its roots. The Group’s corporate identity will be secured, whilst still being able to operate independently. EFICO will continue to uphold the values of a long-standing family business, providing tailormade services ‘with a personal touch’. Quality, responsible entrepreneurship, a proactive approach and a people-focus will remain key for a fruitful business. It is our ambition to create long-term partnerships, share our knowledge and let our partners experience our passion. We offer our commitment towards the ten UNGC Principles as a Tool for our clients, suppliers, partners and others. In this way, sustainable entrepreneurship can be promoted and implemented throughout the coffee sector. We invite you hereby to read our report and welcome your feedback. Michel Germanès Philip Van gestel Managing Director Chairman 1 EFICO GROUP’S VISION AND COMMITMENT OUR VISION EFICO’s family tradition of being a small to medium-sized company empowers our activities and gives us the advantage of being able to establish long-term strategies and partnerships based on mutual trust and respect. Respect for a given word is essential to us. At EFICO, a personal approach is key. We put our experience and our knowledge at the service of our customers and partners. Every stage of our business is important to us and is considered as an integral part of the whole process that we call the “Green Coffee supply chain.” This process involves the selection and flow of raw materials from origin up to delivery: Quality and Food Safety controls, understanding a customer’s request, knowledge of the product or the analysis of needs and markets and the logistics, financial and administrative aspects related to our activities. Quality, Food Safety, Traceability and Sustainability are EFICO’s cornerstones. They are embedded in each entity of our Group. We believe it is our duty to deliver a high-qualitative product, whilst taking into account and limit our impact on the environment and on society. OUR COMMITMENT to lace Sustainable development is an international challenge. et ter p ab w.” It cannot be met unless every one of us contributes. r w o r ld omor ro u t ke o a nd “Ma , today The United Nations Global Compact sets out principles in incorporated in a global sustainable development perlive spective. Companies that accept this initiative subscribe to certain “ethical” rules, in order to encourage, promote and guarantee the respect of minimum standards in these fields. This additional commitment realises and perpetuates our long-term tradition of a responsible enterprise. In actual terms, this means that we manage our commercial activities in a responsible manner, throughout the chain of products we import, so that we may contribute to society across our activities and consequently to make our world a better place to live in, today and tomorrow. We are well aware that this commitment must be a permanent one. EFICO has a long tradition of social responsibility. By drawing on this experience we have firmly and sustainably developed the scope of our social responsibility in a www.efico.com/corporate-engagement constantly evolving world. We will pursue this goal into the future. By choosing to buy at EFICO, our customers show that they recognise and appreciate the efforts EFICO is making to promote sustainable development. 2 ARE REFLECTED IN OUR CORPORATE VALUES INSPIRED BY THE UNGC FRAMEWORK Integrity Tailor-Made “IMPROVE” is the compilation of letters that reflect EFICO Group’s values. Passion Respect This internal Code of Conduct defines the principles and expectations Open minded our EFICO Team should comply with: Values Ensure Quality (I) INTEGRITY Act respectfully towards internal and external stakeholders. Care for an open and honest communication towards internal and external contacts. Deliver a trustworthy service. Act consequently in accordance to the EFICO Group company values. Confidentiality and discretion are a requirement. (M) TAILOR-MADE Adjust the offer of services and products to our clients’ needs through continuous dialogue. Continue to inform clients via a state of affairs, actions and adaptations in order to reach agreed results. In doing so, ensuring an even better service from the EFICO Group towards the client. (P) PASSION Express a personal engagement to the Group. Show your commitment towards your own specific professional field. Keep a drive to explore new insights and opportunities. Permanently improve personal expertise and competences. (R) RESPECT Address clients on an equal base and with required respect. Accept mutual differences. Stimulate and value the mix of different talents, visions and experiences. Encourage teamwork through active listening, constructive feedback and a good working climate. (O) OPEN-MINDED / FLEXIBLE Adapt attitude and ideas to changing circumstances in view of improvement and quick response to altering needs. Help to make colleagues realize challenges in their job function – through dialogue and pro-active actions. (E) ENSURE QUALITY Continuously improve high professional standards and working methods. Making Permanently strive for required quality via a proactive approach. a difference, Take on new opportunities and challenges using creative ideas. TOGETHER. 37 THE TEN UNGC PRINCIPLES EFICO integrates the ten United Nations Global Compact principles in its strategies and actions: HUMAN RIGHTS principles based on the Universal Declaration Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOUR principles resulting from the International Labour organization’s Declaration Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and recognize effectively the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 4 ENVIRONMENT principles derived from the Rio Declaration principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION principle based on the UN Convention against Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery 5 ACTIONS EFICO GROUP 2014 IMPLEMENTATION UNGC PRINCIPLES THROUGHOUT EFICO GROUP’S SUPPLY CHAIN EFICO’S COMMITMENTS HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR : PLANTATION OUR SUPPLIERS: Our sourcing policy is influenced by a sensitive global context that requires increased supervision. By adhering to the Global Compact we strengthen the prevention aspect of our efforts by making our staff aware of the ten principles. PROCESSING EFICO follows at all times both national and international legislation. Our long tradition of family management has ensured for us a network of regular suppliers, but selecting a new supplier always entails extensive examination that includes information of a financial, historical and reputational nature. TRANSPORT, To promote the principles of the UNGC we have created, together with Mayacert, our SHIPPING & own audit back in 2004 that measures each of the ten UNGC principles in the field. UNLOADING This audit takes place minimum once a year. In 2014, green coffee exporter Transcafé FROM VESSEL was audited in Guatemala. Transcafé successfully passed this audit. Within the EFICO FOUNDATION we have increased our partnerships with established NGOs and farmer’s organizations that share our concern for protecting human rights. A new partner of our foundation is always thoroughly researched to ensure that the funds paid out are used as agreed. TRADING OUR SUBCONTRACTORS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS: The supply chain of our raw materials is a long one. Trust between the different partners is a necessity. The values which we uphold are the foundation of this collaboration and therefore the selection of our collaborators is based on their individual contribution to our global values. WAREHOUSING & VALUE-ADDED Our Responsible Business Conduct Policy describes EFICO’s vision on business partners. SERVICES OUR CUSTOMERS: We have a very diversified client portfolio and some of our clients are very aware of the impact of our activities in the supply chain and related opportunities. TRANSPORT They therefore appreciate receiving frequent updates of market info, coffee availability, TO CLIENTS news of the EFICO FOUNDATION, sustainability developments and other. OUR COMPANY: INDIVIDUAL AND ORGANIZATIONAL LEVEL: EFICO’s internal Code of Conduct and values are inspired by the UNGC framework. Respect and reciprocal trust are an integral part of the values we uphold. MANUFACTURING When it comes to protecting human rights and those of our collaborators in particular, EFICO goes further than is required by the mandatory legal framework: EFICO invests in the quality of life of its personnel and ensures a balanced distribution of gender. By adopting a multi-stakeholder approach, as set out per above, it becomes clear that actions taken in a positive way can have a multiplier effect on the different stakeholders. 6 EFICO’S COMMITMENTS ENVIRONMENT & ANTI-CORRUPTION The environment has always Early 2014, a consor tium of Our financial transparency: next been an important part of our lead i ng cof fee compan ies to an Internal Audit and Control Corporate Social Responsibility and stakeholders had been Team and a Risk Manager, who (CSR) strategy and is addressed selected to run a pilot for the report directly to the Board of in every one of our activities: European Commission’s Product Directors, EFICO undergoes Environmental Footprint (PEF) proeach year a financial audit. We support sustainable ject. EFICO Group joined the pilot We rely on the collaboration of projects and invest in as a stakeholder and was repreindependent specialists who sustainable production sented at the first consultation provide our management with through our Foundation; at the European Commission in unbiased, objective advice. Brussels in October 2014. We market sustainable To counter the trafficking of products: 36% of our Respect, trust and honesty are drugs and all illegal subscoffees are certified an integral part of the values we tances, EFICO established a or verified; uphold. Our Management conMemorandum of Understanding stantly monitors the activities of with the customs authorities We take into account our each department. in 2001 and in 2011 anew with ecologic footprint, we SEABRIDGE. Both EFICO and produce green energy at Our activity requires that we SEABRIDGE also obtained an our state-of-the-art negotiate for large quantities AEO (Authorized Economic logistics, warehousing and of green coffee in countries for Operator) certificate back in distribution facilities which this constitutes a significant 2012. This certificate strengthens SEABRIDGE; activity. the safety of the supply chain. We stimulate transport by The long-term partnership phiEFICO acts as an open Group barge and train, we give losophy we apply to our relatiand enables its partners to advice to and encourage ons with suppliers allows us to carry out all types of audits. our partners to develop know them well and to avoid, to a sustainable supply the greatest possible degree, all chain and many more. undesirable situations. Since 20 09, we particularly focus on climate change in In view of the aforementioned, EFICO also implements coffee regions since it will have the UN Global Compact Management Model: an enormous impact in the coming years. EFICO & the EFICO FOUNDATION initiated a Pilot Project “ClimateFriendly Practices”, together with the Rainforest Alliance and Anacafé. Finca El Platanillo in Guatemala succeeded the Rainforest Alliance Climate Audit in September 2011. The Climate Module consists of criteria for mitigation and adaptation to climate change, reinforcing the current certification criteria and provide additional value. EFICO served as a catalyst for many other initiatives that exist today. 7 BECAUSE WE CARE ABOUT ... OUR COFFEE Whilst drinking an excellent cup of coffee, you might wonder what the story is behind. Coffee is grown in more than 50 countries in tropical conditions north and south of the equator. Millions of coffee farmers worldwide directly depend on coffee as main source of income. At EFICO, we are convinced that we can only make progress in the long run when all actors in the coffee supply chain can make a sustainable living of their work. We continuously work hand in hand with our stakeholders and balance the needs of our clients and suppliers. A personal approach is hereby key. CAREFUL SELECTION OF RELIABLE SUPPLIERS We source coffee from about 40 coffee producing countries. With strategic offices in Central America, Brazil and Ethiopia we have antennas all over the world to closely assess and monitor the performance of our suppliers in an efficient and effective way. This presence in origin allows us to make quick reactions according to the market needs. When EFICO acquires raw materials, the choice of our partners is based upon Risk assessment of the supplier Quality, Food Safety and Traceability DID YOU KNOW... Good Agricultural Practices Reliable partners operating ethically Studies show that coffee drinkers have a much lower Compliance with local and international legislation risk of several serious diseases: Protective effects on liver Protective against liver canBusiness integrity and transparency cer and colorectal cancer Openness to discuss improvement Discover more coffee health benefits on www.coffeeandhealth.org We work closely together with cooperatives, farmers organizations and private exports to continuously improve product performance and pro-actively work on alignment of service requirements. Our support goes beyond support on product level. A cup of coffee a day With the Efico Foundation we aim to structurally support coffee communities in improving the living conditions of thousands of farmers. keeps the doctor away. 8 SELECTION OF OUR COFFEES The sensorial appreciation that therefore deserve to be put Our Trading Team has up a consumer experiences is very in the spotlight too. These cofto 30 years in-house coffee personal. fees are also considered as experience. “Special” to us. Our Green Coffee Quality This is why we select and offer a Expert Team is also very quavery wide range of coffees from In the past 5 years we report a lified. Ivan Lamilla Muñoz is various regions, climates and substantial increase of certified an Agronomist Engineer and with different taste sensation. We coffees. With our membership a Q-Grader from the Coffee have more than 300 coffee varieof 4C association, Fair Trade, Quality Institute. Bar t Van ties & blends from different origins Organic, Rainforest Alliance, Sanden was once Vice World to offer to our clients. UTZ and so on we can offer all Champion Cuptasting. kinds of certified coffees. SPECIAL COFFEES SHARING KNOWLEDGE Next to the conventional coffees, Internal trainings are organized our team selects a wide range to keep colleagues up-to-date of “Special Coffees” every day: on the knowledge in the diffegrown in special and ideal clirent coffee topics. mates and distinctive because of their unique flavor and taste. Sharing EFICO’s knowledge equals experiencing our pasSimilar as with wine, this is the sion. Cuppings according to result of the “terroir” where the the SCAA standards or in-house coffee grows. Geography, geocupping sessions with our clients logy and climate of a certain see photo middle are orgaplace interact with plant genetics nized to analyze and evaluate and this expresses this special and QUALITY CONTROL cup profiles, develop roasunique flavor in our coffees. This ting profiles, blends and to on. can go from niche market cofAll coffees that are sourced are fees such as micro-lots, specialty cupped at several moments in EXPERIENCING PASSION coffees and single estates up to the supply chain. This detailed gourmet coffees. evaluation by our experienced Together with our offices in Quality Control and Trade Team Central America, Ethiopia and Thanks to our thorough coffee includes physical, sensorial and Brazil, and business partners all knowledge, we are able to select micro-biological analysis. Our over the coffee world we let several gourmet coffees that range of products is described you discover the taste sensation have a very similar or sometimes in Product Specification Sheets, and story behind each cup of even better taste sensation and available upon request. coffee. At EFICO, we are convinced that quality will generate the ultimate consumer satisfaction for a cup of coffee. Therefore we believe it is our duty to deliver such a special coffee and service, on which our clients can rely. 9 Coffee drying Ethiopia 10 CLOSE COLLABORATION WITH OUR CLIENTS AND PARTNERS At EFICO we have a wide range of clients, all with very different requirements. With a personal approach we always aim to meet our client’s requirements and deliver tailor-made services. EFICO’s key coffee suppliers are evaluated on their global performance. The results of this analysis are used to improve our collaboration. In 2014, EFICO reoriented its systematic analyses of gathered data material concerning complaints both from customer side and towards suppliers. The root-cause analysis allows the EFICO Group to optimize Claims Management, KPI monitoring and improve customer satisfaction. On frequent basis, Trade can look into the detailed analyses and action can be taken where necessary. In this way, EFICO’s relation towards Suppliers and Customers can be optimized. EFICO Antwerp premises Besides Claim Management, Liquidity Optimization is key. An accurate follow-up of EFICO’s account receivables and full screening of (new) clients allows us to limit possible risks. FOLLOWING THE HIGHEST STANDARDS During the past 10 years, stringent national, European and international food safety and product traceability legislation have substantiality changed our business environment, our business processes and risk management for the green coffee and cocoa beans delivered to the industry. EFICO, as a Group of companies, has worked hard on Sustainability, Food Safety and Product Traceability, Climate Change, Waste Management and CO2 related issues: Quality and Food Safety are two of EFICO’s cornerstones. Since 2003 already, EFICO is ISO 9001 certified for its management processes. SEABRIDGE, the logistics services provider within the Group, disposes of an: ISO 9001 certificate (Quality) ISO 22000 certificate (Food Safety) AEO Certificate, granted after an audit of Belgian Customs and Excise succeeded for an Ethical Audit based on ISO 26000 (SMETA) A strong emphasis on Safety and Security resulted in a higher performance and detailed monitoring of all incidents: We note a status-quo in incidents but a reduction in work accidents of 17% compared to 2013. To counter the trafficking of drugs and all illegal substances, EFICO established a Memorandum of Understanding with the customs authorities in 2001 and in 2011 anew with SEABRIDGE. All Efico Group’s certificates are available on www.efico.com/certifications and www.seabridge.eu/certifications EFICO Group has and DID YOU KNOW... still aims to be proactive and innovative EFICO stands for and wants to provide E Emile Installé, founder of EFICO its clients with F François Installé, solutions and answers brother of Emile I Installé, last name towards a more of founder CO Company demanding consumer and legislator. First EFICO office in Antwerp, 1926 11 BECAUSE WE CARE ABOUT ... OUR PEOPLE The success of a company is mainly based on the motivation, enthusiasm and satisfaction of its team. Therefore EFICO works to stimulate and assess this satisfaction and commitment through interviews, meetings and other. Only a horizontal structure and participative management facilitate contacts within our organization, with each member of the Management Team managing a department. In terms of Human Resources (HR), the EFICO Team can count on training opportunities, interesting challenges and attention to their individual needs. EFICO’S RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS ITS PEOPLE The good practices of the UNGC are based on communication, transparency, dialogue, partnership and voluntary commitment. EFICO shares this vision and adopts the same approach, one of openness and mutual exchange, towards 3 target groups: its Team Producers/Suppliers Customers The personal aspect has always influenced EFICO’s manner of operations: ‘With a personal touch’. EFICO’S TEAM and daily operations and open Additionally, by providing both discussions. internal and external training on In terms of the status of the staff, different important topics, each the selection and promotion Over the years, EFICO has been EFICO co-worker can improve his/ policy and evaluation systems, developing various programher current knowledge. the EFICO group of companies mes covering subjects such as does not discriminate accorFood Safety, Quality (Control), This adds up to their competending to gender, religious beliefs, Sustainability and other. cies, skills and values. By giving origin, lifestyle, age or other opportunities to grow on-the-job, characteristics. These very current subjects are people also receive opportunities at the heart of the concerns of to grow as a person. A healthy cooperation is stimulaour company and as such of our ted by mutual respect between entire Team. For each of these This eventually results in conticolleagues, respect of EFICO’s subjects, EFICO has employed nuous improvement, influencing values, understanding for the proexpert staff to be consulted the company’s results. blems colleagues are faced with for any issue surrounding these when carrying out their functions matters. 12 HUMAN RESOURCES PRODUCERS/SUPPLIERS CLIENTS EFICO’s Human Resources DeFor EFICO, coffee is much more EFICO is a true partner to its cuspartment is a supportive factor in than a material to process, as it tomers. Working hand in hand these processes. Communication represents the economic motor we put the sector’s know-how with employees is facilitated. and the pillar of rural developat their disposal. ment in many countries. Throughout 2014, EFICO highly It is in this capacity that our cusfo cu s e d o n i nte r n a l t ra i 25 million individuals in 65 protomers consult us at different ning: Qualit y, Food Safet y, ducing countries are conlevels, knowing that our involveIT, Commodity, Outbound & cerned and depend directly ment is important for our sector. Production Training are amongst or indirectly on coffee producthe examples. tion for their daily income. The We adhere particular imporhuman factor has long been an tance to the professional serviHR also supervises the effectiveimportant factor in our sector. ces for our clients. ness of trainings. This is measured in order to verify the added As a responsible negotiator, value and to change direction if we pay a lot of attention to resnecessary. pecting our commitments. Yearly, an employee evaluation Professional competence, the is carried out. This evaluation sense of initiative and responprocess allows Management to sibility, consideration, honesty, map the efforts and results made discretion, helpfulness and throughout the year. courtesy provide the basis for Topics as Performance evalusustainable and constructive ation, Compliance with EFICO professional relations. Group’s values, defining future growth and training needs are on EFICO’s values (see page 3) are the agenda. All our partners benefit from the implemented in our day-to-day same treatment and appreactivities and results in a thoThis evaluation also allows to ciate working with and/or for rough commitment towards our measure employee satisfaction. EFICO and consider us a reliafinal clients. EFICO strives for a high employee ble partner. This trust is the fruit satisfaction rate. of a long professional collaboration, which shall be continued in the same spirit. At EFICO, we believe that success is based on the motivation, enthusiasm and satisfaction of our Team. 13 Coffee plantation Cerrado region, Brazil 14 EFICO GROUP COMMUNICATION Besides HR, Communication is also considered as a supportive process within the EFICO Group. New objectives for both processes have been implemented in 2014, with respect for the set out guidelines, vision and values (IMPROVE). Optimization of Communication within and between the different departments of the Group is key to provide a good service and good external communication towards our different stakeholders. EFICO disposes of a Sharepoint platform to share information internally. Set-up of a yearly Communication Plan is important to monitor and adjust communication. Visit to origin EFICO disposes of different communication tools: here: Brazil Commodity futures and world currency market news and analysis; Hedging Assistance Daily Market News: also to be downloaded from: www.efico.com/market-news Coffee Quality Information & Origins Library: Grading Sheets, Sensorial & Organoleptic information, farm info and so on Sustainability: Advice on Sustainable Certification and Verification Programs, EFICO FOUNDATION projects, Climate Change and other topics Brochures, including EFICO’s Communication-On-Progress Report Tailor-Made PowerPoint presentations Green Coffee Supply Chain Training Visits: both in producing countries and in Europe: At EFICO we share our know-how with our stakeholders Website: www.efico.com & Social Media: Youtube and Facebook Press Communication and Appearance in Magazines Membership of and Presence at different coffee related events (International, European and local); examples: International Coffee Organization (ICO), European Coffee Federation (ECF), Specialty Coffee Association of America (SCAA), Specialty Coffee Organization of Europe (SCAE) and so on Internal Trainings at EFICO 15 BECAUSE WE CARE ABOUT ... OUR ENVIRONMENT Sustainable development is an international challenge and cannot be met unless every one of us contributes. At EFICO, we continuously work on our economic success within the scope of our sustainable approach. By using safe, environment-friendly products and technologies, we reduce the negative impact of our activities on the environment and health. Our commitment towards sustainability allows us to discover new markets and to form new partnerships in various activities: Trading, Food Safety, Sustainability, “Green” Logistics, Transport, Alternative Energy sources and many more. OUR ENVIRONMENT IS ONE OF THE THREE KEY FACTORS IN EFICO’S CSR STRATEGY Sustainability is a value that has long been close to the company’s heart and our continuity is the best proof of this. However, besides this logic, EFICO places this value at the forefront and goes the extra mile. Sustainability is the starting point of each entity of the EFICO Group of companies. Taking care of our environment, our planet, takes a prominent place within our vision. Our commitment is addressed in the following actions: Sustainable projects through our EFICO FOUNDATION Certification and Verification programs: DID YOU KNOW... www.efico.com/sustainable-coffee-and-food-labels Taking into account our ecologic footprint SEABRIDGE, EFICO’s state-of-the-art Logistics, At SEABRIDGE Warehousing & Distribution facilities green energy is produced Production of Green energy at SEABRIDGE from the 4,600 photovoltaic panels on the roof, with a value of 1 MW Peak: Waste Management and Energy Efficiency this equals energy supply to about 300 families We stimulate transport by barge and train Discover more on www.seabridge.eu Since 2009 particular focus on climate change Participation to events and Sustainability Initiatives We give advice to and encourage our partners to develop a sustainable supply chain SEABRIDGE, Donation of refurbished PCs to a local Belgian Taking care of your coffee. non-profit organization, “VZW ArmenTeKort” 16 SEABRIDGE SEABRIDGE is one of the actions trace system which can be ENERGY EFFICIENCY & WASTE that allow EFICO to position itself integrated in our client’s IT infraas innovator in the development structure if they would wish so. At SEABRIDGE, energy effiof solutions that meet our stakecient building materials and an holders’ concerns and illustrate Product quality, food hygiene energy measurement system our systematic ambition and and security are being assured are used that highlights areas involvement in our sector. through a temperature and for improvement. For this we humidity management system received a GreenBuilding AMBITIOUS PROJECT combined with a unique air-filCertificate and Award from the tering system which neutralizes European Commission. SEABRIDGE is an independent or eliminates bacteria and company within the EFICO 100% of the energy used is Group located in the port of green energy produced by the Zeebrugge sharing the same 4,600 solar panels on the roof or values of tailor-made services, certified green energy injected expertise, quality, and sustainafrom the national grid. ble entrepreneurship. In 2014, we note a reduced In May 2008, this ambitious proenergy use of 26% compared to ject was launched, fully and 2013. solely dedicated to green coffee handling, its highly qualitative SEABRIDGE has further understorage, its quality enhancement taken measures with regard to and distribution. waste management: The concept is sofar unique in the This resulted in 2014 in the recyworld. moulds to prevent contaminacling of 97% of all waste streams, tion between coffee lots while or an increase of 6% compared The warehouse is a solid constructhey are being handled and to 2013. tion with state-of-the-art machistored. nery and high-qualitative laboraThe global CO 2 footprint has tory equipment. All transports within the warebeen further reduced by the house are being done solely use of barges instead of truck In-house developed software with electric powered forklifts transport. and database management to avoid quality deterioration of assure an integrated track-andcoffee by exhaust particles. At EFICO, we are convinced it is the coffee trader’s duty and socio-economic function to provide the different actors of the coffee chain, in producing and consuming countries, with answers to their questions and solutions to their problems. 17 Interior warehouse SEABRIDGE, Belgium 22 18 CREATING VALUE CHAINS At EFICO we stimulate our partners throughout the Green Coffee Supply Chain to adhere importance to the three sustainability pillars. Besides economic and social factors, our environment deserves special attention. By giving advice and encouring them towards sustainability, value chains are created. As mentioned earlier, it is our ambition to create long-term partnerships, share our knowledge and let our partners experience our passion. We offer our commitment as a tool to our clients, suppliers, and others. In this way, sustainable entrepreneurship can be promoted and implemented throughout the coffee sector. Cupping at We work to implement actions both globally and locally: SEABRIDGE In 2014, a large part of EFICO’s computers had to be replaced. laboratory EFICO decided to donate the refurbished computers to a local Antwerp non-profit organization: VZW ArmenTekort. PARTICIPATION TO EVENTS In 2014, we participated to numerous events, working on sustainability topics: UNGC Network Belgium events: The Global Compact Network Belgium (GCNB) is a group of Belgian UN Global Compact signatories (both, local companies and subsidiaries of foreign companies operating in Belgium) that come together to promote and implement the ten Principles and the UN Global Compact itself at a local level. It serves as an inspirational platform to facilitate responsible business activities. During these events, the global dialogue issues are taken down to the level of implementation, while at the same time moving innovative solutions upstream for global imitation and replication. By sharing ideas and knowledge within different sectors, progress can be made. Antwerp ITCCO events: Antwerp-ITCCO is a local Public Utility Foundation that aims to promote and support the standards, research and development goals of the United Nations. It is affiliated with UNITAR, The United Nations Institute for Training and Research. European Commission’s Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) project, see page 7 Climate Change and Coffee Event, Guatemala City: Several international NGOs, producer associations of Central America, the Dominican Republic and Peru, as well as representatives of roasters and traders, met to analyze the adaptation strategies implemented in each coffee producing country to fight climate change. EFICO was present through the participation of Elmer Nij, in charge of our Sustainable Coffee Programs at EFICO Central America (Guatemala). Presence at local and global sustainability events 19 Renaud Cuchet and proud El Platanillo students El Platanillo School, Guatemala EFICO established its private lic organizations and so on. ment projects are supported Foundation in 2003 to support by the EFICO FOUNDATION in sustainable coffee and cocoa The EFICO Fund is a Corporate 16 coffee & cocoa producing projects in producing countries, Fund within the King Baudouin countries. improving the lives of many in a Foundation that manages, finanstructural way. ces, selects and monitors projects Almost 60 coffee roasters spread based on pre-determined criteover 7 different countries joined EFICO FOUNDATION is an open ria, through an independent jury our Foundation, 4 governments initiative, independent, apolitical, of experts. participate financially or through philosophically and ideologically their development agencies in neutral. 100% of the generated funds goes projects, together with almost 70 directly to the selected projects different organizations including The Foundation is the only one in as operational costs of the strucNGOs, research institutes, univerEurope, to focus on coffee and ture are financed by the EFICO sities, national coffee associaticocoa achieving multi-stakeholGroup. ons, local partners, cooperatives der participation in the developor coffee and cocoa producing ment of its projects. This unique and strong model countries. guarantees 100% transparency It is therefore a unique vector and and 100% funds allocation to the a flexible tool to allow anyone to selected projects. MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS contribute to sustainability and 2014 sustainable development of the Transparency is also guaranteed entire supply chain by federating through communication via our The EFICO FOUNDATION projects the sector and stimulating publicwebsite. On www.eficofoundarequire close monitoring and private partnership. tion.org there is amongst others control for the best results, which an overview of all projects. was anew possible thanks to the It is not a certification body, but support of all our project partworks in partnership with certifiAt present, more than 50 sustainaners, our Team in Central America cation organizations, NGOs, pubble multi-stakeholder developand our KURU Team in Ethiopia. 20 RESULTS PROJECTS 2014 Sustainable coffee drying beds We can say with pride that 2014 was a year with succesful project Sidamo region, Ethiopia realizations. IMPROVED LIVING CONDITIONS In San Rafael Las Flores, Guatemala, a partnership was set up to improve the living conditions of 200 families by installing smokeless stoves and improved latrines. Each participant family received training in financial planning, disaster response, preventative health, nutritional cooking, project management, and stove/ latrine construction. They were women who live in rural coffee These improved drying beds are also responsible for contributing growing regions on the importhe first of its kind in the Sidamo materials and labor in building tance of access to clean, safe region and generate leverage these products under Habitat for drinking water for cooking, cleon knowledge on surrounding Humanity’s supervision. aning, and drinking at home. cooperatives. Next to the positive impact on This is a first step in promoting During a second phase (see NEW health and living conditions, a household health via the correct PROJECTS 2014, page 24), water positive environmental impact is and continued use of water filefficiency is the key aspect: by realized by these woodefficient ters. The project was funded by a upgrading the coffee processtoves, with lower CO2 emissions Dutch coffee roasting company. sing plant in Fero’s main washing and reduced wood consumption. station, a significant reduction Efico Central America provided in water use and reduction of This project was possible thanks supervision of and coordination environmental pollution of waste to the par tnership bet ween to this water filter project. waters will become a fact. Habitat for Humanity, the Local Communit y D evel opm ent The different phases in this proCouncil COCODE, a Dutch coffee QUALITATIVE AND ject reflect a long-term focus and roasting company, and the EFICO SUSTAINABLE COFFEE realization of structural improveFOUNDATION. DRYING ments. This is in line with the aim of the EFICO FOUNDATION, improA special thank you for project In the Sidamo region in Ethiopia a ving people’s lives in a structural, follow-up goes out to Renaud collaboration between a Dutch long-term way. Cuchet, Managing Director of coffee roasting company, Fero EFICO Central America, who Cooperative coffee produattended the inauguration of the cers organization, Technoserve TRAINING ON project and could witness the an NGO, and the EFICO SUSTAINABLE improvements and impact on the FOUNDATION was set up. Project AGRICULTURE daily lives. follow-up was provided by KURU. In San Martin, Peru, young workers Sustainable drying beds were in coffee plantations were trained WATER FILTER PROJECT built during this first phase in for sustainable coffee production remote coffee production areas. in agroforestry systems. In Guatemala, safe drinking has been provided to 275 households The aim of this project was to This project addressed main in coffee growing regions, in the improve coffee quality by approweaknesses that were preventing regions of Quetzaltenango, Santa priate coffee drying while using its smallholders from reaching full Rosa, Jutiapa, San Marco, Sololá sustainable materials for the potential in terms of quality, comand Alta Verapaz. construction of the dry beds petitiveness and sales. and thereby reducing wood Key objective was enhancing This project also provided training consumption. productivity and sustainability of and education to Guatemalan coffee production in agro-forestry 21 Education for the Future Coromoro, Santander, Colombia 22 systems through training: was set up. knowledge is progress. 74 young workers were candidates for the training, 64 initiated ‘Education for the Future’ is a At the Kindergarden at Capetillo’s the program and at present 21 local initiative to foster capacity Coffee Farm in Alotenango, intenstudents finished and received a building, peaceful coexistence sive pre-primary educational serdiploma. and income generation for 100 vices are provided to 30 students. youngsters and their families The youngsters are able to offer (+/300 family members). At Buena Vista’s Coffee Farm in their specialized ser vices to San Sebastián, the primary educoffee growers under coordinaIndirecty, younger students and cation is strengthened through tion of the coffee associations, teachers of the school and 200 the implementation of the Active receiving a fair payment for it. neighbour farmer families of the Rural School methodology and beneficiaries benefit from the technology to increase the perThese young specialists already actions and improvement of edumanency of children. offered many individual services cation programs (+800 people). to producers of the organizations: 3,455 people have benefited In three years time, an innovative IMPROVED LIVING sofar. education and training program CONDITIONS for young students and graduaWe are all proud of this project. tes will be implemented that inteIn San Marcos, Guatemala, a new Discover the film here. grates the use of IT technologies, project was set up at El Platanillo, practical training on the field, focusing on improving the health family support and certification of 25 adults and 35 children living In Jimma, Ethiopia, the partof technical skills. there. The level of education will nership between the Catholic also be increased. The project is University of Leuven, Jimma funded by a Belgian coffee roasUniversit y, Ma’ar (NGO), a In Alotenango and San Sebastián, ter and follow-up is carried out by Luxembourg coffee roasting comGuatemala, two education proEFICO Central America. pany and the EFICO FOUNDATION jects are partnered by FUNCAFÉ, aims to diversify farms and forests a private civil society organizaBy installing a vegetables producby bee-keeping as an additional tion founded by Guatemalan tion garden and wood efficient income and increase ecosystem coffee producers and EFICO stoves, the quality of nutrition services. Central America, providing proincreases and at the same time ject follow-up. less resources are used to cook. In the meantime, a paper was The project is funded by a Dutch There will be a reduced conpublished by the University of coffee roasting company. sumption in kg of wood per family, Leuven, on pollinators of wild which is good for the environment coffee in Ethiopia. In the acknowIn these two projects, education too. ledgements, they mention this is seen as alternative for the preproject. Mid 2016, the final project vention of child labor during the Increasing the level of educaresults will be a fact. coffee harvest season and for a tion of the children will give them better development: better opportunities. NEW PROJECTS 2014 In 2014, the EFICO FOUNDATION supported 5 new development projects and 1 special project in Central and South America and in Africa. See also www.eficofoundation.org/projects. EDUCATION FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE In Coromoro, Colombia, a cooperation between the Collibri Foundation, the Regional Coffee Grower Committee of Santander; t h e Co l o m b i a n Te c h n i ca l Education Plat fo r m (SENA), Primary education Florentino Gonzales Rural School Buena Vista School, Guatemala and the EFICO FOUNDATION 23 In July 2014 however, a strong a Dutch coffee roaster and the and will create future developear thquake hit Guatemala’s EFICO FOUNDATION in Ethiopia, ment possibilities. Western region. the focus is on upgrading the 240 Sun King Pro devices (1 light coffee processing plant in Fero’s bulb per lamp) and 47 Barefoot The area of San Marcos, San main coffee washing station. Connect devices (4 light bulbs per Rafael Pie de la Cuesta and Finca solar panel) will be distributed. El Platanillo, were badly affected. A significant reduction in water use, a reduction of environmenThis project will reach about 2,000 At Finca El Platanillo, no lives were tal pollution of waste waters oripeople. Besides 157 families, four lost, but there was some signifiginating from coffee processing schools, a church, a health clinic, cant damage at the school (the will become a fact. Health of the a community laboratory and an classes had to be suspended local communities will hereby by adult school/ child care facility because the building had been improved. Processing of a large will benefit from having access declared unsafe), and at some amount of coffee cherries will to electricity. workers’ houses. be facilitated by alleviating the shortage of a soak tank during The children who go to school will Due to the special history of the the peak harvest season. no longer have to strain their eyes EFICO FOUNDATION, EFICO and to do their homework. Finca El Platanillo since 2003 Direclty more than 2,000 memFamilies will also financially beneforces were already joined to bers of Fero Cooperative benefit fit since they no longer have to build up a school for the children from this project. Indireclty, the purchase kerosene oil or extra of the local coffee community, neighboring communities, living wood for nighttime light. including a computer class and close to the river will also feel the They will also feel safer in their a sports playground the EFICO positive effects. household since sufficient light is Team decided to do an indiviprovided. Health clinics will also dual donation to build up anew be able to be open later due to the school. ALTERNATIVE ENERGY, lighting. PROVIDING EMPOWERThe use of this renewable energy A Dutch coffee roaster also deciMENT AND ACCESS will not only have a positive ded to donate. At the end of 2014, TO ELECTRICITY impact on the daily lives of the de damage was rebuilt and the community but also on the students could attend back clasIn Guatemala (in 8 different regienvironment. ses in their familiar environment. ons), solar panels and solar lamps are provided to 157 families that do not have access to electricity. SUSTAINABLE IMPROVING WASTE WATER DEVELOPMENT GOALS MANAGEMENT The families who will benefit from the project are those who work in By supporting these projects, During the second phase of the or around coffee farms. The the EFICO FOUNDATION and its collaboration bet ween Fero access to green energy will partners aim to contribute to the Cooperative, Sidamo Union, improve the quality of their lives Millenium Development Goals, which will soon be transformed into the post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals. These new goals give an overview on how to tackle the world’s most pressing problems, including poverty, inequality and environmental destruction. If the UN Member States agree on the proposed 17 goals at the UN Summit in September 2015, the new framework will come into effect from January 2016: Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutriEl Platanillo, Guatemala tion and promote sustainable agriculture 24 Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and growth, full and productive Goal 14 Conserve and sustaipromote well-being for all at all employment and decent work nably use the oceans, seas and ages marine resources for sustainable Goal 9 Build resilient infrastrucdevelopment Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and ture, promote inclusive and sustaiequitable quality education and nable industrialization and foster Goal 15 Protect, restore and propromote lifelong learning opporinnovation mote sustainable use of terrestrial tunities for all ecosystems, sustainably manage Goal 10 Reduce inequality forests, combat desertification, Goal 5 Achieve gender equawithin and among countries and halt and reverse land degrality and empower all women and dation and halt biodiversity loss girls Goal 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resiGoal 16 Promote peaceful and Goal 6 Ensure availability and lient and sustainable inclusive societies for sustainable sustainable management of development, provide access to water and sanitation for all Goal 12 Ensure sustainable justice for all and build effective, consumption and production accountable and inclusive instituGoal 7 Ensure access to afforpatterns tions at all levels dable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Goal 13 Take urgent action to Goal 17 Strengthen the means of combat climate change and its implementation and revitalize the Goal 8 Promote sustained, incluimpacts global partnership for sustainable sive and sustainable economic development INTO THE FUTURE 2014 was a year of decisions, Our corporate social responsibicontribute to make our world a ensuring the Group’s future. lity means that we have set a susbetter place to live in, today and Quality, responsible entrepretainable objective of economic tomorrow. neurship, a proactive approach growth, that we act responsibly in and a people focus remain key the conduct of our activities and At EFICO, we also look forfor a fruitful business. that we anticipate the legitimate ward to the new Sustainable interests of our stakeholders while Development Goals. It is through our corporate vision assuming our social and environThese are necessary to being and values that the imprint of our mental responsibility. able to tackle the world’s most commitment towards sustainable pressing problems, including development and our corporate We believe that having a succespoverty, inequality and environresponsibility takes form. sful sustainable strategy means mental destruction. being aware that sustainable At EFICO, we understand the development is an international We are convinced that only necessity of balancing ecochallenge and cannot be met through a long-term focus and nomic, ecological and social unless every one of us contributes. partnerships of everyone involved objectives. in the supply chain, progress will The issue of EFICO’s social resbe assured. Protection of the environment ponsibility takes on great impor(Planet) and social equilibrium tance because we operate in a “At EFICO, we are (People) are the foundations of global market, in which we are a long-term economic success. small player but one that strives determined to go that to contribute and assume its extra mile to preserve Only economically viable comresponsibilities. panies (Profit) are able to contriour environment, bute efficiently to the protection For 2015, we continue to manage our people and of the environment and social our commercial activities in a resprogress. ponsible way, so we can further our coffee.” Find us on: 25 This EFICO report is also available on the United Nations Global Compact Website and on www.efico.com/un-global-compact.
