ABOUTABOUTTHIS THISREPORT REPORT report This This report is kt’s is 10th kt’s 10th integrated integrated sustainability sustainability report report to communicate to communicate withwith stakeholders stakeholders moremore transparently transparently and develop and develop performances performances for sustainable for sustainable management. management. Reporting Reporting Time TimeFrame Frame andand BoundaryBoundary • Reporting • Reporting TimeTime Frame Frame report ThisThis report outlinesoutlines kt’s kt’s achievements, achievements, initiatives, initiatives,and anddatadata that thatspanspan January fromfrom Januaryto December to December 2014. 2014. Its reporting Its reporting periodperiod is oneis one year,year, and andthe the previous previousreport was was report published published in June 2014. in June ThisThis 2014. scope extends scope extends to April to April 20152015for major for majorbusiness business activities, activities, and in and cases in cases of someof some quantitative quantitative data,data, threethree year’syear’s worth worth datadatais presented is presented to help to help readers readers identify relevant relevant identify trends.trends. • Reporting • Reporting Boundary Boundary The report The report covercover 510 510 business business including sitessites includingthe head the headofficeoffice and branches and branches in the incountry the country as a as major a majorreporting reportingtarget.target. “kt” “kt” in thisin this report refers report refers to kt’sto kt’s separate separate company,company, except except for subsidiaries for subsidiaries which which are targets are targets for connection for connection GiGAtopia in accordance in accordance subsidiaries subsidiaries inreport. the report. in the 23 of23 on page on page and and this withwith overseas overseas K-IFRS. The business The business this report of report K-IFRS.In cases branches, branches, In cases boundary boundary in accordance in accordance of reporting a relevant a relevant for each for each withwith of reporting material the GRI explanation explanation material issueissue theG4 performances performances GRIGuidelines. was was was was G4 Guidelines. included included presented presented by by kt Integrated Report 2015 Reporting Reporting Principles Principles andand Assurance Assurance • Reporting • Reporting Principles Principles To comply To comply withwith the internationally the internationally accredited accredited reporting reporting standards, standards, this this report report followed followed comprehensive comprehensive GRI GRI(Global (GlobalReporting Reporting Initiative) Initiative) G4 G4 guidelines, guidelines, the international the international guideline guideline for sustainability for sustainability reporting, reporting, and and was was written writtenin accordance in accordance withwiththe “IR”the “IR” Framework Framework of theof International the International Integrated IntegratedReporting Reporting CouncilCouncil (IIRC).(IIRC). • Assurance • Assurance To ensure To ensure the reliability the reliability and and transparency transparency of reporting of reportingprocesses, processes, data,data, reported and and reported content,content, this report was was this report assuredassured by anbyindependent an independent external external assurance assurance service serviceprovider. provider. Characteristics Characteristics of Thisof This Report Report report This This report connectsconnects material issues material issues regarding regarding sustainability sustainability to business to business strategy strategyand and focuses focuses on kt’s on kt’sshared shared value value to promote to promote the people’s the people’s convenience. convenience. The report The report alsoalsosharessharesthe company’s the company’s strategic strategic directions directions on the on current the current and and future future business business throughthroughmajor major business business activities, activities, achievements, achievements, and planning and planning reports based reports based on management on management strategies. strategies. To increase To increase the effectiveness the effectiveness of the of performance the performance report, report,the report the report presents presents issues issues for stakeholders for stakeholders in majorin major sectorssectors and KPIand(Key KPI (Key Performance Performance Indicators). Indicators). In addition, In addition, matters mattersthat thathavehave highhighimportance importance in termsin termsof of sustainability sustainability and and are mainly are mainly carriedcarried out by outktby were kt were reported reportedin depth in depth as as “Special “Special Issues.”Issues.” Information Information and and statements statements for prediction for prediction based based on management on management goals goals suchsuchas midas mid and and long-term long-term goals and and goals future future benefits werewere benefits written written on on the basis the basis of investment of investment plans plans and and future future marketmarketanalysis, analysis,but due but dueto to the uncertainty the uncertainty in the in management the management environment, environment, therethere might mightbe somebe some differences. differences. For For More More Information Information Please Please contactcontact us for usadditional for additional information information or toor send to send inquiries inquiries about about this this report. report. • Address • Address : kt CSV : kt CSV Center, Center,Public Public Relations Relations Office, Office, 178,178,Sejong-daero, Sejong-daero, Jongno-gu, Jongno-gu, Seoul Seoul • Tel•+82-2-732-5055 Tel +82-2-732-5055 CONTENTS 04 Chairman of Board of Directors’ Message 05 CEO’s Message I. Overview of kt's Sustainability 06 Company Overview 13 Governance 17 Stakeholder Engagement 18 Ethics Management 20 Risk Management 22 Materiality Test 24 Special Issue II. GiGAtopia_Create the Future 32 Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market 42 Leadership for Future Technology 50 Enhancement of Customer Value 58 Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story III. Sustainable Value 68 Expansion of Win-win Growth 73 Creation of Value for the Local Community 80 Talent Management 91 Eco-friendly Management Appendix 101 Sustainability Indicators 106 Third-Party Assurance Statement Cover Story Making Korean communications history, kt has presented a new paradigm in the communications market with “GiGAtopia.” The vivid color expressing the high speed on the cover depicts kt realizing “GiGAtopia” through innovative ICT services. Creating Value beyond Connectivity, GiGAtopia The best national company that provides the fastest and most innovative ICT-based telecommunications and convergence services for the convenience of customers. Jeremy Rifkin, a futurologist, emphasized the importance of telecommunications technology with the role of the Chairman Internet and Internet of Things (IoT) in the future society in his writings, “The Third Industrial Revolution” and “The Zero Marginal Cost Society.” As telecommunications technology has become a necessity that creates new added of Board of value in all sectors in our lives, kt has continuously led Korea’s telecommunications market since its foundation as Korea Telecom in 1981. Directors’ kt opened the era of having one telephone in each household by supplying ten million wire telephone lines in 1987 Message and has continuously led high-speed Internet technology with innovative technology since the company began Korea’s first Internet commercial service in 2000. We also led smart innovation by launching the first iPhone in Korea in 2009 and commercialized GiGA-level high-speed Internet for the first time in Korea in 2014 to demonstrate kt’s strength and capability. With GiGA infrastructure and ICT technology, kt has laid the foundation for providing the world’s fastest and most innovative communications and convergence service. We will contribute to the prosperity of our country and the human race through our telecommunications technology. kt will present new services in every area in our lives from the media and content sectors to energy, security, environment, culture, and art. These efforts will lead to new opportunities to create new shared value. With GiGA Island as a model for creating new shared value, kt received the 1st CSV Porter Prize in 2014 and was included in DJSI World for five consecutive years in recognition for its performance in sustainable management. Based on our competitiveness for sustainability, kt will make the leap forward, becoming not only the top company in our field in Korea, but also a global IT leader. The year of 2015 will be a year when kt will lead with its telecommunications capability to make great achievements. All members of the Board of Directors, including me, will provide proactive support to help kt contribute to developing the country and become a respected and trusted company for the people. Thank you. kt will enrich our lives through innovative telecommunications technology. Do-Kyun Song Chairman of the Board of Directors 04 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue CEO’s In 2014, kt made various efforts for management innovation to prepare for the upcoming future with renewed determination. Message When it comes to internal matters, we have established a communication and collaboration system to improve corporate culture and amplify synergy. The new culture is geared towards realizing empowerment of field employees, so they could work with more authority and responsibility, and thus enhance business performances. Externally, with the aim of leaping forward as “Global No. 1,” kt proclaimed “GiGAtopia” as its new goal and presented a new paradigm in the wired and wireless communications market through five future business areas such as IoT, big data, healthcare, next generation media, and integrated safety. “GiGAtopia” is a world with greater safety, comfort, and happiness through various convergence services based on GiGA infrastructure. To achieve this goal, kt is fostering small but strong companies in Korea that we call K-Champ, like the hidden champions, the main source of Germany’s economic growth. In March 2015, we opened the Creative Economy Innovation Center in Pangyo, the cradle for K-Champ. The center will not only contribute to creative economy by leading the global standardization of new technologies, but also target the global market by creating an ICT ecosystem where large companies and small but strong companies grow together. Furthermore, as the representative company and with the desire to contribute to the improvement of the world through ICT, kt has carried out various activities for creating shared value based on GiGA service. Last year, the first GiGA Island was launched at Imjado Island in Korea, while GiGA School was opened at Daeseongdong Elementary School in the demilitarized zone (i.e. highly restricted area between North and South Korea). Through these efforts, kt enabled residents to enjoy the benefits of innovative ICT including smart agriculture, healthcare, and education. Also, the second GiGA Island was launched at Baengnyeongdo Island in March, and additional GiGA projects will follow within this year such as in Cheonghakdong. Dear customers and stakeholders, at the Mobile World Congress 2015, kt proclaimed 5G leadership by delivering the keynote address as the only Asian operator among the presenters. For the upcoming 2018 PyeongChang Olympic Winter Games, we will showcase a whole new experience to seven billion people in the world through advanced ICT services. We believe it will be the strong driver for kt to become “Global No.1.” kt will continue to strive for enriched life for everyone through ICT. Thank you. With the pride of representing Korea, kt will lead the global ICT market. Chang-Gyu Hwang CEO, kt Corporation kt Integrated Report 05 Company Overview Current Corporate Established as Korea Telecom in 1981, kt is Korea’s largest comprehensive communications operator. It merged with its subsidiary, KTF, in 2009 and is leading the smart era by introducing smartphones in Korea. kt focuses its Condition and Major capability in establishing GiGA wire and wireless network infrastructure and differentiating the Media/IoT platform History by utilizing its core technology. Based on its advanced infrastructure, the company also finds and nurtures ICT convergence service in various industrial sectors. kt will become the global No. 1 communications company beyond the domestic market based on these ICT capabilities. Number of users for each service in 2012 2014 (Unit: 1,000 persons) Wireless Wire telephone** High-speed Category IPTV Total communications* PSTN** VoIP Internet 2012 16,502 15,318 3,348 8,037 4,030 47,234 2013 16,454 14,513 3,505 8,067 4,968 47,507 2014 17,328 13,849 3,411 8,129 5,859 48,576 * Wireless: CDMA+WCDMA+LTE ** PSTN: The data combines general calls (excluding enterprise calls), internal communications, ISDN and DID Company name kt Date of establishment December 10, 1981 CEO Hwang Chang-Gyu Head office 90, Bulljeong-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam City, Gyeonggi-do kt’s Assets/Capabilities Subscribers to pay 1 st TV service (olleh tv, kt skylife) 1st T-commerce (kth, kt skylife) 1st Amount of use/ Number of franchises (5.86 million people) (BC card) 2nd UV(Unique Visitor) 2nd Giftishow Security business (genie, kt music) (Mobile gift certiﬁcate) (kt mhows) 3rd (kt telecop) (2.77 million people) Service for ﬁve Internet Media Lab Purchases by sports games 1st (nasmedia) 150 BC Card 5 (kt sports) trillion won ※ Baseball, Basketball, E-sports, Hockey, Shooting 06 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue (As of the late 2014, Unit: 100 million won, person) Current Condition of Subsidiary Major business (type of business) Sales Total Number of Subsidiaries capital employees kt powertel Telecommunications 1,049 1,273 198 kt linkus Telecommunications 1,063 67 648 kth IT service, multimedia content business, e-commerce 1,361 1,956 345 kt submarine Construction for each professional 767 954 68 kt commerce E-commerce 5,158 220 111 kt mhows Other service (Mobile advertisement production and agency, 228 54 75 software development) kt rental Comprehensive rental business 10,098 3,008 914 kt telecop Security for facilities and machines 2,570 1,448 2,829 kt capital Financial business 1,734 2,801 131 kt m&s Sales and rental of communications devices 8,854 606 2,911 nasmedia Online advertisement agency 299 626 212 kt music Online music service, development, production, and 863 563 190 distribution of digital contents sofnics Software development and sale 3 2 3 kt ds Integrated establishment, operation and maintenance of 3,533 340 1,256 IT system kt cs Operation and establishment of a call center 4,380 1,419 10,968 kt is Operation and establishment of a call center 4,507 1,480 10,205 kt skylife Satellite broadcasting, media industry 6,228 4,356 308 skylife TV Film, broadcast and performance industry 457 192 91 kt estate Real estate business 2,802 13,350 285 kt WIC Rental and sales of high-speed wireless communications 12 2,612 6 devices and equipment BC card Financial business 32,746 8,623 821 CENTIOS System integration and management business 148 140 42 ksds Computer programming, system integration, and 25 237 22 management business Ustream Korea Live video streaming and media content production 17 3 2 kt sat Satellite broadcasting and communications 1,392 4,457 157 kt media hub Portal and Internet information media service business 3,352 998 235 best partners Business support service 4 8 3 kt sports Sports and leisure service business 422 75 58 Autopion Co., 99 26 126 Location information service business Ltd. ※ Refer to the 2014 business report for more detailed information about the current condition of affiliates except for subsidiaries of subsidiaries, securities available for sale, private equity, and five companies with impaired capital (Smart Channel, ENSWERS, Tion Telecom, kt NexR, and kt innoedu) kt Integrated Report 07 Management Philosophy and Strategy Vision & Core Values The best national company that provides the Mission fastest and most innovative ICT-based telecommunications and convergence services for the convenience of customers Vision Global No.1 Goal Realizing GiGAtopia Core Values Number 1 kt Single kt Customers First Right-Path Management Aim to become the Act in union Mobilize all our Promote a brighter global number 1 with through borderless resources and future for the company the best quality and communication and capacities to provide with the right decisiondifferentiated services cooperation among the best service for our making and business departments customers ethics 08 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue GiGAtopia ? GiGAtopia refers to the world where humans and all the things are connected by GiGA infrastructure to enjoy comfort beyond convenience. kt will leap forward and become the global No. 1 kt by realizing GiGAtopia. Leading wired and wireless Finding and fostering ICT Management with customers GiGA technology convergence services as top priority • GiGA, 5G network • Five major future convergence services • Differentiated No. 1 service • GiGA media/IoT platform (Smart energy, Integrated Safety, Next• Understanding customer perspective generation media, Life-enhancing Care, Networked Transportation) Continuing management innovation and beginning group management A sincere company for the people, contributing to raising the national competitiveness in the ICT industry • Fostering “K-Champ,” Korean hidden champion through the Gyeonggi Creative Economy Innovation Center • Spreading successful global convergence GiGA story in cooperation with domestic venture companies and SMEs • Conducting social contribution activities based on ICT, such as GiGA Island and GiGA School, and leading nation-wide business such as holding Pyeongchang Winter Olympics 09 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue Global No.1 kt Providing innovative global service based on kt’s high competitiveness in communications kt – Leading GiGAtopia by developing the convergence ICT sector and pioneering the overseas market through joint cooperation with SMEs for win-win growth Global ICT Global data Global traffic wholesale Establishing and providing Providing global communications business Providing international voice traffic global IT solution and global (International, broadcasting, VPN, IP, communication service by utilizing communications network global IDC, etc.) kt’s network Leading wired and wireless GiGA technology Finding and fostering ICT convergence services Management with customers as top priority By proactively leading the realization of GiGAtopia, kt operates communications businesses such as mobile kt prepares future convergence business by creating synergy effects in different industries from communications in five major Innovating value in the customer experience by subdividing customer experiences into 650 units to provide communications, Internet, wired telephone, corporate infrastructure, and has a business portfolio encompassing sectors—Smart Energy, Integrated Safety, Next-generation Media, Life-Enhancing Care, and Networked the best customer service from the total CS perspective Big Data-based IoT (Internet of Things), Cloud, corporate solution, and convergence ICT, which will be new engines Transportation—based on wired and wireless GiGA infrastructure and convergence ICT technology. Reforming the system for company-wide total CS by launching “Management Office with Customers in Priority” and for creative innovation and growth. securing the executive capability for management with customers as the top priority, operating the “Committee with Customers in Priority” based on executives. Wireless LTE Smart Energy CS Providing voice, text message, and data service based on broadband LTE-A (4G) network on Managing energy demands based on Big Data through energy and ICT convergence Enhancing service satisfaction in all sectors that are experienced by customers from smart devices Providing the environment for efficient energy development/trade subscription to products, as well as installation, after service and cancellation Leading 5G technology connecting everything on a real-time basis and sending massive quantities of data Integrated Safety Product GiGA WiFI Providing an integrated ICT-based system with communications, security, building control, etc. beyond Realizing kt as No. 1 by providing products and services without defects Providing wireless service in which 512 customers at maximum can simultaneously connect simple security at a speed three times faster than existing Wi-Fi Establishing a response system for national disasters as well as safety for individuals and industrial sites Launching “GiGA WiFI Home” will enable users to use economical and fast wireless data at home. GiGA internet Next-generation Media Network Commercializing GiGA internet service that is 10 times faster than the existing 100bps internet Providing various convergence services such as child education and commerce based on Making the basis for GiGAtopia by improving the quality of wired and for the first time in Korea competitiveness in IPTV wireless communications service (Recruiting 100,000 subscribers within two months from its commercialization) Leading the media industry by seeking future content such as holograms olleh TV Life-enhancing Care Channel Korea’s top IPTV service providing the largest number of full-HD channels and VODs Providing customized care services by collecting and managing health-related information by Enhancing the quality of customer experience in sales channels in and Launching “olleh GiGA UHD TV”, providing UHD channels that are four times more utilizing capability for IoT, Big Data out of the company and online non-face-to-face channels vivid than HD channels Developing customized treatment for characteristics of the human genome IoT Networked Transportation Providing various IoT services, such as GiGA IoT Home Fitness that can track your physical Providing a safe and convenient transportation environment through real-time based data analysis with exercise on TV, GiGA IoT Home Cam for monitoring home safely, and GiGA IoT Home Manager vehicles and road infrastructure and contributing to advanced logistics transportation and reduction of that can control major home terminals from a distance expenses for transportation congestion Realizing GiGAtopia R&D Core Sectors R&D Infrastructure Technology for providing maximized 500 Mbps Internet Category Major content Note R&D personnel (person) R&D expenses (100 million won) kt will lead 5G technology as a core future GiGA Access based on one-pair line 1 Developing GiGA Wire core technology Securing five relevant 593 4,807.6 engine by continuously securing core In-building Solution In-building solution technology converging with wired and to transmit at the speed of 200 Mbps patents Preparing 534 520 4,475.1 per one pair for traffic commercialization at wireless network for building ICT business technology for the GiGA Network and home and abroad FTTH Overlay 1Gbps multi-line solution technology for FTTH Overlay 2 Improving the speed of wireless network Demonstrating 3,013.2 constantly work to achieve technological by three times compared to the existing commercial test broadband LTE by developing MPTCPnetworks leadership by securing the global eco-system Mass-storage OLT Corporate mass-storage OLT 1G/10Gbps technology based LTE+Wi-Fi consolidation technology to realize the era of GiGAtopia by 2020. Securing SDN controller, switch, soft-based UTM 3 Developing GiGA UTP core technology Commercialization at NFV/SDN providing the speed of 500 Mbps by two home technology pairs of LAN cable Cornet 2.0 LTE VPN technology provides corporate ※ Securing domestic and overseas patents 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 LTE VPN Total registered patent cases (As of December 31, 2014): 5,045 cases in Korea, 867 cases in foreign countries premium service Number of registered cases for the year: 381 cases in Korea, 62 cases in foreign countries kt Integrated Report 10 kt Integrated Report 11 Company Economic Performance Overview Sales Revenue The following sales information is based on the K-IFRS connection Sales Revenue. (Unit: 1 billion won) Category 2012 2013 2014 Provision of service 19,266.6 19,663.0 19,991.7 Sales of goods (*) 4,589.8 4,147.6 3,430.0 Total 23,856.4 23,810.6 23,421.7 ※ Including contracts for construction of real estate which recognizes profits based on progress of K-IFRS connection (*) Sales of Each Business (Unit: 1 billion won) Category Wireless Wire Sales of Sales of Sales of Other Total sales sales media financial products sales content rental 2012 6,913.4 6,392.3 1,067.9 3,574.3 4,600.9 1,307.6 23,856.4 2013 6,976.5 5,965.5 1,354.5 3,859.9 3,966.5 1,687.7 23,810.6 2014 7,314.8 5,538.3 1,508.2 4,169.7 3,460.6 1,430.0 23,421.6 * As of materials for announcing performances Value Distribution Compensation for executives and employees (1 billion won) Payments for the government * (1 billion won) for Each Stakeholder 7,617 24,811 25,524 20,717 5,408 5,024 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Cash payments by cooperative firms (1 billion won) Payments for social contribution ** (1 billion won) 29,800 28,024 19,905 635.3 421.9 406.6 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 ※ To lead the communications market, kt has invested in wired and wireless infrastructure and new profit projects rather than distributing dividends to shareholders. Through these efforts, kt has created a structure with a virtuous cycle for achieving long-term profits. * Payments for the government: Total sum of corporate tax, other taxes, and public utilities’ charge ** Payments for social contribution: Total sum of investment in the local community, charitable contribution and donation, sponsorship, and support Financial Support by The amount of deduction from the year’s corporate tax and other tax amounts to be paid was 42 billion won due to R&D expenses, facility investment for productivity improvement, investment in safety facilities and energy saving, the Government etc. This amount, however, was carried forward by the year’s loss. It will be deducted in issuing taxable income, and the total amount with the existing tax amount that was carried forward is 238 billion won. kt will proactively utilize this deducted tax amount and execute expenses efficiently for R&D and corporate management. 12 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue Governance Transparent kt aggressively adopted best practice recommendations for corporate governance in accordance with global standards that emphasize professional executive management systems and an independent board of directors Governance Structure (BOD). This resulted in a corporate governance system that befits kt’s status as a global company. Leadership of management (CEO) and BOD is isolated to establish a governance structure that is objective and independent from management. Furthermore, the “kt Governance Charter” was introduced to establish the Corporate Governance Committee as a way to improve its governance structure. This policy paid off as we have maintained the highest rating (A+) in corporate governance, according to the EGS (Environmental Social Governance) evaluation organized by the Korean Corporate Governance and Sustainability Center (CGS) for four consecutive years since 2011. kt’s Governance Structure Model Efforts to improve governance structure and management transparency Transparent governance structure 01 Independent board of directors 02 Enhancement of shareholder value 03 Responsible management by professional managers Independence in composition and Payback to share holders Appointment and Management contract operation of the board of directors • Share retirement and dividend • Recommending candidates by CEO • Separation of CEO and chairperson Nominating Committee Shareholder Protection (73% in the ratio of non-executive directors) • Concentrated / letter voting system • Appointing CEO at general • Forming the committees for audit, shareholders’ meeting implemented assessment, compensation, and • Signing a management contract internal transaction by including Protection of shareholder rights with a new CEO • CEO remuneration interlinked with • Conducting annual assessment for external director Transparency in election committee. stock price. management performances by the BOD • Operating the committee for Remuneration and dismissal recommending candidates for • Deciding remuneration for CEO based external director on management performance • Utilizing a professional survey • The BOD can suggest the dismissal of organization for candidates for CEO to general shareholders’ meeting external director in case of insufficient performance by Special authority given to the the CEO. external directors • Assessing management contract with the CEO and suggesting dismissal • Determining methods for paying remuneration for CEO and executive directors Independence The CEO & Chairman is appointed through a voting process at the general shareholders’ meeting from the pool of candidates recommended by the CEO Nominating Committee. The current CEO & Chairman Hwang Chang-gyu and Diversity of was appointed at the general shareholders’ meeting on January 27, 2014. Executive directors except for the CEO Composition of the BOD are recommended through a shareholders’ meeting with consent from the BOD by the CEO among management executives each year. Lim Heon-moon was appointed as the Head of the Customer Business Group, and Park Jeongtae was made Head of Ethics Management Department (March 27, 2015). In consideration of the diversity and complementarity of skills of the BOD, non-executive directors are recommended by the Non-executive Director Candidate Nominating Committee through a general shareholders’ meeting. As the committee recommended best experts who can give professional advice in various sectors for the development of kt, the general shareholders’ meeting (March 27, 2015) appointed three non-executive directors: Chang Suk-gwon, Dean of the School of Business at Hanyang University, Chung Dong-wook, Senior Counsel at Law Firm Kim, Choi & Lim, and Hyun Dai-won, Professor of Mass Communication & Director of Sogang Communication Center. The chairman of the BOD is appointed by the decision by the BOD among non-executive directors to enhance its independence, and its term of office is one year. As of March 2015, the chairman of kt’s BOD is Song Do-kyun, one of the non-executive directors. kt Integrated Report 13 Governance Current Condition of the BOD (as of March, 2015) Category Name (Gender) Major Career Responsibility (Attending Committee) Executive Hwang (Current) kt CEO CEO & President directors Chang-Gyu (Former) President & CTO, Office of Strategic R&D Chairperson of Management Committee (Male) Planning at the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (Former) President & CTO, Samsung Electronics Lim Heon-Moon (Current) Head of Customer Business Group, kt Member of Management Committee (Male) (Former) COO, Telecom & Convergence Group, kt Park Jeong-Tae (Current) Head, Legal & Ethics Office, kt Member of Governance Structure Committee (Male) (Former) Head, Group Shared Service Group, kt Member of Management Committee Non-executive Song Do-Kyun (Current) Advisor of Bae, Kim & Lee LLC Board Chairman directors (Male) (Former) Committee member, Korea Member of Evaluation and Compensation Communications Commission Committee Member of Governance Structure Committee Cha Sang-Kyun (Current) Professor of Electrical Engineering & Member of Audit Committee (Male) Computer Science, Seoul National University Member of Governance Structure Committee Kim Jong-Goo (Current) Corporation lawyer, New Dimension Director of Audit Committee (Male) Law Group Member of Internal Transaction Committee (Former) 46th Minister of Justice Yim Chu-Hwan (Current) Director of Korea Information & Director of Evaluation and Compensation (Male) Communication Industry Institute Committee (Former) Member of Presidential Advisory Member of Internal Transaction Committee Council on Science & Technology Chang Suk-Gwon (Current) Dean of School of Business, Hanyang Director of Governance Structure Committee (Male) University Member of Internal Transaction Committee (Former) President of Korea Association for Telecommunications Policy Park Dae-Keun (Current) Professor of the College of Economics Member of Audit Committee (Male) and Finance, Hanyang University Member of Governance Structure Committee (Former) Committee member of Korea Finance Corporations Chung Dong(Current) Senior Counsel of Law Firm Kim, Choi Director of Internal Transaction Committee Wook (Male) & Lim Member of Audit Committee (Former) Prosecutor of Seoul High Prosecutors’ Office Hyun Dai-Won (Current) Professor of Mass Communication & Member of Evaluation and Compensation (Male) Director of Sogang Communication Center Committee (Former) Chairman, Internet-based Member of Internal Transaction Committee Broadcasting Service Promotion Forum Operation of To improve expertise and agility in decision-making, our BOD operates five standing subcommittees and two temporary subcommittees. If necessary, the BOD can additionally establish separate committees. Committees in the BOD Current Condition of Committees in the BOD (as of March, 2015) Category Composition Objective and Authority Standing Governance Structure Four non-executive directors, Improving the governance structure Committee One executive director Audit Committee Four non-executive directors Auditing accounting and other tasks Evaluation and Four non-executive directors Management contract for the CEO and relevant Compensation Committee assessment Internal Transaction Four non-executive directors Transaction between special parties as an approval Committee by the BOD in accordance with the “Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act” and “Commercial Act” Management Committee Three executive directors Matters entrusted by the BOD for general management issues Temporary CEO Nominating All non-executive directors, Matters regarding surveying and reviewing candidates Committee One executive director for the CEO and recommendation made in general shareholders’ meeting Non-executive Director All non-executive directors, Matters regarding surveying and reviewing candidates Candidate Nominating One executive director for non-executive directors and recommendation Committee * made in general shareholders’ meeting ※ For further details, please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website (www.kt.com). 14 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue Operation and kt held a total of 11 BOD meetings in 2014 to deliberate and decide on a total of 37 agendas items including the “2014 sustainability management plans (draft).” Any decision made by the BOD requires more than a majority of Assessment the current directors with voting rights to be in attendance, along with the consent of a majority of the attending of the BOD directors, if not stated otherwise in the Korean Commercial Law or the Article of Association. To ensure the efficient operation of the BOD and the accountability of the directors, our BOD evaluates their members on their BOD activities and individual performance each year, and the results are voluntarily disclosed in our business reports. Overview of Operation of the BOD No. of BOD meetings Average attendance BOD performance evaluation outcome (on a scale of one to five) 11 98 % 4.1 Current Condition of BOD Activities No. Date of meeting Agenda details No. of attending nonexecutive directors (Maximum number) 1 Jan. 27, 2014 Approved the 32nd non-consolidated financial statements (draft) and 7(7) three other items 2 Feb. 20, 2014 kt management plan (draft) for 2014 and 12 other items 7(7) 3 Mar. 18, 2014 Reported and announced (plan) the completion of separation merging 6(7) of investment sector of kt capital 4 Mar. 21, 2014 Composition (draft) for the appointment of BOD director and 8(8) committee and one other item 5 Apr. 24, 2014 Disposing (draft) treasury stock for stock compensation for 2013 and 8(8) two other items 6 Apr. 30, 2014 Change (draft) of kt management plan for 2014 and two other items 8(8) 7 Jun. 27, 2014 Participation (draft) in the communications sector of Pyeongchang 7(8) Winter Olympics 2018 as the official sponsor 8 Jul. 24, 2014 Reported non-consolidated financial statements (separate and 8(8) connected) for the first half of 2014 and two other items 9 Oct. 1, 2014 Seoul Project (draft) 8(8) 10 Oct. 30, 2014 Reported non-consolidated financial statements (separate and 8(8) connected) for the third quarter of 2014 and two other items 11 Dec. 11, 2014 Mid-term strategy and kt management plan (draft) for 2015 and two 8(8) other items * At the regular shareholders’ meeting on March 21, 2014, Kim Jong-Goo, Yim Chu-hwan, Yu Pil-hwa, Chang Suk-gwon, and Park Dae-keun were appointed as non-executive directors. Management of To establish a management system in which the CEO—as a professional manager—is held accountable for business operations, our BOD determines the terms and conditions of the management contract with the CEO. Professional Executives To fairly evaluate the CEO’s performance, the Evaluation and Compensation Committee (which consists of with Responsibility only non-executive directors) sets the CEO management goals on the basis of the annual goals set by the BOD, and Performance makes quantifiable and qualitative evaluations at the end of the each business year, and reports the outcomes Compensation System at the general shareholders’ meeting. In 2014, our CEO remuneration was 16.18 times the median value of all kt employees according to the 2014 performance evaluation. The remuneration criteria and methods for the CEO and other executive directors are determined by the BOD, in accordance with business results, and are reported at the general shareholders’ meeting each year. To improve the fairness in the BOD decisions concerning the remuneration of the CEO and executive directors, the CEO and executive directors are prohibited from participating in the decision-making process as stipulated by the Article of Association. Limit and Status of the Remuneration of BOD Members (As of December 31, 2014) (Unit: 100 million won) Category Limit approved by the Total remuneration Average remuneration per general shareholders’ person Executive directors (three directors) 59 12.9 4.3 Non-executive directors who serve on 3.45 0.86 the Audit Committee (four directors) Non-executive directors who do not serve 2.71 0.68 on the Audit Committee (four directors) * The number of members is based on the situation as of December 31, 2014. The total remuneration is the payment actually granted in 2014, while the average remuneration per person is the amount dividing the total remuneration by the number of members in office. kt Integrated Report 15 Leading Sustainability kt firmly believes that a company can only maximize its value and realize sustainable growth when it fulfills its societal duty of environmental protection, strives to advance our society, and achieves management performance. Management kt makes great efforts to support the UN’s new “goals for sustainability growth,” plan activities to realize this goal, and lead global sustainability management by complying with the ten major principles of UN Global Compact. Thanks to these efforts, kt acquired “Gold Class” certification in 2014; this certificate is granted only to the top 1% in the DJSI assessment, one of the most distinguishable global sustainability assessment reports. As well as being included in DJSI Asia-Pacific and DJSI Korea in 2009, kt has been included in DJSI World for five consecutive years since 2010. As the company surpassed other remarkable companies for three consecutive years from 2011 to 2013, kt earned the top rank in the global wired and wireless communications sector and proved itself to be a global sustainability company. Decision-making System for Sustainability Management To reflect sustainability management issues in actual management activities and guarantee executive ability of relevant activities, kt operates its Sustainability Committee. The committee selects and prioritizes five major tasks– transparent management, customer management, environmental management, win-win cooperation, and social contribution–and appoints relevant staff members (directors) in each sector as relevant committee members to enable the efficient execution of each task. Since 2011, our sustainability management outcomes and plans are regularly reported to the BOD as stipulated by relevant corporate policies so that executives directly manage sustainability management and can enact a swift decision-making process. The BOD, which was held in April 2015, approved sustainability management performance in 2014 and the plan for 2015. Board of Directors (BOD) Reporting Feedback CEO Sustainability Committee Executive Office (Public Relations Office) Customer Business Group, Human Resources Strategy & Planning Future Convergence Public Relations Customer Value Office, Business Office Office, Office, Management Office, Legal & Ethics Office, Marketing Group, Network Group, kt Group HR Corporate Financial Management Future Convergence kt estate Development Academy, Relations Group Office Business Office, Management Support Corporate Relations Group, Office, Data & Information Security Unit, Institute of Convergence Procurement Technology Cooperation Office Transparent Customer Environmental Win-win Social Management Management Management Cooperation Contribution Governance Service innovation Green IT Fair HR operations Social volunteering improvement Product responsibility Energy saving Employment and labor Public projects Ethics management Information security Response to Fair trade Social cooperation Transparent environmental management regulations 16 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue Stakeholder Engagement Definition of Stakeholders are defined as individuals and groups who are affected by or can have an impact on kt’s business. kt divides major stakeholder groups depending on business and function sectors. Major stakeholder groups include Stakeholders customers, shareholders, executives and employees, cooperative firms, and local communities, and the company performs its management activities by considering the environment, which does not directly express an opinion as another important stakeholder. Enhancement of Value kt believes that mutual relations with stakeholders based on trust are valuable assets which can have a significant impact on successful business. Through various communication channels, kt strives to reflect stakeholders’ value, through Stakeholder needs, and interests to internal decision-making, relevant processes, management plans, and business activities Engagement and specifies this information in the guidelines. Definition of Stakeholders and Engagement Type Category Interest Type and Frequency of Engagement Customers • Service quality • Pool of customers (200 customers, three regular surveys per year, • Customer health and four to five special surveys per year) • Regular online surveys (10,000 respondents, twice a year) safety • Product Trial Student Team (60 members, six months) • VOC • Household Panel • Customer Product Evaluation Panel (100 customers, one year) Shareholders • Management strategies • General shareholders’ meeting (Once a year) for growth in sales/profits • CEO Management Information Session (Once a year) • Regulations and • Earnings announcement (Quarterly disclosures, conference calls) • IR News (1-2 times a month) competition environment • Domestic/Overseas NDR (Year-round) • Shareholder return policy • IR website Suppliers • Win-win growth • Supplier CEO Meeting (Once a year) • Vitalizing ICT ecosystem • Satisfaction Survey, Supplier Conference (Once a half-year) • SCM Council (Monthly) • Product Meeting (Year-round) • Technology Exchange Meeting (Monthly) • Online/Offline Win-win Growth Center (Permanent) • Supplier Comment Forum (Year-round) Employees • Balance between work • Labor-Management Council (Quarterly) and life • Local LM Council, Unit LM Council, LM Policy Council (Permanent, Year-round) • HR development • Management Conference (Held in various formats for regular and contractual • Career management employees respectively) • Grievance Handling Center kt 119 (Offline) • Company newspaper/in-house news/in-house online forum/ ongoing messaging Local • Vitalization of local • Discussion with local communities (Year-round) Communities economy • Sharing Love (Sisterhood ties with local child care centers) • Communications welfare • Sharing IT(Phone, Website) • Sharing Culture (Surveys, Social network services, Website) • Social contribution • College Student Volunteers (105 students, one year) Environment • Environmental • Environmental Management Committee (Year-round) conservation • Verification of GHG emissions (Twice a year, Scope 1,2 and Scope 3) • Developing eco-friendly service kt Integrated Report 17 Ethics Management Internalizing 『 New Ethics With a strong will to “promote the company’s future based on right decision-making and ethical judgment to grow into a global No. 1 company,” kt enacted our “New Ethics Management Principles” in 2014. To allow all executives Management Principles』 and employees to conduct these pledges in their actual works, the company clarifies the five major behavior practices for ethics management and strives to take root ethics management in the company through providing direct lectures on business ethics and operating regular communication channels. No. 1 kt’s New Ethics Customer First Principle 1. Customers are our top priority. Management Principles 1-1. We respect and thoroughly protect the value and information of our customers. 1-2. We ceaselessly create differentiated value that assists our customers. “We lead the future of the company– Principle 2. We fully comply with all regulations and standards. Law-compliance through making the right decisions and 2-1. We act fairly and transparently in accordance with the law and business ethics. Management 2-2. We secure and maintain management transparency and strictly protect trade secrets. practicing ethical judgments–so that kt evolves into a global No. 1 company.” To this Principle 3. We stick to the basics and principles. end, we define “Customer First, Compliance, 3-1. We value the interest of the entire company in making reasonable and objective decisions and Back to the Basics, Ownership, and Fulfilling the in responsibly representing the company. Basics 3-2. We separate private matters from those of work life activities and take the lead in creating a Social Responsibility” as the five behavior sound and ethical corporate culture. principles for ethics management that all kt employees share, live by, and vow to Principle 4. We believe in our own solidarity as a company with a self-initiated sense practice in their everyday work lives. of ownership. Ownership 4-1. We do not fear failure: we continuously push ourselves to reach higher. 4-2. We seek efficiency gains through autonomy and empowerment. Principle 5. We fulﬁll our social responsibility and obligation as a people’s company. Social 5-1. We protect the rights and interests of shareholders and improve the “quality of life” for our Responsibility employees. 5-2. We value and respect the environment, safety, and human rights. 5-3. We commit ourselves to social contribution initiatives and forge shared-growth partnerships with business partners. Ethics Management Initiatives Undertaken Established and announced the New Ethics Management Principles Signed the pledge to abide by the New Ethics Management Principles Launched the Clean kt national holiday campaign–Clean 365 Center Launched year-round and special initiatives to monitor ethical practices Offered ethics training, delivered directly by department heads (executives) to employees (direct lecturing on business ethics) Operated diverse ethics management Preventive channels Ethics Management FAQ, communication channels for each scenario Clean 365 Center Post-reporting channels Reports of violation cases of business ethics Hotline to the Chairman of the Board of Audit and Inspection Lectures on Ethics Management kt writes materials introducing regular information such as the concept and system of ethics management and current condition of kt’s ethics management on a regular basis and distributes them to all institutions in the group, as well as providing a lecture by the director of an institution to all employees. Direct lectures on ethics management conducted in 2014 include education for laws regarding ethics management and risk sectors under the theme of New Ethics Management Behavior Principles, which were enacted in March. Through these efforts, the company encouraged executives and employees to naturally foster ethical mindsets and attitudes based on the ethics management principles. Topics for Monthly Director Lectures on Ethics Management in 2014 May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sept. ~ Nov. Dec. Legal risk Comprehensive New Ethics Management Principles sector measures for minimizing companyCustomer First Law-compliance Fulfilling to the Ownership wide risks Management Basics (Chapter 1~3) 18 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue Internalizing Ethics Management by Group Company To secure unification of aim and direction for the group’s ethics management, kt implements education for staff members in charge of ethics management and operates workshops on a quarterly basis. Through group ethics education, best and problematic cases for ethics management are shared with the group companies so that the ethics management system is reinforced. We posted education materials and other reference cases to the affiliates’ bulletin board (synovation) to allow the group companies to reform their ethics management infrastructure. Through these efforts, kt strives to spread ethics management to all companies in the entire group. Violation on Ethics Management in 2014 Education for staff members in charge of kt enacts continuous efforts for purification by operating communication channels to present the right solutions for ethics management ethical dilemmas which can be faced by employees in the course of work and establishing a system for reporting illegal cases, including conducting the audit (Compliance Audit) for checking whether all business sites comply with the legislations on a half-yearly basis. In 2014, a total of 12 cases for punishment including two cases for dismissal was reported due to violation on ethics management. Thanks to the continuous efforts for clean management, such as reinforcing ethics management education and improving work process, the number of investigation and punishment caused by personal corruption has been reduced. Compliance with To comply with taxation duty and pay tax efficiently, kt establishes strategies and a policy for taxation, reviews them on a regular basis, and discloses all information on taxation in a transparent manner. kt has paid taxes faithfully in Taxation accordance with the National Tax Service policy on corporate taxation and prevented any possibility of having any conflict with the National Tax Service by recognizing the fact that the company and tax authorities can have different kt’s Taxation legal interpretations of business and drawing reasonable results through preemptive consultation. Strategy Transparent External Announcement 1 Managing a corporate image by strictly complying with tax law and relevant regulations kt reports detailed information in regard to corporate tax, deferred corporate tax and effective tax rate, through annual audit report and discloses the result on the electronic announcement system (dart.fss.or.kr). The company opens Preventing conflicts with temporary differences for each item due to differences between accounting assets/ liabilities and taxation assets/ 2 the tax authorities to enjoy sustainable business liabilities and provides relevant information. kt’s effective tax rate in 2014, which was disclosed through the audit report, was 22.5%; this is lower than 24.2%, the maximum tax rate of corporate tax (including local income tax rate). Operating the company’s 3 financial operation and supporting customer service effectively The difference between tax rates is caused by adjusting and applying the difference between profits and loss in accounting and taxation. The company does not tolerate any tax evasion practices such as illegal tax evasion, illegal through efficient tax payment practices on the tax law, fake report, etc., and will comply with tax obligations honestly. Current Condition kt has a fair competition autonomous compliance program (CP) to prevent economic loss to society and the company by autonomously complying with legislation and preventing illegal practices. Through this program, of Legal Compliance the company has carried out various activities for legal compliance such as the Telecommunications Business Judgment Act, Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act, Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act, Unfair Competition. Prevention Act, etc. Current Condition of Judgment by Regulatory Institutions In 2014, kt had the penalty of about 17 billion won imposed by the Korea Communications Commission due to four legal violation cases such as “violation on users’ interests in regard to supplying subsidies for cell phones” and had the penalty of about 2 billion won imposed by the Fair Trade Commission due to a “case for illegal subcontract transaction.” kt conducted corrective measures under corrective orders from regulatory institutions and will reinforce efforts to comply with the relevant legislation, implement duties faithfully, and strive to prevent recurrence. (Unit: 1 million won) Category Date Result of Judgment Administrative Agency “Violation on users’ interests in regard to 2014.03.13 55.5 million won as penalty Korea Communications supplying subsidies for cell phones. Corrective order Commission Case for illegal subcontract transaction by kt 2014.06.12 20.8 million won as penalty Korea Fair Trade Corrective order Commission Violation on users’ interests in regard to 2014.08.21 10 billion and 760 million won Korea Communications supplying subsidies for cell phones. as penalty Corrective order Commission Violation on users’ interests in regard to 2014.12.04 800 million won as penalty Korea Communications supplying subsidies for cell phones. Corrective order Commission kt Integrated Report 19 Risk Management Establishing Companies face threats against sustainability due to various megatrends such as global climate change, increasing population, lack of energy and water, resource depletion, etc. kt believes that the development of information Long-term Strategy communications technology will not only solve the current problems, but also open a new era with new opportunities for Risks for humanity. Through analyzing megatrends, kt defines mid and long-term risk strategy directly connecting to the communications business and strives to integrate business with drawn risks and opportunistic elements. Mid and Long-term Definition of Risk Impact on Business Measure Risk Strategy Intensifying • Intensifying competition • Causing a vicious cycle such • Shifting the axis of competition Competition in price and marketing as reduced investment and in the communications market between business operators undermined service quality to focus on quality while the growth of global due to deteriorated profitability • Continuing innovation in communications market in the communication management infrastructure continues to be stagnant business such as reducing expenses • Beginning investment in • Increasing investment and considering customers as new infrastructure such as expenses in infrastructure top priority GiGA Internet and 5G to raise such as GiGA Internet and 5G • Realizing actual performance competitiveness • Concern about potential in new growth engines, • Spread risks of market distortion in market such as the five major future regulations and reinforce competition based on subsidy convergence businesses, demands for civic groups rather than essential elements and expanding the scope of to prevent intensified such as product, service, and pioneering the global market competition technology • Expanding the noncommunications business sector based on capability for communications such as Fintech and security Enabling • Possible to undergo a short• Rapidly increasing initial • Standardizing the GiGA sector Technology term change in the market investments such as GiGA and securing leadership by such as evolving into GiGA Internet, 5G, UHD TV, etc. seeking the top technology super-broadband wired and • Intensifying competition for • Establishing an image of wireless network winning the initiatives with leading the global 5G by • Being dominated by players various operators, including supporting the success of in other industries such as the entire value chain at home national events such as platform, terminal device, and abroad Pyeongchang Winter Olympics content, etc. and expanding • Need to secure stability in 2018 the scope of competition profits under the new market • Making partnerships with • Reducing profitability due to ecosystem operators in various sectors making open-type ecosystem and using differentiated strategies based on core capability in Cloud/Big Data • Finding innovative ideas by utilizing Gyeonggi Creative Economy Innovation Center and K-Champ Integrated Risk kt systemically performs integrated risk management activities from the perspective of the entire company by responding to not only financial risks, but also other strategies, operations, and regulations to prevent potential Management risks and continue growth. With this aim, the company has operated a company-wide risk organization and reinforced risk prevention activities and follow-up responses by forming the relevant business departments and onsite risk management groups since 2010. Reestablishing the Risk Management System In 2014, kt prepared comprehensive measures to minimize company-wide risks and reestablished its risk management system to promote and implement the principle of risk management and response. The company categorized risks and set the process for prevention activities and follow-up activities. We determine a “risk owner” so that prior and follow-up measures are handled under the responsibility of relevant department, and in case of large-size risks which can have an impact on the entire company, we make the TF and take swift measures. Experience and knowledge in the process of risk response is organized in a database and reflected in risk prevention activities to enhance the capability of risk management. 20 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue Process of Risk Management and Response Prior risk management Responding to risks (Each department, on a regular basis) (Risk owner department, when risks actually happen) Expected Actual Realization risks risks Minimize risks by detecting and When expected risks are realized, analyzing potential risks on a regular take measures based on the risk basis and carrying out appropriate owner department control activities Detection Analysis Control Recognition Response Assessment KM *KM: Knowledge Management: Making knowledge database with information produced in the entire process of risk recognition, response, and assessment to utilize in risk management and response Prior Risk Prior Risk Prevention Activity Prior Risk Review before Launching Service Prevention Selecting risks for intensive management, which continuously Operating “Prior Risk Review before Launching Service” system and repeatedly happen and undermine management activities, from 2010 to prevent damage on customers and company due to and establishing and operating risk response scenario based on insufficient service relevant departments Launching service after reviewing risks in depth by each When carrying out business and tasks for relevant risks, reinforce professional department from the perspective of operation, law, prior review and follow-up checks to minimize loss from risks fair competition, and information protection – Providing differentiated value through perfect service – Minimizing risk elements such as having VOC –Contributing to improving executives and employees’ capability to carry out self-diagnosis for risks and enhancing awareness of risk Reducing Risk Elements through Prior Review No. of Cases of 370 No. of VOC 1,547 Prior Review (Daily average per one million 212 customers) 1,164 2013 2014 2013 2014 *(VOC: Materials except for cancellation) Strengthening Self-diagnosis for Risks Reinforcing Risk Education Capability of Risk Checking risks regarding business, system, and work process on Operating offline education process, annually sharing measures Management a regular basis for managing and preventing risks by each business department based on the on-site business department and staff members in • Finding risks by each department and taking early measures charge of managing risks 2010~2013 2014 • Identified and improved 1,141 cases of risk elements • Conducted education for responding to legal risks and 2014 company-wide risks for all employees • Conducted self-diagnosis for risk on a semi annual basis to • Published and distributed “Legal Compliance for Business continuously find risks, take measures for risks, and reinforce Operation” handbook to prevent frequent risks related to contracts capability of management, and drawn 885 cases of risks ① Assessed the possibility and influence, and selected 49 cases 2015 • Preparing education and workshops for responding to risks for of company-wide core risks executives and staff members in charge of managing ethical issues ② Intensively managed core risks by relevant departments and and reinforcing company-wide capability of risk management improved some of them through diagnosis of management • Publishing and distributing a handbook for “Code of Conducts and accounting to address fundamental issues by Executives and Employees for Management of Company-wide Risks” to deal with potential risks swiftly kt Integrated Report 21 Materiality Test Principle of kt selected material issues for sustainability management by considering methods presented in the IR Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Committee (IIRC) based on the materiality test standards by GRI G4, the Materiality Test internationally accredited report guidelines. To enhance credibility in the process and results of issue selection, the company conducted analysis of the internal and external environment and a materiality test on the basis of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality, and Completeness. Materiality Test Process STEP 1 Identiﬁcation STEP 2 Prioritization STEP 3 Validation Sustainability background Materiality Completeness Drawing kt’s Media materials analysis material issues Benchmarking Verifying appropriateness of scope, boundary, and period Review of material issues for 2014 Analysis of internal and external Materiality to management materials stakeholders Verifying validity of important issues Drawing issues regarding kt’s Materiality to kt sustainability Stakeholder Engagement Interviews with stakeholders Surveys for stakeholders Review of reliability External stakeholders kt’s internal Material issues employees STEP 1 Identify Issues Related to Sustainability Management Through the Analyses of Internal/External Environments We created a pool of issues in consideration of sustainability trends that are highly relevant to kt, GRI-proposed sustainability management Aspects, and IIRC proposed Capitals while conducting various analyses to identify internal/external sustainability management issues that affect kt. [Media Materials Analysis] Identifying major issues through the analyses of 6,076 valid articles published by domestic media outlets in 2013-2014 to understand and respond to social demands for kt’s sustainability management [Industry Peer Analysis] Identifying overall issues that are considered material in related industries by understanding issues reported in the sustainability reports published by domestic and overseas industry peers [Analysis of Internal and External Management Materials] Reflecting external trends and important internal issues surrounding kt’s management environment [Stakeholder Interviews] Conducting in-depth interviews with six representative stakeholders in accordance with ISO26000’s stakeholder identification criteria and kt’s own definition of stakeholders to identify major and additional issues 22 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue Draw Material Issues Through the Material Test STEP 2 kt conducted an online survey for the company’s sustainability issues for 5,469 stakeholders, selected 28 issues whose average in the materiality test is 3.70 and over, and added two more issues (“Win-win growth” and “Increasing interests in the national disasters and incidents”) that are intensively managed in sustainability and social responsibility sectors. Selected material issues were divided into three sectors depending on importance, and trends and impact issues with similarity in response and management were categorized into one issue. Drawing Material Issues Materiality to stakeholders • Personal information protection and • Transparency of management reinforcing security policy information • Dealing with government regulations and • Governance structure policy • Ethics management • Management with customers as top • Making the clean priority communications market • Indirect economic effects environment • Contributing to enhancing the quality of • Win-win growth* life through ICT • Economic performance • kt’s market status • Innovative management • Participation in establishing public policy • Acceleration of technical (reflecting consumers’ opinions) • Stakeholder engagement changes • Increasing interests in balance between • Providing services considering • Intensified cost competition work and life Extremely customers’ health and safety • Increasing interest in social Important responsibility investment • Expanding a gap in access to • Increasing importance for securing the talent Very Important information • Developing green IT technology • Social contribution • Increasing interest in national disasters and incidents Important Materiality to kt * These issues are not high-ranking issues, but included in important issues as kt focuses on managing them in a strategic way. STEP 3 Identify Validity kt reviewed whether core issues are material issues to the company through internal report and reflected them in planning and writing the report after comprehensively considering association and appropriateness with kt’s strategies and determining the reporting standards for core issues such as scope, boundary, period, etc. Reporting Material Issues Material Issues Aspects Reporting Boundary Reporting Internal External page Personal information protection and reinforcing Customer Privacy ○ ○(Cooperative 28 security policy firms ) Dealing with government regulations and policy ○ ○(Government ) 27 Extremely Management with customers as top priority Product and Service Labeling ○ 50 Important Indirect economic effects Indirect Economic Impacts ○ 32 Expanding the IoT market ○ 42 Contributing to enhancing the quality of life 42, 59 through ICT Transparency of management information, Governance ○ 13 Governance structure Ethics management Anti-corruption ○ 18 Making the clean communications market Marketing Communications ○ 27 environment Win-win growth Market Presence ○ ○(Cooperative 38, 68 Very firms ) Important Economic performance, kt’s market status, Economic Performance, ○ 26, 32 Innovative management Indirect Economic Impacts Acceleration of technical changes ○ 32 Intensified cost competition ○ 27 Participation in establishing public policy Public Policy ○ 58 Increasing interests in balance between work ○ 86 and life Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement ○ 17 Providing services considering customers’ Customer Health and Safety ○ 29, 99 New Material Issues health and safety Increasing interests in social responsibility ○ 58 • Expanding the IoT market investment • Contributing to enhancing the Important Expanding a gap in access to information Local Communities ○ 58, 73 Social contribution quality of life through ICT Increasing importance for securing the talent Employment ○ 80 • Innovative management Developing green IT technology Environmental(Products and ○ 44, 94 • Increasing interest in the Services) , Energy national disasters and Incidents Increasing interest in the national disasters and ○ 25, 45 incidents kt Integrated Report 23 Respected Company for the People Special Issue 01 Context kt firmly believes that the company’s core competitiveness in sustainability management lies in its status as a company which is trusted and respected by the people. As a company that acquires a significant amount of capital for corporate activities from society, kt's business activities and core capability should make people’s lives more convenient and contribute to developing the entire nation. With this aim, kt strives to carry out research and commercialize technology, promoting public convenience as well as converging it in various sectors of our society. Progress Country’s Representative Communications Company kt is Korea’s representative communications company, a key figure in the history of Korea’s communications industry. From supplying one telephone for each household when peopled primarily used wired communications means to pioneering the Internet market and leading Smart Innovation kt has led the communications market and brought various changes in our daily lives. kt’s Competitiveness as a Company for the People With 54.9% of shares held by the people and 63.5% of shares by small shareholders, kt is a company in which the people are the real owner. Competitiveness in kt’s network and management resources has created nationwide added value and contributed to social integration through support for unification businesses such as Kaesong Industrial Complex. It has also laid the foundation for holding important national events successfully. Network Network infrastructure Universal services Optical fiber Submarine Satellite Broadband LTE base Public phone, cables communications Mugunghwa stations communications 650,000km 131,000km 3 units 110,000 stations for remote regions/ vessels kt submarine kt sat ※SKT 65,000, LGU+ 50,000 (Dec. 2014) Management resource Personnel Assets Subscribers Customer channels 60,000 38.1 trillion won 800 billion persons Wire No. 1 / (Real estate 6.2 trillion won) Wireless No. 2 ※kt and 46 targets for CEO ※kt and group companies management goals + kt estate (BC Card, Powertel, ※Based on KS-CQI in 2014 kt cs/ls Telecop, etc.) 24 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue Special Issue 01 1994 1997 2008 2014 Began commercialization Began PCS Opened the age of IPTV Commercialization of of the Internet commercialized service (Mega TV real-time olleh GiGA Internet (KORNET service in 1994) (Launched KTF in 1997) broadcasting in 2008) Speed at 1Gbps (100Mbps x 10 times) 1987 1995 2000 2009 Supplied one telephone for Launched Satellite each household Mugunghwa Led the high-speed Leading smart revolution Internet market (Launched iPhone for the first (10 million wired telephone (Satellite Mugunghwa-1 in 1995) (Launched Megapass and time in Korea in 2009) lines in 1987) became the first ranked company in the market in 2000) Future Created by kt as a Company for the People With the belief that kt group’s achievements go beyond the company's development and directly lead to public convenience and national development, kt changes people’s lives for the better and is creating a future with new growth engines for the national economy. kt will become the most trusted and respected company by focusing every company-wide capability to share the value of GiGAtopia, contribute to successfully holding Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, and solidify the national safety system. GiGAtopia Pyeongchang Winter Olympics Leading response to national disasters and incidents • Leading creative economy through • Providing innovative services with GiGA infrastructure utilizing 5G technology • Establishing the national safety • Leading wired and wireless • Creating a festival venue where network and system for joint response communications market by providing people from all around the world can to disasters in cooperation with Korea future convergence services enjoy Olympics National Red Cross Interview with stakeholder “Corporate social contribution has recently changed from a simple structure that only creates and returns profits to CSV that creates shared value. The establishment of the public safety system based on ICT jointly conducted by kt and the Korea National Red Cross reflects kt’s efforts to proactively respond to national issues and contribute to public safety. This can be seen as the same as the meaning of CSV to create common value, leading company-stakeholders-society. As Korea’s largest information and communications company that began operation as a public company, kt should carry out corporate activities to maximize profits based on a sense of duty and responsibility to the people. I hope that kt will not only create shared value, enhancing the national status by globalizing information and communications technology, but also contribute to social development by exploring new businesses and Kim Sung Joo | Governor of continuously creating common value. Korea National Red Cross kt Integrated Report 25 Special Issue Innovative Management 02 Context Innovation should be a daily task to meet consumer needs and find new opportunities for growth in the rapidly changing IT market. To become the global No. 1 kt providing differentiated customer value and lead the future, kt has defined “empowerment” as part of its unique corporate culture and carried out innovative activities in daily work from 2014 by continuing consultation with internal experts. Progress Empowerment kt’s empowerment includes granting authority to branches and centers, which are on-site departments that meet with customers, and providing services for customer satisfaction quickly and accurately. With these activities for empowerment, kt creates an environment where executives and employees can immerse in their works in a voluntary and proactive manner based on responsibility, creativity, and passion. In this way, kt realizes customerfocused value so that every customer can enjoy best-quality services. Top Rank Workshop Through the communication and cooperation channel for empowerment, “Top Rank Workshop,” kt has identified and improved chronic on-site problems and promoted changes and innovation in work methods. In 2015, kt will spread “Top Rank Workshop” to the entire group as a trigger for innovation of corporate culture. kt will contribute to accelerating innovative management among the entire group, departments, and employees. Programs for Strengthening Empowerment Top Rank Workshop Visiting Empowering Seminar Yellow Card System Overview • Operating a workshop where 594 • Providing each executive and • Removing fundamental hurdles persons participated in 33 tasks for employee with the opportunity • Presenting a yellow card to hurdles about three months (Sept.-Nov.) in 2014 to understand each other’s in the process of work by employees • Selecting and fostering 130 characteristics and replying whether issues can be EFTs (Empowering Facilitators) to • Through effective communication improved within five days by the accelerate changes and innovation based on this activity, establish relevant department • Expected to increase ETS to 300 the principle of behavior for persons in order that all employees empowerment for “me” and “our have a chance to participate in department ‘Top Rank Workshop’ in 2015 Effect • Reinforcing executive ability for CEO • Strengthening communication • Removing on-site hidden hurdles management philosophy, vision, and trust among executives and • Securing on-site executive ability and core value employees through smooth communication • Establishing empowerment between work sites and business principles in line with characteristics departments of each team and department Strengthening Innovation through In-house Consulting As an in-house consulting group consisting of experts in various sectors of kt, NCG (Nomad Consulting Group) has presented professional solutions for projects and cross-functional issues for each department since its foundation in 2011. The group expanded the scope of projects in 2014 to the actual business site and promoted innovation by conducting a total of 72 projects and saving expenses worth a total of 22.8 billion won compared to external consulting subcontracts. Based on accumulated know-how for conducting projects and lessons learned, the NCG will conduct consulting practices to create company-wide profits and save costs. As part of these efforts, the NCG plans to strengthen the on-site sales power of 100 experts and materialize future convergence projects in 2015. Current Condition of Conducting NCG Project in 2014 Domain Case Major Project The results of carrying out projects are collected in Communication 48 Selecting strategic regions for a database with major services cases GiGA Internet and presenting sales directions company-wide projects (research institute, new New business 18 Finding and vitalizing Smart employees, results by Results of Project Major cases Energy convergence BM external subcontracts, etc.) carrying Knowledge companyout NCG Bank wide Media/Content 2 Analyzing VOD service market and shared through the Sharing internal system “Project Project projects cases and preparing entry strategies knowledge and Knowledge Bank.” These work know-how IT solution 4 Establishing measures for project results contribute to cases Connected Space business innovating working methods Total 72 through sharing knowledge cases and work know-how. 26 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue Efforts for Fair Competition Special Issue 03 Context Competition based on subsidy and marketing expenses can undermine corporate value and damage customer convenience in the long-term. Making efforts to turn the communications market into an industry for growth again, kt will focus on developing technology and improving quality by pursuing fair competition and enhance the public convenience and contribute to the national economy by differentiating products and services. Progress Fair Competition Autonomous Compliance Program As Korea’s representative company for its national network, kt has the responsibility to lead fair competition in the market and enhance people’s convenience. For this goal, kt has introduced the Fair Competition Autonomous Compliance Program from 2001 and prevented risks from illegal practices. Expressing willingness and interest of CEO kt has made efforts to systematically Establishing Designating a system for and operating realize fair competition through the document compliance “Seven Elements of Autonomous management officers Compliance Program.” In 2005, the Seven Elements prior examination center where an of Autonomous autonomous professional is always Imposing Compliance stationed was opened as part of the sanctions on Writing and employees Program distributing program. The company implements violating relevant compliance regular education and inspects legislation manual unfair practices autonomously, organizing each local group for fair Establishing Operating competition. a monitoring education system programs Efforts to Establish a Transparent Distribution Order The Mobile Device Distribution Improvement Act, which began to take effect on October 1, 2014, is intended to Contributing to Successful ensure the sound development of the mobile communications industry and protection of users’ rights and interests Settlement of the Mobile Device and contribute to the enhancement of public welfare by establishing a fair and transparent distribution order for Distribution Improvement Act in the Market(%) mobile communications devices. kt contributes to stabilizing the mobile communications market by faithfully complying with the act, which induces consumers to conduct reasonable communications consumption by Increasing the number of subscribers changing a device by addressing addressing discrimination among users and creating a fair competition environment in the mobile communications discrimination for subsidies due to market. The company has proactively cooperated with the government’s policy for market stabilization through types of application the act by addressing discrimination in granting subsidies, depending on types of subscription, improving subsidy Ratio of Subscription for Each Application Type (New/MNP/Changing a Device) based on low and mid priced mobile devices, and inducing application for a low price rate payment system. Compared to All Subscribers 42 43 Differentiation of Products and Services 40 Launching new customer• Sharing data and membership service with family members 37 • Establishing GiGA Wi-Fi at major bus stops in Seoul, Gyeonggi, and six metropolitan cities 36 36 oriented services 34 • Launching a membership care service by increasing customer benefits 32 32 33 33 (olleh 10,000 Mile KB Kookmin Card, Super Card, etc.) 29 • Providing additional 20,000-60,000 won a year due to reforming olleh membership • Expanding the scope of discount for olleh combination service by connecting 31 31 30 to the internet service 24 28 28 Reinforcing a system with • Discounting the basic rate without stipulated period by launching a low price rate system discount in fees • Launching an unlimited rate system by lifting the burden of paying costs for data Jan. ~ Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. • Reducing the minimum stipulated period from the existing two years to six months Sept. 2014 2015 Reducing cell phone’s • Reducing factory price of 32 mobile devices in total, which is the largest size in Korea factory price • Increasing the scope of customer selection by providing Korea’s largest size of selection for low • New • MNP • Changing a device and mid priced smartphone line-up kt Integrated Report 27 Protection of Customer Information Special Issue and Reinforcement of Security 04 Context In response to the customer information leak incident in March 2014, kt pledged to reform the security system with all available resources and minimize customer damage. After the incident, kt established fundamental and comprehensive measures by reinforcing security members and organizations, and strives to reinforce customer information protection and security by developing an advanced information protection system. As customer information is the first principle in kt’s corporate value for management with customers as the top priority, the company continues to reinforce a system for protecting customer information. Progress Reinforcing Security Personnel and Organization kt separated the role of Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) from Chief Information Officer (CIO) for the first time in the communications industry and launched the information security guard. By newly expanding and reforming the information protection organization, the company has secured independence for strengthening executive ability and expanded personnel for the security group. kt has also established a system to deal with vulnerabilities in security on a regular basis by launching the “white hacker” group to diagnose the security conditions of the incompany system and website. System Advancement kt has an advanced and innovative information protection and security system to safeguard customer information. With the aim of building trust with stakeholders and raising business competitiveness, the company clarifies the scope of protection and carries out its security policy and implementation in the context of the internal company, cooperative firms, and group companies. Information Protection and Security System Ensuring trust of customers/executives and employees/ society and contributing to raising business competitiveness by providing global information security services Risk On-siteSingle based based security Four major protection sectors Protection of users Hacking Customer Corporate Protecting Network Hackers Information information information services/ Customer leak security needs protection protection Providing value Customers Insiders Internet security/Infra security Information leak Compliance Cooperative Governance/Policy/Process/Compliance Regulator employees institutions Three major Cooperative Group scopes Internal firms companies All executives and employees make a pledge for personal information protection each year. In 2014, 97.5% of all executives and employees completed online education for information protection. The company also enacts great efforts to enhance the information protection level of cooperative firms and group companies by conducting on-site education by directly visiting cooperative firms, providing consulting support for group companies, and implementing activities for diagnosing system security. 28 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Message >> Company Overview >> Governance >> Stakeholder Engagement >> Ethics Management >> Risk Management >> Materiality Test >> Special Issue Special Issue 04 Major Information Protection and Security Issues kt has totally blocked the possibility of personal information leaks by applying various technical and managerial protective measures for the entire business and enhanced trust in security by acquiring and maintaining the certificate of ISMS (Information Security Management System), the nationally accredited information protection management system, in 2013 and 2014. Category Detailed issues Technological protective Establishing an Integrated Safety control system for monitoring abnormal practices with measures suspicious hacking Strengthening the process for approving the access control system and certification system Establishing firewall, intrusion detection system, and access control system Taking a measure of encrypting personal information Utilizing DRM (Digital Right Management) and DLP (Data Loss Prevention) solutions Expanding DB access control system and reinforcing control of personal information Managerial protective Making it mandatory to conduct secure coding in developing software measures Complying with the procedure for checking security before launching service Destroying collected resident registration numbers Checking and improving vulnerabilities on a regular basis Conducting mock drills for responding to damage incidents jointly with the government and relevant institutions Customer Service for Information Protection To protect customers from SMS phishing and prevent information leaks due to loss of a smartphone, kt provides various information protection services. In addition, the company operates a system through which customers can directly identify the list of browsing and utilizing their information and receive swift and reasonable replies for inquiries regarding personal information by utilizing e-mail (privacy@kt.com). Major Services for Protection of Customer Information Category Description olleh Smishing For cases in which apps with malicious code or potential malicious code are installed, Prevention App users are advised to delete apps (Link: http://smartblog.olleh.com/2780) Consumer Damage Consulting by experts for smishing damage and fraud with a small amount of payment Aid Center (Searching for the list of uses of personal information: http://inside.olleh.com/html/ olleh_clean_sub12.asp) olleh Relief Text For cases in which MMS text messages with an announcement, information, and Message Service advertisement by company are received, the “Relief” mark is added to indicate that the text messages have no illegal elements (Link: http://smartblog.olleh.com/4581) kt Integrated Report 29 GiGAtopia_ Create the Future Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market Leadership for Future Technology Enhancement of Customer Value Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story 30 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value 유무선 통신시장 선도 >> 미래 기술 리더십 >> 고객 가치 제고 >> CSV 관점의 사회가치 제고 kt Integrated Report 31 Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market 32 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Importance of Leading Wired and Wireless Communications Market Customers Leading the wired and wireless communications market is not only important for kt as a communications operator to lead technology and development to enhance corporate Environment Shareholders value and competitiveness, but also has a substantial impact on the relevant business Material Issue and development of the national economy. As various venture ecosystems were created • Indirect economic effects and new Internet-based business services were launched by high-speed Internet • kt’s market status service, kt will strive to open a new future as the company for the people by investing • Acceleration of technical the bestquality communications network and realizing its vision of GiGAtopia. changes • Win-win growth Local Communities Suppliers Employees Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market by kt Realizing the creative economy Consumer convenience by GiGA Internet • Creating new added value by fostering new businesses • Reducing time for carrying • Reduction of time in each • Total consumer convenience • Raising national competitiveness by securing source out the same job household in 2020 technology for the future industry Leading the ICT ecosystem 1.47 hours If GiGA Internet spreads swiftly verage 37.9% a day on average Creating the foundation for New-Biz such as IoT and Cloud • Computing and an ecosystem for win-win growth 62 trillion and • Leading the global market by presenting the standard for new technology such as 5G Economic value 900 billion won 250,000 won a month Contributing to people’s convenience • Enhancing information accessibility for the people by Existing GiGA 3 million won a year establishing GiGA infrastructure Internet Internet • Improving the quality of people’s life by providing ultra– Source: Lee Ho-gi, “GiGA Internet is ten times faster than existing Internet… high speed network and ICT convergence service Advancing into the “IoT era” to transcend time and space kt’s Competitiveness Core Competency Performance Index GiGA Network Assessment of LTE speed Top in the domestic market (21.3Mbps)* Connection maintenance rate of each LTE 91%* coverage Presenting standardization of network and platform to lead the 5G era GiGA UHD tv Number of subscribers of IPTV Top in the domestic market (6 million persons, as of March 2015) GiGA IoT Market competitiveness 2nd largest operator in the IoT market/ Securing 8.37 million subscribers (as of December 2014) Creating GiGAtopia mutual ecosystem Supporting loans and funds for suppliers 20 billion and 770.2 million won Supporting funds for best venture companies 314 million won Investment and loans for investment in the About 120 billion won game, IoT, FinTech, and 5G sector Globalizing converged GiGA Sales of global business 333.4 billion won (as of 2014) Establishing APG submarine cable and NOC Establishing global GiGA infrastructure Establishing NPC submarine cable * Open Signal, a British market survey institution for wireless networks, announced the result on the result of assessment LTE quality in 2014. Future Strategy As the company will input a total of 4 trillion and 500 billion won by 2016, kt will establish the world’s best GiGA infrastructure so that the company can lead the age of converged GiGA and global ICT ecosystem. Through convergence-type GiGA services, the company will achieve the status of “Global No. 1 kt” in the global market by realizing a creative economy with the best venture companies and SMEs at home and abroad, becoming a champion for future technology with global competitiveness. kt Integrated Report 33 GiGA Network To deal with the exponential growth of data traffic along with the launch of the smartphone, kt provides customers with the world’s best network, providing services such as broadband LTE. With the beginning of the era of machine-to-machine communications such as IoT, the growth of data traffic is expected to increase even further. To brace for this new explosion of data, the company presents a new global standard to lead the era of convergence-type GiGA such as 5G under the vision of “GiGAtopia.” Evolution of kt’s Network Technology Products LTE Broadband LTE Broadband LTE-A Broadband LTE-A ×4 Maximum speed LTE X1 Broadband LTE X2 Broadband LTE X3 Broadband LTE-A X4 10MHz Maximum speed 20 MHz 20MHz 20MHz 75Mbps Maximum speed 10MHz 10MHz 150Mbps Maximum speed 10MHz 225Mbps Maximum speed 10MHz 300Mbps Time for One UHD film 32 min. 16 min. 11 min. 8 min. download (About 18 GB) 100 songs with high-quality 5 min. 163 sec. 109 sec. 82 sec. music source (About 3 GB) Launching Broadband kt has provided broadband LTE service for the first time in Korea since 2013 and launched broadband LTE-Ax4 Service for LTE-A service (225 Mbps at maximum speed), Nation-wide Network which is three times faster than the existing 3rd (300Mbps) 3rd (300Mbps) LTE LTE LTE LTE LTE LTE Coverage version, based on Korea’s largest broadband LTE coverage in July 2014. In December 2014, 2nd(225Mbps) 2nd(225Mbps) LTE LTE LTE on the basis of 2.1GHz frequency band that was Broad Broad Broad additionally secured in September, the company band band band Basic network(150Mbps) LTE LTE LTE launched its LTE-A×4 service (300 Mbps at maximum speed), which is four times faster than Broadband the existing LTE. kt provides the mobile internet LTE Basic network LTE environment with differentiated basic speed (75Mbps) (150 Mbps) based on the largest broadband LTE coverage and leads customer convenience. kt Other companies Interview with stakeholder “As wired and wireless systems are rapidly changing, the communications market has recently experienced slowdown in growth. As the company with the best high-speed network, kt needs to recover competitiveness in communications through its original resources. Along with changes in the corporate environment and IT trends, business models have been rapidly changing as well. Based on the basic competitiveness in communications, kt should secure growth engines in new businesses. I hope that kt cooperates with business partners who can make synergetic effects through innovation, and take the competitive edge in five new businesses such as IoT, GiGA, eco-friendly business models, etc.” Yang Jong In | Managing Director of Korea Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. 34 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Establishing Network One of the most representative leading technologies to open the era of the convergence network is 5G. For the era of 5G, the evolution of the wireless network, as well as the wired network as the basis of wireless speed, needs to be Infrastructure Leading ensured. For this aim, the company strives to set the industrial standard by presenting wired and wireless network the Era of 5G infrastructure technology and lead the era of 5G, serving as a foundation for Korea to lead the 5G global standard. kt’s 5G Leading Technology Product LTE-A olleh GiGA olleh GiGA 10 GiGA Het Net Wi-Fi Home Internet Internet Maximum speed 600Mbps 867Mbps 1Gbps 10Gbps Time for One UHD film 4 min. 2 min. 50 sec. 2 min. 24 sec. 14 sec. download (About 18GB) (170 sec.) (144 sec.) 100 songs with high-quality 41 sec. 28 sec. 24 sec. 2 sec. music source (About 3GB) Displayed the World’s First Broadband LTE-A Het Net Technology at MWC 2014 (February 24, 2014) At MWC 2014, kt displayed “Broadband LTE-A Het Net,” a new technology for double network combination that is connecting broadband LTE-A and GiGA Wi-Fi, for the first time in the world. Advancing one step further from LTE-WiFi combination technology in 2013, this technology has a maximum transmission speed of 600 Mbps, eight times faster than LTE. Launched “olleh Giga Internet”, Ten Times Faster than the Existing Model, to Cover the Entire Country for the First Time in Korea (October 20, 2014) At the “GiGA Korea Open Event” in the exhibition hall of WIS (World IT Show) 2014, kt officially announced the launch of the nationwide commercial service of “olleh GiGA Internet” with a speed of 1 Gpbs. “olleh GiGA Internet” provides speeds of 1 Gbps, ten times faster at maximum compared to 100 Mbps high-speed Internet, which was commercialized in 2006. Through this new type of Internet, high-capacity UHD content can be easily downloaded, while customers who frequently use online websites for games, ticket reservation, and credit registration can carry out work at an unprecedented response speed. World’s First Commercialization of “olleh GiGA Wire” (October 20, 2014) By adopting technology to remove crossed lines in electricity lines for the first time in the world, kt has commercialized “olleh GiGA Wire” through which customers can use GiGA service at a maximum of 300 Mbps. With this new equipment, even customers living in old apartments can be provided with GiGA service benefits without the need to change the networks. It also guarantees stability in speed, unlike existing methods that were greatly affected by equipment distance and transmission media. Demonstrated 10 Gbps Internet 100 Times Faster than the Existing Version (October 20, 2014) At ITU Plenipotentiary Conference in 2014, kt presented Internet technology with the speed of 10 Gbps. From 2010, kt has prepared technology with 10 Gbps by connecting with the government’s “GiGA Internet Demonstration Business,” and in September 2013, the company already applied 10 Gbps transmission devices to the actual network in East Suwon and provided trial services. This provides speed that is 100 times faster than the existing Internet and realizes ultra-real content such as 8K panorama video clips. kt will decide the time for supplying 10 Macro cell base station Gbps by considering the evolution of media content and the overall consumption environment for users. (Frequency: F1) Ultra-Dense Small Cell Small cell base station (Frequency: F2) Hotspot Small Cell Small cell base station (Frequency: F3) kt-Ericsson Demonstrated Core Technology for Combining 5G Network Frequency (December 16, 2014) In cooperation with Ericsson, kt developed technology for maintaining the macro cells of HetNet*, which is recognized as a core 5G network infrastructure, and CA (Carrier Aggregation) of small cells for the first time in the world. Through this technology, the company has achieved the leading position to realize UDN (Ultra-Dense Network), core technology for 5G. The application of this technology will not only lead to stable provision of data speed where traffic is concentrated, such as cities and large-sized stadiums, but also help to secure data capacity *As one of the double network convergence by installing additional small cells organically, depending on securing frequency and demands for data. As a result, technologies, HetNet is a network technology that enhances data process capacity and we can also reduce expenses for establishing a regional coverage base station. speed by establishing several small cells (lowoutput base station) in one macro cell (highoutput base station) coverage. kt Integrated Report 35 GiGA UHD tv To realize a creative economy by leading the GiGA media market and vitalize UHD contents ecosystem, kt has launched “Olleh GiGA UHD TV,” Korea’s first set top UHD service. The company aims to not only ensure customer satisfaction but also to take the lead in the sector of nextgeneration media service by providing mash-up service in which high-quality video and web-based information can be offered by combining with IPTV based on kt’s stable GiGA infrastructure. Enhancing Service To enhance customer convenience, kt makes continuous efforts in improving network quality and expanding network coverage. The company has made the environment to watch UHD content universally, regardless of TV Quality for Customer types, by launching Korea’s first set top UHD service. We have contributed to addressing information gap between Convenience users by providing a variety kind of web-based information on the set top and offering two-way education services with high definition and stable quality. By providing Smart Services such as voice search, Smart Remote Control, 4-channel service, and TV shopping through GiGA media set top with speed that is three times faster than the existing version, the company provides a new watching experience and customer convenience. Vitalizing the kt operates the open IPTV policy to continuously lead the GiGA UHD tv market. This policy enables customers to upload/download, share and mutually trade content and use services freely by opening kt’s assets such as Ecosystem of Content platform and allowing anyone to use these assets. Through the open IPTV policy, kt as the owner of the platform does not determine relevant policies such as content price. Rather, the actual content business operator can directly fix the price. Content which is registered by the open IPTV has no separate registration fee, while kt is in charge of paying all costs for processing, review, organization and events. Under this policy, kt can secure a variety of content based on engagement by multiple parties, and content business operators can create various business models and profits as well as developing and providing applications at an inexpensive cost. Open IPTV PP CP Opening API and providing SDK IPTV olleh OPEN IPTV Uploading channels, olleh TV VCO, and applications Individuals Developer *API (Application Programming Interface): A language or message type which is used in communications between an operating system and application program **SDK (Software Development Kit): Software development kit Leading the Media As a charged broadcasting service provider with the largest consumers, kt olleh TV is leading the media market, exceeding six million consumers in March 2015. Market Current Condition of kt IPTV Service Subscribers(Person) 6m 5.86m 4.97m 4.03m 3.04m 2.07m 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (As of March) kt will invest 670 billion won in total over the next five years in the sectors of GiGA platform, GiGA infrastructure, and subscriber network to minimize network loads due to increased subscribers. kt will also vitalize GiGA media and provide stable services. Through these efforts, we will continuously provide differentiated services by securing an additional three million customers for GiGA media over the next five years. 36 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story GiGA IoT As a technology to connect things in daily lives through wired and wireless network and share information, IoT (Internet of Things) will make our lives more convenient. The domestic IoT market is expected to rapidly grow to a size worth 22 trillion won by 2022. kt will take the lead in the IoT market as well as the smart future world. Smart Life Smart Air care service through IoT In partnership with Coway, kt provides an environmental consulting service based on the result of customer data analysis, including use patterns, by connecting air-quality measuring instruments to IoT platforms and technology for analyzing Big Data. Currently, the test service is offered to about 1,000 household units, and the company will diagnose the urban environment for each household by analyzing data and provide customized solutions. Sensor for indoor Sensor for outdoor Environmental measurement measurement consulting service • Dust • Ozone • Hazardous gas • Fine dust • Carbon monoxide • Carbon monoxide • Carbon dioxide, etc. • Carbon dioxide, etc. • Temperature/Humidity • Motion Air quality • Luminescence measurement • Acceleration device/App • Temperature (Device) Developing GiGA Beacon IoT Infrastructure Principle of Operating the Beacon Business Smartphone Location Beacon Service platform information DB This business provides content (advertisement, coupons, information on products, etc.) based ➍ Location on the location of customers (smartphones) information when they approach Beacon. Currently, Beacon ➊ Beacon ID ➋ Beacon ID ➌ Beacon ID IoT infrastructure is prepared to be established ➎ Service for major business areas, while services utilizing Beacon are offered to Suwon kt Wiz Park. Establishing Global kt is on the way to establish the IDE (IoT Data Ecosystem), global standard IoT data-based ecosystem, with GSMA (Global System for Mobile communications Association), Telefónica (Spain), Axiata (Malaysia), etc. to find service Standard IoT-based utilizing IoT data, which is created by various things with employing capability to analyze Big Data. Ecosystem Home Automobile IoT Commerce Production Health Energy According to the statistics from the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning, kt is the second largest operator in the IoT market for 2014, securing 837,000 subscribers as of December. kt will lead the era of IoT by utilizing various IoT products and Big Data technology and take the lead in the IoT ecosystem by launching an IoT platform and cooperate with major leading business operators at home and abroad and small and mid-sized cooperative firms. kt Integrated Report 37 Making GiGAtopia Ecosystem for Win-win Growth To realize GiGAtopia, the most important thing is realizing an ecosystem where small but strong companies in Korea can achieve win-win growth with large companies. kt creates social value throughout the overall industrial ecosystem by leading the win-win growth culture where partner companies are respected and is expanding this culture to society. Based on the GiGA infrastructure, kt will move forward into the future through synergy with technology of partner companies and create better lives for the people. Win-win Growth Program Major Content Major Performance in 2014 Programs Business system Supporting making • Utilizing excellent Internet device products presented by cooperative firms to for external business based on best provision of GiGA Internet demonstration service in 14 regions proposed ideas ideas proposed through “Idea Pop (http://ktidea. olleh.com)” Process Application One-stop by committee and Announcement Carrying out Taking (M) business department of result (M+1) business Reviewing validity of ideas Carrying out Idea Pop Notifying the business in Definition and determining measures (http://ktidea. final result to consideration of job for doing business by the olleh.com) the presenter of budget and committee’s members personnel Supporting Supporting participation • Supporting expenses for participation in “Recruitment Event for MiddleEmployee of exhibition to recruit aged People and Seniors 2014” by the Federation of Korean Industries and Recruitment talented employees to “Recruitment Exhibition for Best Cooperative Firms of Large Companies and secure talent for partner Public Institutions 2014” by Win-win Growth Committee firms Supporting work Supporting overseas • Won an order to supply media pole equipment worth 430 million won by a in overseas exhibition (Mobile supplier to GSMA (Global System for Mobile communications Association) market World Congress, Spain): by participating in the event with nine best cooperative firms in 2014 and six Supplying media pole firms in 2015. Supporting participation • In 2014, kt earned sales of 34.5 billion won from the project of establishing in overseas infrastructure LTE backbone network in Rwanda with 12 suppliers. business (Rwanda) • In 2015, it is expected to achieve sales of 35 billion won. Providing Supporting partner • Contributed investment funds worth of 920 million won for win-win growth to financial support companies to have Business Cooperation Foundation. operational funds by • Created “Win-win Growth Loan Fund” and “Win-win Growth Content Fund” making contribution and with regard to video, new media, and music to support 60 SMEs by providing various funds 19.57 billion won in loans by creating “Win-win Growth Content Fund” to support content development • Supporting loans for SMEs by contributing one billion won to the Korea Technology Finance Corporation Lending 263.2 billion won to 95 companies through network loan Supporting Supporting incubation by • Supporting 31.4 billion won to 24 best venture companies in venture one-person entrepreneur, app/content development through “Start-up Partnership” program and companies venture company and startproviding consulting supports such as mentoring and BM diagnosis up for more prosperous • Conducting “Start-up Nomad” with NIPA (National IT Industry Promotion mutual ecosystem Agency) and supporting eight venture companies to do business and pioneer the global market Supporting Providing infrastructure for • Provided a test bed and operating center for verifying smartphone technical technical development free application service and wire/wireless/media/M2M/IoT devices and development of charge developed Cloud service at Umyeon-dong and Bangbae-dong 38 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Supporting In March 2015, kt opened the “Gyeonggi Creative Economy Innovation Center” in Pangyo, Gyeonggi-do Province by expanding win-win growth business to the creative economy sector. Major facilities include residential areas, Start-ups for an audition room, global meeting room, and test bed-based infrastructure. The company operates various start-up Creative Economy support programs such as holding a contest for start-ups and would-be entrepreneurs, operating an acceleration program, and supporting start-ups to pioneer the global market. Category Major Content Game • Supporting the entire process from Contest for an idea → Development and verification → Attracting investment → Launch with large companies and supportive institutions • Establishing and operating “Game SW Lab” for everyone to use game production tools and “Mobile Lab” to conduct a test of developed game at the actual distribution network • Supporting the best mobile games for marketing through kt’s olleh Market Fintech* • Installing the country’s only “Fintech Support Center” and providing technical advisory support and one-on-one mentoring with residing financial experts • Playing a leading role for fostering innovative Fintech start-up from accessibility to finance and marketability to financing and pioneering sales channels IoT • Selecting prospective SMEs and venture companies with IoT in the healthcare and nurturing sectors, President at the Gyeonggi Creative Economy matching them with hospitals and relevant research institutes, and providing the development environment Innovation Center such as mentoring and test bed • Making partnership with global IoT companies such as Oracle and MS, establishing “Global IoT Zone” at Gyeonggi Creative Economy Innovation Center, conducting IoT product tests, and providing technical consulting service 5G • Establishing the “5G Open Innovation Lab” in connection with relevant facilities such as terminal devices and repeaters in the late 2015, linking with global large-sized communications device companies, and fostering 5G small and mid-sized venture companies • Holding a contest and providing funds for business and technical consulting service to foster start-ups with available application services in commercializing 5G such as mobile stereoscopic image * Fintech: New financial technology whose name is a combination of the words “financial” and “technique” kt creates a fund worth 15 billion won from the kt Group to invest in the game, IoT, Fintech , and 5G sectors, and supports investments and loans worth 105 billion won in total in cooperation with the Small and Medium Business Administration, Gyeonggi Metropolitan City Government, and financial institutions. The company supports domestic start-ups to attract investments by connecting and utilizing the existing overseas investment funds (200 billion won in total). kt supports start-ups and venture companies to pioneer the overseas market and attract investment in cooperation with major overseas start-up centers (Catapult (UK), Wayra (Spain), and Orange Fab (France)) and venture capital (Formation 8, Storm Ventures, and Pacven Walden, U.S.) Furthermore, we invite overseas venture capital by holding a global investment exhibition once a year in Korea, provide start-ups in the country with opportunities to attract investment, and support booths at well-known overseas exhibitions such as MWC, CES, etc. Supporting Excellent Start-ups to Go to the Global Market ●Mobile carriers ●Start-up centers ●Venture funds CATAPULT (UK) Born to Global (Korea) Wayra (Europe) KIC (U.S.) DOCOMO (Japan) Orange Fab (France) DOCOMO Ventures (Japan) Wayra (Central and Orange Telecom (France) South America Telefonica (Spain) kt (Korea) Formation 8 (U.S.) Storm Ventures (U.S.) Pacven Walden (U.S.) Orange Fab (Côte d´Ivoire) kt Integrated Report 39 Global GiGAtopia To overcome limitations in the growth of domestic and overseas communications industries and create new future profit sources, kt systematically reinforces global business capability and is proactively pioneering the global convergence ICT market. The company has developed the convergence ICT business and contributed to creative economy by supporting domestic companies to go to overseas markets based on communications infrastructure business, which is insufficient in developing countries, potentially bringing services such as GiGA high-speed Internet network, 4G and next-generation 5G wireless network, Smart City, etc. Enabling Global kt has a global business strategy of providing the optimal solutions. We will establish communications network infrastructures and offer know-how in service operation. We will create successful global business models in GiGAtopia neighboring regions and other countries in the world by identifying the market characteristics and needs in regions which would benefit from our capability and experience as a wired and wireless communications operator. Securing the 100 MHz broadband frequency in Rwanda, kt has established a 4G and next-generation wireless network and created a new GiGA service market in Africa. Major Global Projects Country Project in Progress Significance Poland Establishing the high-speed broadband Internet Winning an order for establishing overseas network (Two state governments: Podlaskie, large-sized wire network, securing continuous Mazowieckie) sales by operating joint wholesale operations Bangladesh Establishing next-generation network NGN Realizing GiGAtopia by establishing the nextgeneration network Rwanda Joint business for 4G LTE between Rwanda-kt Leading the overseas GiGA mobile era Major global projects for each regions Finding opportunities for 16 major projects in five major convergence sectors ●Overseas branch (10 branches) (-2Q, 2016) ●Overseas office (4 offices) Project office (4 offices) Russia Poland Uzbekistan Mongolia (Two ofﬁces) China (Two ofﬁces) Algeria Japan USA Hong Kong Vietnam Rwanda (Two ofﬁces) Colombia • Energy, Integrated safety • Networked transportation, • Energy, Media Smart City • Public/Education IT, Establishment • Smart City, Public/Education IT • Energy, Integrated safety of communications network • Establishment of communications network • Networked transportation, Education IT Europe/Africa Middle East/Asia America/Central and South America Creation of New GiGA Service Market kt carries out continuous and creative global business development to create convergence-type GiGA-based value beyond global sales or winning an order. From 2012, kt’s global ICT business sector has maintained a double increase in sales each year, and despite the slowdown in sales of traditional overseas communications business (global traffic wholesale, global data), the ICT sector has led an increase in overall global business sales. 40 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Establishment By making great efforts in expanding the global submarine cables, kt has not only grown into a communications hub for Northeast Asia, but also led the era of 5G through establishing the GiGA infrastructure. of Global GiGA Infrastructure Establishing APG submarine cables and NOC As a submarine cable with 11,000km in total length crossing Asia’s major countries such APG NOC as Korea, China, Japan, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, etc., APG (Asia Pacific Gateway) is constructed with 13 Asian operators including kt. In addition to establishing APG submarine cables, kt has played a pivotal role in operating APG by opening APG NOC (Network Operation Center) in October 2014. Establishing NPC submarine cables As a submarine cable with 14,000km in total length crossing the Pacific and connecting Asia and North America, NCP (New Cross Pacific) is being constructed by six companies from Asia and the U.S. kt has shares for traffic connecting to North America through constructing and operating NCP. To prepare for the attraction of NCP NOC, the company has secured leadership in the NCP consortium and had an advantage in attracting NOC. Current Condition of Global Business Sales(100 million won) ■Global ICT ■Global Data ■Traffic Wholesale 2012 208 618 2,203 3,029 2013 391 739 1,929 3,059 2014 818 771 1,744 3,334 kt Integrated Report 41 Leadership for Future Technology 42 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Importance of Leadership for Future Technology Customers When the age of convergence when all the things are connected through network begins, technology to provide various services will be the core competitiveness for Environment Shareholders our company. In the new market based on inter-industry ICT convergence through Material Issue IoT (Internet of Things), kt will develop future-leading technology and create new • Expanding the IoT market growth engines. • Contributing to enhancing the quality of life through ICT • Acceleration of technical changes Local Communities Suppliers Employees kt’s Leadership for Future Technology Smart Energy • Commercializing kt-MEG (Micro Energy Grid), complex energy efficiency solution, for the first time in the world • Integrating and managing production, storage, and consumption of heat, electricity, and gas Networked Transportation Integrated Safety • Establishing an intelligent • Developing safety-related transportation platform convergence technology kt intensively carries out five • Providing services for vehicles such as • Integrated safety platform for location-based media and customized future convergence businesses security and building management navigation • Providing comprehensive based on its core capability such safety services as communications infrastructure, Life-enhancing Care Next-generation Media Big Data, IoT, Cloud, etc. • Human genome analysis service • Developing future content • Body information platform • Globalizing a media platform • Prevention-focused healthcare kt’s Competitiveness Core Competency Performance Index Smart Energy Sales for 2014 About 13.6 billion won Integrated Safety Number of conducted projects 17 projects Next-generation Media Launched K-live (January 2014) Sales: 800 million won/56,000 visitors Life-enhancing Care Establishing a Life-enhancing Care cooperative system with major hospitals (Yonsei University Hospital, Samsung Medical Center, Pusan National University Hospital, etc.) Networked Transportation Held the 1st Overseas UBI (Usage-based Insurance) Roadshow Future Strategy kt will contribute to vitalizing the domestic ICT business and pioneer global sales channels by finding successful business models for five major future convergence services. By focusing on new value, which is created by converging connected data, not just simple connections, the company will create synergetic effects between ICT and various industries and secure leadership of the ICT convergence service as a future growth engine. kt Integrated Report 43 Smart Energy With global climate change and increased energy consumption, the energy paradigm has changed from center-based generation that focuses on suppliers to eco-friendly dispersed generation that focuses on consumers and energy efficiency. Under these circumstances, kt aims to realize “Energy GiGAtopia”, where human race can use energy pleasantly and conveniently through smart energy, which is the convergence of energy and advanced ICT. kt-MEG as Total Based on communications infrastructure and IT technology, kt has commercialized “kt-MEG (Micro Energy Grid),” the world’s first total energy management solution, to ensure more efficient energy management. As a platform to Energy Management direct all relevant processes including production, consumption, and trade of energy resources such as electricity, Solution heat, gas, etc., kt-MEG is an energy management solution utilizing IoT. Through this solution, kt contributes to efficient production, consumption, and trade of energy by managing the energy conditions of major buildings in 12 countries including Korea, Finland, U.S., etc. Realizing the optimization of energy through production, transaction, and consumption of various energy sources based on ICT Consumption Consumption Production Transaction Production Electricity Gas … Heat Water Securing the To ensure the foundation for energy GiGAtopia business, kt is conducting various businesses at home and abroad. kt has achieved remarkable performances: in 2014, as the first case among Korea’s communications companies, Foundation for Smart the company prepared for a project for establishing a massive-scale PV plant (7.5MW capacity) in Daecheok, while Energy Business the company won an order for conducting a project to set up AMI (Advanced Metering Infrastructure) in cooperation with the Electricity Board of Uzbekistan. In addition, kt has secured differentiated competitiveness in the smart energy market by conducting a demonstration project for AMI based on LTE communications by cooperating with KEPCO and utilizing the company’s capability in the communications sector. Raising Business As kt unified a system through the Smart Energy Business Group in 2014, the company has raised its competitiveness in smart energy business. In cooperation with domestic and overseas major energy business operators such as Competitiveness KEPCO, the company has secured competitive partnership and led the relevant industry by analyzing Big Data related to energy and developing technology for optimally managing energy conditions and predicting demands. Three Major Core Goals of Smart Energy Business leading the new energy business with serviceleading the energy IoT market with type energy efficiency business, electric car pioneering into the global market based business for establishing remote checking charge business, and new renewable energy 1 2 3 on kt-MEG infrastructure by using LTE communications operation and management business Value of Performance in 2014 About 13.6 billion won in sales for 2014 “Smart Energy” Business goal Develop technology to prevent national electricity crisis by reducing electricity usage by 15% − Achieve 135.9 billion won in operating sales by 2015 and 1,615.8 billion won by 2020 Stakeholder • Individuals: Saving energy costs at households and buildings convenience • Nation: Preventing national electricity crisis • Environment: Reducing carbon emissions 44 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Integrated Safety As insecurity over social safety has recently increased due to the Sewol Ferry sinking incident and assault cases at daycare centers, the government has intensively prepared measures for strengthening safety at all levels. Fulfilling the desperate need for safe and secure living condition, kt provides the Integrated Safety service for major places in everyday life through ICT technology such as video analysis and Big Data. Comprehensive Through ICT technology such as video analysis and Big Data, kt expands the scope of “security” to prevention and provides comprehensive safety and relief service at the level of “safety.” kt has technology for integrated control platforms Service for “Safety” and provides services through professional affiliates in security and building management (kt telecop, kt estate). Integrated • Convergence with other Intelligent security industries Sensing • Care for individuals/ Big Data things Integrated control Integrated Convergence • Controlling entry+MDM Fingerprint control security (Mobile Device recognition Management) Network security Information • Prevention of information Sensing security damage/falsification/ Network Network leak security Analysis • System/NW security solution CCTV door Physical • Facility safety lock for System security • Prevention of crime controlling security System IoT • Controlling entry Sensor entry security technology • CCTV/manned security Security Safety SOC Disaster Safety Management kt immediately detects and responds to disasters and incidents by applying control technology and analyzing IoT-based Big Data owned by kt for national infrastructures such as tunnels, bridges, dams/reservoirs, industrial complexes, etc. kt analyzes incident types so that the company can prevent potential disasters in advance. Integrated Safety Package kt aims to provide a differentiated integrated package for the characteristics of each customer group by unifying the capability of group companies with expertise in “security,” “facility management,” and “energy” businesses, including kt telecop, kt estate and Centios. Safety for Residential Space kt carries out systematization and is creating a new brand for safety management in apartments by connecting “security,” facility management,” and “safety/relief” on the basis of ICT. For this aim, kt focuses on developing ICT technology to acquire professional companies for housing management and developing ICT technology to save expenses in facility management. Video Security Recently, video security has evolved from simple CCTVs into security with various S/Ws based on proactive and prior detection functions. kt aims to provide differentiated services through video security, reinforcing customized platform and video analysis functions such as object recognition/categorization/tracing/analysis by linking HDnetwork IP-CCTV with IoT, Big Data, Cloud and control technology. Value of Performance in 2014 Conducted 17 projects such as SOC disaster safety and housing relief service “Integrated Safety” Business goal Achieve 1 trillion won in sales for the group’s safety-related sales by 2017 Stakeholder • Individuals: Enjoying convenient and safe lives On-site convenience • industry: Reducing the rate of accidents and enhancing efficiency in safety management • Nation: Contributing to establishing a system for responding to disasters and incidents and saving social expenses kt Integrated Report 45 Next-generation Media With the improvement in the speed of wired and wireless communications, emergence and popularity of screen displays in any form, and development of tangible technology, the modern environment can now provide customers with new and diverse media services. kt aims to lead the next-generation media market by utilizing its assets and capabilities as Korea’s top operator for pay TV and carrying out businesses such as OTT, commerce, and hologram concert hall business. Next-generation Beyond watching content on the TV, the next-generation media business will enable services such as content, commerce, education, etc., to be conveniently used in a customized way by linking smart devices such as TV, PC, Media Business smartphones and tablets, etc. Next-media business OTT Commerce k-live Network/Terminal deviceBig Data-based curation Realistic visual culture based independent new service service media service Asset/Capability owned by kt Group’s media business (kt, kt skylife, kth, etc.) OTT (Over The Top) kt is preparing to provide OTT service to enable customers to appreciate media content anywhere and anytime, beyond the limitations of current communications networks and devices. The company aims to ensure differentiated media use experiences by providing not only traditional media content, but also new media content such as personal broadcasting. Commerce kt will expand customized commerce services which can recommend and sell actual products and mobile gift certificates depending on customer characteristics by utilizing the group companies’ major resources such as olleh TV, smartphone channels, and capability to analyze Big Data. The company intends to provide customers with more convenient and differentiated purchase experiences in the content-advertisement connection commerce sector. K-live kt will lead the growth in the domestic realistic media industry and tourism industry by vitalizing “K-live,” Korea’s first hologram concert hall. In addition, the company will help hallyu content to get exported in the global media market by pioneering overseas markets such as the Chinese market. Hologram concert hall Digital Attraction • Hyper realism Live Gallery Live Club • Amusement: Engagement• Vivid feeling at the type amusement utilizing concert hall VR/AR Value of Performance in 2014 Launched K-live in January 2014 (800 million won in sales, with 56,000 visitors, and signed three MOUs with the Chinese government and business operators) “Next-generation Business goal Earn 937.9 billion won in sales by 2020 Media” Stakeholder • Individuals: Using optimally selected and various media services for each individual convenience • Content operators: Jointly pioneering the global market through supporting production and exporting content • Nation: Cultural and economic effects through development of the media industry 46 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Life-enhancing Care Along with the emergence of various wearable devices, the healthcare paradigm has changed from the treatment of diseases in hospitals to preventive healthcare (pre-post-care) in which health is cared for at regular times. kt aims to contribute to preventing personal diseases, saving national medical costs and fostering the healthcare industry, by focusing on personal life-enhancing care, medical ICT, bioinformatics, and wellness business based on the company’s capability. kt Life-enhancing kt carries out healthcare business with an innovative concept based on Cloud-based human genome analysis service, IoT-based body information platform, wearable device linkage technology, personal healthcare Care Platform management solution, etc. kt healthcare platform Personal Healthcare Wellness Skin-adherence Smart Smart Smart Smart Body Life Log Beauty Living environment Dietary nutrition sensor Watch Cloth Glass Band information management management Human genome information application business Medical Human genome Individual human Customized Human genome information information genome analysis prescription analysis business Medical ICT Bioinformatice Report medical Hospital information treatment system Personal Life-enhancing Care Personal life-enhancing care can be used through Smart Watches or Smart Clothing using personal customized healthcare services based on wearable devices. kt provides customized health information by utilizing its healthcare platform and collecting and analyzing users’ body signs and health information on a regular basis. This enables users to improve their lifestyles and enjoy greater happiness and health. Medical ICT Medical ICT supports medical practices and administrative management at hospitals, including treatment, prescription, and surgery, by using ICT technology and medical diagnosis devices. kt aims to provide innovative treatment processes at hospital by means of secured medical ICT capability. Bioinformatics (Human genome analysis) Bioinformatics enables customized diagnosis, treatment, and healthcare by analyzing information on an individual's human genome. kt focuses on providing human genome analysis service, individual human genome information service, and customized cancer treatment service based on its infrastructure and analysis capability to store and manage Cloud-based large quantity data. Recently, the company has signed an agreement for joint research on analyzing cancer genomes with Samsung Medical Hospital, reinforcing the company’s capability to analyze human genetic code. Wellness Based on the healthcare platform, kt aims to provide necessary services for pursuing a higher quality of life and optimal health conditions including beauty, living environment management, and dietary nutrition care. Value of Performance in 2014 Establishing a cooperative Life-enhancing Care system with major hospitals (Yonsei University Health System, Samsung Medical Center, Pusan National University Hospital, etc.) “Life-enhancing Care” Business goal Global No. 1 Life-enhancing Care service provider Stakeholder • Individuals: Prevention of diseases and saving medical expenses convenience • Industry: Expanding opportunities through providing new medical and Life-enhancing Care services • Nation: Reducing social and economic loss due to diseases kt Integrated Report 47 Networked Transportation The convergence of cars and IT is being accelerated by global vehicle manufacturers and IT companies such as Google and Apple, and the importance of networks to provide IT services for movement is also gradually growing. kt aims to realize a smart transportation environment and secure business opportunities by utilizing the country-wide GiGA IoT network in the auto IT service market, which requires broadband and a rapid speed of response. Intelligent With the aim of providing convenience and safety for vehicles, kt has established an intelligent transportation platform and commercialized and operated IoT services related to transportation and logistics. By changing vehicle services Transportation into “Smart Devices,” the company reinforces two-way and real-time based information transmission functions. Platform Data for transportation infrastructure status Information on optimal routes Recognizing CCTV and license plate, acceleration/deceleration, public institution ITS, information Usage-based insurance on construction/accidents, etc. Smart tolling Information on car conditions Acceleration, deceleration, driving habit, driving distance, movement Intelligent Smart parking path, external temperature, ABS/ transportation TCS/VDC, fuel efficiency, distance Road congestion control between cars, driving hours, etc. platform Climate/Disaster information infrastructure Theft/Damage/Disaster alert Weather forecast, weather information, disaster alert, etc. Information on safe/eco-driving habits Map/Driving information Logistics management/ Hazardous materials control Map, shortcut, fee, congestion section, public transportation means, transportation information, Electric car charging/control location information, etc. Telematics Providing various IT services and content by connecting vehicles through wireless communications, Telematics aims to provide drivers and passengers with various mobile services such as transportation information, measures for emergency situations, remote vehicle diagnosis, internet, etc. Through kt’s internet technology, automobiles can also serve as cultural and information spaces. FMS (Fleet Management System) FMS is an efficient vehicle operation service providing business-use vehicles with automatic integrated management from car maintenance to cost control, intervals, and statistical analysis regarding operation. Electronic Receipt Launched by kt in cooperation with Hanjin for the first time in the logistics industry, this service provides an electronic process for managing the transport and receiving freight, which used to be manually managed. Next-generation Intelligent Transportation System (C-ITS) C-ITS provides an open platform-based service through two-way wireless communications so that vehicles can communicate with other cars or road infrastructure and identify traffic conditions and risks during driving. UBx (Usage-based X) UBx creates differentiated services for various added value industries such as insurance, repair, used cars, and infotainment based on information on car usage collected through IoT devices. The company develops car usagebased business (UBx: Usage-Based X). Value of Performance in 2014 Held the 1st overseas UBI (Usage-based Insurance) Road Show “Intelligent Business goal – “Top business operator for Big Data capability-based movable platform service” Transportation – Secure 2.5 million connected cars by 2018 (10% or more of all cars) Platform” Stakeholder • Individuals: Improve convenience and safety of drivers and passengers • Company: improve efficiency in logistics to save costs and time, secure profits through efficient operation convenience • Country: Save costs for traffic congestion and prevention • Environment: Reduce carbon emissions 48 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story kt Integrated Report 49 Enhancement of Customer Value 50 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Importance of Enhancing Customer Value Customers kt firmly believes that the best way to become a respected company that continuously grows to create long-term customer value is by setting customers as Environment Shareholders the top priority in providing services, not just pursuing short-term profits. Material Issue • Management with customers as top priority • Providing services considering customers’ health and safety Local Communities Suppliers Employees kt’s Management with Customers as Top Priority Accelerating innovation for achieving No. 1 customer management quality To provide best-quality service Mission 1 • B2C, B2B wire/wireless products, network, through value for customers as its customer service, channel sectors top priority, kt proactively conducts Carrying out structural changes in CS for three major total CS. From the innovation CS System Mission customer contact points of wire/wireless products and 2 • Realizing No. 1 quality in sales channels, services to reinforcement of oncustomer center, and beginning/AS site customer service training, the Fostering the most elite on-site employees by company internalizes customer Mission strengthening their capabilities value through company-wide 3 • Reinforcing and internalizing training of sales/ customer service for on-site employees support. kt’s Competitiveness Core Competency Performance Index Customer satisfaction Selected as the 1st rank in the home telephone sector for 16 consecutive years 1st rank in the internet telephone sector for five National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) consecutive years 1st rank in the international call sector in three consecutive years Korean Standard-Contact service Quality Index 1st rank in the wired sector (KS-CQI) 2nd rank in the wireless sector Providing differentiated Product Examination Group 285 persons products and services Product examination activities About 100 cases Creating brand value LTE service sector in Korea Brand Star 2015 1st rank in the brand value sector iF Design Award 2015 Awards for the communication sector Future Strategy kt will expand the scope of improvement in customer experience quality from B2C to B2B and focuses on strengthening its capability to improve customer complaints in advance. With the Product Examination Group that is comprised of customers and on-site employees at customer contact points, the company concentrates on identifying product characteristic and will establish a virtuous cycle in which customer needs are reflected in products and continuously improved from product planning to improvement after launch. kt Integrated Report 51 Best-quality Customer Service kt’s corporate value begins from customers. In its four core business sectors, the company draws and carries out improvement measures to enhance customer experience quality. kt leads product manufacture with customers as the top priority through the Product Examination Group and enhances customer satisfaction by making continuous efforts to increase service quality. Conducting Total CS To meet customers’ hidden needs, kt categorizes quality elements for customer experience into 650 items (1,700 items as of 2015) in four major sectors (CS, Network, Products, and Channels), measures the current condition, and from the Perspective finds and implements measures for improvement. with Customers as Since 2015, the company has expanded sectors for improving customer experience quality to B2B, while Top Priority developing the existing B2C sector in the direction of providing differentiated value. The company also draws proactive customer service tasks and carries out relevant measures, dealing with potential customer complaints in advance. kt aims to establish a culture based on customer experience quality through continuous activities for improvement and become a sincere customer-focused company. Direction for Total CS Profit/Expenses/Period in priority Quality in priority Customer experience Beginning the expansion of Average quality as top 1 Beginning from meticulous customer Revenue Per Unit (ARPU) and subscribers priority from the company’s goal experience quality meeting hidden needs Based on kt Based on customer needs Shifting into putting top Simplicity and convenience based on Supplier-based mind of “Products priority in customers 2 made by kt are enough for customers to buy them” the actual business site and customer experience quality Addressing pain points Performance from competition Differentiated performance Differentiated customer Global No. 1 for the first time services 3 Focusing on performance, Competition for subsidy in the world, Competition for quality Products with Product Examination Group with Direct Engagement of Customers Customers as Priority To promote proactive management engagement of stakeholders, kt has launched and implemented its customerfocused product examination process with direct engagement by customers since 2011. With the aim of verifying products from various perspectives, the company organized the Product Examination Group in 2014 with participants from various sectors, including customers such as housewives, college students, and office workers, on-site employees at customer contact points, and experts in each product sector. Composition of Product Examination Group Category Persons (285 in total) Major roles Customers 112 • Finding out and improving complaints by examining products before launch • Supplementing and optimizing complaints by conducting follow-up On-site employees 88 examination after launch • Providing differentiated customer-focused product ideas Experts in each sector 85 Major Activities of Product Examination Group in 2014 The Product Examination Group conducted limited activities for the verification of newly launched products by 2013. Since 2014, the group expanded the scope of activities to the entire sector regarding products such as verification of new products, improvement of existing products, and providing product ideas, and conducted product examination activities a total of 100 times, an increase by 82% compared to the previous year. The Product Examination Group has led the manufacture of products with customers as the top priority by drawing ideas to improve convenience in olleh navi and adjusting the release date to reflect additional improvements with regard to GiGA Wi-Fi AP and Wibro egg. 52 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Major Activities of Product Examination Group Category Major Activities Major Achievements Verification of • GiGA Wi-Fi AP, Wibro egg, • Improving GiGA Wi-Fi AP speed and coverage new products Rate system products, • Addressing showed areas for Wibro egg and transition of LTE network combination products, etc. • Improving customer complaints for other rate systems and combination products Improvement of • olleh.com, olleh • Improving the main page of olleh.com and raising competitiveness of existing products membership, olleh navi, olleh membership smart set-top, OTM, etc. • Improving performance for enhancing customer convenience of olleh navi • Improving customer-friendly UI/UX for Genie, OTM, and smart set-top Welcome day event for the Product • Finding new service ideas • Finding ten new idea cases and presenting business regarding GiGAtopia Examination Group Providing ideas regarding GiGAtopia • Finding five major improvements for products from the perspective of • Opening a debate for on-site customers through a debate by on-site examination group examination group to make –Drawing 76 issues, accepting 46 cases for improvement, reviewing 13 No. 1 kt products cases for improvement Services with In the survey for the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) by the Korea Productivity Center (KPC), kt was ranked as the top in the home telephone sector for 16 consecutive years, top in the internet call sector for five Customers as Top consecutive years, and top in the International call sector for three consecutive years. In the Korean StandardPriority Contact service Quality Index (KS-CQI) hosted by the Korean Standards Association (KSA), kt was appointed as the 1st rank in the wired sector and 2nd rank in the wireless sector, proving to be a company leading services that sets customers as the top priority. Result of the survey by National Customer Result of the survey by Korean Standard-Contact Satisfaction Index (NCSI) (Score) service Quality Index (KS-CQI) (Score) Mobile 72 72(2nd) ●2012 ●2013 ●2014 phone 71 Wire(1st ) Home 76.5 74 74 74(1st) telephone 71.6 IPTV 71 72 72(2 )nd 76.3 speed 72 Internet 73 73(2nd) Wireless(2nd ) International 73 73(1 )st call 74 74 Internet 72 72(1 )st 70.8 call 74 2012 2013 2014 74.5 Communication with System with Responsibility of Each Department to Reduce VOC Customers By implementing the “Daily System with Responsibility to Improve Customer Opinions,” kt shares records for VOC with company-wide executives and employees, and then establishes and conducts a plan for improving business Average Time for Calls and Follow-up Process (sec.) • 2013 departments based on these records. The company has also achieved remarkable improvement in VOC regarding • 2014 ATT (Average Talk Time) 188 small payments by realizing the function of identifying small payments in the customer center’s mobile APP and 174 blocking small payments that are not recognized by customers in advance. Time for 136 follow-up process 129 (1st Quarter) Establishing Infrastructure for a Swift Customer Center Rate of Monthly Response at Customer Center and Service Level (%) In October 2014, kt completed establishment of the kt Integrated Call Center System worth 40 billion won. As Response 93.4 Korea’s largest integrated customer center with wire, wireless, collection and companies with a size of 11,000 rate 96.3 seats, kt’s Call Center will play a significant role in improving VOC quality. Under the goal of having sufficient Service level 72.8 consultation and swiftly dealing with the follow-up process, the center remarkably improved customer consultation within 20 seconds 82.9 (Monthly infrastructure including the period-based system, customer waiting elements, identifying costs and customers, Average) and computing, which greatly reduced the time spent in the follow-up process. While making continuous efforts in VOC Regarding Delayed Connection/ Inconvenience in ARS (cases) improving the response rate and service level, the company provides various customer contact channels to operate VOC Regarding Delayed 23,301 the customer center more efficiently and reduces monthly average customer complaints as well as enhancing the Connection/ 19,000 (1st Quarter) self-processing rate. Thanks to these efforts, kt has accomplished a major achievement in the external satisfaction Inconvenience sector and solidified its status as the country’s representative communications service company that leads Rate of Self-processing Customer Consultation (%) customer satisfaction. Rate of self18.3 processing 19.1 (1st Quarter) kt Integrated Report 53 Best-quality Customer Service Through continuous development and launch of innovative products and services, kt not only provides customers with new experiences, but also raises competitiveness by reinforcing the system for supporting customers and responding to customers’ trust. kt’s Unique Fintech Innovative Services Touching a chip-based real card Fintech is a name made from the words “financial” and “technique”, meaning new financial technology. kt provides “Tap Sign Service” for convenient payment Electronic finance by touching a credit card to a smartphone and entering (Banking) passwords, and “Payon+ Service” for credit card/cell E-commerce phone payment through a smartphone app without the (PC/Mobile) need to use a mobile card payment machine. The former service has attracted attention, thanks to its service Identification/ converging finance and communications technology, while Log-in the latter service is the first case expanding payment by cell phone to the offline sector. T-commerce kt continuously seeks differentiated commerce models to enjoy more convenient and various shopping services on TV. Through k-shopping, provided by kt’s subsidiary kth, customers can conveniently purchase various products worn by people on TV by using their remote controls while watching TV. Differentiated Partner Membership kt is the only communications company to introduce integrated customer level, which it did in January 2012. kt has expanded the scope of benefits from existing wireless customer-focused benefits to wired communications subscribers (internet, IPTV, home phone, internet phone). In March 2015, the company has remarkably expanded benefits such as No. 1 partner companies and differentiation programs to innovate membership service. (As of March 2015) Bictainment At Suwon kt Wiz Park, customers can instantly make reservations/get discounts/pay/issue tickets by using the baseball teams’ official app (wizzap). Once customers enter the stadium, they receive a welcome message, and then they can use various convenient services such as seat identification, information about GiGA Beacon GiGA WiFi the stadium and stores, etc. Service wizzap NFC Tag Wizzap App. 54 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Customized Service kt strives to provide all our customers with optimal service through service that is customized for each customer. • Rate system for senior citizens at the age of 65 and over. No stipulation and cancelation fee Seniors • olleh tv-hyo: Offering olleh tv and Skylife without subscribing to the Internet (Providing private lines free of charge) People with • Offering ten-hour video calls in total to customers who find difficult to make calls due to disabilities linguistic and audio disabilities. No stipulation and cancellation fee • Foreign language customer service: Providing service through Global Store and Foreigners Foreigner Customer Center • Foreigner Customer Center: 1583 (Free on kt cell phones) or 02-2190-1180 e-Clean Activities To remove harmful content in the flood of indiscreet information and create a sound internet environment, kt conducts various e-Clean activities; the company has provided about 170,000 customers with relevant services by February 2015. Major e-Clean Activities Category Detailed Service Clean-I Realizing a clean environment by blocking access to harmful websites and video clips such as porn, violent content, and gambling activities TIME CODI Preventing internet addiction by controlling the time for internet use on a time and day-based system Personal Care Checking remotely and restoring PCs to protect PC from internet viruses and malicious code e-playground Service for children/youth for blocking harmful websites, setting the time for using internet/ games, and providing recommended content Doctor Providing free anti-virus software to protect and maintain PCs Providing Stable Network Monitoring System Services for 365 Days As a business operator with a national network, kt has established and operated an environment for systemic network monitoring to provide stable services. With the network control center performing nation-wide communications network comprehensive control and the local control center, the company operates a network monitoring system for 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, while the nation-wide wire/wireless operation centers conduct operation and maintenance for stable communication facilities. Drills for Emergency Recovery kt is establishing a back-up system for automatic detour communication to prepare for cases in which communication services are interrupted by regular communications breakdown and disasters such as typhoon and earthquake. The company focuses on minimizing damage by making emergency recovery measures for each type of damage and autonomously and jointly conducts emergency recovery drills, including checking equipment conditions, recovery personnel, and scenarios, on a regular basis with private/public institutions. On August 19, 2014, kt conducted an “actual drill for emergency recovery of communications facilities for Eulji Exercise” at the drill site of Government Complex in Gwacheon, Gyeonggi. Under the assumption that communications facilities in Gawcheon would be isolated due to washed roads, disconnection of lines, and damaged base stations, the company input equipment and personnel for each stage of emergency recovery by securing adequate offices in systemic cooperation with a fire station and police station and successfully conducted recovery operation within the shortest time. Thanks to kt’s differentiated protection activities and efforts for reinforcing the capability to respond to emergencies, the company received an institutional citation by the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning in 2014. Visit by the Minister of Science, ICT, and Future Planning to kt Network Drill for emergency recovery of communications facilities Control Center kt Integrated Report 55 Creating Brand Value Since the launch of olleh, the first wired and wireless integrated brand of its kind, in the communications industry, kt has carried out innovative marketing and communication activities each year since 2011 to provide differentiated services that surpass the existing limitations in communications. The company leads the market and solidifies its status as Korea’s representative communications brand. Integrated Marketing kt’s marketing communication activities are recognized as among the most successful marketing cases, involving IMC activities that utilize all channels which are connected with customers. The company conducts the “campaign Communication with consumer engagement” to attract consumers’ interest and sympathy and expand and reproduce content Activities with autonomously by consumers, creating a new marketing trend that has been named “consumedia.” Consumer Engagement Opening the Era of In 2014, through the corporate PR campaign and advertisement under the slogan of “Between You and the Future,” kt proclaimed the opening of the era of GiGAtopia, which is realized by GiGA infrastructure and convergence GiGAtopia with ICT technology. kt opened the door of the “GiGA Campaign” with the willingness to provide comfort surpassing GiGA Campaign convenience for customers. kt has started the GiGA service campaign since October, and the campaign received attention with its unique teasing performance in major downtown areas in Seoul. For the performance, foreign men suddenly appeared and disappeared after shouting “GiGA pak-pak, GiGA san-da“with exotic dance moves. The GiGA campaign advertisement, which injected energy and excitement in daily life, has been a hot issue, depicting how the world and its people can become more energetic through GiGA technology with advertisements such as GiGA Internet, GiGA Power Live, GiGA UHD TV, GiGA Wi-Fi, etc. GiGA Service Campaign Bukchon Korean House Village GiGA House (GiGA-jip) Consumers give their attention and interest to promotion programs that provide a unique experience, including “GiGA House (GiGA-jip)”, which offers the opportunity to experience advanced GiGA services at Bukchon Korean House Village, Seoul, and “GiGA Drum (GiGA-buk)”, which offers the opportunity to compare GiGA internet speed and enjoy beating some drums. From March 2015, kt has conducted the “GiGA-ro” More Upgraded campaign based on the GiGA Wi-Fi Home Service “GiGA-ro Campaign” to bring benefits and value in daily lives which are with Engagement of changed by GiGA. Through various campaigns featuring new concepts and consumer participation, such as Consumers “Korea’s first opera street performance” and “GiGAman is Going to You” event, kt has led the market and attracted a great deal of positive attention. GiGA-ro Campaign 56 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Establishment of kt’s kt’s efforts to establish its own design identity in various sectors including brand, product, space, and graphics, has led to remarkable achievements in 2014. Over the past six years, kt has had a total of 22 prize-winning works Design Identity through various reputable global design awards and enhanced its design status on the global stage. PR Image of “GiGAtopia” A corporate PR image that helps people visually understand “GiGAtopia” more easily won two prizes in the sectors of Corporate Identity and Consumer Products of the iF Design Awards. ‘GiGAtopia’ PR image olleh Membership Diary The design for “olleh Membership Diary” received positive reactions from customers by achieving 25 million hits; there were also a total of 400,000 applications in an event to give the product to only 20,000 persons. The design won prizes in both the Communication Publishing sector and Consumer Products sector of the iF Design Awards. Design of ‘olleh Membership Diary’ Pro Baseball Team “kt wiz” “kt wiz,” kt’s pro baseball team, won prizes in various sectors of the Red Dot-Clio Awards in 2014. The team received the prize in the communication sector of the iF Design Awards in 2015. Design of ‘kt wiz’ Brand Identity Strategic Brand kt implements “System for Imposing Brand Use Royalty” for group companies using “kt” name as part of the company name. This has significance in setting objective standards and reasons to legitimately recognize the Management and name’s value and making funds for enhancing brand value. Operation kt Integrated Report 57 Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story 58 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Importance of CSV Customers Since Harvard University Professor Michael Porter presented CSV (Creating Shared Value) in 2011, the trend for companies to create social value as well as pursue Environment economic profits has been highlighted as an important issue in sustainability Material Issue Shareholders • Contributing to enhancing the management. As a company for the people, kt firmly believes that responding to this quality of life through ICT macroscopic trend will lead to the company’s sustainable future. • Participation in establishing public policy • Expanding a gap in access to information • Increasing interest in social r esponsibility investment Local Communities Suppliers Employees kt’s CSV Management Practical improvement of living conditions Local • Improving inconvenience due to kt has developed a ICT-based community geographical isolation local development model with (resident) • Enhancing the overall quality of life cooperation between private and government sectors as Expanding the well as improving the lives of foundation for business/ ICT-based Local local residents through the Creating a new market Creative Changing a local development kt autonomous GiGA Story Project, securing CSV Model government paradigm • Seeking an opportunity (company) (government) • Based on hardware ⇨ICT-based new business opportunities for new business based on cluster units development and creating economic and • Efficient vitalization of the local • Securing references by social added value. utilizing ICT solution community with low expenses kt’s Competitiveness Core “kt has achieved success in the CSV project with innovative ideas that have Performance Index not been thought by any other communications company in the world.” Competency Prof. Michael Porter mentioning “GiGA Island” after receiving the 1st CSV Porter Prize GiGA Story Creating economic 540 million won in Project investments, 638 million “It is a remarkable infrastructure that value vitalizes the creative economy as well as won in value creation addresses the information gap.” The president assessed GiGA Island, shown 540 million won in above, after CEO Hwang Chang-gyu explained it Creating social investments, 1.99 billion at WIS (World IT Show) 2014. value won in value creation Future Strategy kt will spread GiGA Story initiatives to domestic remote and mountainous regions such as Cheonghak-dong in cooperation with the government and local governments. The company will present a new CSV model to enable GiGA Story to serve as a model for developing countries from the global perspective. kt Integrated Report 59 GiGA Story Project GiGA Story Project is part of kt’s long-standing practice, “universal service for telecommunications.” While the company created social value in the context of communications services such as communications for remote and isolated regions, emergency communications, and reducing fees for the socially disadvantaged in the past, the company has currently created new shared value by beginning GiGA Story with ICT solutions based on networks. GiGA Story Project GiGA Story is a CSV model along with “GiGAtopia,” kt’s future network strategy to secure new growth engines by “converging” the “speed” of the GiGA network and ICT solutions. With GiGA Story, kt aims to improve the living environment of local residents in various sectors such as education, culture, economic conditions, and environment by offering GiGA infrastructure and customized solutions to remote and isolated regions that are suffering from a relatively large information gap. Plan for GiGA Story The GiGA Story Project is carried out depending on the target region’s characteristics, implementing specialized projects such as GiGA Island (remote regions) and GiGA Creative Village (isolated and mountainous regions). kt Project completed Imja GiGA Island and Daeseongdong GiGA School in 2014 and Baengnyeong GiGA Island in March 2015. The company plans to open Cheonghak GiGA Creative Village this year and aims to contribute to achieving SDGs utilizing ICT technology by providing underdeveloped overseas regions with GiGA Story models. • 2014 ➌ Baengnyeong GiGA Island • 2015 (Completed in March 2015) Establishment of the safe environment network ➊ Imja GiGA Island (October 2014) Vitalizing the local community utilizing ICT GiGA Story ➍ Cheonghak GiGA Creative Village (July 2015) Exchanging traditional culture through online venues ➋ Daeseongdong GiGA School (November 2014) Establishment of the environment for smart learning 60 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Creating Economic and kt firmly believes that a company should not simply pursue only profit, but must also create social value. This management philosophy is reflected in the company’s vision system, and all corporate activities are focused on Social Value through promoting the people’s convenience. Our social contribution activities are aligned with our business strategies, GiGA Story and we are constantly seeking activities to create new social value. The company aims to present a new paradigm for local development to local residents and government. kt has created social value exceeding investments by more than 268%, making a positive and significant impact on society. As the GiGA Project was quoted in the book written by Professor Michael Porter, the father of the CSV model, it has been recognized as a model for creating shared social and economic value; the company also won the 1st CSV Porter Prize. Performance for creating social value Indirect investment Indirect investment : Expenses related to “GiGA Island” project such Advancement of network and extra expenses 240 as new establishment and supplement of network, maintenance and million won development of connected programs Direct investment 300 Direct investment : Ratio of the business for “GiGA Island” such as Expenses for establishment of ICT solution for million establishment of ICT solution, operating programs, developing regions, and PR each sector won Inductive effects Education : Found opportunities for education and saved charges for Effects of cutting expenses and having lectures economic effects by utilizing ICT solution Culture : Operated cultural lectures and saved costs for content Economy : Improved agricultural productivity, reducing (Considering only effects based on labor force requirements business and excluding connected effects 1.69 Crops and rearing: Induced return to farming villages through DB consulting caused by the business) billion Increased loan by supporting sales channels won Medical treatment : Reduced the ratio of improving medical treatment environment Environment : Reduced charges for using energy and waste Tourism: More tourism through local promotion Direct effects 300 Expanded ICT infrastructure in the region Effects that are directly used in the region or million made into assets won Performance for creating economic value Indirect investment Indirect investment : Expenses related to “GiGA Island” project such 240 as new establishment and supplement of network, maintenance and Advancement of network and extra expenses million won development of connected programs Direct investment 300 Direct investment : Ratio of the business for “GiGA Island” such as million establishment of ICT solution, operating programs, developing regions, and PR Expenses for establishment of ICT solution for won each sector Increased sales (business opportunity) Found opportunities for new sales and Presented new solution business, 328 expanded subscribers opportunity for consulting million won Saving expenses 310 Service marketing expenses, expenses for developing Cutting expenses: Expenses for exposure in million new products media and broadcasting, new promotion, won and R&D ※ It includes only analysis of performance by Imja GiGA Island (October 2014), which was first established. Achievements by other projects will be estimated in the future. kt Integrated Report 61 GiGA Island As a representative social contribution model among the GiGA Story projects, GiGA Island leads the improvement of the quality of life for local residents by providing remote islands with ICT solutions. GiGA Island has been assessed as presenting an innovative CSV model in the IT industry as the public-private cooperative local development model based on ICT technology. System and Purpose of GIGA Island is a project aimed at narrowing the information gap and vitalizing the local community by establishing a virtual bridge between the land and isolated regions by utilizing GiGA infrastructure and ICT solutions. After opening GiGA Island the 1st GiGA Island at Imjado Island, Sinan-gun, Jeollanam-do Province in October 2014, GiGA Island has been assessed as leading innovation in residents’ daily lives. The company completed and established the 2nd GiGA Island at Baengnyeongdo Island, Ongjin-gun, Incheon in March 2015. GiGA Island Vitalize remote and isolated regions and narrow the information gap Medical Education Culture Economy Environment treatment ICT solution ICT convergence industry Energy, security, media, health, transportation Capability for business of kt’s group companies GiGA Infrastructure GiGA Internet GiGA Wifi GiGA Wire Creative Public-Private As the creative public-private cooperative local development model based on ICT technology, kt’s GiGA Island has Cooperative Local significance in that is improving the practical improvement of life in the local community, changing the paradigm in the development of local community, and creating new value by using a system with company-resident-government Development Model and expanding the scope of business. Based on ICT Technology Interview with stakeholder A staff member of the “The most important role of kt as a company having practical impact in daily life is providing services that set people’s convenience Ministry of Science, ICT and as top priority to allow the use of communications services without inconvenience. Some people in disadvantaged regions are still Future Planning isolated from having sufficient information due to their geographical and economic conditions. kt’s unceasing efforts to enhance universal services through investment in infrastructure and addressing adverse effects of ICT by utilizing IT and supporting education will lay the foundation for seeking momentum for new growth while maintaining its identity as a communications company. “GiGA Island,” kt’s recent project, will not only narrow the information gap by investing in infrastructure but also improve the quality of local residents’ lives by connecting services such as safety and health based on communications. I hope that kt will take the lead in creating value that is needed by our society by utilizing ICT and convergence technology and maximizing positive effects with communications services.” 62 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story Imja GiGA Island Creation of Imja GiGA Island Jeollanam-do Province, which is popular as archipelago, had insufficient ICT infrastructure as the lowest rate of internet use. As Imjado Island was separated from the land, the living conditions of residents had various limitations compared to the city. Through the GiGA Island Project, a virtual bridge was constructed to connect the land and city by utilizing GiGA network with a speed that is ten times faster than the existing speed, and the project has led to improvement in the quality of residents’ overall life from education to culture, economy, medical treatment, and environment. Process for Selecting Imjado Island for GiGA Island Korea’s representative Lowest rate of using the Internet Jeollanam-do archipelago (Accounting for (68.2% in Jeollanam-do vs. 80% of the entire region by 83.2% in Seoul) Jeollanam-do Province) Korea’s only administrative Insufficient previous cases for Sinan-gun region composing of islands utilizing ICT solution (1,004 islands in total) (Only on video conference between major facilities in the region) Region suffers inconvenience Possible to supply GiGA within the in moving due to disconnection year High effects in cases when Imjado Island with the land solution is applied (BCN business (26.9% as the completion rate target for agricultural and fishing of connecting with the land) villages in 2014) Major Projects and Expected Effects Imja GiGA Island carries out cultural development through video conferencing, educational promotion through IT Supporters and Dream school, economic development through online sales, environmental improvement with solar power monitoring, and health promotion by giving lectures on health. Based on these various activities, it is expected to achieve improvement in the quality of residents’ lives in all sectors. Imja GiGA Island with Major Projects Expected Effects kt’s business Major sectors capability Expected effects Culture GiGA Sarangbang, Dochan-ri 1 Education kt Dream School Education with few differences from the city beyond spatial IT Supporters and temporal limitations video conferencing Education Dream School, Daegwang IT Supporters 2 Culture UHD TV Reinforced remote control Narrow the cultural gap between regions by sharing haesuyokjang Daegi-ri Economy cultural content through ICT for high-definition TV Smart Farm, Gwangsan-ri Imjado Island online sales 3 Economy Agricultural control/ management T-Commerce (IPTV-based Practical economic revitalization by reducing labor force needs and enhancing agricultural Imja-myeon Environment distribution channel) productivity PV power, monitoring Samdu-ri 4 Medical treatment Yodoc (Doctor for urine) Service (smart diagnosis) Reinforcing remote Smart healthcare with easy identification and continuous Iheugam-ri management Medical treatment control for healthcare Healthcare, lectures on health 5Environment Green Station (management for recycling) PV generation/ Establish the future environment for energy consumption through managing energy on a real-time Broadband LTE GiGA Internet GiGA WiFi control basis and attaining independence kt Integrated Report 63 Baengnyeong Environmental Characteristics of Baengnyeongdo Island GiGA Island With a 70 year history of suffering from being separated from the nation, Baengnyeongdo Island is geographically vulnerable due to its location in the northernmost part of West Sea. In addition to frequent cases of extortion of fishing nets by Chinese vessels, residents and tourists have long been anxious about their security. With rapidly aging residents and poor living conditions compared to the land, there has been a desperate need to improve the foundation for helping residents to stand on their own feet. Improvement of Marine Communications Environment for Baengnyeongdo Island To extend the distance to reach the antenna, which was insufficient between the land and Baengnyeongdo Island, kt applied 4T4R technology, developed for the first time in Korea, to five major islands in West Sea and significantly improved the marine communications environment. As communications devices can be used without disconnection on fishing boats, maritime policy boats, passenger boats, etc., swift response can be possible in emergency situations. Application of GiGA solutions such as installing CCTV to monitor vessels and providing medical, educational, and ICT technology has led to the improvement of living conditions for residents in Baengnyeongdo Island. Establishment of GiGA Microwave: Realized capacity that is four times larger than the previous model by using the single channel As-is To-be 2 ×4 O 2× O4 MIM MIM Satellite LTE: Changing the satellite network into LTE network Exchange between mainland and Koreasat Baengnyeongdo Island Mugunghwa ktsat Satellite Center Place of business B Major Projects and Expected Effects By providing Baengnyeongdo Island, which used to regionally isolated, with various ICT application services, these projects are expected to ensure safety for residents by reinforcing shelters, economic income with profits from tourists, health promotion for residents by remotely checking their health conditions, and foster future generations by establishing online education programs. Baengnyeong GiGA Island with Major Projects Expected Effects Current living conditions ICT-applied service Innovation in daily living Vulnerability in security Reinforcing safety Frequent cases of provocation GiGA Microwave Dumujin Janggol by North Korea Satellite and for residents Sahangpo Frequent contact interruption (Strengthening radio LTE due to sea fog shelters) Economic isolation Increasing Baengnyeong Lack of sales channels olleh CCTV Yeonhwa-ri Island for products GiGA Bus for economic income Extortion of fishing nets Marine Corps (Effects for by Chinese fishing boats inputting tourists) Anxiety for health Health Care Self medical Nampo-ri Lack of medical institutions (Smart band/ check-up Rapidly increasing the senior (Remote health Junghwa-dong population yodoc) check-up) Modernizing Fostering future Poor education condition generation Decrepit education facilities libraries Increasing gap in education Education by IT (Establishment of GiGA Infra Hall Dream School Smart Health Center Video conference from the city Supporters online education) Smart Band/Yodoc Modernization of a library, Satellite, GiGA Microwave, 70 years of suffering, Safe Baengnyeongdo IT Supporters Wireless LTE separated from the nation Island 64 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Leading the Wired and Wireless Communications Market >> Leadership for Future Technology >> Enhancement of Customer Value >> Creating Shared Value through GiGA Story GiGA School/GiGA Creative Village Through GiGA School, kt leads the improvement of the educational environment at Daeseongdong Elementary School located at DMZ, while the company will provide ICT technology in various sectors to expand the exchange of traditional culture between traditional villages and cities and improve local living conditions through GiGA Creative Village. GiGA School Daeseongdong GiGA School Smart Disk_Education Ver 2.0 Daeseongdong Elementary School, which is located in the world’s only DMZ in the northernmost region GiGA School with Major of Korea, had a very poor educational environment Projects due to the limitations of being in a military area. kt has carried out the GiGA School project to allow students to realize their dreams for reunification Group activity Student Sharing content through the GiGA infrastructure-based convergence management solution. Education Smart education with PC, Major Projects and Expected Effects tablet, etc. By establishing Korea’s first next-generation class Q&A, test, realAcademic Sharing screen environment on the basis of GiGA infrastructure that time based poll management and monitoring goes beyond spatial and temporal limitations, kt aims to narrow the gap in educational opportunities • Smart education solution supports mutual and cooperative classes between students and teacher or between students by for children at Daeseongdong Elementary School utilizing various content and devices and contribute to fostering creative global talents. • Possible to control a tablet terminal device and identify Vision situations via remote control Dream School and Dream Mentoring GiGA UHD TV, video conferencing, etc. Expected Effects Major sectors Capability for Biz/CSV Expected effects 1 Education GiGA SmartDisk EDU GiGA UHD TV (Education content) Education with no difference compared to outside DMZ with advanced ICT education facilities Safety 2 kt Dream School (Mentoring by Install automatic executives and employees) Fostering future leaders for Donate education and facilities defibrillators Vision by kt Group reunification by overcoming tragic division Tablet, e-books, and mini-library GiGAtopia 3 Safety Automatic defibrillators (kt linkus Automated External Defibrillator) Establishing a smart emergency environment to deal with emergency Health Stress relief Power generation by bicycle (obesity care) 4 Health Solution for stress control Generator by bicycle (solution for obesity) Sustainable healthcare for children by easy diagnosis management kt’s capability Affiliates’ capability GiGA Creative Village Cheoghak GiGA Creative Village kt carries out local development under the theme of Medical treatment Safety exchanging traditional culture with ICT technology • Customized solution for the • Smart Home solution senior living alone • Solution for fire via online channels between traditional villages prevention and cities. GiGA Creative Village will give traditional villages the opportunity to narrow the digital gap Tourism with cities, while people in the city can experience • Beacon solution traditional culture. The company plans to provide • GiGA Wi-Fi zone other various ICT solutions for medical treatment, safety, travel, culture, etc. kt will realize GiGA Education Creative Village in every corner of the country Culture • IoT education • GiGA Class by expanding the business based on the unit of (Smart Class) • Online mentoring village. • UHD TV kt Integrated Report 65 Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value 지역사회 가치 창출 >> 동반성장 확대 >> 인재 경영 >> 친환경 경영 Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth Creation of Value for the Local Community Talent Management Eco-friendly Management 66 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value 지역사회 가치 창출 >> 동반성장 확대 >> 인재 경영 >> 친환경 경영 kt Integrated Report 67 Expansion of Win-win Growth Importance of Win-win Growth Customers kt operates various businesses in cooperation with numerous companies that range from developing technology to providing products and services. In the Environment Shareholders rapidly changing communications market, win-win growth through mutual growth Material Issue management with suppliers is a requirement to secure competitiveness to lead future technology and provide differentiated service value. • Indirect economic effects • Win-win growth • kt’s market status Local Communities Suppliers Employees kt’s Win-win Management Win-win Growth Composition By focusing on creating a culture where suppliers are respected through close We will foster a culture that respects our partners through close communication. communication and cooperation, kt has installed and operated a professional organization for win-win growth since Global Market Entry Support Idea Commercialization Global Partner’s Day Idea Review Conference 2010. Recently, the company reinforced its role as a one-stop hub for not only communication with suppliers but also One-Stop Hub Win-win conducting win-win growth business Partner Business Guide Partner’s to raise suppliers' competitiveness, Idea Pop Growth Portal Homepage Book Conference operating an online/offline business Conference proposal window to pioneer domestic and overseas sales channels, and receiving and addressing grievances from suppliers. kt’s Competitiveness Core Competency Performance Index Sharing performance Amount of sharing performance About 3.1 billion won Raising and supporting Supporting development infrastructure 19,905 cases competitiveness of suppliers Technology protection 45 cases Transferring license of using patent and technology 54 cases Providing employees with free education 1,323 persons Managing a sustainable supply chain Assessing the supply chain for sustainability 90.3 Future Strategy To become the “Global No. 1 Company,” kt will implement joint business with suppliers, such as those dealing in technology exchange and the development of products, and share achievements with suppliers. Our company will support all our suppliers to improve executive ability and manage the supply chain by sharing best practices among ESG assessment for suppliers, thus building an ICT ecosystem for sustainable growth. 68 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Creating Performances through Cooperation To establish win-win growth culture and create shared achievements, kt pursues cooperation without barriers with suppliers. As well as operating the “Performance Sharing System,” the company has created a foundation for new growth by launching new programs and reinforcing communication with suppliers. New Programs for To launch new products and services in the ICT sector, kt introduced new programs which are jointly operated with SME suppliers in 2014, including Partner’s Fair, RTC, etc. The company leaps forward into another stage Joint Business of collaboration going beyond cooperation by creating new businesses using the excellent technology of SME suppliers and sharing ideas with them at the initial stage of business. Partner’s Fair The Partner’s Fair not only showcases new technology and equipment by suppliers, but also holds separate in-depth technology seminar for each item. Thanks to these efforts, suppliers and kt executives and employees shared opinions and expanded the scope of opportunities for business connection. Showcasing new technology and equipment by suppliers Finding five cases for business tasks Technical seminar between kt Purchased products worth business departments and suppliers Identifying whether equipment can 1 billion and 10 million Experience of new equipment by suppliers be adopted mutually by the current year’s business Achievements in 2014 Making business (Engagement by 22 suppliers) Round Table for Convergence (RTC) As RTC is a program developed to find out ICT agendas from a new perspective in various sectors such as technology, equipment, software, and solutions, kt shares performance by creating businesses with the relevant departments based on ideas found through RTC. Without any boundaries in sector, item and technology, finding agendas in a new ICT Found four future sector creative holding among suppliers business ideas Completed by sharing ideas and discussions among suppliers two business tasks finding agendas in a new ICT sector Achievements in 2014 kt Integrated Report 69 Operation of Since 2006, kt has operated Performance-sharing Performance-sharing System by creating performances and sharing the resulting profits such as reducing costs and improving Implemented a total of 40 tasks for sharing performance Amount of performance sharing: About System quality through the development of equipment and services jointly with suppliers. In 2014, the company conducted a total of 40 assignments, including ten 3.1 billion won theme-based performance-sharing cases and thirty Economic Effects from Sharing Performances regular performance-sharing cases, and shared performances worth about 3.1 billion won. Reinforcing With the Information Sharing Council and On-site Shared Growth Discussion, kt continuously reinforces communication channels with suppliers and lays the foundation for cooperation. In 2014, kt diversified communication communication channels by launching Partner’s Camp to help suppliers to experience practical communication. Major Communication Channels (Basic year: 2014) Category Content No. of Communication Information Sharing Council Collecting opinions for directions and joint cooperation for win-win Operated 45 times growth with suppliers in each sector and conducting measures for improvement Grievance Handling Program Collecting grievances and complaints through official channels for Processed 62 cases supplier portal and communication channels with the director of purchase cooperation and preventing potential risks regarding labor, environment, and human rights issues in the supply chain On-site Shared Growth Addressing issues for shared growth as executives for purchase visit Visited 42 companies On-site Shared Growth Discussion Discussion suppliers on a monthly basis In 2014, conducting discussion by reorganizing it as “theme-based discussion” Partner’s Camp Reinforcing strong ties as single partners and promoting a culture of Once a year win-win growth by sharing thoughts with suppliers and forming bonds based on mutual understanding Supplier Satisfaction Survey We conduct annual multidimensional evaluations of our suppliers in areas such as fair trade, the level of cooperation, and shared growth systems. As a result of our sustained endeavors to improve our substandard practices, our supplier satisfaction rose for three consecutive years. kt will continuously develop our fair trade system and realize win-win growth through cooperation based on communication. Result of Supplier Satisfaction Survey(Score) 2012 1st half 86.90 nd 2 half 89.01 2013 1st half 88.87 nd 2 half 90.66 Integration of 2014 1st and 2nd half 94.9 Interview with stakeholder “As a company with the best network infrastructure, kt has operated the greatest variety of businesses in the communications market by making aggressive investments. As the company’s influence in the industry is so huge, kt’s management activities for creating sustainable value are important issues for suppliers as well. If kt enhances the quality of services based on a strong infrastructure under a firm vision and strategy and secures profits by launching new services through technical exchange with suppliers, sustainable growth with suppliers can be achieved. I expect that kt will take the lead in developing smart solutions in the mobile market as a company developing and supplying internet telephones. If the company vitalizes the ICT ecosystem by focusing on exchanging technology with its suppliers and developing products, kt will lay another foundation as a company for the people.” An Chang II | Director of Moimstone 70 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Efforts for Win-win growth kt complies with “Four Guidelines for Mutual Cooperation between Large-sized companies and SMEs” enacted by the Fair Trade Commission and creates a fair and reasonable trade environment by operating a transparent purchase process. The company supports various programs and conducts mutual management to help suppliers stand on their own feet. Selection and To be able to select suppliers by considering quality as the top priority, kt operates a reformed purchase process. Through quantification assessment, the company determines the order of quality based on assessment scores and Management of signs contracts with the suppliers that can offer the best quality. Through these efforts, suppliers can concentrate Suppliers Based on on technology development, while kt can promote optimization from the perspective of TCO (Total Cost of Quality Ownership) by trading with remarkable suppliers. Purchase System To minimize elements that can undermine fair trade, kt has developed an effective purchase system. With the aim of preventing insolvency in suppliers due to application of a bidding system with the lowest price, kt has introduced for Fair Trade a whole bidding system and adjusts the goal price by reflecting elements for changing the price. kt has allowed smooth financing for suppliers by introducing a middle payment system, expanding the extent of exempting contract deposit/defective guarantee money, easing standards for imposing compensation of deferment, and strived to improve an unfair purchase system by abolishing joint surety and adjusting the period of delivery for holidays. Supporting To help suppliers to secure independent competitiveness and continue cooperative business, kt provides various infrastructures (building, skills, and consulting) to strengthen their management environment. Suppliers Supporting development Technology protection for Transfer of patent, technology, Free education for suppliers’ infrastructure(times) suppliers(cases) and license(cases) employees(persons) 19,905 19,136 56 2,480 45 54 29 1,323 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Expansion of Win-win Growth Programs kt has expanded win-win growth programs to secondary suppliers and strengthened competitiveness in the overall supply chain. The company provides secondary suppliers with 50% of the entire expenses for verification for quality, environment, consulting, and certification as well as offering free education and facilities such as testbed, measuring equipment, comprehensive model room, “Econovation Center,” etc. The company has supported improvement of production process for 20 primary and secondary suppliers by contributing 500 million won to Industrial Innovation 3.0 by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy since 2014. In cooperation with NIPA, kt has improved SW source code defects by 30% on average for 13 companies by implementing consultation for the quality of SW produced by suppliers. Supporting Establishment of Green Ecosystem To reinforce the environmental management capability of suppliers and make an eco-friendly supply ecosystem, kt supports activities for the Environmental Management System (ISO 14001), consulting services, and certificate acquisition by primary and secondary suppliers. 96.91% of kt’s suppliers acquired environmental certificates. In 2014, kt supported three secondary suppliers to acquire certificates. kt Integrated Report 71 Management of Sustainable Supply Chain Sustainability of relevant companies in the supply chain is a requirement for reducing loss and maintaining the sustainability of management activities. Though a supply chain management system that considers economic, social, and environmental elements, kt minimizes risks in the supply chain and carries out win-win growth development in the long-term perspective. Reinforcing the System kt reinforces the management of a sustainable supply chain by establishing a guideline for sustainability management for suppliers and assessment system. In 2014, the company operated an on-site employeesfor Management of based education program for the sustainability management system to help suppliers understand sustainability Sustainable Supply management and carry it out alongside their other management activities. In 2015, we will implement an Chain educational process by focusing on executives of suppliers, operate various programs to enhance the executive ability in the sustainable system, and realize innovation in the supply chain management (SCM) of suppliers. Assessment of Sustainability Management by Suppliers In 2013, kt introduced a system to assess sustainability management by suppliers for ESG to manage potential negative impacts in human rights, labor environment, and environment in the supply chain. Assessment results are reflected in an annual based assessment for suppliers and utilized in re-selecting suppliers and appointing the best suppliers. As a result of the assessments for suppliers in supply/information communications construction sectors in 2014, the average score was 90.3, which showed improvement in the level of the sustainability system by suppliers compared to last year. Sustainability Management Assessment System for Suppliers Economy Environment 15 items such as ethics management, 13 items such as ISO14001, management risks, etc. management for CO2 emissions Win-win growth Products/Construction Society Two items such as safety for products/ Ten items such as income, discrimination, construction, etc. compliance with the labor act, etc. Result of Assessment of Sustainable Supply Chain in 2014 Category Number of suppliers Sustainability assessment Result of participating in the index for suppliers assessment assessment Suppliers for goods 132 companies ESG + Product : 40 indexes 83.9 on average Suppliers for 272 companies ESG + Construction : 32 indexes 96.7 on average information communications construction ※ ESG: Environment, Social (labor, human rights, and social contribution), Governance (ethics, risk management) 72 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Creation of Value for the Local Community Importance of Creating Value for the Local Community Customers The current trend in corporate social contribution activities has changed from charity or donation from the CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) perspective to Environment Shareholders engaging in activities that create shared value from the CSV (Creating Shared Value) Material Issue perspective. Companies can find new business opportunities in social issues that • Contributing to enhancing the are related to their management activities and address these issues while creating quality of life through ICT • Expanding a gap in access to corporate profit. information • Increasing interest in national disasters and incidents Local Communities Suppliers Employees kt’s Management to Create Value for the Local Community kt’s CSV Model as a Company People’s CSV kt Group for the People volunteer A company that prioritizes visiting Based on ICT technology, kt has established group people suffering from national disasters and incidents its unique CSV model through “GiGA Story” and continuously conducted its social contribution activities of sharing IT, love, and kt as a CSV by the people Innovation culture with a strong sense of responsibility company for in daily life Realizing “innovation in daily life” as a company for the people. at remote regions by spreading the people GiGA Story Narrowing CSV for the people the gap in Improving the quality of people’s life by information and culture sharing IT and culture (chamber hall) kt’s Competitiveness Core Competency Performance Index IT sharing activities IT basic education and education program for 678 cases/6,070 persons acquiring certificates for people with disabilities IT sharing volunteer 9,189 cases/88,991 persons Dream Teacher 1,900 persons (Social contribution jobs by the retired) Cultural and medical sharing activities Supporting treatment for hearing-impaired 2,130 persons children Providing universal services Operating national public phones 71,571units Reducing communications bill for people with 175.2 billion won disabilities and low-income households Reducing high-speed internet fees for children in 100,000 persons low-income households Future Strategy Amidst rapidly changes in technological development and the social environment, kt has sought ways to contribute to the local community. We will not only fulfill our responsibility to deal with national issues as a company for the people and continue to implement social contribution activities to enhance the people’s lives, but also internalize our values and vision of social contribution in overall management activities and strengthen our internal capabilities. kt Integrated Report 73 Strategies for Social Contribution Activities To carry out differentiated social contribution activities utilizing the group’s capability, kt operates the Group Social Contribution Committee under the leadership of the CEO. The Group Social Contribution Practical Committee, which is comprised of executives at public relation department, of group companies, utilizes its remarkable capability to various projects for the people such as GiGA Story. Group Social Composition of Social Contribution Committee The Group Social Contribution Contribution Committee is comprised of three Committee Director non-executive members from the academic and professional sectors and media as well as three Public Relation office executive members including executives of kt and affiliates and the director of the foundation. Affiliates’ kt’s Academia Media executives executives Foundation Objectivity is secured as a nonexecutive member is appointed as the director. Major Roles of Social Contribution Committee Social Contribution System 1 Finding social issues highly relevant with kt Group’s management Establishing the Implementation Presenting targets and methods Decision-making 2 for benefit by considering social timeliness and influence by social contribution activities by kt Group Board of Directors Presenting vision for the direction Presenting directions for and operation (Sustainability group and activities Making funds for social deciding and setting 3 contribution by kt Group and presenting the size of use Management Committee) agendas a goal 4 Review for social contribution by kt Group CEO Presenting directions kt Group’s Social Contribution Planning operation kt Group’s Social Contribution Practical Advice for elements needed for and Committee and 5 other social contribution activities by kt Group reporting agendas presenting opinions Committee Direction for Social kt’s social contribution activities focus on improving the people’s convenience by utilizing GiGA infrastructure and ICT technology. As a company for the people, kt has expanded its scope of beneficiaries to every corner of the country Contribution Activities such as remote and mountainous regions through GiGA Story, and enacts efforts to help people at national disaster sites such as Sewol Ferry Sinking Incident. As an IT company, kt strives to address the information gap and adverse effects by managing IT support. The company opened the “Dongja Hope Sharing Center” at a residential area with poor conditions in Dongja-dong and contributed to the creative economy by generating more jobs for seniors. Fulfilling Social To fulfill its social responsibility as a company for the people, kt has reorganized its social contribution group into the IT Supporters since 2015, in which 47,000 executives and employees from kt and major group companies including Responsibilities as retirees engage in volunteer work. a Company for the People Connecting and sharing kt as a Addressing the achievements company for information gap the people kt Group’s Sharing Love IT Sharing Executive and Integration of volunteer groups of Expanding the scope of IT Support to all people IT Employee kt and its group companies Extension of participation by Supporters Volunteer Participated by 47,000 executives Group and employees retirees from kt Supporting national disasters and incidents 74 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management IT Sharing kt aims to share what the company can do best with the local community. Through IT Supporters spreading ICT technology to the vulnerable, disaster relief by using advanced communications technology, and supporting start-up activities based on ICT, kt is realizing a more compassionate world by utilizing IT technology. IT Supporters “IT Supporters” sharing IT knowledge is kt's representative social contribution program. Since its launch in 2007, about 300,000 IT sharing activities have been carried out for individuals and groups with about three million beneficiaries. IT Supporters conducts education on smartphone use for information disadvantaged people. For the visually impaired, voiceover and talk-back education was conducted by reading menus and apps to enable them to use smartphones by sound, while education on smartphone use was conducted through the “Learning Smartphone by Sign Language” video material, produced and distributed by IT Supporters for the hearing impaired. The company implements education for preventing smartphone Activity by IT Supporters addiction and overindulgence in games to create a sound smart culture. kt also supports multicultural females to settle in Korea through IT education and operates an employment program that helps in acquiring certificates. Basic IT Education for People with Disabilities and Process and Education Programs for Acquiring Certificates Utilizing the Acquiring Utilizing Utilizing IT Multimedia Total Internet certificates smartphones Case 10 427 46 186 9 678 Person 165 3,660 340 1,830 75 6,070 Thanks to this contribution, kt has been recognized externally by receiving the prize for realizing information culture and prime minister citation from the National Multicultural Family Network Contest hosted by the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning. Awards and Citations (Recent Three Years) Date Detail Hosted by Dec. 2014 Prize for merit of realizing information culture by the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning in 2014 Planning Sept. 2014 Prize for National Multicultural Family Network Contest by Ministry of Gender Equality and Prime Minister in 2014 Family Dec. 2013 Citation from the Governor of Gyeonggi Metropolitan City Governor of Gyeonggi Metropolitan Government for Education for Prevention of Smartphone City Government Addiction Aug. 2012 Prize in the Regular and Special Sectors in the 19th Volunteering Korea National Volunteering Festival Addressing an To narrow the gap in information for disadvantaged children and youth, kt has provided youth with an opportunity to get quality education by establishing the “Dream School,” an ICT-based two-way mentoring platform, since Educational Gap 2013. The Dream School Project has been assessed as presenting a new social contribution model by providing an through ICT ICT-based mentoring platform. In cooperation with Seoul Metropolitan City from July, 20 volunteer workers from the Seoul Foreign Student Voluntary Group set up one-on-one relationships with elementary school students in Imjado Island, Sinan-gun, Jeollanam-do Province and conduct global mentoring practice as mentors for Dream School. kt Integrated Report 75 Dongja Hope kt opened the “Dongja Hope Sharing Center,” an ICT complex cultural space, in Dongja-dong, Yongsan-gu, which is one of the regions with poor housing conditions in Seoul. The center has various living and cultural and art facilities Sharing Center including a bathhouse, laundry, library, theater, and space for small-sized concerts and IT education, which can be used by anyone free of charge. As a supporting model for shantytowns that utilizes a public-private cooperative network, this center has presented a new model for the creative economy by creating 21 jobs, such as operating a café. As Dongja Hope Sharing Center is a new social contribution role model suitable for the government’s policy direction, many senior officials such as the Chairman of the National Assembly and Mayor of Seoul Metropolitan Government visited the center to encourage its efforts. Support for After the Sewol Ferry Sinking Incident, kt dispatched 130 personnel members for communications support to the incident site to provide wired and wireless communications services without problems. In addition to supporting Sewol Ferry communications for the relief operation and the bereaved, the company installed three large-sized LED screens Sinking Incident for communication at Jindo Indoor Stadium and established and operated a comprehensive situation room for 24 hours. The company also dispatched a total of 720 volunteers from IT Supporters and group executives and employees to provide various support such as free charge service for portable IT devices. kt also contributed donations worth 1.55 billion through the compassion of executives and employees. Dongja Hope Sharing Center Support for Sewol Ferry Sinking Incident Supporting ICT-based kt operates IT education programs for retirees as well as social contribution jobs for about 1,900 retired persons through “Dream Teacher.” By sharing talent, kt Dream Teacher has conducted 13,000 rounds of mentoring for Start-ups about 40,000 persons in the sectors of culture and art, academic support for curriculum, etc. Global Social kt has developed the world’s first app for diagnosing eye diseases by utilizing medical IT technology in cooperation with the Yonsei University Health System. The company distributes the app to developing countries, which find it Contribution Utilizing difficult to identify and diagnose patients with eye diseases due to a lack of medical personnel, free of charge and ICT Technology supports the medically disadvantaged in the world. kt currently cooperates with the Ministry of Health, Malawi, Africa and is conducting a trial application. As UCC by kt’s Labor-Management Sharing Committee receives support from the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family and UN SDGs Korea, the company has conducted video meetings, free medical check-ups, and housing repairs for Vietnamese multicultural families since 2012. Activity by “kt Dream Teacher” UCC video reunion between Korea and Vietnam 76 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Sharing Love As a company for the people, kt carries out various volunteer work and activities for sharing love through its executive and employee volunteer group and Dream Center by utilizing its human and material infrastructure. After jointly proclaiming a new creative Labor-Management culture in 2010, the company has continuously implemented activities to fulfill social responsibility through “Labor Management Together” and “UCC.” Executive and To operate volunteers in a company-wide and systemic way, kt operates an executive and employee volunteer group Employee Volunteer under the leadership of CEO. With approximately 23,000 Group employee volunteers, Love Volunteer Corps launched wide-ranging initiatives—from supporting local children’s centers, helping the underprivileged in local communities and assisting in disaster recovery—to offering assistance to farming and fishing households through the One Company One Village campaign. Activities also include checking the facilities at welfare centers and offering experience-based training that uses kt’s infrastructure. In 2014, 7,714 kt employees volunteered for 51,191 hours. Executive and Employee Volunteer Group Dream Center Since 2010, kt has operated the Dream Center by linking with children centers in major regions to help children from disadvantaged households grow into people that can lead the world. As of 2015, the company operates a total of 21 Dream Centers in Seongnam, Gyeonggi-do Province, where the headquarters is located, Jeju, Mokpo, Busan, etc. Making use of idle spaces in office buildings, Dream Center conducts various educational activities by utilizing IT devices, such as IPTV, beam project, smart pad, and e-book, to enhance academic achievement. Dream Center Labor-Management Labor-Management Together carries out socially responsible activities in joint efforts between kt Together management and the labor union. The group has proactively carried out various sharing activities such as the “Youth Scholarship”, selecting 210 high school students from low-income households and granting scholarships until graduation, and “8-hour Autonomous Volunteer System by Executives and Employees” to conduct nationwide relay volunteer work for local communities. The company has also reinforced labor-management willingness for social contribution by realizing joint proclamation for fulfilling social responsibility and strived to create new value based kt Labor-Management Together activities on exemplary labor-management relations. UCC as Laborkt’s labor union and management joined UN SDGs Korea to engage in global agendas and participate in the UN's SDG Forum by the National Assembly as an advisory member. In 2015, the company prepares to register UCC Management Sharing (Union Corporate Committee)–the intercompany labor-management sharing committee made up of labor unions Committee from 11 other companies and led by kt’s labor union–as an advisory institution for the UN's SDG Forum by the National Assembly to strengthen global activities. As all member companies participated in UCC donation, kt has continuously expanded the scope of its activities. kt Integrated Report 77 Sharing Culture kt holds a concert by operating the kt Chamber Hall to broaden the scope of classical music and utilizes profits from the concert to treat the hearing impaired. The company provides a place for various cultural events, free IT experience, and rest areas at olleh square to contribute to improving the quality of people’s life. kt Chamber Hall kt’s activities for sharing classical music began with the aim to contribute to spreading “sound” as a communications company, conveying voices through radio waves. By operating the kt Chamber Hall, the company contributes to the promotion of classical music. In 2014, the company has held a total of 19 concerts with 8,131 people attending. Meanwhile, profits from concerts are used to treat children with hearing impairments by carrying out the “Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign.” In 2014, 2,000 hearing-impaired children were provided with medical benefits in cooperation with Yonsei University Health System Plus. kt not only just holds a concert, but produces visual content for all concerts, providing it as olleh TV VOD service. With this system, the company supports people who cannot easily visit concert halls due to physical inconvenience or geographic location so that they can conveniently enjoy classical music. Achievements for Finding Sound Activity in 2014 Category Artificial ear Brain-stem Artificial Hearing aid Rehabilitation Support by Total cochlear implant cochlea family implant Number of 2 1 1 5 2,100 21 2,130 Concert at chamber hall beneficiary (person) olleh square Opened in May 2010 and located at the 1st floor of the kt office at Gwanghwamun, olleh square is a complex cultural place for IT experience at a size of 3,300m2 to help Seoul citizens enjoy more high-quality cultural lives. Visitors can experience the latest IT devices free of charge and enjoy cultural experiences through cultural and art concerts by “Sharing with 1,000 Won.” In 2014, about 24,000 small and large cultural events were held, and about 800,000 customers visited olleh square, which has become one of Korea’s most prominent cultural spaces. olleh square Interview with stakeholder “By providing services to communicate through voice, kt conveys deep impressions with sound by conducting various cultural sharing projects. Classical music concerts held at kt Chamber Hall have special significance in contributing to social integration by communicating with people through art and utilizing all profits to help hearing-impaired children. In other words, all audience members engage in social contribution activities. Every concert at kt Chamber Hall can be seen through kt’s media (olleh tv and IPTV) by producing content from these concerts so that people can enjoy cultural experiences without any special and temporal constraints. As recordings from the first concert have been collected to make an archive, the company has made significant record assets in Korea’s classical music history. I hope that the value of communication and sharing which is pursued by kt through cultural sharing Kim Young Bae | Professor at Chugye University for the Arts (Planned kt Chamber Hall) activities from 2009 is shared and conveyed to more people in the world.” 78 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Public Services (Providing Universal Services) As basic telecommunications services that can be offered to every user anytime and anywhere at reasonable prices, universal services refer to communications services that can be smoothly used by most people regardless of social class and residential area. kt fulfills its duty and responsibility as a company for the people by not only providing the socially disadvantaged with a reduction in fees but also offering the same level of services as subscribers in the city to high-cost residents in remote regions. Wire Telephone As a telephone service that mediates communications using subscriber telephones, the local call service provides 13,713,000 subscribers with service as of late 2014. kt operates about 70,000 public telephone booths in the Service country and makes great efforts in enhancing public convenience by utilizing these booths as a charge station for electric vehicles. By mediating wireless communications between the mainland and island or between islands, the company provides communications services to connect residents in 500 remote and isolated islands. Telephone Service For the safety of human resources and maintenance of social order, kt provides free telephone service for emergency special numbers, such as crime report (112), fire and distress report (119), etc. transmitted by wired for Emergency and wireless subscribers. For about 4,000 vessels, the company has also provided vessel wireless phone service Communications and contributed to vessel safety by reporting to relevant institutions on a real-time basis for distress reports. Utilizing public telephone booth as a charge station for Expanding transmitting and receiving stations for vessel wireless electric vehicles communications Fee Reduction Service kt has contributed to enhancing welfare for the socially disadvantaged by reducing 175.2 billion won in communications bills for the use of services such as local calls, mobile calls, and high-speed internet by people for People with with disabilities and low-income households. As the company engaged in the project for “Support Children from Disabilities and LowLow-income Families for Using High-speed Internet” by the Ministry of Education, kt reduced high-speed internet income Households bills and supported the informatization of education. Rate Discount for Each Target Category Total in 2014 Number of recipients (person) Amount of discount (won) Individuals Disabled 1,371 111,234 Low-income Bracket Pensioner 401 47,551 Near-poverty group 67 7,276 Patriots and veterans 104 8,707 Organizations(welfare Institutes for The Disabled etc.) 12 481 total 1,955 175,248 kt Integrated Report 79 Talent Management Importance of Talent Management Customers Executives and employees are kt’s valuable resources because they are our partners who realize the company’s mission and vision. kt believes that the company and its Environment Shareholders executives and employees can achieve a win-win relationship when the company Material Issue respects the employees’ capability and individuality and employees pursue shared value with affection for the company. We will create a work environment where • Increasing interests in balance between work and life individual employees can exert their capability as much as possible, and the labor • Increasing importance for union and management can maintain harmonious relations for the sake of kt’s securing the talent success. Local Communities Suppliers Employees kt’s Talent Management With the belief that fostering talent leads to corporate competitiveness, kt recruits the best and talented people suitable to work as the company’s exemplary employees who “fulfill the basics and principles, communicate continuously to realize customer value, and face challenges with perseverance.” The company places recruited employees at suitable positions and assesses their performances by using a fair personnel system. We also establish a corporate culture where employees can exert their capability as much as possible by completing education based on the company’s talent development program. To encourage all members of the company to work together, kt pursues corporate culture with mutual cooperation and trust so that both management and onsite employees can communicate and cooperate with each other. Exemplary employees for kt The talent continuously takes on challenges The talent respects customers Achieving the best results by not yielding to hardship and Considering interests and satisfaction of customers adversity and continuing to challenge goals in conducting all tasks Realizing differentiated services by leading changes and Respecting customers and fulfilling promises with innovation customers The talent communicates without barriers The talent complies with the basics and principles Continuously striving to ensure mutual growth and Conducting tasks with the pride of being the development by communicating with colleagues owner of a company Creating synergistic effects by cooperating with Acting based on ethical decisions and each other for the success of kt assuming responsibility for the results kt’s Competitiveness Core Competency Performance Index Securing and Maintaining Talent Average continuous service year Male: 18.8 years, Female: 16.9 years New employees 208 persons Fair HR Policy Request for objection to assessment result Reduced by 7% (Number of requests compared to 2013) Reinforcing Capability of Executives and Hours of education for each person 50 hours Employees Balance between Work and Life Rate of returning to the office after parental leave Male: 92%, Female: 87% Communication Management Satisfaction level for online grievance handling 4.78 (out of 5) center Future Strategy To encourage executives and employees to strike a balance between work and life, kt continuously reinforces its flexible working system and will expand self-help programs. We will expand the extent of various emotion care programs provided to promote the mental health for workers, from kt’s employees to kt group companies’ employees. 80 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Securing and Maintaining Talent As the corporate environment has rapidly changed due to technological progress, globalization of the market, and diversification of customer needs, securing talent with professionalism and passion has become a crucial issue for every company. kt strives to secure the best and talented people, who are the basis for corporate development and growth, and raise corporate competitiveness through human resources management suitable for our management strategy. Current Condition The diversity of employees is a crucial pillar in business conduct. kt has 23,235 executives and employees and 3,264 managers at the level of team directors and above, which account for 5.7%. The number of female workers is of Executives and 3,697, which is 16.5% of the total workforce. We hire part-time employees in consideration of job characteristics, Employees and they represented 1.1% of our total workforce in late 2014 (excluding senior managers and professional, experienced part-timers). In accordance with the relevant regulations, kt ensures fair workforce conditions to all employees regardless of status as a permanent or temporary worker. Total Employment type (person) Average years of service (years) • 2012 • 2013 • 2014 • Male • Female Male 27,161 27,225 20.2 19.4 19,538 18.8 17.9 Female 17.5 5,025 17.0 5,226 3,697 2012 2013 2014 Current Condition of Executives and Employees Category 2012 2013 2014 Employment type Full-time Male 26,579 26,599 19,085 (person) Female 4,757 4,993 3,661 Temporary Male 417 413 64 Female 263 219 8 Others Male 165 213 389 Female 5 14 28 Ratio of recruitment in rural areas (As of 2014) Total Male 27,161 27,225 19,538 Female 5,025 5,226 3,697 Ratio of female Employee 15.05 15.7 17.6 Gyeonggi workers for each 5,197 Gangwon position (%) Manager* 4.74 5.7 5.7 744 Seoul Social minority Female 5,025 5,226 3,697 8,596 (person) People with disabilities 824 809 477 Chungbuk Chungnam 532 Employment New 533 286 184 1,597 Gyeongbuk (person) Experienced 291 204 24 1,801 Total 824 490 208 Jeonbuk 675 Turnover (%) Male 0.24 0.33 0.47 Gyeongnam 2,372 Female 0.06 0.28 0.42 Jeonnam 1,472 Total 0.3 0.32 0.46 Average years of Male 19.4 20.2 18.8 Jeju service (years) 249 Female 17.5 17.9 16.9 * Manager: Executives, seniors, managers above team directors kt Integrated Report 81 Compensation for kt fairly offers wages in accordance with the relevant regulations on job position and continuous service years without any discrimination in sex. The company’s current level of remuneration for newly recruited employees is Executives and 172% compared to the legal minimum wage. Employees ●Wage(100 million won) ●Retirement pay*(100 million won) ●Welfare benefits(100 million won) 2012 Total 19,603 1,825 3,383 24,811 2013 19,796 2,010 3,718 25,524 2014 16,282 1,477 2,958 20,717 * kt offers both DB (defined benefit) and DC (defined contribution) plans. Creating Jobs Despite tough management conditions, kt has reduced the ratio of employment of experienced positions and conducted new recruitment in the second quarter of the last year to fulfill corporate social responsibility in “addressing youth unemployment” and “creating new jobs.” The company expanded the ratio of employment for applicants from rural areas, which used to be concentrated in the metropolitan area, with the aim of addressing employment issues with too much focus on the metropolitan area and strike a balance in the development of local communities (40% for metropolitan areas, 60% for rural areas). kt holds “kt Start Audition” on nationwide units (Busan, Daegu, Gwangju, and Daejeon), which was introduced in the metropolitan area in 2013 with the aim of “settling recruitment culture based on capability over qualification.” As the size of the audition was doubled, the company takes the lead in minimizing the cost for having unnecessary qualifications by the youth. Ratio of recruitment in rural areas(%) metropolitan 40 60 rural areas areas kt Star Audition based on on-site interview Commitment to Hiring kt has no distribution and limitations for people with disabilities in the overall personnel system such as recruitment, ranks, and promotion. Currently, 477 employees with disabilities work at kt. As of 2014, the rate of the Disabled employment of the disabled is 2.21%. We support the disabled to be respected and exert their capability. As a result, the ratio of directors among the disabled at the level of team director/executive has reached 10.7%. Respect for kt respects individual diversity and provides employees the same opportunity to prohibit discrimination against its employees on the grounds of personal or academic connections, gender, religion, physical hardship, or for Employee Rights any other reason deemed irrelevant to the fulfillment of employment duties. To create a culture that respects employees, the company proactively undertakes initiatives for work-life balance and equal opportunity, while offering institutionalized support to protect minors and maternity. We are in full compliance with human rights regulations. Pregnant employees are banned from working overtime and offered reduced workloads, while 90-day pre/postnatal leave and one-day non-paid menstruation leaves are also available. At the same time, the company provides various caring packages and operates a leave system for each life cycle of female workers. 82 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Fair HR Policy Fully engaging employees in the development of an organization requires fair and effective HR management practices. At kt, our HR systems are designed to quickly adapt to rapidly shifting labor conditions and consider the importance of job responsibilities, as well as the qualifications and performance factors. In so doing, we continue to search for ways to encourage individual employees to reach their full potential, while balancing the mutual growth of both the company and employees. Job Assignment Our TM (Talent Market) program, an IT-based TM (Talent Market) Program Process open HR system, was launched in 2009 to allow based on Market employees to choose their own assignment and Mechanism voluntarily begin work. Through IT systems, the Occurrence of Staffing Selection from Departments TM program discloses assignment information in need staffing needs announcement the pool of candidates that ranges from staffing plans to the current status and necessary job qualifications. This improves the transparency of workforce supply Pre-registration and demand and enables us to promptly assign Individuals of desired the right people to the appropriate position. The departments company encourages employees to reinforce their professionalism and career management Assignment by allowing them to move to the appropriate HR of selected position by considering their work experiences, individuals expertise, and work relevance. Fair Compensation kt applies the discriminative rate for income increase depending on individual Current condition of objection cases performance. Assessment ranks are divided into S, E, G, N, and U, and the for assessment results(cases) based on company maintains the ratio of employees at G-level and above by 90%. All Performance executives and employees set annual goals for performance management at the 63 beginning of each year through consultation with evaluators and receive annual assessment and regular performance coaching. The standards and procedure for 43 40 assessment are disclosed transparently to all executives and employees, while the company raises fairness by implementing education for evaluators, applying for objection for assessment, and operating a follow-up monitoring program. Through calibration with primary and secondary evaluators, we conduct assessment for preventing dogmatic assessment errors. Thanks to these efforts, the number of objections to assessment results has continuously decreased. 2013 2013 2014 Fair Promotion To motivate all employees to set their future goals and strive to achieve visions, kt abolished the single band/ name system, which was implemented from 2009, and reintroduced the rank/promotion system from 2014. System Under this new system, employees were placed at five positions–Employee, Assistant Manager, Manager, Deputy General Manager, and Head of Department–depending on their work experience and performance. In promotions, an income increase (quantum-jump) equivalent to the pay-band for each position is applied. To establish a fair promotion system based on high-performance workers, employees for promotion are selected in order of high score by adding points granted each year, depending on internal and external activities and personal performance/ capability. With this system, kt has created a corporate culture that pursues long-term high-performance and operated predictable and transparent promotions. Expansion of Rewards/ kt’s “Top-down Compliment Culture” aims to praise and encourage employees for their exceptional performance. The company operates “Branch Manager Commendation” to offer immediate rewards without procedural or formal Vitalization of Top-down restrictions. As these commendations are directly awarded by team leaders, the recipient’s family members are invited Compliment Culture to the awarding ceremony to instill pride and develop loyalty to the company. We have also launched “Presents with Family’s Encouragement” to let the recipients share their success with family members. Employees having more than 30~40 years of work experience with kt are awarded with the plaque of appreciation and special bonus pay. These commendations are directly offered by team leaders with the employee’s colleagues in attendance to show respect and appreciation for their long-standing dedication. In the reward section on the corporate website, we disclose the detailed achievements of those honored with the CEO Citation or the kt Award. This not only serves to improve transparency in regard to the awards, but also encourages employees to become more interested and engaged in such programs. kt Integrated Report 83 Reinforcing Capability of Executives and Employees kt provides various and systemic programs to encourage executives and employees to grow into the best kt members they can be, people with the capability to find new opportunities for growth and take the lead in the rapidly changing technology environment and intensively competitive communications market. To realize our goal of becoming a “global No. 1 kt,” the company continuously communicates to realize customer value, upholds basic ethics and principles, and strives to cultivate kt members who can face challenges with a strong will. Fostering Leaders as kt accelerates efforts for change and innovation to become a “kt for the talent.” With the aim of fostering “members with initiative and endurance,” “leaders leading change and performance,” and “experts whose performance is Winners in the Market recognized in the market,” the company has reestablished and implemented three major systems such as core value education, leader fostering education, and job expert fostering education. In the education sector, kt as an ICT company has enhanced professionalism and convenience in business by reinforcing “Mini Course,” a smart mobile program strengthening timeliness and mobility, and met various executives and employees’ needs for growth by increasing the number of e-learning courses from 187 in 2013 to 1,246 in 2014. Through these efforts, the company saved direct and indirect expenses worth 526 million won, including expenses for business trips by trainees. The company plans to achieve other subsidiary effects of saving a comparable amount in costs in 2015. Further, kt utilizes this know-how for e-learning education as a new business opportunity; professional e-learning group companies achieved 14.2 billion won in sales in 2014 and plan to create 16.8 billion won in 2015. Program for Promoting Capability of Executives and Employees Recovering kt DNA and raising competitiveness to become global No. 1 by education On-site Common for Leadership R&D IT Global education jobs Common education Global Biz Analyzing Professional IT Academy, Executives for executives Academy, financial No. 1 on-site R&D Security Education before statements Sharing, spreading, and getting familiarized with core values experts Academy experts, Education for new dispatching (professional), Education directors overseas etc. Education for candidates IT planning Making Business of director assistants and operation, Sales business for development, Planning Directors Intensive Information Training technology, Overseas report protection, Academy, Intellectual sales, (intensive), DB for Education for new etc. property Overseas etc. infrastructure, director assistants rights operation S/W Regular education Team director Specialized for team directors education for Reinforcing Analyzing management Understanding capability for Education for new Practical R&D Excel team directors Basic of projects IT trends/ commanding statistics distribution technology a foreign (basic), etc. channels, language Employees Education for new etc. employees at each position Entry education for Entry education for regularly Entry new employees recruited employees 84 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Providing Practical Leader Education As the previous rank system was revived in 2014, kt implements education for promoted employees in each rank to enhance their pride and foster them as proactive leaders, who can proactively play their roles in each position. For directors, the company emphasizes the importance of empowerment, communication, and cooperation and provides practical leader education based on cases that emphasize an attitude of willingness and innovation. Through the “Executive Leadership Program,” the company fosters the group of candidates for management leaders in advance, while launching the “Fostering Director Program” to develops the qualifications for leadership as winning leaders in the market by having them conduct actual management issues. kt continuously provides opportunities to take MBA and Master’s degree courses at home and abroad to maximize the capability of core employees who can lead the company and nurture them as global No. 1 leaders with professionalism. Strengthening On-site Education Directly Leading to Business Performances Considering customers as our top priority, kt reinforces on-site education based on on-site cases that directly leads to business performance by addressing discussion-based issues. The company also contributes to improving services by repeating drills until the service quality by employees at customer contact points is improved. To support these efforts, we selected and fostered 275 employees with professionalism and loyalty as professional lecturers and stationed them in on-site education with the aim of sharing and applying know-how. In addition, the company has enhanced application of education by regularly providing 850 video clips for work knowledge and onsite cases, which can be studied anytime and anywhere through mobile devices, as well as continuously expanding the scope of content and improving the quality to realize innovation. Continuing and Reinforcing Global and Future Capability To preemptively foster manpower conducting global projects to realize “global No.1 kt,” the company has reflected various requests from each business sector and developed and operated 17 customized education courses in three-stage jobs, including “development of business”, “overseas sales”, and “conducting on-site overseas projects”. As the company also implemented mock-up global projects by using action-learning methods for “Global Business Academy” and “Education before Overseas Dispatch,” kt has directly contributed to earning achievements from global projects by fostering overseas business directors and PMs who can directly work in the actual business. Meanwhile, the company implemented on-time education to secure continuous competitiveness as an ICT company and support IT business and operated a total of 69 education programs, including education for security experts, for technical personnel members in development departments depending on their level of capability. With the aim of reinforcing connection between R&D and future convergence business, the company has Reinforcing Global Capability Education established a new R&D education system and strengthened the R&D personnel’s capability for convergence and business implementation to increase future-oriented business support. Enhancing Synergistic Effects between Departments through Discussion-based Cross Education As employees at various positions from planning and on-site departments engage in education to discuss major current issues and perform tasks, kt proactively utilizes education in addressing issues. This system has contributed to realizing a “Single kt”, tearing down the walls between departments through communication and collaboration, and expanded atypical learning based on on-site business, contributing to improving management performance by sharing various best cases with relevant executives and various types of employees. Hours and Expenses of Education for Executives and Employees Discussion-based Cross Education Category 2012 2013 2014 Course Number Course Number Course Number (number) (person) (number (person) (number) (person) Collective 804 59,023 857 51,978 1,216 39,332 education e-learning* 121 100,159 187 60,363 1,246 244,332 Hours of 91 66 62 education for each person (H) Education 713 710 710 expenses for each person (1,000 won) * Thanks to the expansion of Mini Courses in 2014, the total number of e-learning courses has exponentially increased without increasing education expenses. kt Integrated Report 85 Balance between Work and Life kt has made a great workplace to promote both families and the company developing continuously together. The company provides an environment where executives and employees can work with a sense of ownership based on creativity and passion, and it provides the working condition to help individuals pursue happiness and excitement in their lives and families. Leave System Other than a legal leave system, kt implements a leave system for work-life balance to encourage employees to recharge when they must, as well as give birth. The leave system includes parental leave for nurturing children under the age of 8 (2nd year of elementary school), sub-fertility leave for supporting female employees with sterility to give birth via in vitro fertilization, and refresh leave providing high-performance employees with long-term continuous service with opportunities for self-help and recharging. kt improved the relevant system in 2014 so that employees using these leave programs do not have any disadvantages. The company has taken measures to apply the rate of income increase during the leave and prevent disadvantages in promotion. Outplacement kt operates “kt Life Plan” to assist employees in adapting to the rapidly changing social environment and prepare for another kind of life after retirement. Our “Change Management Program” for current employees consists of Support Program value enhancement courses, vocational development courses, start-up capability enhancement courses, and career development & management courses. For employees who are about to conduct voluntary resignation or retirement, the company operates the “Start-up Support Leave System” to provide opportunities to change careers by encouraging them to attempt to operate a start-up while working at the company. In 2014, 8,000 employees who conducted special voluntary resignation attended a retiree workshop and future design seminar, while the company operated various programs such as professional start-up for returning to farming villages/home, education for reemployment, and job placement depending on individual work experience and capability. Female Life Cycle kt provides caring programs suitable for each stage of pregnancy/childbirth/childrearing to prevent discontinuance of career for female employees and support work-life balance. For the pregnancy stage, the company offers Caring Package programs such as support for medical expenses, leave for fetus check-up, and shortened work hours, while offering Program leave before and after childbirth, subsidiary for childbirth, and childbirth emotional care programs at the stage of childbirth. At the stage of childrearing, the company provides institutional and financial support such as shortening working hours, use of nursery facilities at the workplace, and granting scholarships. Ratio of Returning to Work after Using Parental Leave Employees using 215 • Female parental leave • Male 164 (person) 130 61 26 28 2012 2013 2014 Ratio of returning to work after Rate of working for 12 months and over using parental leave (%) after returning to work (%) 97 99 97 99 92 93 92 87 86 81 76 62 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 * Standard for calculation: Number of use and basic year for application date 86 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Welfare and Benefit System Support for a stable life • Support for housing funds to buy or rent a house for employees who do not own their own homes • Providing a dormitory and company housing for employees living alone or from other regions • Lending funds for stabilizing living condition Education for children • Operating eight nursery facilities for young children • Granting scholarships for high school student children Support for medical • Supporting medical expenses for employees, their spouses, and children expenses/medical • Application for group insurance by the company check-up • Supporting medical check-ups for employees and their spouse Support for leisure/ • Operating in-company recreational facilities at six offices (Gyeongju, Geoje, Jirisan culture/living Mountain, Muju, Dogo, Daegwanryeong) on a regular basis • Operating R&R facilities for summer • Providing selective welfare points for self-help, culture/leisure, healthcare, etc. Support for family events/ • Support for expenditures for congratulations and condolences and disaster relief supplies for funeral/condolence flowers • Support for application for group insurance • Support for application for mutual protection policy and funeral service (matching grant) Support for pension • Support for pension savings Expansion of Flexible kt operates a flexible working system by which employees can adjust their commuting time depending on each situation and characteristic while not being tied up by standardized working hours. In 2014, the company introduced Working System other systems as well as the existing selective working system where all employees at the company can select their commuting time flexibly, including the discretion working system through which employees themselves at the IT/ Research department determine the distribution of working hours, and core-time working system through which employees at customer contact point departments can adjust commuting hours so that they can freely implement customer care. By using these various flexible working systems, executives and employees maximize work efficiency and have positive effects in striking a balance between work and life, which leads to enhancing work productivity as well as internal and external customer satisfaction level. Current condition of using flexible working system in 2014(persons) Selective Discretionary Core-time work work work 2547 40 37 * Discretion work and core-time work systems began to be implemented from November 5, 2014. Work-Life Win-win To assist employees to pursue life balance and reduce conflicts between work and life, kt encourages all employees to leave the office on time by Campaign designating every Wednesday as the day for family. On this day, the heads of each department take the lead in leaving the office on time and encourage other employees to do so as well, while meetings and work orders after the time for leaving the office are prevented as all employees focus on work during working hours. With the rule of not having company gatherings and meetings for drinking after working hours, the company strives to establish a culture with a day that emphasizes the importance of family. We also implement the system of leaving the office early so that employees can have early leave for their or their spouses' birthdays and wedding anniversaries and ultimately strike a balance between work and life. kt Integrated Report 87 Communication Management Open corporate culture and communication is required to deal with rapidly changing market conditions, building trust in the company, and overcome crises. kt enhances trust inside and outside of the company by establishing an open culture and draws creative ideas by handling grievances from executives and employees and improving work satisfaction level. Grievance Handling To prevent employee grievances and address Grievance Handling Process them swiftly, kt operates the grievance System handling system through various channels. Request for Performance for the Recent Three-year’s The company has operated the “Grievance re-handling if Grievance Website, phone Operation of kt 119 Grievance Handling Center unsatisfied calls, e-mail, fax Handling Committee,” which is comprised of occurrence with outcomes Number of using • 2012 Labor-Management representatives at 252 the system (Case) • 2013 offices, and launched “kt 119,” a website for 2,275 • 2014 reporting grievances, to improve convenience 4,390 for employees and realize the expedient handling of grievances. The number of Grievances 3,073 Feedback kt 119 submitted employees using kt 119 on an annual basis Others Operating an offline grievance handling system separately has increased from 2,275 cases in 2012 to Satisfaction level (Score) 3,073 cases in 2014, and the website has been continuously improving the satisfaction level. 4.55 In 2015, the company has newly established Grievances 4.74 the “Labor-Management Mutual Growth handled Satisfaction Consultation 4.78 Center” that is jointly operated by labor union surveys with relevant and management 24 hours a day to provide an departments ※ Number of employees using the system has been decreased compared to last year as the bulletin board was closed (April-June, 2014) to improve the system. integrated solution offering a one-stop process for reporting grievances. Labor-Management Mutual Growth Committee Labor-Management kt guarantees organization of labor unions and other representative agencies. By Relations for Mutual Addressing grievances safety operating the Union shop system where Division for and health issues, innovating Growth employees join as a member of the labor union “Respected working conditions, and No. 1 kt” improving the quality of life upon entry into the company by collective agreement, the company guarantees free application and withdrawal. As of December LaborDivision for Management 2014, the ratio of application for the labor “Making Mutual Growth union by kt’s employees was 76.5%. The Advanced LaborCommittee Management company efficiently shares major policy and Culture” Labormanagement conditions with the labor union Management in advance. As of 2014, a total of 366 cases of Mutual Center Labor-Management agreement, consultation, Finding and spreading the best cases, Case reports regarding grievances, safety, and and notification were implemented. fulfilling social responsibility, finding role health can be received 24 hours a day, and they are models for Labor-Management culture, and solved within the shortest time. (Diversification of taking the global lead report channels such as ARS, SMS, e-mail, OC, etc.) Interview with stakeholder “kt has strived to address difficulties for on-site employees through mutual growth and cooperation to solve current management issues together. For this aim, kt holds the Labor-Management Mutual Growth Committee on a regular basis and operates the LaborManagement Mutual Growth Center where employees can directly report their grievances 24 hours a day. The company strives to not only develop the company but also improve working conditions of employees. As part of these efforts, the “Flexible working system” is expected to enhance the quality of employees’ lives by encouraging them to adjust their commuting time autonomously. Although most volunteer work by other companies is led by the companies themselves, kt’s labor union has taken the lead in doing volunteer work to make a society where everyone can be prosperous together and fulfill the company's social responsibility for the people. By holding a joint proclamation ceremony by the labor union and management on March 31, their willingness to conduct social contribution has been solidified. The company contributed to the development of the local community by implementing “Labor Management Together” through which all employees conducted volunteer work for eight consecutive years in relay groups. kt also proactively carries out sharing activities at home and abroad and creates new value in exemplary Labor-Management relations by leading the activities by the Labor-Management sharing committee (UCC) among the currently participating 11 companies. As the value of sharing started from the belief that employees work for the people, kt’s labor union and management will grow together by Hwang Sung Kwan | Executive Vice President of kt Trade Union listening to opinions from various stakeholders and providing the people with convenience.” 88 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Employee Health and Safety kt strives to ensure the safety and health for executives and employees under our vision of “Safe Workplace! Healthy Employees!” The company will establish a safe corporate culture by not only establishing a system for swift emergency safety and response through a companywide control tower, but also building a preventive safety and health system and reinforcing management. Strengthening Capability To prevent major disasters such as large accidents and collective diseases and strengthen the capability to for Integrated Safety swiftly respond to emergencies, kt has established and implemented measures to reinforce the safety and risk Management and Expanding response system. The company has also established and shared annual industry safety and health plans with onsite departments to encourage them to establish detailed plans and reinforce executive abilities. We additionally Mental Health Programs established safety and health measures for seasonal vulnerabilities at each business site, and we remove potential risks for each season in advance to minimize potential damage in vulnerable sectors. Establishment of Preventive Through regular safety and health education for executives and employees, kt spreads knowledge regarding safety regulations and health promotion. We send safety messages in emergencies, such as heavy rain or snow and Safety and Health System frozen roads, as a measure for predicting and preventing disasters by on-site departments. The on-site departments and Making Safe Corporate implement four-stage daily zero accident safety activities and hold a Safety Check Day on the fourth day of each Culture month by designating the safety themes for each season (CPR, health check-up, prevention of food poisoning and car accidents, etc.). We also make great efforts to boost morale by holding the Industrial Safety and Health Contest on a regular basis (2/4 quarter) each year and giving prizes to business sites with zero accidents. Both the labor union and management jointly visit the family members of industrial disaster victims at least once, and the company proactively helps them to return to the workplace early by compensating the difference in benefits and supporting medical expenses. In addition, after consultation between the labor union and management, compensation for severe industrial disaster victims has been expanded to care for them and their family members. Providing Practical Safety In April 2015, kt implemented CPR education and training for all employees Education and Spreading at East Gwanghwamun Building and supported education for “CPR and AED Culture for Healthy Life certificate”, an expert course for employees at four major buildings (head office); through this support, 93 employees acquired the certificate. As employees at kt have the capability to take first-aid measures in emergency, the company will expand CPR education for all employees at the company and suppliers for management of buildings and facilities. By conducting smoking cessation, temperance, and exercise campaigns in line with the government’s health promotion policy, the company makes great efforts to spread a culture that is about leading autonomous and proactive healthy lives for employees. CPR Skills Education Healthcare for Employees kt strives to conduct activities for preventing and treating diseases by having comprehensive medical check-ups and Prevention of Diseases for all executives and employees (including spouses) at least once a year. Based on the result of the check-ups, the company presents measures for health promotion by analyzing statistical data. When diseases such as cancer are found, we provide the cost for medical treatment through subscribed group insurance. Meanwhile, the company optimizes work-life balance and psychological health conditions by launching a differentiated well-being leave system and operates a welfare and benefit management system (support for a nursing facility/fostering the talent/ medical expenses/scholarship/funds for stable life, etc.). In connection with professional institutions, the company measures the level of stress of all employees. Based on the relevant result, kt then takes measures for mental health promotion such as customized stress control. Our company strives to manage and prevent stress for employees by operating the psychological consultation center, and we conduct circulating consultation for employees who find it difficult to visit the consultation center and work at a remote office. To alleviate stress and enhance work satisfaction, the center also operates mental health promotion programs such as “Healing Camp” and “Letters for Understanding” and has expanded the scope of target for benefits from kt to group companies. Smoking cessation, temperance, and exercise campaign kt Integrated Report 89 Eco-friendly Management Importance of Eco-friendly Management Customers Eco-friendly management to minimize environmental impacts in the process of corporate activities is a requirement, not a choice, for companies. As climate change Environment Shareholders due to GHG emissions has become a global issue, requests for companies to reduce Material Issue GHG emissions have rapidly increased. kt recognizes the corporate responsibility to the environment as one of the core elements for sustainability management as well as • Developing green IT technology an opportunity for new business. • Providing services considering customers’ health and safety Local Communities Suppliers kt’s Eco-friendly Management Employees Under the vision of “Green kt, Green Korea,” kt has established three sub-visions consisting of “Green of kt,” “Green by kt,” and “Green Paradigm by kt” to carry out eco-friendly management. The company operates the Environmental Management Committee to internalize eco-friendly management in all management activities. Composed of five sub-divisions, the committee is held on a regular annual basis to discuss major issues regarding environmental management from the company-wide perspective and establish various strategies. Vision and System for Environmental Green kt, Green korea Energy Company-wide Management Division energy saving Low-carbon management Service Developing and supplying by conducting eco-friendly Division green IT technology management activities and Green of saving energy Environmental kt Purchase Greenhouse gas management and Management Division eco-friendly purchase by suppliers Committee External Affairs Coping with environmental Division regulations and index Making low-carbon national Green Having a new growth economy and daily life Green by kt Paradigm by engine by finding Resource Reducing water use/waste, through kt’s capability convergence business in Division Management of electromagnetic in the IT sector kt connection with IT wave kt’s Competitiveness Core Competency Performance Index Eco-friendly management CDP 2014: Selected as the 1st rank in the Global Carbon Management Communications Sector External assessment Korea Climate Change Competitiveness Index 2014: Selected as the top company in the communications business Energy intensity 0.0465tCO2eq/KRW million GHG emission reduction Carbon emissions 10.89 million tCO2eq (Reduced by 0.8% compared to 2013) Energy efficiency Cost for saving energy 8 billion Recycling resources Amount of water use 2,807,124 tons (Reduced by 6.5% compared to 2013) Amount of waste discharge 36,148 tons (Reduced by 0.3% compared to 2013) Eco-friendly products/services Reduction of social GHG emission 1,163,265tCO2eq Sales of Eco-friendly Service 926.8 billion Public policy participation and certification Green certificate Two cases (one technical case, one business case) Compliance with electromagnetic limits 99.2% of radio stations with less than 10% of Result of measuring electromagnetic intensity electromagnetic intensity compared to standard for body protection Future Strategy kt aims to become global No. 1 eco-friendly company with the vision of “Green Global” beyond “Green kt, Green Korea.” To realize this goal, we will not only strengthen internal capability for environmental management, but also take the lead in coping with climate change by conducting various energy saving activities. 90 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Reduction of GHG Emissions As climate change has become a major global issue, coping with climate change is an important issue for not only the government but also companies. With the aim of reducing 20% of GHG emissions by 2020 compared to 2007, kt implements various activities to cope with climate change. By expanding low-carbon service, we contribute to reducing GHG emissions in the country. GHG Emissions In 2009, kt established a mid and long-term integrated roadmap for reducing carbon emissions as well as a goal to cut 20% of carbon emissions by 2020 compared to 2007. To realize this goal, the company set a greenhouse Management inventory system for the first time among communications companies in Korea to control company-wide GHG emissions in a systematic way. As well as ScopeⅠand Ⅱ emissions, which must be managed according to law, kt voluntarily manages Scope Ⅲemissions to leap forward into another stage as a global No. 1 eco-friendly company. The company conducts mid and long-term greenhouse strategies through various statistical analyses, and based on the Environmental Management Committee, the company finds annual tasks for each group, establishes goals for reduction, and carries out activities for the reduction of GHG emissions. GHG Inventory System Scope I,II kt calculates GHG emissions and reports the result on an annual basis to fulfill its duty to manage GHG emissions (ScopeⅠand Ⅱ) in accordance with the Framework Act on Low Carbon, Green Growth. The scope of target for report Emissions includes all facilities under the management control by kt, such as buildings, forward deployment business sites, Management base stations, relay stations, and other communications facilities. Current Condition of Emissions By complying with the internal policy, including “Guideline for Calculation of GHG Emissions” and “Guideline for Management for Operation of GHG Target Management,” kt calculates the company-wide amount of GHG emissions. After being verified for calculation and management of emissions by the government-designated verification institution, the company has enhanced credibility in data. kt’s GHG emissions are caused by various energy sources such as diesel, gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, LNG, electricity, heat (steam), etc. Among them, the largest amount comes from the use of electricity for operating wire/wireless network communications equipment and the IDC server, and this amount accounts for over 95% of the total GHG emissions. The amount of kt’s companywide GHG emissions in 2014 was 1.089 million tCO2eq, a decrease of about 0.8% compared to 2013; the total amount of energy use was 2,460,536Mwh, a decrease of about 2.6% compared to 2013. Current Condition of Emissions (Unit: 10,000 tCO2eq) ●Scope I ●Scope Ⅱ Total 2012 63,251 1,035,575 1,098,826 2013 60,481 1,037,293 1,097,774 2014 44,073 1,044,655 1,088,728 Change rate in reducing the amount of energy use (Unit: Mwh) 2012 2,536,009 2013 2,527,385 2014 2,460,536 kt Integrated Report 91 Reduction of GHG Emissions Scope Ⅲ kt additionally manages Scope Ⅲemissions as well as ScopeⅠand Ⅱ to meet stakeholders’ needs for carbon control management and fulfill the vision of “Green Korea” in pursuit of the national low-carbon initiative. As Emissions indirect emissions related to management activities, the amount of emissions at ScopeⅢ is managed by kt Management with being defined into three major sectors: ①SCM stage: GHG emissions by kt’s suppliers, ②Use stage: GHG emissions for products offered by kt to customers, and ③Other Scope Ⅲ: GHG emissions caused by business trips and commuting by kt’s employees, use of water, and waste discharge. Current Condition of GHG Emissions ① Emissions from the SCM (Supply Chain Management) Stage As part of the support for win-win growth and eco-friendly management by suppliers, kt calculates and manages GHG emissions caused by primary suppliers. The scope of calculation of GHG emissions is the amount of GHG emissions discharged in the process in which kt produces products for suppliers. The methodology for calculation of emissions was developed based on the “Corporate Value Chain (ScopeⅢ) Accounting and Reporting Standard” by WRI; the amount of GHG emissions at the SCM stage in 2014 is 48,963tCO2eq. (Unit: tCO2eq) Category 2012 2013 2014 Wire devices 2,430 472 251 Wireless devices 3,935 1,269 1,472 Communications 30,925 48,197 47,240 service-based facilities Total 37,390 49,938 48,963 ② Emissions from Service Use Stage As GHG emissions at the use stage are emissions caused when customers use products and services provided by kt, the company calculated the amount within the limit of B2C service. Targets for calculation include electricity consumed by modem or set-top boxes, which are installed in homes to use services such as internet or olleh tv, or electricity consumed in charging cell phones. kt manages emissions at the use stage by dividing the amount into three major categories including home, mobile, and internet terminals. The methodology was developed based on the amount of electricity consumption for each terminal device (electricity for consumption and standby power), number of service users, and hours for use; as of 2014, the amount of GHG emissions at the use stage is 461,508tCO2eq. (Unit: tCO2eq) Category 2012 2013 2014 Home terminals 44,873 40,783 35,026 Mobile terminals 89,117 168,621 199,790 Internet terminals 270,143 237,846 226,692 Total 404,134 447,249 461,508 92 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management ③ Other ScopeⅢ GHG emissions for other Scope Ⅲ uses are defined as the amount of GHG emissions caused by water (tap water) used at the company by employees, waste treatment, business trips, and commuting. The amount is calculated based on the “Guideline for Low-carbon and Green Exercise (Ministry of Environment),” “Standard for Carbon Labeling Certificate (Korea Environmental Industry and Technology Institute), and methodology which is presented by the national LCI DB. (Unit: tCO eq) 2 Category 2012 2013 2014 Water consumption 996 997 932 Waste treatment Domestic waste 294 349 357 Recycled waste 11,703 750 650 Construction waste 186 114 113 Business trips Downtown 319 380 296 Long distance 880 659 669 Overseas 2,931 8,551 1,677 Commuting Bus (local, express) 801 762 877 Subway 68 76 57 Private vehicles 25,048 22,495 17,828 Train 72 25 22 Mixed (bus+subway) 599 210 438 Total 43,897 35,368 23,916 Performance for The amount of company-wide GHG emissions in 2014 was 1.089 million tCOeq, which decreased by 0.8% compared to the previous year. kt has succeeded to reduce the amount by 10.5% compared to 2007, which is the Reduction of GHG base year for the goal. The result has secured credibility as kt’s GHG emissions for Scopes Ⅰ,Ⅱ, andⅢare verified Emissions by kt by not only accredited verification institution, but also the methodology for data and calculation of emissions. kt will maintain the strict GHG emissions management system and gradually broaden the extent of emissions management for Scope Ⅲ to solidify its status as a global No. 1 eco-friendly company. Increase in the Amount of GHG Emissions (Unit: 10,000tCO2eq) Verification 130 120 110 100 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 2013 2014 kt Integrated Report 93 Energy Efficiency To achieve “Green kt, Green Korea” by carrying out activities for reducing GHG emissions, kt not only finds internal energy-saving business, but also invests in new renewable energy proactively. With the aim of providing low-carbon service, the company aggressively strives to secure facilities for energy efficiency, including launching advanced reduction technology and realizing a simple network. Reducing Electricity for Air Conditioning by Air-side Economizer System As communications equipment at kt Communications Hall such as exchange equipment and centralized equipment are important for heat, and even slightly excessive heat can lead to communications disorder. For these reasons, air-conditioning devices are operated for 24 hours a day to provide high-quality communications service. kt continuously carries out many efforts to minimize the use of electricity by optimizing the air-condition system at the Communications Hall and realizing a low-electricity level. In 2014, the company succeeded to cut the amount of electricity use by establishing air-conditioning devices, which bring cold exterior air to the hall during the winter, while minimizing telecommunications disorders by enabling dust control through automatic roll filters. High-efficiency Temperature Chamber Reducing Electricity Use through High-efficiency Temperature Chamber As adequate temperature control is imperative in stably operating servers in the IDC Server Room, a temperature chamber is installed. kt has reduced the amount of electricity use by changing the existing regular temperature chamber coupled with a fan/motor and double-lined condenser, which consume a large amount of electricity, to a brazing condenser with high-efficiency inverter fan/motor. Counter Flow Tower/Open Cooling Tower Reducing Electricity through High-efficiency Cooling Tower kt has succeeded in reducing the amount of electricity use through the replaced cooling tower at the rooftop of the IDC building. Electricity has been saved by changing the existing pressed air blast/open-type cooling tower into a high-efficiency circular counter flow/open-typed cooling tower. Realizing the Simple Network through Nationwide Wide Network To minimize electricity consumption to operate the network, kt realizes the simple network. The company has shifted the network of communications stations, which are dispersed nationwide, into a network based on wide regions and introduced high-efficiency equipment at new facilities. Through this long-term project, we have saved a significant amount of electricity and reduced GHG emissions. Making an efficient access network OLT ONT RN RN Ntopia SW ONT ONU RN SER Country for 50Km 20Km 10Km communications Increasing the transmission distance by light-based FTTH advancement (4Km → 20Km) 94 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Generation of New kt has continuously implemented new renewable energy generation by establishing photovoltaic (PV) power plants in Gangneung and Taehwasan Mountain, Gwangju. A PV plant is a very important facility to practically reduce GHG Renewable Energy emissions by generating electricity without consumption of fossil fuel. In 2014, Gangneung and Gwangju PV Plants (PV Power) generated electricity of 555Mwh in total, which reduced GHG emissions of 259t CO2eq. Based on the RPS system, the company sold generated electricity and earned profits of about 170 million won. (Unit : kwh) Category Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Gangneung PV 99,454 156,625 135,878 125,216 515,173 Plant Gwangju PV 9,174 11,050 8,962 8,679 37,865 Plant Total 108,628 165,675 144,840 133,895 555,038 Gangneung PV Plant Utilizing New kt utilizes not only PV energy but also geothermal energy. The company installed a system for air conditioning, heating Renewable Energy Economic effects by using new and supplying heated water by utilizing geothermal energy renewable energy (Geothermal Energy) at three buildings including Banghak Office, Seoul, and remarkably reduced the amount of energy use. By utilizing Profits from energy sales: underground water in the cable tunnel without few changes in annual temperature as an energy source through a thermal heat pump, the company saved costs in energy usage worth About 170 million won Saving about 100 million won. energy cost: About 100 million won Video Conferencing By proactively encouraging employees to use video conferencing and utilizing it autonomously, kt has not only saved expenses for business trips and shortened time for Economic effects by video conferencing decision-making and movement, but also prevented carbon emissions. In 2014, kt not only saved 6.52 billion won in Reducing cost by saving expenses expenses for business trip but also reduced 4,623 tCO2eq of GHG emissions. In 2015, the company will increase the and cutting carbon emissions: number of users to 450,000 and save about 7.1 billion won in expenses for business trip by promoting video conference proactively. Through this change, we saved expenses for 6.52 billion won business trips worth 56.5 billion won in 2014 as well as reduce carbon emissions by 4,623 tCO2eq. Company-wide Energy kt conducts energy-saving campaign to participate in “measures for limiting the energy use” by the government to stabilize electricity supply and expand Saving Campaign energy saving awareness among company-wide employees. The company produced and distributed guidelines for energy saving and promotion posters. We have focused on leading practical engagement by giving rewards to buildings with good performance. The company encourages customers residing in the kt building by distributing the guidelines and posters. Energy Saving Campaign kt Integrated Report 95 Recycling Resources Resource recycling is instrumental in not only preventing environmental pollution, but also in eliminating unnecessary waste from the use of resources. With the belief to use waste as a resource, kt continues to strive to enact a virtuous cycle by saving and reusing resources. The company will not only minimize environmental loads through recycling but also contribute to reducing GHG emissions caused by processing wastes. Management of In 2014, the amount of water used by kt buildings was 2,222,539 tons, which decreased by about 5% compared to 2013. This figure is equivalent to 35tCO2eq of GHG emissions reduction. This reduced amount of water use Water Consumption could be achieved by implementing water-saving devices in bathrooms (automated flushing bidets, bubble foamtype faucets) at the company’s buildings as well as the unceasing efforts by kt’s executives and employees. The company has reused a significant amount of effluents at the cable tunnel by installing and operating water recycling and filtration system at the kt buildings such as the Namcheongju Office. Amount of water use (Unit: Tons) 2,904,958 3,000,742 3,002,193 2,807,124 Water Recycling and Filtration System at the 2011 2012 2013 2014 Cable Tunnel Management of Waste To mange waste more efficiently, kt has implemented the project for making the waste management process in 2012 and systematically managed waste. As waste is categorized into household waste, recycled waste, Generation communication materials waste, construction waste, etc., the company established R&R in managing waste resources between departments. The amount of discharged wasted in 2014 is 36,148 tons in total, which decreased by 0.3% compared to 2013. Amount of waste discharge (Unit: Tons) 90,678 73,137 63,213 50,024 53,867 36,273 36,148 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 96 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Eco-friendly Products/Services By using kt’s various low-carbon products and services, customers can cut GHG emissions. This practice is defined as the amount of social reduction, which has been managed by kt from 2012. By developing and supplying continuous eco-friendly business (Green IT service), kt strives to create 10% of annual sales from eco-friendly service by 2030. kt olleh biz BEMS As a solution for optimizing building energy to analyze the current condition of energy use on a real-time basis and manage the amount of use, kt olleh biz BEMS is a system that controls energy in a smart way, saving energy (Building Energy and reducing GHG emissions. With this system, the amount of energy use at the building is monitored on a realManagement System) time basis, while conditioning equipment, air-conditioning equipment, and lighting are controlled to minimize the amount of energy use. kt olleh biz BEMS has been installed at large-sized buildings that use massive amounts of energy, such as the BC Card Future Center, KIDP (Korea Institute of Design Promotion), and Yeungnam University. After the establishment of BEMS, these buildings have achieved remarkable effects in saving energy. kt olleh biz BEMS • Facilities/Electricity/ Providing • Analyzing the amount of electricity use for each floor and Lighting and control • Management of energy peak SG-BEMS web-based SG-BEMS performance of facilities and and goals operation server integrated UI operation server equipment • Providing efficient operation • Efficient energy management in the heat source system • Analyzing statistics of energy use • Providing efficient operation Mutual back-up • Real-time monitoring through in the air conditioning system hand-held terminal units • Providing efficient operation in the electricity system TCP/IP network Remote control unit • Data gathering and calculation • Electricity data gathering • Preventing data loss • Preventing data leakage • Optimizing data accuracy • Optimizing data accuracy • Providing the optimal control logic • Supporting the function of system expansion in the future Remote control devices Field device • Monitoring the • Adjusting balance • Real-time monitoring of overall • Analyzing the amount of electricity use condition of all devices amount condition of the incoming panel for each floor on a real-time basis • Optimal on/off control • Supporting operation • Data gathering through an electricity • Monitoring the amount of electricity use • Precise adjustment of based on the schedule measuring instrument by facilities and equipment valve travel • Supporting abnormal • Supporting the control of lighting • Monitoring the efficiency of devices warning in devices schedule Flow Electricity Smart Monitoring Conditioning AirCooling Boiler Pump Electricity Incoming Lighting meter measuring panel the efficiency equipment conditioning tower measuring panel equipment board of devices equipment instrument Equipment Control Electricity/Lighting SG-BEMS 1000000 800000 600000 Amount of reduction after establishing BCMS(kWh) 400000 Amount of consumption in the base year (kWh) Expected amount of consumption in case of not applying BCMS(kWh) 200000 Amount of consumption after establishing BCMS(kWh) 0 1101 1103 1105 1107 1109 1111 1201 1203 1203 1207 1209 1211 1304 1303 1305 1307 1309 1311 1401 1403 1405 1407 1409 1411 base year project year kt Integrated Report 97 kt Eco-friendly Address The kt eco-friendly address change service helps customers to immediately update their addresses through the online channel provided by kt when they need to change their address due to moving, changing jobs, and Change Service department shifts. With this system, customers can change their address, which were registered at banks, insurance companies, and card companies, immediately without any separate charge. By preventing errors in delivery by instantly updating addresses waste of paper consumption (Over 100 million mails are presumed to be discarded due to domestic address unknown) can be reduced, which also leads to reduced energy use. kt’s ecofriendly address change service has received the Green Certificate as its eco-friendliness was recognized by the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning. If it is assumed that this service reduces 10% of annually dumped mail, then this is equivalent to planting 85,000 trees for ten years and reducing about six billion won in social expenses in manufacturing paper and producing and sending mail. Structure of Address Change Service Credit card Insurance kt moving Credit card company Address change service Insurance company Customer One Stop service Mobile carrier Mobile carrier Securities firm Securities firm High-efficiency Heat Pump Energy Efficiency kt aims to enact low carbon practices among suppliers and the overall domestic industries as well as reduce the amount of in-company energy use. As part of achieving this goal, the company finds places which need to reduce Business energy, such as companies, local government, hospitals, and colleges, and carries out various energy efficiency projects including operating heat pumps and updating to LED lights. In 2014, the company conducted the project to launch high-efficiency heat pumps for a domestic food company, which is expected to reduce the annual amount of energy use by 142 toe and cut GHG emissions by 850tCO2eq. Expansion of To reduce expenses caused by sending mail statements and contribute to nationwide low-carbon and green growth, kt has expanded electronic bills (e-mail, mobile, smart statement). In July 2014, the company upgraded the Electronic Bills service from the perspective of customers to provide customer-friendly service, including improving UI/UX in smart statements, adding the collection function, reissuing the bill automatically, etc. The company acquires content from customers by continuously holding an event to broaden e-bills. By preventing promotional activities which only provide simply one-time giveaways, kt carries out promotional activities in cooperation with groups such as “Seoul Forest” and “Forest for Life” to inform about the use of e-bills and how they reduce environmental loads. Achievement for With the aim of achieving “Green Korea,” one of the pillars in its vision for eco-friendly management, kt has continuously developed and supplied eco-friendly and low-carbon products and services. Through providing these Providing Green products and services, in 2014, the company reduced the social GHG emissions by 1,163,265tCO2eq, which is Products and equivalent to 107% in the amount of emission for ScopeⅠand Ⅱ. kt will make unceasing efforts to grow into a Services “zero-carbon company” to make social reduction offset emissions for ScopeⅠand Ⅱ. (Unit: tCO2eq) Type of GHG emissions Amount of social reduction reduction 2012 2013 2014 Wireless communications 1,167 16,592 81,204 IT solution 85,687 270,862 307,222 Media & Content 911,838 825,879 773,144 New Growth 3,925 3,456 1,695 Total 1,002,617 1,116,790 1,163,265 98 kt Integrated Report Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value Expansion of Win-win Growth >> Creation of Value for the Local Community >> Talent Management >> Eco-friendly Management Public Policy Participation and Certification Companies' proactive engagement in the national policy and keeping pace with its direction is a very important task for win-win growth between the country and companies. For this activity, kt aggressively participates in the government’s environmental policy and complies with legal duties. It also strives to ensure a low-carbon environment in a country based on IT technology. Dealing with Environmental As kt was designated as a company for “GHG and Energy Target Management Scheme,” implemented in 2010 Regulations pursuant to the “Framework Act on Low Carbon, Green Growth,” and assigned an amount of GHG emissions from the government annually. To achieve the assigned goal, the company has reinforced the capability to control (GHG and Energy Target GHG emissions by establishing its company-wide greenhouse inventory system and strived to cut emissions by Management Scheme) establishing R&R between departments for saving energy. kt faithfully fulfills legal requirements by reporting performance of reducing GHG emissions (implementation performance report) to the government and strives to comply with regulations each year so that the company does not need to pay penalty for not implementing regulations. Green Certificate To develop and promote green IT, we at kt have continuously conducted R&D in the eco-friendly telecommunications segment. Following the acquisition of the green technology certificate for our “integrated external air inlet energy-saving HVAC system” in 2013, kt obtained another green certificate for “eco-friendly address change service business based on broadcasting communications” in 2014, which indicates that the company’s green technology has been nationally recognized. As of 2014, kt has had a total of two certificates for green technology and business by the government. We will take the lead in developing green technology in the ICT sector. Green Certificate Compliance with Electromagnetic Limits As more mobile communications services and equipment (base station, cell phone, Wi-Fi, etc.) have been installed, kt measures and manages electromagnetic waves from cell phones to provide an environment where customers can resolve their anxiety and distrust in using mobile communications services without worry. Measuring Electromagnetic At kt, we measure the strength of electromagnetic fields to comply with human safety standards. In installing a base Wave Strength station for mobile communications, the company voluntarily measures electromagnetic intensity and reports the result to the relevant government institution (www.ekcc.go.kr), while strictly conducting regular check-ups to maintain the level 10,257 Current Condition of Measuring under the limitation for exposure of SAR (SAR: Specific Absorption Rate) specified by the government and establishing Electromagnetic Intensity in 2014 (Number) eco-friendly base stations in advance to prevent public grievances regarding electromagnetic waves. In accordance with Total the government’s announcement, we add a sticker for electromagnetic wave rank to each base station, depending on Ratio of value 4,494 15,255 the resulting rank, after examining its electromagnetic waves as well as voluntarily attaching the sticker to about 29,000 as the result of measurement 386 wireless base stations whose electromagnetic waves were measured before the announcement (August 1, 2014). From compared to body 109 8 1 protection) the measurement of electromagnetic wave intensity in 2014, the ratio of base stations with less than 10% compared to the Less than 1% 1~5% 5~10% 10~20% 20~30% Less than 30% standard for body protection was 99.2%, which showed the company’s strict compliance with the government’s standard. Offering Electromagnetic kt performs its duty to provide electromagnetic information by announcing electromagnetic wave prevention activities and Information and the electromagnetic wave absorption rate for each type of cell phone. The company focuses company-wide capability on protecting people from electromagnetic wave by measuring SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) from all cell phones for sales, Gathering Stakeholder as well as registering and selling only cell phones at 1.6W/Kg or under, which is the limit of exposure. When installing new Feedback transmission antennas in residential or commercial areas, the company always acquires 100% consent from residents first and writes the rental agreement. When measuring electromagnetic waves in accordance with the Radio Waves Act, the company reports the case to the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning after conducting tasks. When additional request from local residents is made, we implement a separate detailed examination. At the same time, kt registers and opens information on the result of examination for electromagnetic waves at base stations/relay stations established by kt on the external website (http://www.ktemf.co.kr). Electromagnetic kt operates the Mobile EMF Forum, which consists of experts, and serves as an advisory member for the government-led Research research on electromagnetic waves. To achieve more efficient and practical research result rather than solitary research, kt invested three billion won for the ten-year research project through professional research institutes such as ETRI and Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering and Science. Through these efforts, we carried out “Research on Impact of Electromagnetic Wave on Human Body,” a project for the 1st and 2nd rounds (1st: 2000-2004, 2nd: 2007-2012). To prepare comprehensive measures for a safe electromagnetic environment in cooperation with three major mobile carriers and the Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering and Science, the company has currently signed an agreement for joint research and carried out the project for the 3rd round (1.5 billion won in total for five years from 2014 to 2018), “Establishment of Research Foundation for Exposure of Mobile Communications Frequency.” kt Integrated Report 99 Overview of kt's Sustainability | GiGAtopia_Create the Future | Sustainable Value 지역사회 가치 창출 >> 동반성장 확대 >> 인재 경영 >> 친환경 경영 Appendix Sustainability Indicators Audit Report from the Independent Auditor Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Third Party Assurance Statement GRI Content Index Memberships Awards 100 kt Integrated Report Major Indicators of Sustainability Management Economic Performance Unit 2012 2013 2014 Sales (On a consolidated, K-IFRS basis) Delivery of Services KRW million 19,266,545 19,663,014 19,991,656 Sales of Goods(*) KRW million 4,589,830 4,147,585 3,430,017 Consolidated Financial Statement Current Assets KRW million 10,517,419 9,968,449 8,750,934 Non-current Assets KRW million 24,040,489 24,878,084 25,024,568 Total Assets KRW million 34,557,908 34,846,533 33,775,502 Current Liabilities KRW million 11,266,766 11,187,738 9,992,244 Non-current Liabilities KRW million 10,073,167 10,793,885 11,992,970 Total Liabilities KRW million 21,339,933 21,981,623 21,985,214 Capital KRW million 1,564,499 1,564,499 1,564,499 Premium on Common Stock KRW million 1,440,258 1,440,258 1,440,258 Retained Earnings KRW million 10,646,383 10,046,883 8,571,130 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income KRW million 1,325 24,538 25,790 Other Capital Component KRW million -1,343,286 -1,320,943 -1,260,709 Non-controlling Interests KRW million 908,796 1,109,675 1,449,320 Total Equities KRW million 13,217,975 12,864,910 11,790,288 Total Liabilities and Equities KRW million 34,557,908 34,846,533 33,775,502 Consolidated Income Statement Operating Revenue KRW million 23,856,375 23,810,599 23,421,673 Operating Expenses KRW million 22,647,142 22,971,256 23,713,326 Operating Profit KRW million 1,209,233 839,343 -291,653 Shares for new profits and loss by related KRW million 18,079 6,601 18,198 companies and joint ventures Income Before Taxes KRW million 1,414,842 -5,258 -1,237,053 Income Taxes KRW million 277,869 54,993 -270,877 Net Profit from Continuing Operations KRW million 1,136,973 -60,251 -966,176 Operating Profit(Loss) from Discontinued Operations KRW million 31,534 Net Profit KRW million 1,105,439 -60,251 -966,176 Shareholder Return/Composition/Dividend Shareholder Return (On a non-consolidated basis) Unit 2012 2013 2014 Par Value per Share KRW 5,000 5,000 5,000 Net Income KRW million 1,105,439 -60,251 -966,176 Net Income per Share KRW 4,296 -666 -4,316 Total Dividends KRW million 487,445 195,112 Pay-out Ratio % 46.6 (Dividends Paid/Net Profit during the Term) Dividend Yield Ratio % 5.2 2.5 (Dividends Paid per Share/Stock Price) Shareholder Composition (2014) Unit No. of Shares Equity Ownership Treasury Stock share/% 16,249,100 6.22% Foreign Investors share/% 117,006,739 44.81% National Pension Fund share/% 22,082,607 8.46% Employee Stockholders share/% 1,663,392 0.64% Domestic Institutions share/% 36,659,575 14.04% (Excluding the National Pension Fund) Other Entities share/% 4,299,110 1.65% Individual Investors share/% 63,151,285 24.19% Total No. of Shares Issued share/% 261,111,808 100.00% * As net profit during the term, net income per share, and cash pay-out ratio were changed from the existing separate standard to the connection standard due to the change in the writing standard by the Financial Supervisory Service, they may differ from the data written in last year’s report. kt Integrated Report 101 Social Performance Unit 2012 2013 2014 Details of Spending on Social Contribution Monetary and In-Kind Scholarship KRW 100 million 11.7 11.7 11.7 Donations Donations and Sponsorship KRW 100 million 123 307.2 129.2 Investment in Local IT Sharing in Communities KRW 100 million 121.7 124.7 120.4 Communities Love Sharing Fund KRW 100 million 17.2 15.6 11.5 Support for Children and KRW 100 million 24.3 24.3 34.1 the Underprivileged Culture, Arts and Sports KRW 100 million 52 79.8 54 Support and Sponsorship for Sharing Love Initiatives KRW 100 million 74 45.7 Employee Volunteerism Volunteering Hours Hours 145,779 98,351 51,191 Volunteers No. of Volunteers 36,600 20,812 7,714 Employee Composition Gender Male No. of Persons 26,579 26,599 19,538 Female No. of Persons 4,757 4,993 3,697 Recruitment By Sector New Recruits No. of Persons 533 286 184 Experienced New Recruits No. of Persons 291 204 24 Recruitment of Females No. and Ratio of Female No. of Persons (%) 4,757(15.2%) 4,993(15.8%) 3,697(16.5%) Employees No. and Ratio of Females No. of Persons (%) 148(4.74%) 188(5.59%) 133(5.7%) in Manager Positions and Above Recruitment of Disabled No. of Employees No. of Persons (%) 824(2.54%) 809(2.51%) 477(2.05%) Individuals Turnover Male % 0.24 0.28 0.47 Female % 0.06 0.33 0.42 Total % 0.3 0.32 0.46 Employee Composition Type of Employment Regular No. of Persons 31,336 31,592 22,746 Contract-based No. of Persons 680 632 72 Others No. of Persons 170 227 417 Use of Childcare Leave Employees Who Took Male No. of Persons 26 28 61 Childcare Leave Female No. of Persons 130 164 215 Reinstatement after Male % 92 93 92 Taking Childcare Leave Female % 97 99 87 Employment for More Male % 81 86 76 Than 12 Months after Female % 97 99 62 Reinstatement Employee Training Type of Training Group Training No. of Sessions/ 804/59,023 857/51,978 1,216/39,332 No. of Persons e-Learning No. of Sessions/ 121/100,159 187/60,363 1,246/244,332 No. of Persons Training Expenses per Person KRW 1,000 713 710 710 Total Training Hours No. of Hours 91 66 62 National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) NCSI Results Mobile Calls Point 71 72 72 Phone Calls Point 74 74 74 IPTV Point 72 71 72 Ultra-High Speed Internet Point 73 72 73 102 kt Integrated Report Environmental Performance Unit 2012 2013 2014 Consumption and Recycling of Water Water (Underground Water) Consumption ton 3,000,742 3,002,193 2,807,124 Discharge of Waste General Waste General ton 821 4,960 5,859 Recyclable ton 367 2,203 2,648 Recyclable Waste Cables ton 32,900 13,092 14,898 Equipment ton 4,678 7,740 6,587 Generators ton 2,495 3,624 3,682 Others ton 1,553 74 46 Construction Waste ton 7,210 2,186 2,427 Total Discharge of Waste ton 50,024 36,273 36,148 GHG Emissions Direct/Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 1Direct Emissions tCO₂e 63,251 60,481 44,073 Scope 2 Indirect Emissions tCO₂e 1,035,575 1,037,293 1,044,655 Total Direct/Indirect GHG Emissions tCO₂e 1,098,826 1,097,774 1,088,728 Scope 3 Emissions Supply Chain Phase Fixed-Line Devices tCO₂e 2,430 472 251 Wireless Devices tCO₂e 3,935 1,269 1,472 Telecommunications tCO₂e 30,925 48,197 47,240 Service Infrastructure Use Phase Home Terminals tCO₂e 44,873 40,783 35,026 Mobile Terminals tCO₂e 89,117 168,621 199,790 Internet Terminals tCO₂e 270,143 237,846 226,692 Other Water Consumption O₂e 996 997 932 Scope3 Emissions Waste Treatment Daily Waste tCO₂e 294 349 357 Recyclable Waste tCO₂e 11,703 750 650 Construction Waste tCO₂e 186 114 113 Business Trips Downtown Areas tCO₂e 319 380 296 Suburbs tCO₂e 880 659 669 Overseas tCO₂e 2,931 8,551 1,677 Commuting Bus (Intra-City, Inter-City) tCO₂e 801 762 877 Subway tCO₂e 68 76 57 Personal Vehicle tCO₂e 25,048 22,495 17,828 Railway tCO₂e 72 25 22 Multiple Modes tCO₂e 599 210 438 Total Scope 3 Indirect GHG Emissions tCO₂e 485,320 532,556 534,387 Social Emissions Reduction (Mitigation Effects) Wireless Communication tCO₂e 1,167 16,592 81,204 IT Solution tCO₂e 85,687 270,862 306,692 Media & Content tCO₂e 911,838 825,879 773,144 New Growth tCO₂e 3,925 3,456 1,695 Total Reduction in Social Emissions tCO₂e 1,002,617 1,116,790 1,163,265 Green Procurement Eco-Friendly Products Eco Mark-Certified No. of Items/ KRW million 689/4,787.9 835/9,270 254/5,477 GR Mark-Certified No. of Items/ KRW million 7/468.4 1/494 0 Total No. of Purchased Products and Value No. of Items/ KRW million 823/5,478 836/9,764 254/5,477 kt Integrated Report 103 Audit Report from the Independent Auditor To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of kt Corporation We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of kt Corporation and its subsidiaries(the “Company”) , which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Management’s responsibility for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Republic of Korea(“Korean IFRS”) and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the Korean Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of kt Corporation and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and their financial performance and cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with the Korean IFRS. Other Matters The consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31,2013, were audited in accordance with the previous Korean Standards on Auditing. Auditing standards and their application in practice vary among countries. The procedures and practices used in the Republic of Korea to audit such financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and applied in other countries. Seoul, Korea March 6, 2015 This report is effective as of March 6, 2015, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying separate financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that there is a possibility that the above audit report may have to be revised to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. 104 kt Integrated Report Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Verification No KQA-T1501 Company kt Corporation Representative Hwang Chang-Gyu Address 90, Buljeong-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea KQA confirms that the verification result of GHG emissions and energy consumption reports of above company is proper. Regulation Applied The GHG and Energy Target Scheme Guidelines Verification Scope GHG emissions and energy consumption reports (in the year of 2014) GHG emissions 1,088,728 ton CO2_eq(Scope 1+2) Energy Consumption 22,269 TJ kt Integrated Report 105 Third-Party Assurance Statement on ‘2015 kt Integrated Report’ To Stakeholders of kt The Korea Productivity Center (hereafter the ‘Assurer’) was commissioned by kt to perform a third-party assurance engagement of the 2015 kt Integrated Report (hereafter the ‘Report’) and presents the assurance statement as follows: Responsibility and Independence kt is entirely responsible for all information and opinions presented in the “Report”. The Assurer is solely responsible for providing a third party verification of the contents of the “Report”. As an independent assurance agency, the Assurer neither was involved in the process of developing the “Report” with kt, nor is in any conflict of interest that may undermine our independence. Assurance Standard The following assurance was conducted in accordance with Type 1, moderate level of AA1000AS(2008) assurance standard. And Type 2 assurance was conducted on specific indicators: water usage, waste management, occupational incident rate, etc. that require credibility check in the data collection process. It also verified the organization’s adherence to AA1000APS(2008) Principles of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness. Moreover, the Assurer checked whether kt complied with Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) G4 Guideline. Limitation Based on the aforementioned assurance standard, the Assurer conducted the following assurance on sustainability performance in 2014 and verified the reliability of performances stated on the Report as the following. Financial data were verified with financial statements and disclosed documents that were audited by the auditing agency, and other data related to greenhouse gas, homepage connection, etc. were verified with the existing assurance results. Moreover, site inspection was conducted on kt’s headquarter in Seoul, Korea, and any additional assurance may change the result. Methodology The following method was used to provide the assurance about the Report. 1. Verified whether requirements from the core option on GRI G4 Guidelines were fulfilled 2. Verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and quality of sustainability reports based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. 3. Verified objectivity and appropriateness of key issues selected and contents in the Report by conducting media research and performing benchmark analysis. 4. Verified the suitability of the information and expression error through comparison analysis to other resources. 5. Verified the evidence of data and information through on-site inspection on Seoul headquarter and internal process and system. Findings & Conclusion KPC believes that the Report is a sincere and fair representation of kt’s sustainability management initiatives and achievements. KPC also verified through this assurance engagement that the Report satisfied the ‘Comprehensive’ requirements as proposed by the GRI G4 Guidelines. KPC confirmed that the General Standard Disclosures outlined in the Report were prepared in a way to meet the ‘Comprehensive’ requirements while reviewing DMAs (Disclosure on Management Approach) and indicators concerning material issues identified through the report content selection process when it comes to Specific Standard Disclosures as follows: Material Issues Aspects Indicators Personal information protection and reinforcing security policy Customer Privacy PR8 Dealing with government regulations and policy Management with customers as top priority Product and Service Labeling PR3~PR5 Indirect economic effects Indirect Economic Impacts EC7~EC8 Expanding the IoT market Contributing to enhancing the quality of life through ICT Transparency of management information G4-34~G4-55 Governance Governance structure Ethics management Anti-corruption SO3~SO5 Making the clean communications market environment Marketing Communications PR6~PR7 Win-win growth Market Presence EC5~EC6 Economic performance kt’s market status Innovative management Economic Performance, Indirect Economic Impacts EC1~EC4, EC7~EC8 Acceleration of technical changes Intensified cost competition Participation in establishing public policy Public Policy SO6 Increasing interests in balance between work and life Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement G4-24~G4-27 Providing services considering customers’ health and safety Customer Health and Safety PR1~PR2 Increasing interest in social responsibility investment Expanding a gap in access to information SO1~SO2 Local Communities Social contribution Increasing importance for securing the talent Employment LA1~LA2 Developing green IT technology Environmental(Products and Services) , Energy EN3~EN7, EN27~EN28 Increasing interest in national disasters and incidents 219 106 kt Integrated Report 1. Inclusivity : Participation of Stakeholders The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include stakeholders in the process of developing strategic response to and achieving sustainability. In this regard, the Assurer could verify that kt put various efforts to abide by and improve the principle of inclusivity in 2014. kt categorizes its key stakeholders into 6 groups including customers, shareholders, business partners, employees, local community, and environment. The Assurer verified that kt classifies interested areas and engagement methods of each group and collects opinions through active communication. In particular, kt’s efforts for receiving customers’ voice by running customer pool of 200, regular online survey for about 10,000, customer product quality panel of 100, and for differentiated opinion collection through SCM committee, kt 119 grievance center, etc.; however, kt should consider establishing integrated management system for stakeholder communication. 2. Materiality : Significant Issue Identification and Reporting The principle of materiality articulates that organizations should focus on issues relevant and material to both the organization and its major stakeholders. The Assurer found that kt successfully identified issues relevant and material to the company and its major stakeholders based on a reasonable materiality analysis process. It was also confirmed that kt identifies material issues in accordance with sustainability background, principles of materiality and completeness, and decides on the reporting standards such as scope, boundary, period based on credible assurance. kt deducted 25 material issues in 2014, and the Assurer could verify that activities and key performance of the core issues are evenly covered in each page of the Report. The specific description of the importance of the issues, and kt’s approach in the Report through separate reporting of 5 core issues is an exemplary case. 3. Responsiveness : Response to Issues The principle of responsiveness articulates that organizations should be responsive to the issues that may influence the performance of their stakeholders. The Assurer found that kt successfully identified issues which may impact stakeholders’ performance, implemented measures to address them, and adequately presented relevant information in the Report. kt categorizes its material issues into 8 sectors, discloses its activities and performance, and separately reports focused issues. In particular, it is an excellent example that kt reported a separate section, ‘Enhancing Social Value in CSV Perspective’ as a response to interest of both stakeholders and society in shared value creation, and provided information of value provision including stakeholder benefit and industrial objectives of the future. Recommendation Upon appraising kt’s various efforts and performance for enhancing its sustainability, the Assurer proposes below for future publications of the Report and higher standard of sustainability 1. Establishment of performance management system for social value creation: In the Report, kt discloses quantitative performance of its social value creation. Although this is an exemplary case, the Assurer suggests kt to enhance the credibility of information by providing specific measurement standard and future goals on creativity and inductive effects and to establish for managing long-term changes. 2. Expansion of inclusivity in the reporting scope: kt sets 510 operation sites including its headquarters and national branches as the reporting boundary. The Assurer proposes kt to expand the boundary to its subsidiaries and overseas branches as well. In addition, kt will be able to enhance the completeness by reporting value creation through joint business with the subsidiaries and sustainability performance about benefits to stakeholders. 3. Reinforcement of function of the Integrated Report: kt presents a business model and future outlook relevant to the integrated reporting framework in the Report. The Assurer, therefore, suggests kt to review the application measures of the integrated reporting framework by identifying core sustainability factors through the analysis of value chain in each business model and by disclosing the progress of performance management by objectives and target achievement. May 2015 Korea Productivity Center CEO Hong, Sun-Jik Dong-Su Kim, Director Ki-Hwan Lee, Team Leader Dae-kwon Yang, Researcher The Sustainability Management Center of Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by AccountAbility [organization established AA1000, the international standard for stakeholder participation and verification] and is qualified to independence assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is comprised of competent experts who have in-depth experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance and have completed the relevant training. * AA1000AS(2008) : AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008) is an international assurance standard, set by AccountAbility, that provides method of reporting sustainability management issues by evaluating the organization management on performances, compliance with principles, and reliability of performance information * AA1000APS(2008) : AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard(2008) is an international assurance standard set by AccountAbility that provides principles of AA1000 standards. kt Integrated Report 107 GRI Content Index General Standard Disclosure Page External Assurance Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, G4-1 or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the 4~5 p. 106-107 organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4~5 Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization 6 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 10~11 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either G4-6 the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics 40~41 covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 6~7 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers G4-8 9~11 and beneficiaries). Report the scale of the organization, including: • Total number of employees • Total number of operations About this Report, G4-9 • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) 12, 81 • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) • Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. p. 106-107 c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are 81 legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 88 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 72 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: • Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and 7 expansions G4-13 (Changes in ownership • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration structure) operations (for private sector organizations) • Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Organizational Profile: Commitments to External Initiative G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 20~21 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives G4-15 16, 112 to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international p. 106-107 advocacy organizations in which the organization: G4-16 • Holds a position on the governance body • Participates in projects or committees 112 • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries A. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. About this Report, G4-17 B. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or 7 equivalent documents is not covered by the report. A. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 22~23 B. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 23 p. 106-107 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: A. Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization B. If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), G4-20 select one of the following two approaches and report either: 23 a. The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or b. The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material C. Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization 108 kt Integrated Report For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization • If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or G4-21 23 elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified p. 106-107 • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for G4-22 About this Report such restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. No significant changes Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 17 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 17 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by G4-26 type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken 17 p. 106-107 specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-27 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report 17, 52~53 the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. About this Report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About this Report p. 106-107 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). About this Report G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About this Report Report Profile: GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-32 c. R  eport the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI About this Report p. 106-107 recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Report Profile: Assurance a. R  eport the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and G4-33 basis of any external assurance provided. About this Report p. 106-107 c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. R  eport whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance G4-34 body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social 14~16 impacts. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the G4-35 16 highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with G4-36 responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly 13~16 to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on G4-37 economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any 16 feedback processes to the highest governance body. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: • Executive or non-executive • Independence • Tenure on the governance body p. 106-107 • Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, G4-38 13~14 and the nature of the commitments • Gender • Membership of under-represented social groups • Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts • Stakeholder representation Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or G4-39 13 her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: • Whether and how diversity is considered G4-40 • Whether and how independence is considered 13~16 • Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered • Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved kt Integrated Report 109 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: G4-41 13~14 • Cross-board membership • Existence of controlling shareholder • Related party disclosures • Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and G4-42 updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals 13~16 related to economic, environmental and social impacts. Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective G4-43 13~16 knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. G4-44 13~16 b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. G4-45 13~16 b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk G4-46 16 management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social G4-47 15 impacts, risks, and opportunities. Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s G4-48 16 sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. p. 106-107 G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 16 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest G4-50 15 governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. A. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: • Fixed pay and variable pay: a. Performance-based pay b. Equity-based pay c. Bonuses d. Deferred or vested shares • Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments G4-51 • Termination payments 15 • Clawbacks • Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees B. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are G4-52 involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any 13~15 other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including G4-53 13, 15 the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each G4-54 country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding 15 the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Cannot be reported as the relevance of the ratio Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highestof percenage increase G4-55 paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual cannot be established total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. due to the appointment of a new CEO Ethics and Integrity Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of G4-56 18 conduct and codes of ethics. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and G4-57 18~19 matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. p. 106-107 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful G4-58 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, 18 whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 110 kt Integrated Report Specific Standard Disclosures Material Aspect DMA and Indicators Page Omissions External Assurance Category: Economic Generic DMA G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 12 Economic Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s G4-EC2 90~99 Performance activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 82 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 12 Generic DMA Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage p. 106-107 G4-EC5 82 at significant locations of operation Market Presence Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant G4-EC6 81 locations of operation Generic DMA Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 59~65, 73~79 Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 38~39 Category: Environmental Generic DMA 91, 94 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 91 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 93 Energy G4-EN5 Energy intensity 90 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 94~95 p. 106-107 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 94~95 Generic DMA 90 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental Impacts of products and services 90, 97 Compliance Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are G4-EN28 ㅡ No violations reclaimed by category Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practice and Decent Work Page Omissions External Assurance Generic DMA 81 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age G4-LA1 81 group, gender and region p. 106-107 Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or G4-LA2 81 part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 81 Sub-Category: Human Rights Generic DMA No such incidets Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ㅡ of discrimination p. 106-107 occurred Sub-Category: Society Generic DMA 59, 73 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, G4-SO1 59~95, 73~79 impact assessments, and development programs Local community Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local No such G4-SO2 ㅡ communities operations exist p. 106-107 Generic DMA 18~19 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to No such G4-SO3 19 corruption and the significant risks identified operations exist Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 18~19 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 19 Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Generic DMA 28~29, 54~55, 99 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and G4-PR1 29, 55, 99 Customer Health safety impacts are assessed for improvement and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary No such incidents G4-PR2 codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during ㅡ of non-compliance their life cycle, by type of outcomes occurred Generic DMA 51 “Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of G4-PR3 10~11 Product and significant Service Labeling product and service categories subject to such information requirements” (Customer Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary No such incidents Satisfaction) G4-PR4 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of ㅡ of non-compliance p. 106-107 outcomes occurred G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 53 Generic DMA 27 No such G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products ㅡ products exist Marketing Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4-PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, 19 and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Generic DMA 28 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Customer Privacy G4-PR8 28 and losses of customer data kt Integrated Report 111 UNGC Index To fulfill its role and responsibility as a sound corporate citizen, kt signed the UN Global Compact in 2008. kt proactively upholds the ten major principles in four major sectors including human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption throughout overall management practices and strives to create socially shared value such as mutual cooperation, job creation, protection of the socially vulnerable, etc. UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Memberships Domestic 21 Business Forum (Korea Research Institute for Competitiveness), Economic Group Council, Network Security Forum, Green Investment Forum Korea, Korea Industrial Safety Association, Institute of Electronics Engineers of Korea, World Futures Forum, Korea Association of Smart Home, Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Institute of Information & Telecommunication Facilities Engineering, Korea Association for Telecommunications Policies, Information Technology Forum for Unification, Korea Economic Education Association, Korean Economic Association, Fair Competition Federation, Korea Advertisers Association, Korea Digital Media Industry Association, Korean Association for Broadcasting & Telecommunication Studies, Korea Academic Society of Industrial Organization, Korea Listed Company Association, Korean Society of Consumer Studies, Korea Software Industry Association, Korea Smart Grid Association, Korean Society for Journalism & Communication Studies, Korea Ubiquitous City Association, Korea Ubiquitous-Health Association, Korea Association of Natural Disaster Reduction Industries, Korea Radio Promotion Association, Korea Institute of Information Security & Cryptology, Federation of Korea Information Industries, Telecommunications Technology Association (TTA), Korea Association of Information and Telecommunication (KAIT), Korea Advanced Intelligent Robot Association, National Intelligence Communication Enterprise Association, Korea Cloud Service Association, Korea Telecommunications Operators Association (KTOA), Korea Information and Communication Society, Korea Association for Chief Financial Officers, Korea IT Leaders Forum, Consortium of CERT (CONCERT), u-KOREA Forum Overseas WFA(Wireless Fidelity Alliance), FMCA(Fixed-Mobile Convergence Alliance), OMA(Open Mobile Alliance), WiMAX Forum, VoiceXML Forum, DSL Forum, WBA(Wireless Broadband Alliance), TMF(Telecommunication Management Forum), APT(Asia Pacific Telecommunity), ITU(International Telecommunication Union) 112 kt Integrated Report Awards 2014 Awards won From Date NCSI(National Customer Satisfaction Index)-ranked 1st in the local/long-distance call, Korea Productivity Center Jan.8 internet call and international call sectors Winner of 2014 IF Design Award in Communication Design Category IF Design Exhibition Hamburg Jan.24 The most Admired Companies, All Star Korean Management Association Consulting Feb.17 Top 50 Telecoms Operator Brands 2014-ranked 1st in brand value among Korea’s Brand Finance Global Feb.19 telecommunications companies Winner in the two category of ‘Outstanding LTE Contribution’ and ‘Outstanding Overall Global System for Mobile communications Feb.26 Mobile Technology’ at the GSMA Global Mobile Awards 2014 Association(GSMA) INNO STAR 2014-Best Innovation award in the ‘IPTV’ sector Korea Management Association Mar.27 2014 Smart Brand-Ranked 1st in the Digital/Telecommunication Sectors as ‘olleh’ Korean Management Association Consulting May.28 Winner of grand prize of Sustainability Management sector at Korea Management Awards Korean Society of Consumer Studies Jul.16 2014 Winner of 2014 Red Dot Design Awards in Communication Design Category Design Zentrum Nordrhein-Westfalen Aug.18 2014 NBCI(National Brand Competitiveness Index)-ranked 1st in Internet service, Korea Productivity Center Sep.1 IPTV and International Call Sectors Winner of Integrated Report 2014 in Korea Reader’s Choice Awards 2014 Korea Standards Association Sep.4 DowJones(US)/RobecoSAM(Swiss-based investment Selected to be included in the DJSI World index for the 5th straight year Sep.11 company 2014 Korea Standard-Service Quality Index-ranked 1st in the wireless and Korea Standards Association Sep.18 ultra high-speed internet sectors 2014 KCSI(Korean Customer Satisfaction Index) – ranked 1st in the ultra high speed Korean Management Association Consulting Oct.6 internet, local/long-distance call, internet call and international call sectors Winner of Sustainability Management sector at Global Standard Management Awards 2014 Korea Management Association Registration Oct.22 2014 CPLI(Climate Performance Leadership index)_ranked 1st in the telecommunication CDP in the U.K., CDP Korea Oct.23 sector Winner of grand prize of Telecommunication sector at the Next Society CSR Summit 2014 Next Society Foundation Nov.18 Winner of Creativity sector at Mecenat Awards 2014 Korea Mecenat Association Nov.26 Winner of Creativity and Innovation sector at the 1st Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV The institute for Industrial Policy Studies Dec.3 kt Integrated Report 113 kt Integrated Report 2015 Eng. This report was printed with soybean oil ink on paper certified by the international environmental NGO, FSC, using elemental chorine free bleaching pulp.
