2015 Sustainability Report EWP Sustainability Report 2015 Happy World with Hearty Energy ewp.co.kr 44543 545 Jongga-ro, Joong-gu, Ulsan TEL 070-5000-1544 FAX 070-5000-1599 Copyright © 2015 KOREA EAST-WEST POWER CO.,LTD (EWP). all rights reserved. Contents Happy World with Hearty Energy Economic Social Introduction Overview Sustainable Management Key Issues Value Eco-Energy Responsibility Appendix 02 04 08 20 22 28 34 40 46 52 60 70 78 Ensuring Happy Sharing Company Introduction and Growth for All Corporate Governance Green Management Ethics Management Business Areas Creating the Driving Force Risk Management Reduction of Greenhouse Assessment and Rewards Sustainable Management for Future Growth Realizing Eco-Friendly Energy Gases Financial Soundness Co-Prosperity with Partners Communication with Interested Parties Environmental Happy Work Place of a PeopleR&D Respect of Diversity Materiality Assessment and Selection Management of Key Issues Oriented Environment Overseas Business of the Project Sites Enhanced Disaster Response Management of Stable Power Supply Chemicals EWP 10’s NEWs Protection of Bio-Diversity CEO's Message About Scope of Reporting this Report The scope of reporting includes 5 business facilities, and the reporting interval is one year. Additional information Additional information on this report can be checked through the interne t and the relevant department in charge. Purpose of report Reporting guidelines Period Features of the report Website : http://www.ewp.co.kr This is the 9th sustainability report issued by The 2014 Sustainability Report is based on the G4 The reporting period of this report is from JanThe report for 2014 was prepared by applying the new GRI G4 guideline which was revised and anKOREA EAST-WEST POWER CO., LTD (EWP), with Guideline of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), ISO uary 1, 2014 to December 31, 22014 (including nounced on May 2013. Before the issuance of the report, the issuing entity formed a sustainability issue Department in charge : Creative Environmental Team, Power a purpose to disclose the economic, social, and 26000, and the principles of the UN Global Comsome of the performances in 2015). For the pool, through media research, interviewing the interested parties and experts, and benchmarking outGeneration Division environmental efforts and achievements of pact. The reporting standards and definitions of quantitative achievements, the date for the standing companies, and energy firms in terms of sustainability. With this, an importance evaluation from Contact : Tel) 070-5000-1544 EWP as an ethical and responsible member of financial data are in accordance with the IFRS (Inthree years from 2012 to 2014 is included, so that January to December, 2014 was performed. The results were reclassified based on the meaningful units e-mail : leehk@ewp.co.kr society to various parties of interest. ternational Financial Reporting Standards). a time sequence analysis can be performed. and organized in five focus reports. Our respected interested parties! Thank you for your continued support which made our sustainable management possible. We, EWP, are a public corporation which communicate with our interested parties via energy and cooperate with them to grow together, to create 'happiness energy' as we endeavor to carry on our missions. The 9th sustainability report issued this year contains contents on our efforts on the key mission of the company, which is to provide power with stability, as well as other efforts for growths in terms of economy, society, and environmental aspects for 2014. With, 'Happiness Energy,' Since our foundation in April 2001, we have been doing our best to become a beloved energy corporation and fulfill our duties as such a we will communicate with the company, with our priority firmly set on stable power supply. Last year, we contributed further to stabilization of power supply by completing our No. 4 Ulsan Compound Thermal power plant. Out achievement for the year also include reaching 200 day without any failure in all interested parties more closely of our generation units and 265 days without any breakdowns with our entire coal thermal power generation units (500MW), which is an unprecedented achievement through the history of power generation in Korea. and create more shared values, Also, as we performed our corporate rationalization program for 2014, we could be ranked as No. 1 in the interim assessment of public to create a community of companies corporations, thank to the commitment and devotion by our entire employees. We ranked No. 1 in the anti-corruption policy assessment organized by ACRC for three years in a row. Also, we maintained the highest grade in co-prosperity assessments for 6 years in a row, selected that grows together. as the best HRD corporation in the public sector, and awarded with the grand prize for family-friendly management. Our sustainability management achievements also include the first-ever book-reading management certification among the entire public corporations in Korea. In addition, in June 2014, we moved the HQ of the company to Ulsan, in accordance with the government’s policy to move the HQs of the public corporations to non-capital areas, and utilize this as a new opportunity to lead forward to another phase of our growth. We established a social contribution integration brand, 'Happiness Energy Dream' which is in conjunction with the purpose of foundation of the company. With this, we established for sectors of clean energy, healing energy, hope energy, and smile energy, as we engage in social responsibility activities based on Happiness Energy Dream programs. We also create shared-value type community co-prosperity models including development of agricultural complexes using the high temperature water discharge, and completion of the Shared Sunshine Power Generation plant which was built for the first time in Korea using Crowd Funding method to induce participation by citizens. We clearly understand that our achievements for the past 14 years are based on the trust and love extended to us by the respected interested parties, such as the government, the customers, the local communities, the related public organizations, business partners, and employees. We will continue to communicate with these parties through our brand of 'Happiness Energy' and develop our company into a co-prospering community of companies as we create more shared values. Thank you for your support for our sustained growth and brighter future. Thank you! September, 2015 CEO, Korea East & West Power Joook Chang 4 • Introduction Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 5 TOP 10 NEWS 2014 EWP 10’s NEWs What is the most important news among the management issues of EWP in 2014? We have summarized 10 most outstanding news of 2014 through based on a survey with the employees through our Corporate Intranet System 2014 한국동서발전 10대 뉴스 0 4 ACRC 2013 Anti-corruption 전 발전기 무고장 200일 달성… competitiveness evaluation Ranked No. 1 among 9 public organizations 최고의 뉴스 선정 In January 2014, the company ranked no. 1 in 2013 ACRC anti-corruption competitiveness 청마의 해 2014년, 숨 가쁘게 달려왔습니다. 모두들 열심히 뛴 날들을 되돌아보고 계신가요? 우리 0 5 Management of public 0 6 Selected as the best 0 7 Selected as the best 회사 주요 경영 이슈 가운데, 꼭 기억해야할 뉴스는 무엇일까요? 우리 직원들이 직접 고른 2014 assessment among 29 public organizations. organization debts EWP ranked organization for Safety Korea Drill organization for co-prosperity for 6 한국동서발전 10대 뉴스. 지난 12월 15일부터 5일 동한 인트라넷을 통해 878명의 직원들이 21 The assessment included evaluation on 7 no. 1 in the interim assessment for for the second year in a row years in a row 개 주요 이슈 가운데 10개 뉴스를 꼽았습니다. 이주의 Energy 案에서는 그 뉴스들을 찾아, sectors, including ant9i-corruption infrastrucreckless management The gold time training, which has been perEWP was selected as the best co-prosperity 소개해드립니다. ture establishment, transparency in policy, improvement of reliability, and removal of EWP ranked No. 1 in the interim assessment formed by EWP so that the company can fully organization for 6 years in a row, in token of Powerian Ver04. 2014.12.31 the causes of corruption, etc. EWP developed for 2014 by the Ministry of Planning and Fiutilize its disaster response capability, gained the recognition of the company’s continuous its own ethical management index and intronance (reduction of debts and reckless manattention. During the 'Safety Korea Drill to Cope efforts for co-prosperity. EWP developed the 0 1 200 days without break-downs for all power generators duced anti-corruption w3arnign system, as a agement rationalization) among 18 public with Disasters' in October 2014, the company standard model for co-prosperity, in addition Thanks to the non-breakdown proliferation campaign which has been in progress a as an effort for organizations, in recognition as the best pubwas selected as the best organization among to its supports for the pilot installation of the part of its commitment to ethical and transincreasing the productivity of EWP, as of August 29, 2014, the entire power generation equipment of lic corporation corresponding to the expectathe 15 organizations with disaster related reproducts for SMBs in the power plant, joint reparent management in accordance with the the company reached 200 days without any breakdowns. This is a result of '8.29-200' project, in which tion of the people. Especially, in the field of sponsibilities among under the supervision of search, support for the R&D, and many other global standard the company and the employees cooperate in 8 sectors and 29 projects in order to ensure stabilized reduction of debts, a total of 296.6 billion won the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, for the activities of such kinds. power supply during the summer season. This project has been introduced as an innovation case for was reduced, which was beyond the target. second year in a row. The fact that the entire the public organization productivity innovation case in the public organization productivity enhanceAs a result, the company earned 92.56 point, power plant executed simultaneous trainings ment workshop. ranking the highest in the area of debt reducand the responses were made during the earlition. er phases promptly was recognized highly. 0 3 Completion of No. 4 Compound Thermal Power Plant, Ulsan 0 8 Stabilized construction Ulsan No. 4 Compound Thermal Power Plant including success in the water is a 948MW large-scale power plant with two pressure test in Dangjin Unit No. 9. gas turbines and 1 steam turbine. Its generaIn August 8, 2014, the 1000MW class Dangjin tion output is equivalent to around 20% of the Thermal Unit No. 1 boiler water pressure test total power demand in Ulsan. Ulsan No. 4 Com0 2 Movement of the HQ to Ulsan was successfully concluded. The water pres1 0 Issue Corporate Bonds of 300 pound Thermal Power Plan was also selected Innovation City, marking the sure of Dangjin Unit. No. 8, which is to be combillion won in Korea and 500 million as the 'Project of the year' by Korea Project beginning of Ulsan Era pleted by December 20154, took one month dollars in overseas markets at the Management Association in October 2013 and On July 21, 2014, the company held the celless compared to conventional tests in which lowest interest rates awarded with the 'Top Plan Awards' by Power ebration ceremony in celebration of moving the high pressure part water pressure test was conducted separately, followed by the moderate water EWP issued 300 billion won worth domestic Magazine in September 2014. into the new HQ building in Ulsan at the Grand pressure parts tests after one month, because the new test was conducted simultaneously on both the corporate bonds in March 2014 and 500 milHall of the HQ building in Ulsan Innovation high water pressure part and the modest water pressure part. lion dollar worth in November in the global City. In the ceremony, a number of important market, with the lowest interest rate. Especialfigures from the government, companies, and 0 9 First-time introduction of the 'Multi-engineer' shifts for Job sharing ly, the international market bonds marked the the members of local communities were invitEWP introduced 'Job Sharing Shift Program' in its power plants, which is to add multi-engineer shifts lowest corporate bond interest rate among the ed, and amazed to witness the wonders of the composed of 4 groups and 3 shifts to strengthen the operation and maintenance capabilities of the entire 5.5 years bonds issued by all Korean or first-ever smart office system including virtualshift engineers and stabilized power supply. It is expected that the new programs will increase the reliAsian companies. As a result, it was possible ization of desk-top, integrated wired/wireless ability level of the equipment through flexible operation of the employees and the increased chances to save as much as 3 billion Korean won comphones, and cloud printing system. of job training for the operators. pared to the bonds in Korean won. EWP SR Make Happy Energy At EWP, we create the best energy value for the happiness in life for all mankind. For this, we bravely challenge the best based on the firm confidence in our interested parties and practice our goals with no fear. Overview of EWP 08 Company Introduction 11 Business Areas 14 Sustainable Management 16 Communication with Interested Parties 18 M  ateriality Assessment and Selection of Key Issues 8 EWP SR 2015 Introduction • Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 9 Company Introduction Overview of EWP Company EWP is on e of the 6 power company established by separating the former power generation units of Kepco in accordance with the Law on Power Industry ReCompany history Introduction structuring Facilitation, on April 2, 2001. EWP is operated as a subsidy of 100% ownership by KEPCO. The main field of business is power generation. Our power generation HQs include Dangjin Thermal HQ of 4,000MW, with 8 units of 500MW power generation units. Including other HQs in Ulsan, Honam, Donghae, and Ilsan, the company boasts a total power generation capacity of 9,138MW, which 1898. 1. 18 1915. 9 Kyoungsung Electricity 1961. 7. 1 1982. 1. 1 2001. 4. 2 2014. 6 accounts for some 9.8% of the total power generation output in Korea. The powHansung Electricity 1943. 8 Chosun Electricity Korea Electricity KEPCO Korea East & West Movement of the HQ er generated in these facilities are sold to Kepco through the power transaction Business Corporation Power Move the HQ to Ulsan marketplace and supplied to the end user. EWP is currently building No. 9 and Innovation city 1946. 5 Namseon Electricity No. 10 Shindangjin Thermal Power plants, which are the first ever 1,020 MW capacity coal power plants in Korea. Also, in order to overcome the nation-wide power crisis, Ulsan compound thermal power station of 948MW has been comOrganization History pleted and in operation since July 2014. EWP is a public corporation. And, the organization of the company is being operated with a Hansung Electricity (the first ever power 1898.01.18 view to realize the goals of the company, which is stable power supply, as the core mission of company in Korea) the company, and the goal of sustainable growth. The core business tasks are re-established as Korea Electricity Co., Ltd. (established by the 1961.07.01 merger between three companies) power station constructions, power generation operation, economic fuel procurement, sound 1982.01.01 KEPCO (Public corporation) Company status Characteristics of power industry financial management, fulfillment of social responsibilities, and advances in safety quality in Korea East & West Power (Restructuring of 2001.04.02 connection with the managerial goals and strategic directions. the electricity industry) Previously, the power industry of Korea was monopolized by KEPCO (in power generation, disBased on communication and horizontal operation of the organization, we realized efficient Dangjin Thermal Unit 1 through 4 selected 2001.12 as 'Projects of the Year' tribution, transmission, and sales). management of the organization in which we can focus our energy on core business functions 2002.12 Announcement of Ethics Management However, as the related businesses grew too big to be properly controlled, the government took in connection with our strategies in order to enhance our strategic capability of execution. 2004.09 6 sigma managerial innovation announced HQ Establishment day steps to increase the competitiveness of the power industry and enhance the levels of service 2006.09 Selected for BSC Hall of Fame 545 Jongga-ro, April 2, 2001 quality provided to the end users. EUCG Award for the Longest Failure-free Joong-gu, Ulsan 2008.01 Operation As a result, the government enacted the Law on Restructuring the Power Industry, and, in accorCEO Green Company award (Ministry of dance with this law, the power generation sectors were divided into separate companies, includ2010.11 Environment) ing 5 thermal power generation companies, and Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power, totaling to 6 President's Prize, Co-Prosperity Practice 2012.09 power generation public corporations, which compete with one another. The 6 power generaAward for Public Corporations Full time monitors tion companies and the private power generation companies (SK, GS, and Posco) along with the Ranked no. 1 in anti-corruption competi2014.01 No. of Employees Shareholders No. of employees tiveness by ACRC regional power generation businesses are selling the power they generated on Korea Electricity 2,240 100% held by KEPCO Marketplace (establishment of power plants, wholesale transactions, and settlements) through Auditors' Office 2,300 KEPCO, which is responsible for transmission and sales of the power and the regional power companies, through which the power generated reaches the end users in Korean electric market. Employee 1,509 Shareholders Technical/Others 135 PR Team Executives 4 EWP is a public established by the capital investOfficers 652 Power generation Sales volume ment by the government. 51,004GWh 48,600GWh 100% of the shares of the company is possessed Power Generation Private Self-power Regional power by KEPCO and there is not any subsidiaries that Affiliate companies businesses supply users companies Strategic Management HQ Technical Safety HQ Future Business Division the company receives. 3.5611 trillion won 8.4084 trillion won Power in Shareholder Government Capital Total Asset excess BP power market / Self-owned Planning Safety and Power Office of Office of HR and Strategy Quality Generation Domestic International electricity market place power line Department Department Department Department Business Business Power Sales amount Net Profit insufficiency 4.5733 trillion won 159.6 billion won Co-prosperity Procurement Department Construction Technology Department KEPCO (power transmission, Sales of Paid-in capital Key business distribution, and sales) Supplementary electricity and heat KRW 282,944 Supply Electricity resource development, Shindangjin million Direct purchase Dangjin Thermal HQ Construction HQ Ulsan Thermal HQ Honam Thermal HQ power generation business, etc. consumer Donghae Technical Information Ilsan Thermal HQ Guam Branch Office Bio Thermal HQ Department As of Dec. 2014 Share ratio 100% 10 EWP SR 2015 11 Overview of EWP Overview of EWP Power stations Business Areas The key businesses of EWP can be divided into thermal power operation, construction businesses, oversea businesses, and recyclable energy business. And, the company aims to achieve sustainable growth through diversification of its businesses. Ilsan Thermal Equipment Capacity Compound 900MW Fuel Cell 8MW Power station operation Location Goyang-si, Dangjin Thermal & Construction of Shindangjin Power Station Gyounggi-do Dangjin Thermal is the flagship power station of EWP. The station is build with the primary consideration on the environment and employed various pollution prevention and environmental monitoring devices. The power station operations several 500 MW level super critical pressure power generation units (Unit 1 through 4) and super-super critical pressure power generation units (Unit 5 through 8) to function as the primary source of power for the Greater Seoul Area. Donghae Bio Thermal Now, the company is building high-efficiency super-super critical pressure generation units, which are Unit no. 9 and no. 10. Combined, these two units are said to be equivalent to a unit of nuclear power station. Once Unit No. 9 and 10 are completed, the complex will rise to its position as the largest coal thermal power Equipment generation complex with a total capacity of 6000 MW. Capacity Coal thermal 400MW Biomass 30MW Ulsan Thermal Solar 1MW After the city of Ulsan was designated as the industrial-specialized area in 1960s, Ulsan Thermal completed its first power generation unit in 1971 and has conLocation Dangjin, tinued to be a stable source of power for Ulsan Petrochemical Industrial Complex. The complex is composed of two power generation types, which are thermal Choongnam and compound thermal. Also, the complex aims to ensure stability in power supply by employing DSS or WSS operations. After the complex closed down Thermal Unit No. 1 through 3 in 2014, now they operate Ulsan No. 4 Compound Unit, which uses more environmentally friendly fuel, LNG. Dangjin Thermal Honam Thermal Equipment Honam Thermal first started its heavy oil power generation in 1973, when it first started power generation with a capacity of 500MW . However, due to the Capacity government’s initiative to diversity the types of fuel used in the country, it completed its conversion to use coal in 1985. Afterwards, the complex went through Coal thermal 4,000MW service-life extension works in 1999 and 2010. Now, it supplies power to Yeosu National Industrial Complex and the surrounding areas with stability, contributing Overview of the power generation equipment Small Hydro to the economic miracles of Korea. 8.2MW Share Equipment Solar 4MW Type Name of facility ratio Capacity (MW) Location Dangjin thermal 4,000.0 Donghae Bio Thermal Dangjin, Flaming 53.6% Honam thermal 500.0 Choongnam Donghae Bio Thermal is operates the world's largest anthracite circulation floating later power station and the largest, 30MW wood biomass circulation floating coal Donghae Thermal 400.0 layer power generation unit in Korea. A circulation floating layer power station (CFB) is capable of desulfurization without a separate desulfurization unit. Also, Ulsan Thermal 2,072.0 Shindangjin Construction due to its low-temperature combustion, it can prevent generation of nitrites, making it more environmentally friendly. LNG 32.5% Ilsan Steam Supply 900.0 Equipment and Power Generation Donghae Bio succeeded in developing floating technology on its own, and, with this unique technology, Donghae Bio secured the knowhow for constructing Capacity Heavy Oil 13.1% Ulsan Compound 1,200.0 Coal thermal and operating the largest biomass power generation facility in Korea. Biomass 35.0 2,040MW Recyclable 0.8% Solar 10.5 Location Ilsan Thermal Others 20.5 Dangjin, Choongnam Ilsan Thermal was established with a view to supply power to the Greater Seoul Area. By employing HRSG boilers, it produces electricity and provides the residual Total 9,138.0 heat to the community for heating. Currently, Ilsan Thermal supplies power to 300,000 households while it provides heating to some 160,000 household units. Also, the complex operations fuel cell power generation units (8MW), which is well recognized as one of the environmentally-friendly energy sources for the Honam Thermal Ulsan Thermal future. Equipment Capacity Equipment Compound Capacity 2,071.9MW Coal thermal Thermal 1,200MW 500MW Fuel Cell 2.8MW Solar 0.1MW Solar 0.5MW Location Location Yesou, Jeonnam Namggu, Ulsan 12 Introduction • Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 13 Business Overview of EWP New businesses Overseas business Development of new energy EWP has been participating in various overseas projects covering construction of power stations, operations, start-up, and resource development, etc. The company proceeds with new energy businesses in order to ensure stable power supply and create the driving force for future growth. By managing the The domestic power generation business is expected to be subject to competition with the private sector. Therefore, the company anticipates that the imporconstruction projects and the technical supports initiated by EWP, the company successfully completed the largest, privately-invested coal thermal power tance of the international businesses in the future would be more significant. complex, creating a synergy effect between the private capital and the technical capability of EWP. Efficient and strict business management ensures that Therefore, in order to secure the driving force for future growth and sustainable growth, the company proactively engages in overseas businesses. the public nature of the private power generation business is maintained. At the same time, by completing those projects on schedule, it will contribute to stabilization of power supply. Construction of coal power station by forming a consortium with private companies. Equipment Capacity Equipment Capacity New Hampshire/New York 39.4MW 595MW×2units Construction Period 580MW×2units Construction Period California 112.8MW 2012.12~2016.06 2014.06~2018.06 SPC members SPC members Jamaica 644.5MW GS E&R + EWP SK Gas + KDB + EWP Location Location Guam 80MW Within Bookpyoung Industrial Seokmonmyeon, Dangjin, Vietnam 1,200MW Construction of Danghae Private Power Station Complex, Donghae, Gangwon-do Dangjin Eco-power Power Station Choongnam Indonesia 200MW Participation in a group energy project Equipment Capacity Equipment Capacity 463MW Fuel 38MW Fuel 3 projects in two countries 4 programs in two countries LNG Bio are being developed are currently in operation Construction Period Construction Period 2014.08~2016.12 2014.07~2016.06 (2015. 3. 1) SPC members SPC members Posco E&C + Hanjin + EWP Posco E&C + EWP Location Location Dongsan-myeon, Chuncheon-si, Group Energy Project for Sokmun National Sokmun National Industrial ComChuncheon Group Energy Project Gangwon-do Industrial Complex plex, Dangjin, Choongnam American Asia Recyclable energy Region Region For the sake of environmentally-friendly power generation and sustainable development, the company is proactively engaged in development of recyclable energy. From the small scale solar power generation units using the spaces on building rooftops to large scale solar power generation units using unused USA for its superb service by the Bureau of Vietnam spaces in large scale industrial complexes, we are changing the paradigm from the previous model where the power company proceeded with the business The first company to expand to Electricity in Guam. The company was A project for constructing and operating a according to a new model where the members of community are invited to participate in. the American market. recognized for the achievements in op1,200MW thermal power station currently in The company is running five power eration and awarded with the 'Unit of progress stations in the United States. Based on the Quarter' and the 'Unit of the Year' The company is participating in the thermal power plant conSolar power generation site Bio-mass power generation unit Wind power mill Fuel cell unit its local incorporation, EWP Renewable prizes. struction and operation projects in Ha tinh province, Vietnam. Corporation, the company expands its For this, EWP entered into a joint investment MOU with Samscope of businesses to M&A of power Jamaica sung Corporation in May 2014. stations, Greenfield projects, and develOperation of JPS opment of new recyclable energies etc. EWP participates in the operation of Indonesia JPS and supports O&M, as well. For the A project for constructing and operating a 200MW Dangjin Thermal Water Solar Donghae Biomass Power Station 석문 Younggwang Baeksu Wind Power Ilsan Fuel Cell Guam first time as a Korean company, EWP thermal power station currently in progress Superb power generation operates an oversea company which EWP was awarded with the project as a member of consorcapability recognized by the local covers power generation, transmission, tium, in which EWP played the role of a leader member along partners. and distribution. This experience will with Adrao Energy. EWP will take the overall responsibility for Operation and maintenance of the serve as the basis for the company to EPC contracting and construction supervision. Also, it will lead Cabras Thermal Power Station, Guam. develop into a utility company. (Holds the operation and maintenance of the power station for 25 For this project, EWP was recognized 40% shares of JPS.) years after its completion. Busan Shinho Solar 14 EWP SR 2015 Introduction • Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 15 Sustainable Management Overview of EWP Sustainable EWP established its missions and visions around the purpose of foundation. And, based on the core shared values and the sustainable management system, Sustainable management system Management accompanied by the strong commitment by the management and the capacity of all employees, the company pursues and practices sustainable management Vision and value communication in which all interested parties co=-exist and share the values of the future in all In order to share and communicate our vision and values more efficiently, the customers and the interested parties are classified into participatory customers, aspects of economy, society, and environment. who are the internal customers, and the cooperative, sharing, and co-prosperity customers, who are all external customers. With this as the basis, the company developed communication strategies that suits the characteristics of each of these types of interested parties, and operates a sharing system for online and Articles of association and the related laws off-line sharing. The intended businesses of The Law on co-existing Cooperative co-prosperity The Law on Participator the company in the Articles Restructuring of customers customers customers Establishment of KEPCO customers of Association Electricity Industry (community / media/ (Government / (Power generators (Employees / Union) Communication environment) partner companies) / IPP) Power Source development, Facilitation of the development of Improvement of the competitiveness targets Power generation operation, power source of the power industry R&D, Stabilization of power supply and Improvement of the services provided key features •Pursuit of the personal •Interest in issues •Understanding and verifying the happiness •Development of the local national governments' initiatives •Different corporate culture International businesses, demand to the electricity users Mission Investment businesses, Contribution to the growth of national Sound and desirable development of •Representing the interests of community •Stable project implementation •Competitive cooperation the union •Environment protection •Securing practical supports supplementary businesses economy the power industry + C  ontinue the close cooperative + C  lose cooperation with the 1 HAPPINESS Purposes + Tolerance, promotion of pride relationship national policies Core + Maintenance  of the sense of + Expansion of the shared network + S  trengthening of the co-prosperity + T  imely delivery of company communication homogeneity communication relationship information + S  haring of the current issues and Values strategies + Strengthening  the trusting + E  xpansion of the basis for mutual + c o-prosperity through sincerity strengthening cooperation 2 ENERGY provided Sustainable management strategies relationship understanding and openness What we are Strategies 3 WE MAKE Sustainable management strategic system STEP 1 EWP established a vision that goes '2030 Most Valuable Power Company' based on the company In order to meet the 2030 vision management goals and fulfill the economic, social, and enviClassification of the customers and mission 'We make energy for happiness.' With this, the company established a vision system the interested parties 1 A happier life with a higher quality of life ronmental responsibilities for all interested parties, EWP has established the four main strategic which contains creation, passion, challenge, cooperation, transparency, and respect of human • Diversified classifications for inside/ 2  heap, stable, and environmentally-friendly energy C directions, which are, respectively, leading the domestic power generation industry, creating rights as the core values. With this, the management direction of the CEO is set and realized by outside, cooperative/threatening, etc. with the highest quality the future growth business, strengthening the core competency, and realizing sustainable 3  roduction of energy through maximization of the P the management, who are committed to realize these goals and concentrate the capabilities management. The four strategic directions are being operated by establishing 5 principles of STEP 2 managerial efficiency and technical innovation of the employees to make it happen. In addition, these visions and core values are shared and achievement management in consideration of the VOC in and outside of the company. The proliferated among the customers and the interested parties, while they are to be realized in Profiling of each customer strategic directions are further specified in 12 implementation strategies, each of which is being conjunction with the mid-long term management strategies. • Identification of the characteristics of implemented by the relevant implementation organization. each interested party Vision Most Valuable STEP 3 Purpose of Economic Power environmentallyStable power supply Lead t men Establishment Supply friendly power supply Customized shared strategies and ing age 1 n f produ ctivRealiz the systems ma Growth Value ent o stable p ing do Mission We Make Energy for Happiness vem hment of le pro blis Im & Esta ion system owe m • Customized sharing strategies for each 2 ab ity nnovat suppl y r U e interested party i pg nthe an rad Financial Value r To r ive po atPower Gen • To establish dedicated organizations and Str we Vision ct Res ent ning rtment erat m d s in eal D i po n ep a o a f o em P la Dep a rt me n na e and system Re plus 1 nt Sa ty ize ag egy plus 1 g 3 Co-pro al ttra t P fet safe ic sib izati roa st S ya g rity t spe D su Passion and Cooperation and Respect of Human d n ep n cu men Customer Value Creation Procure rity an rtme le on oration Collaborati ar e Core b p sta STEP Challenge Transparency Rights a 3 la on ty me M Col 4 lu ali in s Qu t Departm n P a Co d en Shared t lan n on lla tm 1 ati in ing fuel try ent b s Sustainable growth Passion and Cooperation and Consideration and safety or egy ning dus SMB Le Sharing and proliferation then nt Value through creation Challenging sprit to be transparency for cofor the respect of human a ati on roles i ding eng E xpansion of the business scale and coverage to De or 1 perity e Str rocurem ness the best prosperity and trust rights nc Uniqu p pros • To share the missions, visions, core e Courement become a general energy company prospe oplu tive c Pro artment p values, and strategies peti rity 2 Continued growth with soundness in finance Co lla b 12strategic projects Dep laboration com Col 3 E nergy security, human rights, anti-corruption CEO to be managed by the relevant, 1 STEP 5 Management f ratio n dedicated implementation De nt o t ethics, and social responsibility Collabo Pow new velopme Direction Creation and Transparency Communication Future growth and Shared values Uniq er Measuring and feedback of the shared hme d organizations ue G n De enerati Innovation and ethics and trust development of and cog an Establis ageme Plannin epartpar o pow nt of achievements tmen n management management management human resources prosperity d and er sources strategy lus 1 an p global m tem ment t plus • Measure the internal and external level resou orati n sys rces iqu on Stre To be the top power company in the world with the total equipment capacity of 34,200 MW, Un e lla b of sharing Power Company Vision goals 13 trillion won in sales, and the highest grade in transparency H R Co e of ess fic in stic • Feedback of the success cases and e pa rt Coll n Of m De m abora ratio e ss tion Collabo gth e l en t Do us n bl sion ro improvement cases Global Equipment capacity 34,200MW Creation of the new ve De of g y l m op G Pow er of Office ic B e in en of pa es er wt hb ta oba ent Top 20 Leading the power Strengthening the Realization of g ke De enerati st growth business for nin par tmen n o Dome lus 1 Ex was gy Sales 13trillion won industry of Korea the future core competency sustainable le l nt t plus 1 ss p ne bu s us Strategic e s Str Busine of re in th co e tec ngthen ion s g An ascend to become • Stable power supply • Development of power • Secure future technical • Co-prosperity with SMBs lizat e Net profit 1.2trillion won re tive hnical c ing the Rationa siness a e one of the world's Directions • Upgraded safety and sources and resources competitiveness • Realization of responsio b u e ur fut nes security management • Expansion of recyclable • Development of global ble management co s for mpetithe new t of Kor leading energy mp the future in and o u g ROIC 8.3% atin • Competitive fuel energy businesses key man-power • Enhancement of produccompanies ete nc y Cre procurement • Rationalization of the • Establishment of global tivity and continuous new businesses management system innovation system EWP SR 2015 Introduction • Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 16 17 Communication with Interested Parties Overview of EWP Communication An interested party is defined as an individual or an organization that can be influential in reaching the strategic goals of the company successfully or in the Customized communication channels for each interested party with Interested operation of the company. EWP expanded the scope of interested parties in accordance with the changes in the managerial environment of power industry and The voices of the customers are heeded for each type of customers who are classified in accordance with the characteristics and business conditions for the Parties company. And, such voices are proactively reflected in the management of the company with a view to establish trust with the market and the customers the changes in the business structures. And, the company engages in various and build the foundation for sustainable growth. With partner companies, the company runs online VOC hearing channels such as the 'Unfair Practice Report communication activities customized for each interested party. Center,' 'Transparency Implementation Cafe,' 'Tender Information System,' 'Partners' Suggestion Bulletin' and offline channels such as the 'Partner Company Advisory Committee,' 'Improvement of Procurement Difficulties', 'supporting domestic and international customer development system', 'Open Power Plant', and the 'SMB council', etc. Especially, with the residents living near the power station, if it is difficult to reach an agreement with them due to the conflicting interests and complaints that are raised during the construction and operation phases of a power station, an independent survey agency is commissioned to Types of interested parties Classification and approach to each interested party identify an objective proposal for agreement to address the VOC. Internal / external Types of interested parties Participator Cooperative Co-existent co-prosperity Due to the recent changes in the environment (expansion of new growth businesses, the coninterested parities interested parties interested parties interested parties Internal interested parties (Employees / Union) (Government / Partner companies) (Community / Media/ Environment) (Power Generators / IPP) flict surrounding the power transmission towers), the scope of customers is expanded and 1 2 3 Intra-net communication Public cooperation managerial Government 3.0 Information Disclosure International business council for Employees and Dispatched workers Union divided into internal customers and external customers. Then, they are divided to threat and channels information system Alio System Portal (COW) power generation companies their families and their families cooperation categories, which are further divided into participator customer s(employees and • Talk with the CEO board Financial Supervision Service, Fair Open Management website Workshop for the Site Supervisors • Talking the King discussion, face book Trade Committee announcement in overseas project sites EWP the union), cooperative customers (government, partners, and electricity market), co-existing Internal broadcasting channel Environmental information disclosure Online KCMI, Bio-mass Association system Business Operation committee, customers (media, community members, and environments), and the co-prosperity type cusHellow EWP A B C Shared • Talk with the CEO and sharing of the Issue Transparency Cafe, Tender Information External environment sign board PPP cooperation group Government National Assembly KEPCO tomers (IPP and the power generation companies). System System D E F Communication channels between the Operation of Unfair Practice Report Sustainable management report International business council for management and the employees Center -P  ublished for 8 consecutive years, which is power generation companies Investors Suppliers Media Approach • Town meeting, communication with the unprecedented by any other public corporation co-prosperity 2.5 Support System Workshop for the Site Supervisors G H I employees at the time of the beginning-of-theFor the approach to the participator customers, the company operates the Direct Notification Test bed for the products by SMBs Meetings with the specialized magazines, in overseas project sites Local Environmental year business reporting, Female board of directors local news papers, and the national Community Groups IPP Offline Circuit presentation of the vision by the CEO SMB co-prosperity found amounting to Business Operation committee, to CEO system on the company website to ensure direct communication with the CEO. The newspapers PPP cooperation group Shared •C  ircuit presentation sessions in the HQ and all 10 billion won J K Office of Shared Values provides the spaces for communication between employees to listen to Local support / environmental meeting group 6 power generation System business facilities IPPs companies the problems or difficulties the employees are faced with in real-time. External interested parties With regard to the cooperative type customers, the company operates regular discussion bodies and meetings. The company also holds regular workshops to reach out to the partners and hear about the problems they are faced with, accompanied by development of the internal experts by Cooperation / Threat classification criteria for consulting services provided to the partners. In addition, there are a number of communicaCreation of values for parties of interest High Threat Low tion channels for understanding the needs of the partners on a continuous basis, to bring down EWP goes beyond creating profits out of operations and returning them to the society. It aims to create shared values in all of its operational activities and High the entry barriers for SMBs, CEO's visits to the SMBs, operating a discussion body for SMBs, and 1 2 believes that is the true way of sustainable management. In all aspects of its business management, the company identifies the value changes for each interoperating the Unfair Practice Eradication Center. ested party, and the expectations on the achievements of the organization which is managed by the sustainable strategy performance index are interlinked I J As for the approach to the co-existing type customers, the company holds hearings and inK 3 with the expectations held by the interested parties in and out of the company, so that a set of shared values at which the expectations of both side are met, formative sessions with the members of local community and environmental groups, while as the company endeavors to create such a shared value. announcing a public call for win-win type policy proposals, using low-noise environmentalCo-prosperity Participation Cooperation Of the customers who are engaged in creating values, the partner companies or the vendors of the materials, construction services and other services are Co-existence Cooperation ly-friendly technologies, improving the appearance and looks of the facilities, supporting busisurveyed through e-mail online surveys to investigate their satisfaction level. The results are shared with the relevant department and used as the basic manesses for sharing profits with the local community through crowd funding, and providing supterial for future business implementation and management of the vendors. Also, for vulnerable factors, improvement plans are established and feedbacks are ports to the surrounding areas. etc. F A C D provided for them. With the co-prosperity type customers, the company's power generation company cooperaG H B E tion HQ organizes technical exchange meetings, work-shops, and meetings for joint material Low procurement and establishment of mutual cooperation systems, etc. The company maintains Expectations on the performance Creation of value and Expectations held by each type of interested parties by the organization balanced approach for EW a close relationship with these companies through running consortiums for new projects, etc. Participator • Strengthening the technical competitiveness • Operation of an open union/employer committee • Co-existent labor union for the future • Sharing the current issues in the management interested parities • Rewards based on merits and performance • Cultivating essential global talents through a management committee Type Related customers Key features Solidarity strategy (Employees / Union) • Establishment of a global management system • Dialogs through on/off line channels 1 Employees and their families Pursuit of the personal satisfaction Tolerance, promotion of pride • Improvement of the productivity for the public • To participate in the Minister/Deputy Minster meetParticipatory Customer 2 Dispatched workers and their families In contact with different corporate culture Maintenance of the sense of homogeneity Cooperative corporation ings and report the progress • Improvement of productivity, establishment of 3 Union Represents the interest of the union Strengthening the trusting relationship interested parties • Maximization of the profits for the an innovative system • To participate in the CEOs' meetings for KEPCO Group A Government B National Assembly Policy verification and decision Close cooperation with the national policies (Government / Partner shareholders Companies • Lead the way of continuous with SMBs companies) • Contribution to the society through co• To visit the SMBs and listen to the difficulties they Cooperative Customer C KEPCO D Electricity Market Stable project implementation Timely delivery of company information existence have E Suppliers Securing practical supports co-prosperity through sincerity and openness F Media Interest in issues Continue the close cooperative relationship Co-existent • To create jobs for the local community • Construct Profit-sharing Nanum Habit Power Station protection of the environmental and the development of the Strengthening of the co-prosperity communication interested parties • To endeavor to reduce the environmental • Develop new power sources and resources • The first public corporation to adopt the Carbon Co-existence Customer G Local Community • Expansion of renewable energy business community relationship (Community / Media/ impacts Disclosure Program H Environmental Groups Priority in environmental protection Expansion of the basis for mutual understanding Environment) I IPP J IPP companies Different corporate culture Expansion of the shared network co-prosperity Customer co-prosperity • Joint implementation of Government 3.0 • Upgrading safety and security management • To participate in the meeting of CEOs of the power K 6 power generation companies Competitive cooperation Sharing of the current issues and strengthening cooperation interested parties • Joint development of power sources and • Develop new power sources and resources generation companies (Power Generators / IPP) sharing of the equipment operation technology • Expansion of renewable energy business • To operate collaboration groups with the IPPs and PPPs 18 EWP SR 2015 Introduction • Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 19 Evaluation of the significance Overview of EWP Materiality EWP adopted the significance evaluation process with a view to identify key issues for sustainable management as recommended by the guideline. The sig+ To strengthen the sharing of the vision and Opinions of the experts + To manage the company's reputation by internalization + To strengthen the self-initiation in the negotiation + More endeavor is needed to improve the RPS Assessment and strategies among the employees of the social contribution among members on the social contribution process performance rate nificance evaluation process uses various methods to identify issues related to +C  larification of the top power generation +N  ecessary to increase interest in improvement of the + t o design the volunteer work programs in + To increase the amount of flaming coal purchased sustainable management. technologies of the world performance of outsourcing cooperation with the civil society jointly with the power generation companies Selection of Key +R  e-establishment of the mid-long term +N  ecessary to establish a representing body of the + To endeavor in managing the essential man+ To devise a plan to improve the up-close Then, the process prioritize the values issues in accordance with their imporroadmap for ethics management demands of the interested parties for co-prosperity power and selection of the key business functions management to prevent failures of the equipment + s trengthening the internal communication to + S ystematic approach to the satisfaction level survey + To establish a response system for safety + Ensure authenticity of the feasibility study tance in the economy, environmental, and social impacts in connection with the increase the level of internal transparency among SMBs accidents in the construction sites outcomes for overseas projects Issues managerial strategy to finally select the significant issue. STEP 3 Identification of the key issues Materiality assessment process Materiality Assessment No. Material Issues Material Aspects (GRI) Analysis of the internal environment The assessment of significance is based on the relevance and significance evaluation as set forth 1 To strengthen communication with the Stakeholder Engagement interested parties in ISO 26000 regarding the sustainability issues. STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 2 co-prosperity with partners Excellent Good Normal Poor With the results, the company conducted significance assessment with the significance of the 3 To expand social contribution in connection Local Communities Power Power with the main business of the company Power Plant Fuel Plant Understanding of the Participation by the Identification of the key internal businesses and the impact on the interested parties as the basis . source Procure4 Stable power supply during the peak time Economic Performance Plan Construcment Operasocial responsibility interested partie issues tion tion As a result, a total of 25 key issues, which exceeded the overall average values, were identi5 Transparent and ethical management Ethics and Integrity Business CompeMedia analysis, Analysis of the Identification of the demands Assessment of significance, fied. 6 Provision of environmentally-friendly energy Economic Performance tency related companies, Analysis of the of the interested parties, Selection of the key issues 7 Balance between work and life Employment managerial environment, SWOT Consultation for Expert Opinions, Financial analysis Strategic interconnection analysis To proceed with the co-prosperity projects with Competency Material Matrix 8 the local community Local Communities 9 Stable and reliable operation of the equipment Economic Performance Technical 4.0 Supplier Assessment for Competency STEP 1 Understanding of the social responsibility 10 To proceed with transparent and fair transactions Impacts on Society 11 To develop new business projects 1 The importance to the interested parties Management 5 3 2 12 Secure future technical competitiveness Economic Performance System Media analysis 16 7 6 13 To strengthen the responsive capabilities against The company identified related issues by analyzing 2500 articles on the media from January 3.8 the climate change 17 9 4 14 To strengthen the capabilities of the employees Emissions 2014 to December 2014. 8 15 To expand the renewable energy businesses Training and Education Analysis of the external environment 13 Analysis of the related companies 19 16 Better working environment Economic Performance 18 14 Status of the worlds power industry The related issues have been identified by comparing and analyzing the key issues in other com3.6 24 22 12 17 Economic production of power Employment 21 15 11 10 • Diversification of the resources, including 20 18 Creation of jobs Economic Performance panies in the power industry or other companies with outstanding sustainable management 23 the Shale Gas Revolution 19 Prevention of safety accidents in work places Employment • Demands for strengthening the achievements. Also, the issues were identified by analyzing and comparing the GRI achievement To develop environmentally-friendly environmental standards, including 20 technologies Occupational Health and Safety responding to the climate changes indexes or the ISO26000 diagnosis tools in order to identify the issues related to EWP. 3.4 To prevent conflicts in the course of project • Issues on the safety of nuclear power plants 21 Products and Services implementation Analysis of the managerial environment 22 To abide by the social and environmental laws and regulations Compliance Status of domestic power industry In order to identify the direction of strategies and the sustainable issues, the internal compe23 To strengthen responsible capabilities against disasters and safety accidents Compliance • Intensifying competition with private tency was diagnosed based on the internal environment of the strategic industries, the external 3.2 3.4 3.6 3.8 4.0 4.2 4.6 24 To increase the amount of investment into R&D Occupational Health and Safety power generation companies • Strengthening the role as the public environment, the government's policy, and the requirements by the interested parties. Significance 25 To expand the scope of information disclosure Economic Performance corporation • Increasing the social responsibility of public SWOT analysis corporation • strengthening energy security, Based on the analysis of strength, weakness, opportunities, and threats through analysis of the environmental/ safety standards • To respond to the changes in the power external environment and the internal competency, the company identified issues on sustaintransaction scheme To understand the requirements ability as well as the strategic directions of attack, compensation, bypass, and survival. Selection of the key issues by the interested parties The key issues which were identified through the significance assessment were divided into 5 key themes and reported with a focus on the DMA and index To expand the sales channels for the STEP 2 Participation by the interested partie outcomes from the government funded performance analysis on the key issues. projects To expand the opportunity for competition Identification of the demands of the interested parties by lifting regulations Based on the level of responsibility and influence on the management of EWP, the interested 5 Key Themes Cooperative To expand the opportunities to participate in overseas tenders interested parties To soften barriers on tender participation parties are divided into participatory, cooperative, co-existent, and co-prosperity groups as the (Government / =or contracting requirements partner companies) company understood the requirements of the clients. To strengthen the communication channels with SMBs Consultation for Expert Opinions To expand the opportunities for the local Through interviews with experts in economy, society, and environment, the company obtained Stable power Strengthen the Driving Strengthen the Driving To realize environmentally To ensure happy sharing community members to work for the company advice and recommendations on the social responsibility of the company and the sustainable supply Force for Future Growth Force for Future Growth -friendly energy and growth for all Local economy invigoration projects management strategies. Prevention of equipment Safety-first Management To develop new businesses To develop new businesses To invigorate the strategic To provide supports to co-prosperity Co-existent welfare programs failures Balance between work Secure future technical Secure future technical social responsibility works interested parties To provide supports to the low-income Strategic interconnection analysis Stable power supply during and life competitiveness competitiveness Creation of jobs (Local community classes The company analyzed the strategic interconnections of key issues on the TFT which was comthe peak time To increase the efficacy in To strengthen the capabilities To strengthen the capabilities To strengthen transparent members) To minimize the environmental impacts in Economic Power Supply operation of the employees of the employees and fair trading the local community posed of the leaders of each office, executives, and the members who are in charge of key projects. EWP SR There is a future that we create together EWP, as the leader of the energy industry, will open a sustainable future through our emphasis on the fundamentals, passion, and challenging spirits. Sustainable Management Key Issues 22 Stable Power Supply 28 H  appy Work Place of a People-Oriented Environment 34 C  reating the Driving Force for Future Growth 40 R  ealizing Eco-Friendly Energy 46 Ensuring Happy Sharing and Growth for All DMA Disclosure Management Approach Stable Power Supply Stable power supply is the purpose of our foundation and a mission given by the people of the country. When the cycling power down in September 15, 2011 happened, we experienced the significance of the instability in power supply first-handedly. To ensure stable power supply, it is important to minimize the failure of the equipment, especially during the peak time when the demand for the electricity is significant. It is also important to maximize the power supply capacity. The very reason of existence for EWP, and its primary goals, is stable power supply and suppression of the factors for increasing the electricity fare through preventive maintenance and early warning on signs of failures. Achievements Plan 2014 2015 EWP will do its best n order to reach 300 days without failures by introducing and Area Index Target Achievements Key achievements Basis of goal setting spreading the culture of failure-free operations, customized maintenance, im• All power generators reached 200 days Failure-free 100 days 200 days without failure through company-wide innovation of equipment management Failure rate target fulfillment conditions provement of maintenance and operation procedures, and prevention of human errors in order to ensure stable and economic power supply, which is the very Stable power supply mission of the organization. For this, we will do our best to establish the optimized • 500MW Dangjin Thermal power generators Failure-rate 0.440% 0.098% reached 365 days without failures (first time among all of the five power generation 50% improvement from the previous year fuel procurement model for the new power generation units (Shindangjin No. 9 companies) and No. 10) and realize the goal of staying in the top place for 6 years in a row. • Increasing the resolution of the In-house Flaming coal Research model to maintain the company's Economic Power Supply power station Lowest fuel cost No. 1 No. 1 advantages in predicting and analyzing the fuel market direct and prices (Flaming coal Maintained the top place for 6 years in a row fuel cost 39.3 won/kWh) 24 EWP SR 2015 Introduction Overview of EWP • Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 25 Stable Power Supply Sustainable Management Key Issues Stable Power Prevention of equipment break-downs 20% level failure-stoppage Achieved the highest level failure *NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation (The performance for 2014 has not been announced) Supply Prevention of equipment break-downs of the global performance Failure stoppage ratio (Unit: %) non-planned losses ratio Operation rate (Unit: %) Innovation of the maintenance and inspection of the power generation equipment 0.098% of the world best 99.88 An analysis on the failure pattern showed that the equipment failure has been a steady hike level in 2014 since 2009. And, 2013 saw the highest number of stoppage by failure. For this, the company NERC 93.76 4.93 93.34 established all-around Zero Base countermeasures to introduce failure-free culture and moti4.88 4.75 동서 vate and enhance the employees' failure minds. The company conducted field inspections and 4.49 91.62 POMMS 91.36 assessment/analyses where the executives participated in. Also, organizations composed of exOperation Information System perts in technical diagnosis were deployed in every business units to strengthen the manpower 1.202 1.029 Monitors the operation status of the power 0.88 and organization of the business units. Also, the power generation part leaders were endowed 동서 NERC generation equipment through analysis of the 85.91 85.39 operation trends of key equipment, continuous with the responsibilities to prevent human errors and similar failures by introducing intense 0.619 0.098 85.7 85.31 PIS monitoring of the troublesome items, and improving monitoring during the hours prone to human errors, introducing voice warning systems to prethe convenience in the access items for the power 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 generation equipment vent human errors, and strengthening the equipment identification on the work floor. Management of the reliability Checking the results of implementation and status of free streng lurethe the equipment, with establishment of a database on of fai capa ning all preventive maintenance, maintenance items, and on et bili of t om oti minds of Prom tie s he POMMS RCM frequencies, the results of the reliability analysis, and Pr tion of pride otio n the preventive inspections-maintenance plans being duc se ro ra amo of a s interconnected Int tch ph ng e the nse Through the POMMS (Plant Operation Maintenance and Management System) is a system a ac y the To st sh ies b ren ift which systematically controls the preventive maintenance and prevention of failures through ivit field gthe s Predictive Warning System Es ency c. act ment, et To incr of the d OJT n el e seamless integration of operation information, reliability management, predictive warning Fi anag ent s g Early detection of anomalies in power generation the te th er eas an2 proje l s vem otoco M for tion cts nt of stems new equi e m cts equipment, execution of the predictive maintenance pme insta for r pro cy p iza system, and diagnosis based risk levels. With this, the company implements RCM (Reliability em capa e the e n pow roj Orga er Man nt o l 4 p er/ Im rgen works through analysis of the cause, and the scientific EPI me n s latio w po gs centered maintenance) and preventive maintenance activities by checking the results of imand systematic analysis of the cause of failures ainin sy ch e ed n of lish onse To opti em d tr bili sup miz e lat ee ul otice plementation and status of the equipment, with establishment of a database on all preventive tie equip mu ut n tab resp e p men xisti Sys ojects 3 pro ply, Diagnosis based on risk levels s ply Si itho 8.29Tasks maintenance, maintenance items, and frequencies, the results of the reliability analysis, and the To compl t, e ng jec ts 5p r w , To analyze the damages in amount based on failure tem e tc. Su preventive inspections-maintenance plans being interconnected. and the failure rate of the equipment, to predict the remaining service life and performance of To implement countermeasures in tem izat Also, the company runs a predictive warning system through earlier detection of anomalies in RBI the equipment in operation, while the result of 3 pro the aspects of man power provision, P , 4 p ion/ d e the power generation equipment and execution of predictive maintenance activities through prediction is interlinked through the establishment pe m lann d an bl uct s ups r, HR/Organization/Procedures, ain ed roject an eck era of the maintenance plans and managed through ste ail e th s To cond Disa jects k ten pre the analysis of the cause of break-downs. To ch vuln and Equipment computerized systems chec rs v sy Orga pr an ior ce a entive ure Op Meetings with SMBs e ste s in cause o er hen nt s n to p ctivitie ty ati isa ents strengt uipme eaks s afe on ent d f ,m ls adva Eq eq t, To prev y accid uip en ain cia 3 p ment m d t Equip jects Re u enan nce co roje , up ties lla To e 5 pro , etc ce, joint POMMS(Plant Operation and Maintenance Management System) Composition cts t-s ion mo safet b o to ra ablisst per erat . sh tion h a Standin g e x p f v are c in o sis g To the ommunity port teams lar ba ur in case regu sd ho s on a ie ac To s ex l ch d tech ivit s Cost-Time Analysis act hour Automatically establish the inspection tiv tre ang ni e ev cal nce Maintena ht load in itie ng ents ig ity plan based on the status bil on the l To present the equipment, scope, and time of the targets for the maintenance activities s th ag e ain n preve sta rati ure e st s n imila tion To sec ent op r failures equipm Reliability management (RCM) RBI (Risks management) Predictive warning (EPI Center) HQ ERP linkage • To analyze the maintenance cycles • To analyze the maintenance cycles • Early analysis of the problems, predicless than a year longer than 3 years tive maintenance Business • MTBF, EPRI and INI DB • Assess the service life of the equip• Scientific, systematic analysis of the Unit 8.29-200 Project for Failure-free operation of all power generation equipment ment on a real-time basis cause Meaning of 8.29-200 Project In order to ensure stable power supply during the peak power demands, the company implemented 29 projects in 8 areas (8.29 projects). With our catch phrase of Details and Details for Inspections, Repair works with all hears! , the company promoted awareness on failure-free commitments. In addition, the management of the company strengthened field management Power Plant Operation Maintenance management PIS (Operation management) Performance management activities and introduced the Power Generation Unit Operation under Responsibility programs. Management (PMS) 2014 Summer Peak = The date when all Also, by conducting 'Failure-stoppage prevention debates' events, all employees were encour• Power Plant Operation Status • Real-time operation information • Real-time efficiency/performance • Inspection and maintenance works Ended on 8.29 power generators Management monitoring management (minor, O/H) aged to share their experiences in failures to prevent similar failures elsewhere. The equipment • Management of the power plant • Statistics and analysis of the • Equipment performance man• equipment, material, and drawing 200 days with likelihood of failures was maintained in advance. Also, by forming a close cooperative operation index operation history agement management without a failure relationship with the partners for routine maintenance and engaging in various activities to enhance the maintenance equality and fundamental failure prevention, all of the power generPressure Flow rates Temperature Air volume Maintenance contractor 29 sub-projects To spread the driving forces for ators in the company reached 200 days without failures (August 29, 2014) and all high capacity in 8 sectors • Receipt for the maintenance works failure-free power generators in Dangjin reached 365 days without failure (Dec. 12, 2014). • Input the inspection and maintenance works results 26 Introduction Overview of EWP • Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 27 Stable Power Supply Sustainable Management Key Issues Predictive Warning System The company has introduced and been operating a predictive warning system, which is called Economic power supply through saving fuel costs EPI (Equipment Performance Improvement) for earlier detection of anomalies in operation of the equipment. The real time operation data were composed and accumulate din necessary Fuel procurement process data and screens. Then, the correlation between these data, the current operation values, and For the sake of economic power supply, to prevent increases of power costs through saving of the fuel costs, which account for 70 to 80% of the power the operation trends were analyzed. As a result, the smart operation diagnosis solution was generation cost, it is imperative that the fuel for generation is procured in an economic manner. EWP bases its fuel procurements plans on the forecast of proliferated across the company to prevent stoppages caused by failures to detecting abnormal power demands and the plans on power generation. In order for economic and stable procurement of the fuel, it conducts in-house researches to develop a operational conditions in advance. comprehensive valuation tools reflecting the market trends and the quality costs as the company runs its procurement process. Existing warning system : Predictive warnings : STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 STEP 6 The warnings or alarms triggered only when the The alarm is activated when there is a difference fro from the existing learning patterns or Estimation of the Power Procurement Purchase Purchase Maritime predetermined values were reached. the patterns of factors. power demands generation plan and supply plan plan contract transportation Power Generation Machine Trip SmartSignal Early Detection Power market Department Fuel Resource Team Upper Monitors all signals simultaneously Threshold • Predicts the power demands • Composes a portfolio of • Establishes the supply •P lans for purchases in • International open tender • Based on the purchase Sensor A Early Warning Time Difference in consideration of GNP, power sources based on the and procurement plans consideration of the market Tender in kind contracts Lower industrial growth rates, and power demands in consideration of the situation for each fuel Long-term tender Shipment to be carried out Threshold past trends, etc. • Establishes the annual power power generation plans, the category. The plans cover Negotiation with the longafter the shipping schedule Sensor A Dynamic Band generation plans for each inventories, the target heat the method of purchase, term suppliers is fixed with the relevant power plant generation volume, and the the volume, and the time of supplier power redundancy rate. shipment, etc. Sensor B • Establishes the portfolio of Usually 3 -6 months ahead the sources. Sensor C Sensor D Optimized procurement through the comprehensive evaluation system. In-house Research Model This in-house research fuel procurement model is capable of analyzing the factors that affect the procurement process of flaming coal, provision of real-time price information, and anticipation of the future price movement. The precision of this model is further enhanced, which helps our optimal decision making for economic procurement and stabilized supply of raw material. The Stable power supply during the peak time The model is based on the analysis on the factors evaluation covers the equipment service-life based on the quality of the flaming coal, the stabilthat may affect the procurement process of flaming ity in supply by each supplier, and the reliability on the quality of the coal,. which are reflected coal. With this, the future pattern of the price is Earlier operation of the new equipment and optimized operation of existing equipment in the evaluation of the procurement costs. As a result, the company has been achieving the anticipated, and the analysis model is used to make In response to the government's request to secure emergency redundancy power supply due to the forecast of 3.9% power redundancy rate and the instabillowest flaming coal procurement cost for five consecutive years. the optimal decisions on the timing and volume of ity in power supply during the summer season, the company has endeavored to maximize the power supply capacity during the peak season. The company procurement (introduced in 2007, settled in 2009, and succeeded in supplying the pilot operation power 300 MW earlier than the scheduled dates owning to internal and external cooperation, including the imupgraded in 2014). Comprehensive cost assessment provement of the steam turbines of Ulsan No. 4 Compound Power generation unit, the improvement of the washing operation of the water supply pipes, and construction projects. As for the existing equipment, the emergency power supply capacity was increased to 126 MW through maximum guarantee power Procurement of flaming coal based on the comprehensive cost evaluation, including the existing operation cost and the service life of the equipment output operation, an increase of the power generation capacity after heating provision, and rescheduling the power usage within the power plant to avoid the peak time. Greenhouse Goals for comprehensive cost gas cost evaluation implementation Improvement of precision in provision capacity of the compound thermal power plants Reliability of the + Saving of the quality cost Original supplier Decreasing the inconsistency and difference in As for the compound thermal power plants, the supply capacity changes dramatically dependCompletion Operation the caloric value Increase of power supply capacity through ing on the changes in the temperature and other operational factors. As the supply capacity is cost of the optimization of the existing equipment Quality cost comprehensive + Further sub-division of the items for the one of the important factors for stabilizing the power system (i.e., the cause of 9.15 cycling black Differences evaluation influence and the areas of evaluation +126MW out was the error in the redundancy calculation due to inaccurate calculation of the provision in caloric values Equipment Before: 6 items in 2 areas Expanded: 16 items in 5 areas service life capacity), the company now recalculates the maximum provision capacity of the compound cost + The comprehensive competitiveness Fuel cost for flaming coal (Unit : won / kWh) Maximum guaranteed output operation Inconsistency Dangjin +64MW equipment for each tender in order to improve the accuracy of the production capacity. During in quality cost evaluation system for fuel procurement completed the actual operation of the facility, the company developed and applied the power transmission 48.15 18.4% decrease Increased power generation after cutting Honam off the heat supply amount management system in order to meet the maximum tender amount. After 223 cycles +21MW The quality cost (differences in caloric value and inconsistency) is reflected in the bid assessment / 4 unit tests, the atmospheric temperature parameter was calculated to improve the precision Low load utilization for washing the of the supply capacity by 95% (error rate: 1.02% ~ 0.05%). As a result, the supply capacity was The improvement through monitoring the port of shipment, etc., has now reached its limit. It is now required that the quality is 39.57 39.3 Compound compressor Background +23MW increased 86GWH/year. As a part of the power supply maximization efforts during the peaks. in enhanced through tender assessment. The loads within the facilities were parallel with the failure-free operation of all power generators, the company created a threeStrategy The differences in the performances of the bidders are to be reflected in the tender process. The supplier with excessive difference is to be tapered out through reduction of awarding, etc. All rescheduled to avoid the peaks fold monitoring system and an early-warning system to prevent failure-originates stoppages, facilities +18MW resulting in stabilized power supply during the summer season. Execution For the inconsistency, the increased cost due to the increased amount of impurities shall be reflected in the bid assessment. 2012 2013 2014 DMA Disclosure Management Approach Happy Work Place of a PeopleOriented Environment The key of the sustainable management is the human-centered management. This is because the productivity and efficiency s well as creativity, of the workers are maximized when they find their company a safe company, a rewarding work place, and something that deserve their affection and passion. EWP is aware that the competitiveness of the workers is the competitiveness of the company. And, in order that the workers of our company may work in a safe environment, with joyful minds based on communication and cooperation, and having enhanced work productivity, the related system are continuously being improved. Achievements Plan 2014 2015 EWP values safety the most important. The safety control procedures and sysArea Index Target Achievements Key achievements Basis of goal setting tems which are field-oriented are continuously being improved, as the company Disaster rates in • Disaster prevalence on decline As of 2013, 20% of the Safety work place contracted construction projects 0.10% 0.09% three years in a row! (0.16% → 0.12% → 0.09%) disaster rates of public corporations concentrates its safety control capability on the suppliers. As we do, we will endeavor to realize a completely disaster free work place for all workers in the work places. Based on the happiness management master plan, the non-monetary Balance External certification Securing • Various flexible working welfare which is beneficiary centered and internalization of the family-friendly between work and life as a family-friendly company 0.440% 0.098% arrangements in use and being recommended competitiveness through wining external awards management of the company will contribute to enhancing the capabilities of the workers so that they can improve the quality of the relationship between their The number of • Establishment of infrastructure, work and their families. With this, the company will keep working on to realize a Increased work employees who are on productivity a flexible work hour 350 people 547 people such as the Smart Office and promotion of the flexible work up by 47% from the previous year great work place, where each individual may grow into an MVP. arrangements arrangements 30 EWP SR 2015 Introduction Overview of EWP • Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 31 Happy Work Place where the Workers are Respected as Human Beings Sustainable Management Key Issues Happy Work Safety-first management Strengthening the balance between work and life Family-friendliness Certificate Place of a Establishment of an advanced disaster safety control system Family-friendly management strategy People-Oriented EWP aims to realize a 'work place where the workers are respected as human beings and there In accordance with the CEO's management philosophy that 'Let's make a company where all Environment is not any safety accident. For this the company set its safety and health policies of 'establishing members are treated ad MVP and they feel like coming to work in the morning,' EWP has estaban advanced disaster safety control system', 'prevention of safety accidents by adhering to the lished and operating the family-friendly management strategy in order to enhance the quality basics', 'health management respecting human beings'. For realizing the 'advanced disaster conof life and promote a sense of pride among the workers through family friendly management. trol', the company expanded and reorganized its safety related organizations. Also, it launched the safety control committee, supported the safety control of the small-sized suppliers, and esSTEP 1 2012-2013 STEP 2 2014-2015 STEP 3 2016-2017 tablished, for the first time as a public corporation, the chemical management system, all of which are effective and practical safety control measures. With this, the company is engaged • The corporate culture of family• To establish a happy work place • Creation of shared values through friendliness is to become internalized in accordance with the shift in the family-friendly management in 'Smart' activities, and, for the sake of systematic safety management, the company obtained because of the announcement of welfare paradigm. • To enhance the quality of the Grand Prize for Family-friendly Management the vision. KOSHA 18001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications. Also, with the safety management system estab• Proliferation of the system where relationship between the work • A dedicated department (WLB family 'Female' → 'Both Sexes' and the family by the employees lished, all of the employees are doing their best to create a 'safe and happy company to work for'. friendliness center) is operated n order themselves through enhancing their to establish a systematic scheme of capabilities family-friendly management Improvement activities in the field of disaster safety Improvement activities in the field of disaster safety Expansion of non-monetary welfare EWP is endeavoring to create a Great Work Place where everyone is happy by expanding the non-monetary welfare programs. To develop the non-monetary welfare polices and proliferate SMART S ystem M ovement A bility R esponsibility T echnology the value of happiness, the company is implementing sustainable welfare policies through the Activities System Accident-free Capacity Social Technology happiness management master plan. In order to support the government policies such as the innovation campaign building responsibility based balance between the works and the families and solving the low birth rate problems, and, at the • Safety First Ann. • Routine Safety Protector • Designation of the • Safety Culture Practice • EDMS/CMS same time, to improve the happiness index of the workers, the company extended the period • Integrated Disaster • Safety Experience Safety Officer Campaign • Establish EAP for of child-care leaves without payment from one year to three years, the annual leaves deferral Control Center Training • Publication of the Safety • Safety support for the Earthquakes Guidelines suppliers programs, and the WLB support leaves, as well as other new leave and vacation programs. 2014 Achieved Grade S in Korea Disaster Readiness Drill. The Minister's Prize. Achievements Customized systems in accordance with the lifecycle 2013 The Prime Minister's Prize in National Infrastructure Disaster Control Evaluation, The Minister of Safety and Administration Prize. In accordance with the CEO's management philosophy that 'When the family is happy, an employee can become happy, and the company can be successful', the company introduced varCertified as a Family-friendly company by the Upgrading Ministry of Women and & Families Evaluation of the health of the employees and their working environment ious customized welfare programs to fit into the lifecycle and strengthen the balance between the Disaster Safety Management System (2010~2015) EWP established infirmaries in all sites, where a dedicated health manager works on a full-time the work and the family, so that the workers may devote themselves to the organization even basis. The health managers are, based on the health management programs for the employees, more blindly. The company has sought out the flexible time jobs for each phase in the life cycle Prevent safety insensitivity engaged in the health management program for each business unit. The company entered into and is operating flexible time system. Also, the company provides customized welfare systems through enhancement of the management an MOU with Ulsan Junggu Public Health Center, with a view to realize 3 zero management (no in the perspectives of the beneficiaries for each phase in the life cycle, such as establishing birth GWP Index (out of a total of 5) enhanced by 0.64 and child-care friendly environment, providing life-stabilization support, and offering leisure and points efficiency drinking, obesity, and stress) to trace the health of the employees. Also, each business unit runs healthy life supports. (2013 3.77 → 2014 4.41) 1 it own health management program. In addition, for the workers who work in harmful environIntegrated control of disaster safety • Fast early response through disaster response ments, the work environments are evaluated in the first and the second half of each year. The management • Strengthening the control and command functions items of the evaluation include noise, dust, and vibration, etc. The results of the measurement Life-cycle based Flexible Time Job Creation ware to be analyzed and fed-back for each of work units. 2 Conversion of new technologies for safety of the Youth: Can work flexible time jobs to keep on studying to go to the Increased the number of the usage of annual personnel and preservation of the equipment Recruits with college. vacation per employee • Safety management utilizing new technologies including Settlement of safety control and safety culture high school The program was executed in connection with the in-company (2013 10.2 days → 2014 13.9 days) ITs • strengthening the monitoring efforts and security diploma university education program in 2014 measures on vulnerable equipment For the sake of the safety of the workers, the management participates in the Safety Inspection Day themselves to promote the culture of safety. Also, the safety management committee, 3 strengthening supervisor efforts for disaster safety Women: The company offers flexible time arrangements, shorter working • Proceed with safety control of top-down arrangements which also contains 6 external members, is held regularly to check the safety management staPregnancy, hours for pregnant women, and breast feeding time for babies continuously. • To identify the advanced measured to diagnose the tus and for getting feedbacks for improvements. Child-care for birth and child care phases. safety culture. Also, in order to promote the awareness on safety among the workers, the company is engaged 4 Performance of the social obligations for safety in safety campaign, construction safety experience training, and operation of the safety proSemi-old age: • Establish a system to inform the surrounding Can work flexible time jobs to prepare for their retirements. tection units. With these activities, the company aims to improve the awareness on safety and Employees who communities in the case of an emergency are facing their To proceed with the program as a part of the wage peak program • Establish a support system for safety management of spread self-initiated safety activities to help the safety culture settle down in the country by retirements after extending the retirement age supplier proceeding with the safety management. 32 Introduction Overview of EWP • Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 33 Happy Work Place where the Workers are Respected as Human Beings Sustainable Management Key Issues Type System Details Operation of the Smart Office To provide gifts to pregnant employees, such as the books for prenatal education, EWP, in accordance with the will of the CEO, introduced the smart office for the first time ever as a To create Baby-shower, Prenatal test subsidiary to be paid out the prenatal test subsidiary, etc. a birth and public corporation and taking the leading role in proliferating the flexible work infrastructure and child-care To provide birth encouragement bonus money To provide birth congratulate money (KRW 1 mill.) culture. By realizing a more flexible work space through the establishment of the ICT infrastructure, friendly To establish and operate work place child-care facility The HQ and the Dangjin Site operates child-care facilities environment the company truly realized the philosophy of 'Work Anywhere . As a result, the company could Smart Office Supports for child education Education cost supported by the company for junior high school and high school save a large amount of money (194 million won per year) and, at the same time, overcome the + Flexible seats The dormitory is used as the residence for the children of the employees who are attending + Team Leader seats The company provides a dormitory in Seoul. colleges in Greater Seoul Area. barrier in time and space as the workers worked freely and communicated more willingly with Support others to allow them work more creatively, due to the enhancement of the culture and the work+ No. of seats = 90% of the total number of Programs for educating the families of the employees Programs for educating the families of the employees and providing financial consultations employees % for the ing method of them. The smart office provided a cozy and comfortable working environment to employees Supports for family occasions Vacation and condolence (or congratulation) money for family occasions + Concentration work Zone, Collaboration Zone and their Support for disasters Grant money in case of total combustion, total destruction, semi destruction, or flooding damages them. Also, the usage of the space became more efficient, and the chance of waste was further refamilies Provides family event programs Provides family-friendly education duced. Also, removal of the partitions and the spaces for collaboration which became newly availSelective welfare program Provides support for the employee, their families, for their self-improvement and cultural life able enhanced the communication between departments and the quality of life for the workers. Weekend family programs Provides 'Visit the Dad's Work Place' event and other weekend events Residence and stability Life stabilization loan provided by the company Loans for house lease or purchase Effects of Before Improvement in life for Improvement Low-interest rate loans provided to employees who worked for the company at least the families Loan for housing fund for 1 year or longer of the Fixed PCs for each individual Cloud PC Saving 125 million won per year Providing support for housing of the employees in regional branches. The employees who employees Provision of residential facilities work in Greater Seoul Area are provided with the dormitory spaces. Wired phone at each desk Mobile company phones Saving 58 million won per year Life Training Center The company operates life training centers in Sokcho, Suanbo, and Muju, etc. Leisure One printer at a team Cloud printer Saving 11 million won per year culture Summer Resort Support Provides resort facilities near the power station during the summer vacation season support Discounts for leisure activities Discount for transportation costs (3 companies), or accommodation (10 companies) AMENITY ZONE Office of the Department Head Company supports for health checkups Legal health checkups and special health checkups once a year Collaboration ZONE Archive Health life Discounts on medical bills through corporate discount 17 hospitals in the country are in an agreement with the company and provide benefits for Collaboration ZONE Meeting Room support agreement with the company general health checkups, dentistry, and ophthalmology clinics. OA BOOTH Sports Facility The company provides sports / fitness facilities within the facility (fitness center, soccer field, etc.) B OA BOOTH A Work Zone (Flexible Seats) Examples of reading management Locker Room (Male) Collaboration ZONE Lockers (Female) infrastructure operations Breast Feeding Room AMENITY ZONE REFRESH ZONE Increased work productivity Concentration Zone Meeting Room Office of the Department Head Flexible time system Work Zone (Flexible Seats) EWP established the infrastructure to embrace flexible working type system through introduction of smart office and establishment of the smart work center on the occasion of moving its HQ to Ulsan in 2014. In consideration of the movement of the HQ to the non capital area, the subjects of the flexible time arrangement were extended from working moms to other employees who are staying away from their families due to the relocation, which increased the popuEstablishment of reading management infrastructure larity of the program. Also, the usage period of the flexible time arrangement was reduced from one month to one week, making it more practical. The company actively reflected the opinions The company established a number of reading spaces, including the Book Cafe in the HQ and of the employees and induced participation to the family-friendly flexible time arrangements. As the Mini Library in the business facilities. Also, the company further established the reading a result, a total of 547 employees, up by 309 from 2013, participated in the program. As a result, infrastructure such as the book clubs, book read-out events, and announcement of the recomthe company won the Minister's Prize in Family-friendly Management Award for Flexible Time. mended books by the management of the company, in addition to distribution of the books wanted by employees, with a view to help the employees to obtain knowledge and use it in work as a part of the reading management of the company. Some achievements of the reading management include the increased number of books read by an employee per year (2 → 7). 2013 2014 Also, the scores for creativity increased (2013 4.09 → 2014 4.61), and the company also achieved the Certificate for an Excellent Reading Management Work Place (September 2014). Selected Hours Conversion 8 13 Arrangement Recruiting 4 7 Delayed checking in/out 85 134 Flexible Time Electronic library (E-book academy) System Selective working hour time 74 332 Establishment lectronic library Book searching and borrowing of the reading spaces (E-book academy) through mobile applications PC Concentrated working hours 4 5 (Library in My Hand) http://ebook.ewp.co.kr:3949 Diversification of the educational Home office 37 44 Mini libraries, book cafes, and spaces programs to advance the convenience Smart-phone based book searching Remote office where the employees may read of the trainees and encourage them to and borrowing application was Smart phones and tablets Smart work type 26 1 books at any time developed read books whenever possible Kyobo Bookstore New Electronic Library Application DMA Disclosure Management Approach Creating the Driving Force for Future Growth As far as the external environmental for the power industry is concerned, the diversification trend, as with the shale gas, and the demand for environmental considerations to cope with the climate change, etc. Also, the competition with the private power generation companies is also intensifying. Internally, the lower operation ratio due to aging of the equipment and the increased ratio of the high cost power generator units, it is expected that the profit ratio will go down in the future. In order for EWP to grow into a sustainable company and meet the mid-long-term goals, the company should develop new businesses for the future to create a stable stream of income, enhance its R&D capabilities to secure the competitiveness for the future, and strengthen the capabilities of its employees, who are to lead the way in this. All in all, these efforts should be made in order to ensure the happiness energy can be shared among all of the interested parties. Achievements Plan 2014 2015 EWP aims to growth as an energy company that provides high quality electricity Area Index Target Achievements Key achievements Basis of goal setting • Development of new energy business using with stability and economic, social, and environmental advantages. To do this, the Development the heated discharge water from Dangjin The number of newly of new businesses developed business 2 or more 2 Thermal Facility • Collective Energy Development Program for doubled compared to 2013 company will pro-actively engage in profit-generating future businesses in conWonju Horticulture Complex junction with power generation related industries and by identifying new sights to ensure The ratio of domestic for power sources. The company will engage in securing high value-added core • To provide a test bed for the products the technical capability for machinery among the power generation 80% or 81% developed by SMBs • Rolling of the Roadmap for R&D to replace From the previous year, 2%p up technology and solution of social issues, including green house gas reduction, and higher the future equipment imported key parts with domestic products development of energy storage technology. With this, the company will strengthen Satisfaction with the • To seek out and share the model education its technical competitiveness that is market oriented. Also, to strengthen the caStrengthening the capabilities education 87% 88% cases through announcement for education essays and surveys From the previous year, 1%p up pabilities of the employees who are to execute these new businesses and secure of the Operation of in-house technical competitiveness, the company will ensure consistency in development employees universities 4 facilities 4 facilities • Through collaboration with a nearby college for establishing evening courses, so on the number of facilities increased by 2 and operation of the strategic training programs. 36 EWP SR 2015 Introduction Overview of EWP • Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 37 Strengthen the Driving Force for Future Growth Sustainable Management Key Issues Creating the To develop new businesses Distributed power source business development In accordance with the second energy basic plan announced by the government in January Driving Force for Development of new power sources 2014, and the policy to proliferate the distributed power sources in the plan, the company strategically seeks after the concentrated industrial-complex-connected group energy distribution Distributed power sources Future Growth To develop a new power source in Korean power generation market, one need to be included in the basic power supply plan, which is established by the government biannually in accorpower sources in consideration of the RPS scheme and reduction of green house gases. A power supply system which produces power near the location of the demand without a separate power transmission line dance with Article 25 of the Electric Business Act, if one wishes to construct a power station. The Wonju Horticulture Group Sokmun Group e Project Chuncheon Group e Project Background environment of reflected in the basic power supply plan is intensifying with more competition e Project between the power generation businesses due to proactive participation in the market by the The 2nd Basic Energy Plan (Included in the Equipment capacity Equipment capacity Equipment capacity 38.9MW+52.2Gcal/h 463MW+130Gcal/h 30MW+45Gcal/h Government's Announcement in January 2014) private power producers. EWP intends to estimate the scale of power demand in accordance Location D  angjin, Inside Sokmun National Location w  ithin DongChuncheon Location B angye Industrial complex, with the economic growth rate and the size of Korean economy and submit a letter of intent industrial Complex Industrial complex, Chuncheon Wonju Establishment of the Development of the Project Period 2013.08~2016.02 Project Period 2013.11~2016.12 Project Period 2014.04~2017.06 that meets the requirements for the power industry and the market operation by the governdistributed power distributed power Fuel Used BIO-SRF*(WCF) Fuel Used LNG Fuel Used SRF*(RPF) generation system resources ment. For this, the company is giving various efforts including buying lands for the power plant Progress Fuel Used Fuel Used sites and developing renewable energy sources, etc. Progress Initiation of the construction PF Financial Agreement Group e Project Approval obtained • Expansion of the distributed (December 27) (Dec. 31) (DEc. 16) power sources due to Process of developing domestic business difficulties in the selection of *BIO-SRF: WCF, Wood Chip Fuel the site and construction of the Initiation of development Development of the power sources that reflect the needs of the clients transmission lines. *SRF: RPF, Refused Plastic Fuel • Establishment of the development 1 5% of the total power EWP strengthens the public nature of the private and public joints projects in order to secure generation volume is to be criteria and methods • Documentary review and site the future growth driving force through co-prosperity with the local community. At the same generated through distributed survey sources by the year of 2035 time, the company actively engages in power source development projects, such as the energy • Distributed power sources to Selection of the site candidate welfare type wind power projects, profit-sharing projects through crowd funding, and develTo secure the power competitiveness for the future be developed in accordance with the basic power supply Identification of • Survey on the opinion of the opment of global small but strong companies, all for the purpose of reflecting the needs of the plane with a focus on the areas new businesses local authority and the residents where transmission lines can in the area clients. Such moves of the company include construction of solar power plants using the new • Select good candidate sites in Mid-long term R&D execution system be built terms of technical/economic technologies developed by SMB, wind-mill projects in cooperation with the local governments, EWP has established an R&D road map to ensure availability of key technologies to create a feasibility pilot projects for using the heated water discharge for farming, and development of new relarge amount of added values through systematic and continued technical development and newable models with profit sharing schemes through crowed funding, all in consideration of Designing indentify the future growth industry. With this, the company strengthens its basis for technical the acceptability and economy of the clients, minimization of complaints of the clients, and • Review the optimal equipment management. In order to become one of the global top 109s, the company is focused on securcomposition and types co-prosperity with the local community. • Introduce environmentally-friendly, ing the future growth drivers and the changes in the climate environment. With and the level high efficiency equipment of availability of the required competitiveness in mind, the company chose the core industrial Establish the Development of renewable energy sources reflecting the needs of the customers Verification of the plan groups. Then, the company evaluated that the business structure, the environmental responconstruction plan • Technical review by commissioning siveness and the direction of execution. With this, finally, the company came up with the three independent firms Application of the technology developed by an SMB key technical development R&D strategies for distributed power sources, renewable sources / • Establishment of the business plan Creative Economy to build the world's largest water solar plant green house gases, and thermal power generation. Intention of building • Securing the consent of the Land Water residents and the local authority solar solar Mission • Promote the strong capability to execute the project farm farm Have the project reflected in the basic Collaboration R&D vision To secure global Top power generation technology power supply • Cooperation between the private, the public, and the company plan • To win high scores in business Conversion with Generation Implementation approval assessment Future oriented Choice and focus the advanced of tangible Realization of collaboration For the first time in Korea strategies technologies achievements Energy welfare type windmill projects in Renewable energy project cooperation with the local government using crowd funding • Current project implementation method Equity investment, loan, 3 sponsorship, donation Technical Thermal power plants Distributed power sources* Renewable / *Power ICT technologies / Power source ICT green house gas reduction Developer Profit Participating Sectors Power technology joined by ICT(Information + R etrofit technology + Distributed  power source + Renewable  power technology RPS companies Communication Technology Registration PR + F uel/combustion technology technology + Technology to reduce the + Advanced  power generation + Energy storage technology greenhouse gases 1 2 operation technology + Power ICT technology + Resources recycling technology • Advanced project implementation methods Developer Fund Platform Investor • Coal/compound retrofit designing, • 10MW hyper threshold CO2 power • 3MW class fuel cells Turbine life-span assessment technology generation system compound technology Residents raiser (the Internet, etc.) (sponsor) Profit of the local • USC-CFB designing technology • Frequency control ESS(Energy • 10MW NCCU(Non-Capture Storage System) technology CO2 Utilization) designing RPS community Strategic • 700℃ level high efficiency technology HSC(Hyper Super Critical) power • RMS utilization boilers Participating technology generation technology • Manufacturing technology for companies Compensation, 4 • Equipment inspection technology concrete panel recycling the creation of profits, et using robots or other unmanned coal ash technologies 38 Introduction Overview of EWP • Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 39 Strengthen the Driving Force for Future Growth Sustainable Management Key Issues Clarification of mid-long term strategic technologies Various capacity building training programs By setting the directions of first mover type, securing the future competitiveness, mid/large The company is currently applying various education programs to develop the 5 sub-capabilities (common/basic capabilities, key capabilities, organizational scale government project compliance, 10 R&D projects in 9 areas were selected as a part of capabilities, work capabilities, and global capabilities). Also, in conjunction with the analysis of 360 multi-faceted needs (organization + individual + needs) the company's endeavor to establish its foundation for mid-long term technical management. and the focus group interviews, the company has developed and been operating as many as 1236 training and education programs. Also, the company identifies medium/large sized R&D ideas to create the growth driver for the future and advance the company's technical capabilities. Through quantitative and qualitative Competency system of EWP Common competency Leadership competency Work competency analyses, the company has established the R&D roadmap for strategic technologies, which it Common Basic Organizational Global is currently implementing. Especially, the company is proceeding with the 2 projects, 'S-COS Type Core Competency Work competency competency competency Competency Competency power generation system' and the 'USC-CFB technology' as the flagship R&*D projects of the Two-Track Operation projects in progress To participate in overseas conferences for each sector of works company. In addition, the company has established a new cooperative scheme with KEPCO, Executives CEO course To provide managerial in which it will jointly respond to the current issues of renewable energy and CO2, etc. Also, the information High-level executive course Academic seminar or forum related to overseas projects Tier 1 and participate Leadership course E-learning support for learning foreign languages joint cooperative scheme will contribute to qualitative enhancement of the joint R&D programs in forums Domestic or organized by international and their usage of expert man-power. Organizational invigoration programs key economic Tier 2 Corporate Culture Ethical Education manager course Group training through external training organization Advanced research 19 strategic R&D projects institutes such Excel PPT Word CAD, etc. as SERI General Refinement Domestic or overseas Engineering training through Tier 3 Construction -related training Two-track operation of the research departments competency courses Commercialization of 10MW Web Amine CO2 Internal e-learning course Power Generation Training Center collection technology OA training The company is engaged in efficient R&D projects through the 'strategic R&D' which is fo5 years or longer masters degrees courses 34 co-prosperity R&D projects cused on the government programs and 'co-prosperity R&D' which is focused on SMBs. By Self-initiated Facility OJT Followership course specialized technical training institute 5 years skill Development of domestic replacement for the operating the two track R&D departments, where one is focus on the government projects Practical Course development, change high reliability protection of the power generators, Tier 4 monitoring diagnosis, integrated protection and the other is more focused on the cooperation with the small or medium level matching 3 years management, communication, performance controlling IED R&D programs for co-prosperity, the company is endeavoring to maximize the synergy effects orientation of the company. 1 year after joining the company strengthening specialized engineer training through operating in-company colleges Certificates for Excellent Human Resources Development Organization To strengthen the capabilities of the employees EWP has been taking a leading role in hiring based on one's capabilities rather than specifications. Not only in high school graduates recruitments, the company intended to reflect the Execution of the HRD strategic projects in connection with the management strategies skill development needs and furthering academic needs for the high school graduates among employees. For this reason, the company has established, for the first time among power genEWP, in order to strengthen the core capabilities for future growth and lead the domestic power industry, established HR development plans to function as eration companies, in-company colleges (or departments on contract) in cooperation with the the strategic partners of the CEOs and identified the three HRD strategic projects to fulfill the managerial strategic. colleges near the power plants to support skill development of the employees with high school The three HRD projects cover the PIC, which is, the People, the Infrastructure to support it, and the creative Culture. For each of these, smaller execution tasks education and helping the dreams of furthering their education come true later one. Based on are identified and executed. the know-how in establishing the in-company colleges, the company succeeded in opening the in-company colleges of organizational cooperation type in 2014, contributing to expansion the infrastructure to help the employees with high school education achieve college diploma + Stabilization of power supply and become specialized engineers. Enhancement of the O & M capability to realize 'zero stoppage due to failures.' + 'No disaster achievement' Entered into an agreement People Enhancement of advanced responsive capabilities, contribute to Departments on contract 2013 Introductory phase 2014 Expansion phase for joint establishment promotion of 'safe Korea' establishment MOA CPRUF 2 facilities 4 facilities Development of in-company colleges of the People + Development of experts Developing experts to ensure future growth drivers 인하대학교 강원대학교 Three 울산대학교 신성대학교 strategic projects CB-HRD + + Reading management 울산대학교 신성대학교 Customized education through capability Develop creative man-power by promoting diagnosis service Infrastructure Culture the notion of 'Book-reading company' Education evaluation + Continued Proliferation of + Expansion in the field Establishment of high efficacy education establishment of creativeness and Expansion of in-company colleges of system (introduction of SCM) infrastructure collaboration collation organization types culture DMA Disclosure Management Approach Realizing Eco-Friendly Energy Economic development should become mature based on the concept that that it should now be sound and sustainable. The entire world now focuses on developing eco-friendly energy through reduction of greenhouse gases, energy efficiency, proliferation of renewable energy, reduction of pollution, and development of resources recycling businesses, etc. EWP, as a public energy corporation, has been proactively engaged in development of environmentally-friendly renewable energies as a mandatory strategies rather than an option for sustainable growth in an effort to proactively respond to the climate change issues in and outside of the company. It is our mission to provide clean energy through reduction of greenhouse gas, low-carbon management through disclosure of carbon information, proliferation of renewable energy and reuse of the power generation byproducts. Achievements Plan 2014 2015 EWP is proactively participating in the carbon remission programs such as the Area Index Target Achievements Key achievements Basis of goal setting Introduction of the green RPS and the carbon footprint transaction programs. house gases energy goal management program 100 days 200 days • Meeting the goals for the greenhouse gas emission volume and source units Fulfillment of the government goals Also, we will lead the way to realizing the eco-friendly energy by strengthening Respond to climate our carbon capabilities through improvement of the processes, construction of changes • Carbon information disclosure project Carbon information high efficiency facilities, expansion of the renewable energy resources, and sedisclosure level 0.440% 0.098% (CDP) won <Special Prize for Carbon Management> (for the first time in the Excellent company certification criteria power generation sector) curing the technology to reduce the volume of greenhouse gas. Also, we will Expansion of • Expansion of the renewable energy make such responsive actions against climate changes an opportunity to build the RPS performance ratio renewable energy satisfied 0.440% 0.098% portfolio equipment and increase in the mixture ratio of biomass Fulfillment of the government goals foundation for sustainable growth, through optimization of the renewable energy portfolio, identification of the new energy business model, and new businesses for environmen• Succeeded in sea farming using the Resource recycling tally-friendly technologies business development No. 1 No. 1 heated discharge water from the power plant Doubled compared to the previous year recourse recycling. 42 EWP SR 2015 Introduction Overview of EWP • Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 43 To realize Environmentally-Friendly Energy Sustainable Management Key Issues Realizing EcoTo strengthen the responsiveness against the climate change Expansion of the renewable energy businesses Friendly Energy Efforts to cope with the climate change Renewable energy implementation strategy EWP has been endeavoring to strengthen our capabilities to respond to the climate changes in preparation for the green house gas reduction goals introduction and the response to the EWP focuses on implementation of the renewable energy as the core business to create its Mandatory assignment of renewable energies climate changes by the international community through the company-wide carbon emission growth potential and proactively respond to the changes in the power industry in the future. RPS, Renewable Portfolio Standard reduction endeavors and proliferation of the supports to such policies. The company aims to reThe company is currently expanding its renewable energy facilities, such as solar, wind, and The program was first introduced in 2012 and Countermeasures for duce the expected carbon emission by 20% by 2020. For this, the company has established and small hydro plants through business advantage assessment under the basic direction of develdemands that the a certain portion of the power each power sources pursuing the 4 major implementation strategies and, starting from 2015, is deploying customoping new renewable energy sources with a view to compose an optimized renewable energy generation should be performed using renewable ized countermeasures for each of the power generation sources in preparation for the demands energy sources in order to reduce the greenhouse portfolio and minimize the cost to introduce the RPS regime. In short-terms, the company is High carbon facilities [coal] for reduction activities due to the introduction of the carbon transaction program. gas emission and proliferation of the renewable proceeding with a differentiated strategy to meet the RPS goals by increasing the mixture ratio energy. Power generation companies of 500MW or Mixture with biomasses, heat supply project of the biomass in fuel for each of the business facilities. higher total capacity are subject to this program. Intermediate carbon facilities [Heavy Oil] Proliferation of high efficiency, Increased efficiency low carbon power sources of power generation Targets to reduce the estimated Mixture with bio-heavy oil green house gas emission 2030 Korea's TOP 1 green energy company Low carbon facilities [LNG] Development of renewable energies Greenhouse gas reduction R&D by 20% by 2020 The first power generation company in Korea to proceed with the internationally verified carbon To meet the goal by minimizing the RPS No. 1 To secure the driving force for future comprehension cost in the country growth of renewable energy emission rights business Preparation for the Carbon Emission Right Program The carbon emission rights program, which is to be introduced starting from 2015, is a proBusiness development ROAD MAP Obtainment of business competency (original technology) Carbon emission rights obtainment projects gram in which each of the companies are assigned with carbon emission rights, within which STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Implementation Reduction RegisCertified they are allowed to emit green house gas and trade abundant or insufficient emission rights Strengthening the Establishment of Driving force Type amount Phase tration amount Projects (ton/year) Dates (ton) with other companies. EWP has been preparing for the introduction of this emission regime competency the foundation for growth Donghae Solar (1MW) 690 Registration 06.08 CER Dangjin Small Hydro (5MW) 15.000 Registration 09.08 17,424 and the reduction demands for green house gases, through CDM business registration for solar Biomass (Gas) Inland windmills Solar cells, Tidal power Honam Installation of high 2010-2012 2013-2015 2016-2030 Donghae 30MW Yellow Sea fuel cells generation voltage inverter 7,917 Certification 07.05 49,741 and small hydro power plants, energy efficiency enhancement, high efficiency, new technology designing technology, Low Wind Velocity Dangjin introduction of new 130.3MW 702.9MW 3,000MW etc. 3MW Q&M Technology Uldomok 1MW technologies 56,667 Certification 08.09 135,424 power generation, and other national greenhouse gas reduction performance registration projKCER Ilsan HRSG heat recollection Ulsan improvement of the 52,653 5,547 Certification Certification 09.10 09.11 51,144 6,945 ects. As a result, in 2014, the company succeeded in exceeding the reduction goal assigned by By 2030, renewable energy expected to be 20% of the fossil energy Now global business expansion + cash cow compound facility Ilsan fuel cell unit 1(2.4MW) 6,476 Certification 10.04 12,512 the greenhouse gas energy goal management regime. The reduction achievements ahead of Ilsan Fuel Cell Unit 2(2.8MW) 7,216 Certification 11.09 7,419 the schedule will be recognized as the emission rights when the emission right trade regime is UlsanHybrid SCR 5,183 Certification 11.12 5,324 VER 01 Construction of Ulsan No. 4 1,060,000 Registration in progress introduced starting from 2015 and used to secure the emission right in shortage. Compound Facility assessment Early reduction Goal management for 2014 2,590,000 Prospect Key projects Total 3,807,349 285,933 Performance records of the green house gas energy goal management program Solar power plants Certified Emission Reduction, 2012 2013 2014 The solar power plants of the company uses the spaces in the existing facilities, such as the roof top of the material warehouse and in-facility parking building CER UN CDM Business Emission Right within Donghae Thermal (1MW), the turbine building of Dangjin Thermal (1.0MW), the roof top of the materials warehouse (0.7MW) of the same building, the Unit CO2/MWh CO2/MWh CO2/MWh roof top of the waste disposal facility of Dangjin city (1.3MW), the roof top of the pier warehouse of the container wharf of Gwangyang Port (2.3 MW). As a KCER Korea Certified Emission Reduction, KCER Target 0.836 or higher 0.799 or higher 0.782 or higher result, they are free of environmental damages. And, as these facilities use the root-top type arrangements, which have a high bonus point, they contribute to Korea certified emission reduction program Performance 0.805 0.763 0.765 the effective performance of RPS requirements. The water intake channel for Dangjin Thermal HQ is used to install the largest water solar power plant (1MW) VER Verified Emission Reduction, in Korea. The new technologies introduced for the floating structures and the operation know-how placed the company at the leading position in the field VER International Verification Emission Rights of water solar power generation. Carbon Information Disclosure and Greenhouse gas accompanying projects Since the company is a public corporation that emits a large quantity of greenhouse gas, it is Construction of wind powers Carbon Information Disclosure Project required that the company responds to the social demands to create a communication culture The company concentrates on the in-land wind power generation operations close to the Grid Parity 1). With the completion of the Phase 1 Wind Power in Carbon to respond to the climate change. For this, the company proactively seeks to realize low-carDecember 2012 (16.8MW), Yonggwang Jisan Wind Power (3MW), Younggwang Honam Wind Power (20MW) in March 2014, Younggwang Baeksu Wind Power Disclosure bon management to form a sense of agreement among the interested parties. As a result, the Project (40MW) in May 2015, the company has been engaged in operation of environmentally-friendly wind power plants. Ongoing construction works for wind company has been the first among the public corporations to disclose on the CDP, which is an CDP international regime of climate change response, voluntarily. In 2014, the company even won a power projects include Gyeongju Wind Power Phase 2 (20MW), Pohang Seongbeopryoung Wind Power (40MW), Samcheok Odu Wind Power (60MW), and Ulsan Dongdaesan Wind Power (20MW). A global climate project which is implemented in special CDP prize. Also, as the representative public corporation, the company has participated 60 countries with the HQ stationed in UK in greenhouse gas and energy companion program and been providing advice on greenhouse Bio Energy gas reduction and energy improvement. In 2014, the company was selected as an 'Excellent CDP Korea 250 requested top 250 companies as per the total market worth of the company to disclose their climate change-related Greenhouse Gas Mentor' company, as well. With the experience of completing and operating the largest wood biomass power plant of 30MW in Korea in Donghae, the company endeavors to perform information. However, a number of companies participated in the the RPS program of the government and maximize the reuse of the refused materials through the construction of the bio mass power plants, such as the CDP program while they are not required to do so, as they did in previous years. Shimtech, EWP, Korail, and Hanhwa Group have been Greenhouse Gas Companion Program 38.9MW biomass power plant in Sokmun Industrial Complex, usage of bio heavy oil in Ulsan Thermal, Sewage sludge mix-in combustion equipment in Dangparticipating in the CDP programs for three years in a row. Yooyoung Textile and SK E&C joined the program from this year to disclose jin Thermal, and bio-mass mix-in equipment in Donghae thermal. their climate change--related information. Especially, EWP and SK As the representative of the 2012 2013 2014 Selected public corporation, the company as an E&C were recognized for their high information disclosure levels, has been providing advice on 5 companies, 4 companies Songwol Excellent which earned them CDP Special Prizes introduced by CDP Korean reduction and improvement including Mooincluding Towel Mentor Committee. activities on a continuous basis. jin Precision Ikseongtech 1) Grid Parity : The point at which the price of the power generated using renewable energies and that generated from fossil energy source become identical. 44 Introduction Overview of EWP • Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 45 To realize Environmentally-Friendly Energy Sustainable Management Key Issues Renewable energy projects Future Development plans Development of businesses using the power generation byproducts Equipment (Expected) Due to the expansion of the coal thermal power plants, the volume of coal ash created is on a Existing concrete panel manufacturing process Type Development status Capacity date of (MW) completion hike. (The amount of coal ash in 2016 is expected to be up by 38.9% from what it was in 2013.) Donghae solar power 1 2006.09 Dangjin Solar power 1 2010.09 On the other hand, the downturn of the construction industry created a condition of oversupply Process Honam Solar Power 0.1 2011.01 Wind Power Solar Bio/Fuel cell/ Others for the coal ash. As a result, a new business is required and the company has been endeavoring Ulsan Solar Power 0.5 2011.03 Powder to solve this problem by developing the injection type concrete panel manufacturing techcement others Dangjin Waste Material Solar 1.3 2011.12 silica Power Samcheok Maemakjae Incheon International Airport Dangjin Small Hydro nology in which coal ash, which is considered as a waste material, is to replace cement. It was Gwangyang Port Solar Power 2.3 2011.12 Donghae Mangwoonsan Dangjin thermal Asan Bay Tidal Power 40% 40% 20% Renault Samsung Motors 20 2012.12 Jeongseon Imgye Dangjin landfill Greater Seoul Area RDF confirmed that up to 70% of the concrete panel material could be replaced with coal ash. Now Dangjin Material Warehouse 0.7 2012.12 (including thickener, etc.) Solar Gangreun Daegiri Greater Seoul Area Landfill Daesan Fuel Cell the test production and performance have been completed, and the company is now working Dangjin Water Solar Power 1 2013.06 Pyeongchang Odaesan Sowon Worldcup Ilsan Fuel Cell Process Suwon Waste Water Treatment Plant Solar Power 1.5 2014.01 Hawcheon Daesungsan Cheonahn Independence Hall Magok Independence Hall on to make a profitable business out of this new technology. high Ulsan Community Sports Park Cheolwon Bukjoosan Donghae Thermal Mixing injecting temperature treatment 0.1 2014.02 Solar Power curing Golden Logistics Center, Gwang1.1 2014.06 Development of new demands and a viable business yang Port, Solar Power Taebaek Gadeoksan that can create a large amount of added values Coal Storage Yard for Dangjin 3 2015.12 Increased production cost and the bath volume Unit No. 9 and 10 Pohang Seongbeopryoung Dangjin No. 2 Lime Treatment Yeongcheon Bohyunsan 5 2016.06 Facility Gyeongju Wind Power Phase 1 16.8 2012.1 Jeonbuk Saemangeum Dongyang RPF STEP 1 2013 STEP 2 2014 STEP 3 2015~ 3MW R&D Donghae Biomass Alternative process using coal ash Yellow Sea Adaptation Type 3 2012.1 GM Gangreung RDF Wind Power •R  &D and pilot production • Test production and •C ommercialization and Honam Wind Power Phase 1 20 2014.03 Gwangyang Port 3MW(REC Purchase) Fuel Cell (injection formed concrete panel) feasibility assessment commercial scale production Material Younggwang Baeksu Wind Soonchen Agricultural 40 2014.12 Power Gyeongju Wind Power Phase 2 Honam thermal Uldolmok Tidal Gyeongju Wind Power Phase 2 20 2016.1 Gyeongju Wind Power Phase 1 Busan Samsung Motors Wind Power Younggwang Baeksu Wind Coal ash cement others 20 2016.12 Yangsam Yeomsoobong Ulsan Thermal Power Phase 2 Yangsan Weonhyosan Ulsan Hoeya Water Treatment Plant Youngdeok Cheonji Wind Power 28 2017.1 70% 20% 10% Ulsan Dongdaesan Wind Power 20 2017.01 Pohang Janggigot Ulsan Bangeojin New energy business using the heated water discharged from a power plant Yangsan Yeomsoobong Wind 28 2017.05 (including thickener, etc.) Power The heated water discharge, which is considered as the thermal waste of the power plan, can Process Pohang Seongbeopryoung 40 2017.12 Wind Power be highly valuable resources which can be used as an energy source for the local farming inSamcheok Odu Wind Power 60 2016.12 steam Taebeak Gadeoksan Wind Power 40 2017.12 dustry. The business model was identified as a sustainable new business model that can conMixing injecting curing Wind Saemangeum Wind Power 110 2017.12 tribute to enhancement of the competitiveness of local faming and fishery communities. Thus, Power Ministry of Knowledge Economy 2.5GW Marine Wind Power 80 2016.12 Environmentally-friendly technology development the company established a master plan to utilize this heated water discharge. The Ministry of (alkali stimulant) Yesu Budo Marine Wind Power 200 2019.12 high Marine Industry (Korea Energy Agency), City of Dangjin, Choongnam, and ERK formed a joint developsurface Energy Asan Bay Tidal Power Generation 399 in progress Development of technology to reduce greenhouse gas temperature curing treatment Small Phase 1 Small Hydro for Danjin 5 2009.12 ment group to proceed with new energy business development projects to boost the income Hydro Phase 2 Small Hydro for Danjin 3 2014.09 EWP invests continuously in R&D for greenhouse gas reduction projects. The company particiof agricultural and fishery communities. Ilsan Fuel Cell (Phase 1) 2.4 2009.09 pates in the CCS (Carbon Capture & Storage) R&D project. And, it is also conducting R&D projProduction cost reduced by 30% Ilsan Fuel Cell (Phase 2) 2.8 2011.03 ects for Non-capture CO2 recollection technology and high value-added chemical compound Product weight reduced by 20% Ilsan Fuel Cell (Phase 3) 2.8 2013.02 Heated water discharge utilization master plan Fuel Cell Ulsan Fuel Cell Power Generation 2.8 2013.09 manufacturing. The non-capture type is free of the CO2 capturing process, which reduces the Hydrogen Fuel Cell Power Generation 30 2016.12 construction cost by 24%. Also, it converts the CO2 to some other high value-added chemical 2014 2015 2016 2017 Ilsan Fuel Cell (Phase 4) 2.5 2016.06 compounds to ensure economic feasibility. And, as it is not necessary to secure the storage Donghae Biomass (Total Business combustion) 30 2013.07 space for CO2, this method is an efficient technology for Korea, which is a very small country. Sea Cage Farming Expansion of the farming scale (100,000 EA Fishery development Donghae Mixed Combustion R&D of abalone) and execution 40 2014.06 Expansion (Automated) Dangjin Sewage Sludge (mixed 25 2014.1 combustion) Implementation Bio Dangjin Wood Pellet 30 2014.06 strategies Cooperative Establishment of an Expansion of the complex ※T  he energy generation efficiency in a coal thermal Energy Obtainment of Planning Ulsan Bio Heavy Oil 40 2014.06 Agriculture system agricultural complex and and development of a Development the commercial Designing power plant is around 40%. Of the remaining Sokmun Group Energy 38.9 2016.1 Background Establishment execution (pilot project) new complex of carbonating grade technology Chookboon Biomass Total 10 2018.06 process that assures energy, 55% is discharged as heated water, combustion • Even if the CO2 from the Gogeung Biomass Total exhaust gas is captured, it without CO2 economic and the other 5% as the waste heat through the 40 2020.12 capturing profitability Heated water Lowest heat Government's combustion Sea farming Cultivation of the chimney. The utilization rate of heated discharge is not clear whether it would be System / discharge provision invigoration Wonju Horticulture Complex (5MW) technology crop Technical Waste possible to find spaces to store them technology renewable Technical Establishment of Material Steam Supply and Power 30 2017.12 development energy included development development the support plans water in Korea is very small, only 0.48%. Generation in this small country. Technical (Source: Korea Energy Agency) • To secure CO2 treatment technology R&D via joint High (high value-added compounds, efforts of EWP efficiency Development Basic reaction sodium bicarbonate) that guarantees reaction of the compound and Electricity test condition refining process economic feasibility, allowing Research both economic benefits and identified Pilot projects to be executed in the field of heated discharge water utilization in cooperation with local governments Institute environmental benefits • Selection of the • Selection of the • Reaction rate Description carbonation electrolyte separation equipment designing Heated water discharge Heat supply system Energy for horticultural facilities Management of crop growing reactor membrane • By product removal • Designing the optimal process developed electrolysis system Production of high value-added compound Achievements through CO2 + CO2 Reduction: 35,000 ton / year (100,000 ton/year if the existing process is replaced.) + Effect of selling the high value-added compounds: 27.2 billion won / year By using CO2, which is one of the waste gas emitted from a power plant, NaHCO3, NAOCL, or HCL may be + H  igher economic feasibility as there is no need for CO2 capturing process, saving the produced using this brand new original technology. construction cost by 24 % DMA Disclosure Management Approach Ensuring Happy Sharing and Growth for All EWP, as an energy company that supports the happiness of the clients through generation of environmentally-friendly energy, creates the energy of happiness in cooperation with our neighbors in need, the local community, and our partner companies based on our mission, We make energy for happiness and our catch phrase, 'Happiness energy Dream which are our social responsibility brands. As there are more good jobs, more sound SMBs, it is possible that we laugh together as we create a happier world. EWP, as a public energy corporation, will lead the way to invigorate social contribution activities and job creation as we perform our fundamental roles. Also, we will establish transparent and fair business practices with our partners as we endeavor to share happiness and growth. Achievements Plan 2014 2015 EWP, as an energy public corporation, will keep working on the local commuArea Index Target Achievements Key achievements Basis of goal setting • Social responsibility brand proliferation and nity-oriented social responsibility activities to spread our social responsibility Social responsibility Strategic External satisfaction 87% 88% customized activities for local communities to create a co-prosperity model with local 5% up from the previous year brand, Happiness Energy Dream, and lead the way to create new energy business Social communities models to create profits and jobs in the private sector. We will analyze the appreresponsibility Social responsibility Brand Happiness • Mission-relevant social responsibility brand Reflecting opinions of ciation level for each of the regulation items to provide quality public services and Integrated brand establishment Energy Dream to be established to encourage participation independent experts strengthen our cooperation with the SMBs as they expand to the world market, in • Development of new business models, 15% reduction from the previous an effort to create a co-prospering power generation industry ecosystem where Creation of jobs Creation of new jobs for 21,000 21,717 including utilization of the heated water discharge to increase the number of jobs year (Due to the completion of the construction of Ulsan No. 4 people people created on a continuous basis Compound Facility) the fruits of the growth can be shared. Transparent • Vitalization of the Clean Pay system and Satisfaction of the and fair transactions partner companies 96% 96.1% fair sub-contracting practices Commitment Statement Programs 1 point up from the previous year 48 EWP SR 2015 Introduction Overview of EWP • Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 49 To Ensure Happy Sharing and Growth for All Sustainable Management Key Issues Ensuring Happy To invigorate the strategic social responsibility works Establishment of 'Public-sponsored Sharing Sunshine Power Plant' through crowd funding Annual amount of purchase via Onnuri Coupons Sharing and Social Responsibility Operations Operation Income 8.5억원 7.7억원 • Improved efficiency • Improved efficiency 7.4억원 Growth for All EWP aims to be the leader of social responsibility management. With our mission statement, through stabilized through stabilized 6.6억원 operation operation We make energy for Happiness, and the slogan, Happiness Energy Dream, we engage in four • Creating jobs for needy • Creating jobs for needy areas of Clean Energy Dream, which is aims to protect the local community and the environclasses classes ment, Healing Energy Dream, to ensure everyone enjoys the benefits of welfare, Hope Energy Equipment Funds 2.8억원 Dream, to provide supports to our children and young generations, and Smile Energy Dream, to Sharing Sunshine • Located in Bukgu, Ulsan • 50 million won raised via realize the principle of filial duties for our senior citizens, as we pursue our social responsibilities Power Plant crowd funding • Annual income 18 million in a systematic manner. In order to continue our efforts for social responsibilities, we launched won • The company matched the EWP social work group in February 2004. As of 2014, we now have 103 teams composed of 2231 donation with 4 times the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 amount of the raised fund volunteers who participate in volunteer activities. Since 2012, we have been participating in through crowd fund raising joint volunteer groups and collaborative volunteer groups to work together with our partner Annual purchase amount from Dongseo companies and energy-related public agencies to fulfill our social responsibilities. With such volMarket Social responsibility activities relevant to the local community unteer group activities, we endeavor for the good of the community and create a partnership of 65백만원 EWP is operating 5 power plants in Korea. As a result, we decided to enhance the satisfaction 63백만원 60백만원 co-existence where the power plants are recognized as partners. level in the local community near our power plants through social responsibility programs that are relevant to the needs of the area. Especially, as the HQ is moved to Ulsan, we established 48백만원 Awarding Ceremony in National Volunteers' Social Responsibility value diagram Happy Ulsan 3 Year Project. With our Win-win strategy to pursue warm hearted communication Festival and happiness of our employees and the citizens of the city alike, we are proceeding with the 27백만원 Vision Fulfillment of social responsibilities through Happiness Energy Dream 'Happiness Together Ulsan Project. Also, in order to vitalize the commercial districts around the power plant, we entered into One company, One market agreement with a traditional market. Purpose of Company As a result of the agreement, our employees purchased a total of 770 million won worth of Interested parties Establishment goods from the market in 2014 along via coupons. Currently, we regularly observe a market 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Provision of day, where our employees are encourage to shop in the traditional market. We also operate a Implementation Local Countries of environmentally-friendly Employees produce market place in our company website to provide a sales channel for the local farmers, strategies communities overseas projects energy while our employees can purchase good agricultural produce in a good price. Fulfillment Connection with key To secure supports on the power of the social businesses generation businesses responsibility Recruitment of the graduates from EWP Training Center STEP 1 Education Successful fund raising 4 Areas Creation of jobs 6 youngsters who wished to find a job were trained at the 'Welder Training Center' Clean energy Healing Energy Hope Energy Smile Energy Creation of jobs in line with the core business of the company + Sharing Sunshine Power + Social workers healing + Sponsoring children + Eye-sight recovery STEP 2 Acquisition of relevant skills Plant camp with rare diseases surgery for the blind In 2014, a total of 81 SMBs received supports from our company in 2014, amounting to a total All of the 33 trainees completed the 9Cr Heavy + Supports for utilizing the + Sharing Tree Sponsorship + Sponsorship for orphans + Volunteer works with Projects heated water discharge + Donation out of bonuses + Support for local child oriental medicinal of 83.6 billion won and creating 231 new jobs. The company hired 53 citizens of Ulsan as the Wall Welding Course, which is the highest skill welfare center supports level in welding + Birthday party for Eunbit administrative staffs of the HQ. Also, the operation and maintenance of the power plants which have either been completed or are under construction are outsourced to private companies to contribute to job creation. Also, the company provided vocational training opportunities to resiSTEP 3 Recruiting dents who wish to find a job through Dongseo Training Center. The trainees in this employment All graduates were hired as the welders for the boiler installation works for Dangjin Thermal No. Social responsibility activities with strategic considerations support program were hired as the welders for the boiler installation works for Dangjin Thermal. 9 and No. 9 units In consideration of the purpose of the company's foundation and to carry out the relevant social Completion of Sharing Sunshine Power Plant responsibility works, the company established a social responsibility brand named Happiness Summary of Job Creation Performance (February 2014) Energy Dream in connection with the missions of the company in order to establish a sysOrdering investment Private Others Year Quarter Type Outsourcing Total tematic social contribution activity program. The company endeavors to internalize the DNA of businesses Partnership (co-prosperity) sharing through proliferation of the brand and promotion of a sense of pride through various Regular employees 11 113 96 220 activities such as the Power Love Day event, which is themed on Happiness Energy Dream , 2012 2,090 Employees on contracts 5,950 1,794 2,376 10,120 Sub-total 5,961 1,907 2,472 10,340 which is interconnected with the National Volunteers' Festival (in which the company won the Regular employees 11,882 644 138 3,739 16,403 Grand Prize) for the sake of promoting participation and encouraging supports for our activi2013 2,201 Employees on contracts 5,933 313 69 1,845 8,160 ties. We also create shared-value type community co-prosperity models including development Sub-total 17,815 957 207 5,584 24,563 of agricultural complexes using the high temperature water discharge, and completion of the Regular employees 10,096 1,001 162 3,407 14,666 Shared Sunshine Power Generation plant which was built for the first time in Korea using Crowd 2014 2,295 Employees on contracts 4,973 489 54 1,535 7,051 Funding method to induce participation by citizens. Sub-total 15,069 1,490 216 4,942 21,717 50 Introduction Overview of EWP • Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 51 To Ensure Happy Sharing and Growth for All Sustainable Management Key Issues Customized job provision Flexible working hours and job creation Improved the fair trade system with the partners Prevention of unfair sub-contracting Vitalization of the Clean Pay system The company analyzed the types of tasks and jobs in order to create flexible time jobs to allow To prevent unfair sub-contracting and demanding excessive discounts on prices, we created a strengthened the monitoring efforts on 3 Health Managers co-existence between work and family. We analyzed the suitable types of works so that key data base of actual procurement costs to set reasonable procurement prices through e-price the secondary and tertiary partners Health management demand classes may proactively apply for, while the works are of consistent nature and they can information system. In order to fortify our monitoring efforts on payment to the secondary and Increased the number of banks in cooperative arrangements (4 to 10). contribute to the enhancement of the productivity. As a result, we identified storage managetertiary partners, we increased the number of banks with cooperative agreements to 10 to vital1 for in-company library ment, reading management, welfare officers, and general staffs as the suitable jobs and hired a ize the Clean Pay system. Also, we introduced the Fair Sub-contracting Representation Program Increased the monitoring efforts on management payment to the sub-contractors (Apr.) Vitalization of reading management total of 6 staffs under a flexible time arrange. in order to eradicate unfair practices from our contractors and the sub-contractors (Oct. 2014). Fair Sub-contracting Representation Program 1 for welfare related works Increased recruitment of vulnerable community members Fair Price Investigation Program To eradicate unfair practices between Expansion of non-monetary welfare In order to create jobs for the vulnerable members of the community, we analyzed the work percontractors and sub-contractors, the company introduced Fair Subformance records of the normal college degree recruits, handicapped people, patriotic recruits, 1 for general staff and those with high school education. The results showed that the vulnerable members did not Purchase at the prevention of contracting Representation Program (Oct.). As a replacement for employees on childeconomic differ from ordinary recruits in terms of their job performances. Based on this, we hired more of optimal price reflecting co-prosperity excessive demands for care leaves feasibility the true value discounts such people than what was legally required for us to hire. With our employment-linked internships, we hired 25% of our new recruits among high school graduates (in excess of the governRecognition of the problems Improvement performance ment requirement by 20). Also, we applied bonus points for the vulnerable applicants, such as Ethical Conduct Ethical Conduct Recruitment of vulnerable community members the handicapped or those with recruitment merits, resulting in exceeding the legal minimum Overlapping Biases in the 1. Integrated operation of online price Commitment Commitment investigation acceptance unit prices information access of hiring them. Also, we introduced the local talent quota program, which gives bonus points of the actual for some of the items Statement by the Statement by the 2. Generation of big data out of the survey to the applicants from the area to which the HQ moved to. As a result, we took the leading role prices the lump-sum payment results partners Quality Inspectors items for various small2012 2013 2012 of expanding open recruitment as a public corporation by hiring 78 local applicants who are amount products 3. Approval of the calculation results of the various items procurement contacts not from the Greater Seoul Area in 2014 (while the government's recommended ratio is 30%). Unnecessary No. of employees 2,090 2,201 2,295 expenditure of 4. Realization of the prices through the fee for the compensation of the awarding rate if the Current 2,070 2,200 2,240 Reluctance in applying specialized price actual price differs from the quotation price the actual purchase surveyors by more than 30% Female 32 48 32 price Disabled 9 10 9 persons Concentration of the actual purchase price information within the EWO Local talents To strengthen transparent and fair trading Achievements for key procurement materials after establishing e-price information database in 2012 (non Greater [Expectation on the appropriate price ] [Real-time information access] [Customized services] 80 97 78 Newly hired Seoul Area as a full-time residents) To expand the opportunity for competition by lifting regulations employee High school 39 48 37 EWP endeavored to expand the opportunities for competition through reforms on regulations (Executives not graduates included) Specialized and corresponding to the government policy for lifting regulations. We reviewed the entire rules 39 44 36 Strengthened the quality control level for suppliers high schools on contracting, as well as the opinions and suggestions from outside and the result of a study Science and Enhancement of the quality verification system Engineering 141 188 113 that was commissioned by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. As a result, we identified Major The application of the existing material test report verification system for power sector is now new projects for deregulation in tendering and contracting. Over the period from 2013 to 2014, Total 159 206 131 expanded (from 28 to 75 agencies). The subject items are also expanded from contracted mathe CEO visited 63 SMBs, who are in partnerships with us, in person to listen to their difficulties. terials and equipment to cover sub-contracted items, as well. Also, the scope of verification Their suggestions, as well as the results of a survey, were reflected in our 'improvement of sysfor quality has been extended from construction materials and equipment to construction + Quality test monitoring system tem reforms for co-prosperity.' We formed procurement system improvement committee which generator equipment. Also, the quality monitoring application was developed to increase user included experts in auditing, procurement, and laws from outside. The committee reviewed 47 friendliness. Online (QR codes) systems now can be used to manage the reports, and the scope items for deregulation and improvements were made as a result. of utilization of the verification system is now expanded to increase the number of verification cases by 3.2 times, eradicating any potential of forgery. + Total review of the related rules Diagnostic + Analysis of feedback from outside The test report verification system was established to prevent any forgery of the reports, by analysis + Review of the result of the study commissioned by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce managing the reports on-line (using QR codes and developing of a smart phone application). Also, in order to proliferate commitment to ethical behaviors, we introduced statements for ethWidened the opportunities for SMBs to participate in our tenders (15 cases) Removal of irrational practices (13 cases) ical conducts for the partners and the quality inspectors. • Mitigation of the past reference requirements (1 time • Now the tender period in case of a re-announcement Regulatory → 1/3 times) of a tender is mandatory. reform in the • Increased participation by SMBs in large scale • Improvement of the practices where unnecessary Test Report Verification system Test reports bearing QR codes construction projects warranties were required, etc. field of coprosperity Reduction of burdens for contractors [11 Removal of inconvenience and enhancing Test Request cases] transparency in contracting [8 cases[ Test Agencies Supplier Mitigation of the regulations • Clarification of the criteria for charging the liquidated • Integration of the requirements for material suppliers Ma kin EWP QR for co-prosperity with SMBs damages, etc. for all power generation companies Submission of the go fQ Rc test report od es • The committee meeting to review the deregulation items, establish the Procurement System Improvement Committee, System and introduce the operational criteria of the committee (Oct. 15). 47 Improvement • The members of committee were selected, including three experts from outside of the company for the fields of auditing, Power Generation Companies Test report Committee items are improved procurements, and the law. (commissioning organization) Test report verification system verification EWP SR 2015 53 Economic Achievements Corporate EWP strengthened the control of the company by the board of directors and vitalized the participation of the non-executive members of the board to enhance Governance transparency in decision making and control structure of the company. EWP SR Composition of the board of directors Composition of the board of directors The board of directors is the highest decision making entity for important issues of the company, composed of 4 executive members and 5 non-executive members. In order to ensure indepenChair Executive Non-executive dence of the board, the senior non-executive member is currently taking the office of the chair Senior nonmembers members executive of the board. And, the secretariat of board is now in place in order to ensure efficient operation member 4 5 of the board. In order to secure expertise and timely decisions, the board has established 4 sub-committees of Overseas Business Committee, renewable E committee, new business reType Name Title view committee, and financial committee. Also, there is the audit committee which is debriefed Joook Chang CEO on the results of the accounting audits, and the executive recommendation committee to enYoshik Kang Full time monitors sure transparency in appointment of the CEO, non-executive members, and executive auditors. Executive Head of Strategic Management members Hyuncheol Park Division Head of Technical Safety Secretariat of Board Seokggu Lee Board of directors Division of Directors Chair of Expert Board for Power Planning and Strategy Department Dongtak Jeong Generation Business NonKyoungmin Kim Energy Policy Expert executive Executive Recommendation Ikman Kim Energy expert Specialized committees Audit committee members Committee Seungjeong Baek Energy expert 1 executive, 2 non-executive members All of the non-executive members Sanggon Koh Financial Expert Overseas Business renewable New business Financial committee Committee e committee review committee Sustainable Management Operational goals and operation system of the board of directors Achievements The important issues of the company are reviewed through various committees and decision making bodies. Finial decisions for them are made by the board of directors, which is the highest decision making body of the company In order to ensure transparency in operation of the board of directors, and Economic strengthening the control of the executive directors by non-executives, the company has introduced various programs such as the agenda review process, field assessment process, and overlapping assessment process. Also, the performance of the non-executive members of the board of directors is evaluated Achievements by quantified indexes such as the attendance, the ratio of agenda that go through preliminary reviews, and the proportion of speaking during the meetings. ettlement period for the market-oriented Management of the debts of public corporations, Managerial The need to rationalize the control structure public corporation (with an emphasis on the demands for strengthening environment aspect as a private company) the investment reviews of the company Responsive 22 Corporate Governance strategy strengthen the function of the board of directors and establish a control system that is centered on the board of directors Enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the Vitalization of the board's managerial Upgrading the evaluation system for the 55 Risk Management Goals review process by the board of directors To strengthen the preliminary review by the board advisory function To strengthen follow-ups activities of the board of directors Upgrading the multi-faceted evaluation of non-executive Vitalization of sub-committees Increased provision of management information members To strengthen the support on usually vulnerable areas 56 Financial Soundness Performance Attendance rate 95% The number of managerial recommendations The work performance indexes or higher up by at least 70% up by at least 10% 57 R&D STEP 1 Performance review STEP 2 Performance evaluation STEP 3 Feedback and rolling Monitoring and feedback Continuous monitoring system, report on the progress Analysis of the work performance, analysis of the Identification of items in need of improvement, 58 Overseas Business with the reporting of the agenda effects of the operation of the board of directors reflected in future plans 54 EWP SR 2015 55 Economic Achievements Economic Achievements Activity process of the board of directors Risk Management To address risks in domestic and international management environment due to uncertainties, the company introduced an RMS (risk management system) based on our ERP system, to manage the risks in each area of financial, power generation operation, and safety from disasters on a company-wide level. Agenda preliminary call for a preliminary review of the submitted review meeting briefing agenda D-10 D-7 D-7 D-3 D-Day Power generation operation process Power Generation Operation System Demand forecast The board members visiting the site • Annual power demand In order to realize the goal of the company's establishment, Stable, economical, and environFortification of the roles of the board of directors and its STEP 1 • Analysis of the characteristics of the demands mentally-friendly power supply, the company has introduced and been operating the powtransparent operation er operation management system for the entire processes from power generation planning, Establishment of the annual power generation plan advance-maintenance of the equipment, to real-time process management to ensure stable EWP upgraded its operation system in order that the independence and expertise of the non-ex• Estimation of the annual power demand power supply to the grid. Through the POMMS (Plant Operation Maintenance and Management ecutive members can be used in decision making processes. We built a website for the board • Analysis of the characteristics of the demands STEP 2 (seasonal factors, etc.) System) is a system which systematically controls the preventive maintenance and minimizes of directors to enhance the accessibility for the non-executive members to the management the risks of stoppages through seamless integration of operation information, reliability maninformation Also, in order to increase the level of understanding and to strengthen the check Quarterly/Weekly Power Generation Plans agement, predictive warning system, and diagnosis based risk levels. and balance function of the non-executive members, we introduced preliminary review pro• Quarterly power generation forecasts • Monthly and weekly stoppage plans cesses. Also, the members of the board visit the site and holds explanatory meetings to ensure STEP 3 effective reviews of the agenda. At the same time, the company proactively reflects the advice of the non-executive members in the mid-long term core strategy and the managerial policies Power generation operations • Power generation Communication of the board of directors • Control of the thermal efficiency and usage ratio EDMS STEP 4 SubSpecialized Audit committee EWP introduced the EDMS to prevent and committees committees EWP Disaster Control System Full time auditor (1) Power generation operations proactively control disaster crises such as Composition All of the nonexecutive members Non-executive Increased participation in the management of the company • Analysis of the cause for increase/decrease a fire, an explosion, and leakage of chemmembers (2) by the on-executive members of the board STEP 5 icals, etc., in connection with the disasFrequency Monthly, as necessary Monthly, as necessary ter control system. With this system, the Safety review, decision Proactive feedback making, and advisory to strengthen the We established a system of providing material information, supporting the field management company now has a fast-paced disaster Roles on the field of supervisory authority activities, and following-up on the recommendations in our operation, to induce proactive expertise of the board response system which is capable of auparticipation by the non-executive board members. In order to strengthen objectivity and fairtomatically communicating the disaster ness in the assessment of the performance of the non-executive members, the proportion of Financial Risks Control System situations to all business facilities. Also, we the quantitative assessment was increased from 50% to 70%. Also, we introduced the 'Outside Risk control commission specialized disaster analysis managerial recommendations of the non-exItem Director of the Year' award for non-executive board members with outstanding performancsystem agencies to identify disaster hazard factors ecutive board members es. With this, we succeeded in having 100% of the agenda go through preliminary reviews by Debt Risk • Emergency Response Committee such as a typhoon, a heavy rain, a heavy snow, or a tidal wave and establish counter measures for Contents of managerial non-executive board members + D ebt management • Special Committee for them. For this purpose, the company carries out natural disaster risk evaluations for the power Type + Liquidity recommendations Debt Management management • Investment Review generation facilities. To establish a model of co-prosperity Committee by transferring the superb technology of Compared to the EWP to SMBs 2012 2013 2014 previous year Exchange rate risks • Exchange risks Director Dongtak → The program is in place as an extended version, management Jeong which is the Shared Performance Program + Foreign Exchange committee The number of board risks • General management 12 11 14 3▲ Advice on execution of renewable energy meetings held analysis businesses Financial risks control system → Recommendations for the construction process for No. of agenda 36 29 45 16▲ Director Phase 2 of Daegiri Wind Power and Gyeongju Wind Interest rate risk management Seungjeong Baek Ratio of agenda that went Power projects 100 100 100 + Monitoring the • LMS To establish and maintain a sustainable and sound financial structure, the company established through preliminary reviews (%) financial market • Bloomberg, Informax mid-long term financial plans and yearly budget plans based on them, which are founded on Review of the budgetary plan for 2015 No. of adjusted agenda 2(6%) 2(7.4%) 2(4.4%) 0(2.4%▼) the managerial strategy of the company. For the sake of systematic financial management, the → Suggested a direction for resources allocation in + Management of the • Annual meeting Director connection with the government's policy and zeroNo. of reported agenda 16 14 14 credit ratings • IR company uses its EWP-SAP and the LMS to monitor the key financial risks such as the debts, base budget planning Kyoungmin Kim Attendance rate (%) 92.00 97.00 86.50 10.5▼ exchange rates, interest rates, and fuel costs. Fuel cost risks • Exchange risks Advice on Financial Risks Management Attendance rate of non90.00 100.00 78.60 21.4▼ management Committee executive members (%) + Monitoring of the committee → Suggested a criteria for setting the hedging internal fuel cost • General management Director Sanggon ratio in accordance with the fluctuation of the Proportion of speaking by nontrends Koh 82.60 85.60 89.40 3.8▼ analysis exchange rate executive members (%) 56 EWP SR 2015 EWP SR 2015 57 Economic Achievements Economic Achievements Financial In consideration of the rapidly changing management environment, EWP ensures its sustained growth through comprehensive financial plans which are R&D The company is engaged in efficient R&D projects through the 'strategic R&D' which is focused on the government programs and 'co-prosperity R&D' which Soundness founded on the mid-long term management strategy. In order to reduce the amount of debts, normalize the public corporation, and strengthen the foundais focused on SMBs. With continued investment to obtain original technologies as well as to commercialize them, the company has executed a total of 471 R&D tion of the non-deliverability, the company has established sound and sustainprojects. able financial planning management systems. Debts impact assessment process Application for a dept impact assessment New Technology Replacement of imported items with domestic alternatives Commercialization Received by the Special Committee for Debt Management Mid-long term financial plans Award In order to reduce the risks originating from using imported parts and establish advanced beneficial circle of R&D items, the comTotal business volume 3 Yes billion won or higher The company set the fundamental direction of adhering to core power generation businesses pany pro-actively engage in R&D efforts to develop domestic alternatives for imported parts in accordance with the domestic and reduction of debts to ensure financial soundness in response to the public corporation replacement roadmap. In this system, EWP provides the test bed while the maintenance contractors provide core parts based Regular Working Committee committee normalization plan. Based on the these, EWP established plans for investments and funding. on their recycling maintenance. As a result, the company succeeded in developing a domestic replacement for the rotor of the The core businesses are to be invested for continuously, while noncore businesses are to go 1100C gas turbine. Currently, test runs with 1300C gas turbine rotors are in progress. With these efforts, the company achieved a No Business No D+3 approval D+3 through investment rationalization process, according to the principle of debt reduction. For domestic part ratio of 81% and won the Minister's Prize (Ministry of Industry and Commerce) for New Technology CommercialYes this, the company established plans for establishing a system for future responsiveness, financial ization Award (Nov. 2014) Adjustment Execution Adjustment soundness, and efficient budget operation. of the business of the business of the business Development of domestic replacement for R&D road map and rolling for Plans to allocate the financial resources Report on the results Infi-90 Control Card developing domestic replacements for imported parts Types of performance indexes implementation plan Monitoring Type Debt Control Work Committee • Investment plans to be established with a focus on domestic • EWP-SAP system STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Systematic power generation business • Special Committee for Debt Review Review decision for projects which result in a debt responsiveness to • To secure capabilities to withstand the risks from financial criteria increase by 3 billion won or less Management Establishment of the the future liabilities • Investment Review Development Development • Re-evaluation of the domains of investment businesses and Type strategy to develop a No. of cases Sales, debt ratio Committee strategy rolling strategy rolling 144 removal of underperforming businesses domestic alternative reviewed • LMS Business approval 131 Soundness in • Minimization of the procurement cost Results of the Conditional approval 3 • General management analysis 2009 2012 2014 Financial Structure • Establish a system to control the financial risks review Not approved 10 • Dual criteria for exchange risks hedging • Exchange risks management Debt to EBITDA committee Reduction of the budget 23.7 billion won (Budget review: 309.6 billion won) Efficient budget • Optimized equipment operation and commercialization of • Monitor performance against Development of domestic replacement for intangible assets Period 2006.1~2005.12 2009.1~2011.12 2012.1~2013.12 operation • Development of feasibility models and strengthening the plans • Budget performance analysis 501D5 G/T Blade Level #1~3 Operational budget review process • Management performance saving ratio • Assessment analysis and efficient operation to reduce the report Analysis targets 5 facilities, including Dangjin Thermal HQ budget Type Regular Debt Control Committee Meeting Review criteria Review and approval of large projects of 3 billion won or higher No. of imported items (100 1,492 923 628 million won) (999.5) (513) (366) No. of cases 17 cases reviewed Selection of items for which Results of the Conditional approval 6 review Business approval 10 The efforts to ensure financial soundness and their results a domestic replacement is to be developed 249 116 73 Not approved 1 Reduction of 33.1 billion won (Budget review: 233.5 billion won) the budget The company set the fundamental direction of adhering to core power generation businesses and reduction of debts to ensure financial soundness in response to the public corporation normalization plan. Based on the these, EWP established plans for investments and funding. Utilization of specialized personnel Multi-level investment review process in The core businesses are to be invested for continuously, while noncore businesses are to go dispatched to the Power Research Institute in consideration of 'check and balance' through investment rationalization process, according to the principle of debt reduction. For necessary fields Establishment of the new cooperative scheme to obtain this, the company established plans for establishing a system for future responsiveness, financial future technology No. of technical support cases up by 12 soundness, and efficient budget operation. In order to ensure financial soundness, the trend of the past performances was analyzed in Cost reduction by 220 million won Through joint technical development between KEPCO and power generation companies, the terms of stability and profitability. The results showed that while the stability was acceptable, level of R&D outputs was upgraded. And, for efficient R&D using the infrastructure between the Business selection Led by the business organizing department committee 11.5 Amount (Unit: No. of technical power group companies, the company has established a new cooperative scheme and working (Review of the feasibility of the project) the profitability needed improvement, which resulted in our efforts to improve it through en100 million won) support cases hancement of productivity, reduction of debts, and rational budget control. As a part of the passionately on the projects for co-prosperity and cooperation. The company also established Risk management led by the Investment Control Team 132 11.2 9.3 committee (Reviews the risks in the business) target indexes for financial soundness, the company set the allowance limit for the debt ratio 11.5 technical roadmap for joint response to the current issues, such as developing renewable enerand performed the debt impact assessment in accordance with the relevant process. Also, the 108 gies and reducing greenhouse gases, as it establishes the technical foundation for future high Investment Review led by the Investment Control Team 8.6 102 14.5 96 company endeavored to ensure reasonable budget planning through effective operation of the value-added technologies. Also, in order to preserve the power generation technology of the Committee (Reviews the company-wide investment priority.) review board and strengthening the feasibility review of the budget plan. 74 74 Power Research Institute, the specialized technicians of EWP are dispatched to the institute to Debt Control Led by the Finance and Budget Team Our reasonable expenditure of the budget and efforts to save it through debt impact assesslearn the know-how. The dispatched technicians are utilized passionately in order to increase Committee (Reviews the debt impacts and soundness of the Four-year funding plan.) ment process, the debt ratio was improved from 136% in 2014 to 132% (estimated) in 2017. 2010 2011 2012 2013 average 2014 the number of technical support cases and reduce the amount of technical support costs. 58 EWP SR 2015 Introduction Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues • Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 59 Overseas Business Economic Achievements Overseas EWP has been developing and operating overseas businesses under strategic goals of overseas expansion of the businesses with a view to increase the profits Status of overseas operations Business and co-prosperity with SMBs. EWP successfully completed the test run of Nueva Ventanas coal thermal power plant in Chile in 2008. Then, it completed many other overseas service projects such as the O&M of the floating layer power plant in Cebu, the Philippines in 2009, EWP RC Biomass and LNG power plant in the United States, 2010, and JPS Operation Project in Jamaica, 2011. In order to manage the projects in a systematic manner, the company re-established the public-corporation type project implementation principles of PRIME. Implementation strategies With this, it reviewed 119 items in the 5 areas of profitability, risks, strategic relevance, co-prosperity and employee satisfaction to rationalize project implementation. Projects 2014 Equipment Operation of the projects was based on two-track strategies through risk management. As a result, intense managerial improvement was performed on JPS Approx 3 times 1.7GW UP + Re-evaluation based on the business Capacity operation (Jamaica) and EWP RC operation (USA) to increase profitability. Also, timely exit strategies were established for the E-power project in Haiti and the principles of 'Prime' 2030 + Two track strategies after re-evaluation to wind power project in the Philippines, so that the invested fund was withdrawn successfully. maximize the value As for the development projects, the company successfully entered in a contract for PPA with the Kalcel no. 1 project in Indonesia and its subsequent projects Development Project in Vietnam, with a purpose to create the driving force for future growth of the company. + Focus on developing target areas (VIP) based on the technical capabilities (V: Vietnam, I: Indonesia, P: the Philippines) + Conjunctive IPP and O&M Growth leap-forward 2030 phase 3 4 programs in two countries New Hampshire are currently in operation Foundation + Global Player establishment 2025 phase 2 New York + Follow-up coal thermal 대한민국 California 3 projects in two countries 2020 phase 1 project in Indonesia are being developed + Kalcell Coal Thermal Power + New coal thermal project in Jamaica plan, Indonesia Successful Vietnam completion of construction Guam Overseas power generation Vietnam + Two tract strategies for the operation (improvement of the management and sales) capacity 2.5GW Type No Project name Equipment Capacity (MW) Types Related organizations Indonesia Equity investment 1 Jamaica JPS operation 637.32 Marubeni, OUR (40%) Biomass Power 2 58.2 Projects EWP RC Operation, Plant M&A(100%) USA Overseas business development process 3 LNG power station 94 4 Guam Cabras #3 4 RMC Project 80 PMC SPA The overseas businesses are developed, with a view to ensure objectivity, through a series of In progress 5 Indonesia Kalsel-1 Project 200 BOOT Adaro Overseas business development process reviews by the overseas business selection committee, the risks management committee, and 6 Subsequent project in Indonesia 300 BOO Development the investment review committee, in this case, for the priority, etc. Project 7 New project in Vietnam 1,200 BOT 01 Development of Gathering of business Also, in order to ensure success of these projects, the company reviews the guidelines on the new businesses information overseas projects to consider them on the basis of the 5 principles of priorities, risks, relevant to the strategy, co-prosperity and employee satisfaction (PRIME). Project feasibility study Also, the company operates the 'risk management system' which calculates the reference profit rate based on the quantitative risk assessment. 02 Selection of the Overseas project selection Accompanying other Korean companies to overseas projects project: committee Details of PRIM (T19 items) EWP is a public corporation, which has certain public responsibilities. In order to fulfill such responsibilities, the company passionately seeks ways to accomRisk management committee P R I M E pany other Korean companies to such projects to help their exporting. During the initial phases of overseas projects, most of the activities were centered on procurements of consumable materials. As a result, the performance of co-prosperity support in 2010 was for only one project site (in Guam) for an amount 03 Business Investment review 8 100 5 2 4 of 800 million won, which was very small. However, as we diversified the scope of such cooperation to improvement works, planned maintenance works, and development committee equipment purchase, now we are starting to see the fruits of such new efforts. In case of Kalcel power coal thermal power plant, for which a PPA was entered Reference priority National system, Limits of The ratio of the Terror, crime, ratio, securing the national credit the financial domestic parts security, housing, into in October 2014, more than 40 SMBs accompanied us to participate into the EPC project. It is expected that such an achievement would contribute to 04 Final decision Board of directors power sales plan, rating, past structures, the supplied, EPC medical education, their export of materials and creation of jobs in Korea. Especially, after completion of the power plants, around 3 billion won worth of Korean SMB products are and the credit defaults, and roles of the performance, etc. transpiration, and ratings of the backing of the strategic investor, the relevant tasks expected to be used for maintenance works for the power plant, which would further contribute to our efforts to help SMBs to expand into foreign markets. contractual parties currency, etc. and efforts for being performed In addition, EWP exerts to become a global IPP operator, as it engages in Global CSR activities through the infrastructures around the sites of those overseas 05 사Initiation of Establishment of a local cooperation, etc. or not the business incorporation projects. EWP SR 2015 61 Environmental Achievements Green As a responsible member of the society, EWP seeks to save energy and resources in its operation. Also, using such resources efficiently, we recognize that Management minimizing the greenhouse gases and pollution is to fulfill our ethical responEWP sibilities and ensure sustainability, as we engage in environmentally-friendly business activities. SR Green management scheme Vision of green To become the global leader leading the Vision way of green management As a combination between the existing environmental management and sustainable manageReducing greenhouse gas emission by ment. As a result, the company has established its own green management system, which is Target 20% from the estimated emission in 2020 currently in operation. Especially, in order to respond to the climate change in advance, the company set a green management target of reducing the greenhouse gas emission by 20% Carbon Management G³ from the estimate for 2020, based management a master plan and endeavors to fulfill it. In order for systematic low-carbon gree on which the company has established management and imstrategy plementation schemes EWP defines the green n ma a view to strengthen the execution capacity for the green management cycle. GHG Green Green Reduction Growth Culture • Increasing the power generation • Expanding the efficiency/ renewable energy • To create proliferation of Focal high efficiency power sources sources • Optimal operation green work places Green management performance indexes areas • To develop of pollution • Realize the prevention 'Green Life' technologies facilities to reduce the greenhouse gas To form a sense of consent among all employees and strengthen the execution capability for green management, the company adheres to environmental regulations and operates green management related performance improvement indexes and the evaluation systems for them Every year, the changes in internal and external environments are reflected to improve the inDept. in charge of green management dexes. Starting from 2014, the company is working on to develop the performance indexes to Creating Strategies reflect the needs for reducing greenhouse gases and strengthening the responsive capabilities. Sustainable Management Creative Environment Team Achievements Detailed internal performance indexes and items Environ. Environ. Renewable Management Chemistry Energy Team Team Team Green Environmental Green management + management + Adherence to the • Designated (and maintenance of the indexes environmental regulations Executing Strategies designation) as a Green Company and • Abide by emission limits and permit ISO14001 certification (maintenance of Achievements conditions certification) • Proper management of emission control/prevention equipment, proper Purchasing green products + management of chemicals Performances of Environmental Management • Ratio of green products among all System procurement 90% or higher ISO 9001/ Designation as a green Type 14001 company 61 Green Management Business Unit HQ and all business Ulsan Honam Donghae Ilsan branches 62 Reduction of Greenhouse Gases Initial Environmental management system designation ’13.10 ’04.07 ’00.10 ’01.11 ’96.03 (certification) date 64 E  nvironmental Management Secondary In order to proceed with green management with competitiveness and differentiation, the designation company acquired ISO 14001/9001 comprehensive certification. Also, it was recognized as a of the Project Sites (certification) ’12.12 ’14.05 ’14.12 ’12.07 green company due to its efforts to reduce contaminants and waste material emission and save date energy. Afterwards, the company proceeded with upgrading the environmental management 68 Management of Chemicals Validity until ’16.10 ’15.12 ’17.05 ’17.12 Designating Korea ProducMinistry Ministry Ministry Ministry of ’15.07 system and improvement of the environment, while it maintained the 14001 and 9001 certitivity Center (certifying) (Certification of Enviof Enviof EnviEnvironfication. Also, the company has been awarded for being an outstanding model in the field of 69 Protection of Bio-Diversity agencies Office) ronment ronment ronment ment environmental management 62 EWP SR 2015 Introduction Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues • Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 63 Reduction of Greenhouse Gases Environmental Achievements Reduction of In accordance with the 'Basic Law on Low-carbon Green Growth' of 2010, the company has started to work to meet the original emission unit goals in accorIncreased the number of low-carbon, high efficiency power plants Greenhouse dance with the 'greenhouse gas energy goal management program' since 2012. Also, starting from 2015, when the 'emission right transaction program' starts EWP aims to reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emission by increasing the efficiency of the power plants. In addition to enhancement of power generaGases tion efficiency in existing facilities, the company increases new low-carbon high-efficiency generators to upgrade the efficiency of the entire power generato take effect, the company has assumed the role of the organizing company tion facilities to reduce the source units of emission. The company started operation of the largest biomass power plant in Korea (30MW) in 2013, followed by and preparing for proactive measures to perform the greenhouse gas reduction Ulsan No. 4 Compound power plant (efficiency 55%) which was completed in July 2014 and now in operation. In addition, the company is currently constructpolicies. ing, for the first time in Korea, a 1,000 MW capacity high efficiency USC Shindangjin No. 9 and No. 10 (1,000MW x 2) coal thermal power plants. Ulsan No. 4 Compound Low-carbon Donghae Biomass Power Station Largest capacity High-efficiency operation 1 in Korea (30MW) 2 Greenhouse gas emission source unit Equipment capacity 30MW x 1 unit (Unit : tCO2/MWh) Successful performance of the greenhouse gas and energy (first in Korea) Investment 141.5 billion won goal management program Equipment capacity 0.78 2.5% decrease Construction Period 950MW 2011.12~2013.07 (20 months) Construction cost Manufacturer Andritz(Austria) EWP's total greenhouse gas emission volume in 2014 was 38383000 ton/ Co2, and the amount 999.4 billion won Type CFBC 0.76 0.76 of energy consumption is 489309 TJ. The original greenhouse gas emission unit per power sales Construction Period Fuel W  ood biomass 2012.05~2014.07 (182000 tons/year) is 0.765 ton CO2/MWh, which is well within the target (0.783 ton Co2 / MWh). The company Type Compound power generation Location Inside Donghae Thermal Fuel LNG Power Plant keeps working on increasing the number of low-carbon, high efficiency power sources, increasArea 41,000M2 Area 9,628m2(2,900 PY) ing the use of renewable energies, and bio fuels, with a view to reduce is greenhouse gas emission. As a result, the company not only met its emission original unit goals but also reduced the 2012 2013 2014 original energy units for three years in a row. Dangjin Unit No. 9 and No. 10 First 1000MW high-efficiency 1 Ulsan No. 4 Compound is a high-efficiency, low-carbon power generation USC Power plant under construction 3 facility. The greenhouse gas emission of the facility is reduced by 62% energy source unit Performance records of the green house gas energy goal management program compared to standard coal thermal power plants and 22% compared to (Unit : GJ/MWh) Equipment capacity existing compound power plants. *The figure for 2012 and 2013 was changed due to change in calculation standards. 2GW 11.0% decrease 10.957 (1GW x 2 units) 2 The dedicated biomass power plant in Donghae is based on the carbon Year Unit Target Performance Construction cost neutral power technology, with the greenhouse gas emission reduced by 2012 CO2/MWh 0.836▼ 0.805 2.64 trillion won 9.853 Construction Period 200000 tons per year (as per 80% usage rate). 9.757 2013 CO2/MWh 0.799▼ 0.763 2011.06~2016.06 2014 CO2/MWh 0.782▼ 0.765 Type USD 3Dangjin No. 9 and No. 10 are high efficiency coal thermal power plants, Fuel Flaming coal of which the greenhouse gas emission is reduced by 9.7% compared to The source units for 2012 are not included in the heat provision records in the power wattage. Coal yard Indoors type standard coal thermal power plants. Greenhouse gas emission status 2012 2013 2014 *The figure for 2012 and 2013 was changed due to change in calculation standards. Type Emission type 2012 2013 2014 Scope 1 44,062,742 43,118,937 38,300,812 Increased ratio of mixed combustion using biomass in thermal power generation Emission Scope 2 71,573 87,145 82,635 As a short-term measure to reduce greenhouse gas emission, EWP aims to increase the ratio of biomass mixture for the fuel used in coal thermal power genvolume (ton) 총 배출량 44,134,312 43,206,079 38,383,445 eration. Organic solid fuel, wood chips, wood pellets, PKS, and other types of biomass materials were successfully tested to be mixed with coal for combustion. Scope 3 9,262,519 After completing stepwise mixture ratio increase tests (3 → 5 → 7%), they are being used in the mixture fuel with stability. Also, for heavy oil power generation, bio heavy oil is used as a replacement for Bunker-C oil. Emission source unit 0.780 0.763 0.765 (Ton/MWh) Wood Item Organic solid fuel Bio heavy oil Wood chips Pellet PKS Energy consumption 601,527 550,933 489,309 (TJ) Appearance * Scope 1 : Direction emission (use of fuel and direction emission from the process) Forest byproducts, waste Dried and formed wood Characteristic wood material material Coconut husks, seeds, etc. Dried sewage sludge Animal of Scope 2 : Indirect emission (indirect emission due to use of power from external sources) Scope 3 : Indirect emission (emission from business trips, commuting and products sold or purchased) Caloric value (Kcal/kg) 2,500~3,500 3,500~4,500 4,000 3,000~3,500 9,000~10,000 The greenhouse gas emission and energy consumption changed slightly after the verification by the Usage Donghae Biomass Dangjin thermal Donghae Thermal Dangjin thermal Ulsan Thermal government. Consumption (Ton, Kl) 200,588 69,405 33,542 9,449 8,017 64 EWP SR 2015 Introduction Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues • Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 65  Environmental Management of the Project Sites Environmental Achievements  nvironmental E The power plants use fuels like flaming coal, anthracite, heavy oil, or LNG to generate power. As these fuels are used, it is unavoidable the environmental Air pollutant emission limits and emission density Management of SOx NOx Dust pollutants are emitted. However, the company aims to minimize such emission Power Plant Emission limit Emission density Emission limit Emission density Emission limit Emission density by introducing reduction equipment and recycling wastes, in order to contribute (PPM) (PPM) (PPM) (PPM) (mg/Sm3) (mg/Sm3) the Project Sites to the sustainable growth of Korea. Dangjin Ulsan Thermal 100 150 23 78 150 150 76 138 30 30 5 6 Ulsan Compound 100 36 Honam 100 64 150 124 40 5 Emission statistics of the power plants Environmental Pollutant Treatment Process Donghae 150 84 150 55 40 4 Power generation Air pollutant Noise Sulfate / dust removal Removal of nitrate Power monitoring prevention Donghae Bio 70 32 20 2 (renewable energy generation GWh 50,699 not included) Boiler muffler Coal 10,000 tons 1,542 Moving Ilsan 100 39 turbines Fuel for power indoors Oil 1,000 KL 628 environmental equipment generation Nitrate LNG 10,000 tons 131 removal Water for power equipTurbine 12,055 ment / power Households / factories generation Exhaust Electric generators desulfurdust Lime stone 1,000 ton 284 izer collector Magnesium 1,000 ton 52 Waster consumption and management of the water quality hydroxide Chemical 1,000 ton 11 Resource Plaster Coal ash Waste Water SOX Ton 13,755 recycling Coal ash The water used in the facility is being supplied from the nearby dams or river. The water is used Air emission NOX Ton 24,799 in the boiler or as cooling water for equipment, as well as in the desulfurization process. All powDust Ton 687 er plants have their own comprehensive water treatment plants installed within the complex. CO2 1,000 ton 38,383 Ash treatment Comprehensive waste COD Ton 31 plant water treatment plant Water temperature The processed water is reused in the process or discharged into the sea. The final water disWaste monitoring charge is in compliance with the water quality standard for the discharged water. In 2013, 36% SS Ton 19 Unloading of the coal Coal storage water Discharge into the Total Water of the total waste water, 1288000 tons, was reused in the plants. water system Ton 52 discharge nitrogen Conveyor belt Total Ton 1 phosphorus Water consumption and recycled waste water Water quality Coal ash Ton 1,871 monitoring Power generation Desulfurized Prevention of coal Purification of byproducts Ton 467 dispersion water discharge plaster Waste Water Water Business Unit Recycled Atmospheric Emissions Consumption Source unit Volume Recycling Controlling air pollutants (1,000 tons) (ton/GWh) (1,000 ton) volume ratio (%) (1,000 ton) 2012 2013 2014 2012 14,044 244 3,087 1,222 40 Air pollutants emitted from a power plant include sulfuric oxides, nitric oxides, and dusts. EWP endeavors to minimize them using desulfurization, denitration, or dust collecting equipment, as 2013 13,761 242 3,598 1,288 36 Emission source unit (Ton/MWh) well as other advanced air pollutant prevention equipment, as it applies a stricter limit on these 2014 12,055 237 3,161 1,285 41 SOx 16,813 16,629 13,755 substances to reduce air pollutants. NOx 32,040 31,994 24,799 Status of air pollution reduction equipment Water pollutant discharge limits and emission density (Unit: mg/l) 먼지 687 723 687 Source unit (ton/GWh) Exhaust desulfurizer Denitrification equipment Dust collector Area cod SS Total nitrogen Total phosphorus (reduction of sulfuric oxides) (reduction of nitric oxides) (reduction of dust) Power Plant Regulatory Regulatory Regulatory Regulatory SOx 0.292 0.294 0.271 Power (Type) Discharged Discharged Discharged Discharged Plant No. of No. of No. of Equipment limits limits limits limits NOx 0.556 0.566 0.489 units Equipment type units Equipment type units type Power B 1~15 1~3 30 or less installed installed installed 먼지 0.012 0.013 0.014 Dangjin generation (type 1) 90 60 8 1 or less Wet type Dangjin 8 8 SCR 8 Electric dust 15~30 20~50 50 or less thermal collector Desulfurization Plaster type Ulsan B (Type 1) 90 4~10 80 2~5 60 20 or less Ulsan Wet type 3 SCR Electric dust 3 6 Power Thermal Plaster type 3 SNCR collector Special 3~5 1~3 10 or less Honam generation 40 30 60 8 2 or less (Type 1) Honam Hydroxide 2 SCR Electric dust Desulfurization 10~15 3~6 40 or less 2 2 thermal collector Magnesium type 2 SNCR Special Donghae 130 3~5 120 1~2 60 10 or less 8 1 or less Donghae Desulfurization Electric dust (Type 3) 2 2 Thermal within the furnace collector Ilsan B (Type 1) 40 3~8 10 1~3 60 40 or less 66 Introduction Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues • Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 67  Environmental Management of the Project Sites Environmental Achievements Areas covered up Management of wastes and by products Control of dust dispersion A power plant typically emits 30 different kinds of waste materials. Of these, coal ash, plaster, or waste oil is reused or used for income generation. The ones that cannot be reused are processed The situation of the unloading operation at the docks or the coal storage is monitored via CCTVs through outsourced contractors. Also, the company endeavors to reduce the cost for processing in real time. The information from these monitoring activities is provided to the relevant deand increase reuse rates for these waste materials by diversifying the demands, continued R&D partment in charge and the management in order to prevent environmental accidents from efforts, and seeking for new applications. happening. Especially, in order to prevent dusts from dispersing into the air, surface hardener is sprayed on Status of waste materials and reuse the surface to minimize the amount of dust dispersion. Shindangjin Unit No. 9 and 10, which are being constructed, adopted indoors coal storage facility and closed coal transportation system Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 for the first time in Korea, preventing dispersion of coal dust at its source. The ash treatment Power generation facility is also compartmentalized to prevent dispersion of the dust as each of the compartments GWh 57,653 56,826 51,004 volume are equipped with dust curtains. And, the facility is covered in soil again in order to prevent Amount 1,000 ton 2,144 1,839 1,906 Ash dumping pipe dispersion in a stepwise manner. Source Unit Amount ton/GWh 37 32 37 Reused amount 1,000 ton 1,637 1,857 1,851 Reuse rate % 76 101 97 Covering up the ash treatment facility facility covered in soil NR ash transport pipes Reuse of coal ash and desulfurized plaster NW-1 2014.10 areas with dust curtain 2014.02 Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 2014.08 NW-2 Reused 1,000 ton 502 557 459 NW-3 amount NE-1 SW-1 NE-4 Plaster Reuse rate % 96 98 98 2014.10 Application Plaster boards, raw material for cement, etc. SW-2 NE-3 SW-3 Areas with dust curtain Reused SW-4 1,000 ton 1,696 1.829 1,844 amount NE-2 NE-5 Coal ash SW-5 Reuse rate % 80 101 99 SR Application Concrete mixture, raw material for cement, filler, etc. Noise and soil management A power plant typically emits 30 different kinds of waste materials. Of these, coal ash, plaster, Management of the surrounding environment or waste oil is reused or used for income generation. The ones that cannot be reused Also, the company endeavors to reduce the cost for processing and increase reuse rates for these waste materials by diversifying the demands, continued R&D efforts, and seeking for new applications. The company minimizes the impact on the surrounding environment by environmentalIn order to reduce the noise generated from the power plants, the company brings in various ly-friendly management practices. In order to leave a clean environment to our next generation, equipment indoors. Also, we install noise barriers or take other measures to maintain the noise the company is taking a leading role in preserving the natural environment around the facilities level below the regulatory limits. Also, to prevent soil pollution due to leakage of oils, the company regularly monitors the soil conditions around the oil storage area. Environment activities by the company Installation of noise barriers Installation of mufflers Partnership No. of activities Man power Grants 2013 13 subsidiaries 90 sessions 1,218 23 million won 2014 13 subsidiaries 95 sessions 1,355 26 million won 68 EWP SR 2015 EWP SR 2015 69 Environmental Achievements Environmental Achievements Management of The power plants use 6 types of harmful chemicals and 24 types of normal chemicals, totaling to more than 30 different types of chemicals to prevent corProtection of EWP conducts thorough environmental impact assessment before and after constructing a power plant in the surrounding area to minimize the impact on Chemicals rosion of the power generation equipment, water purification for the boilers, and treatment of waste water, etc. The harmful chemicals include caustic soda, Bio-Diversity the ecosystem and continuously works to improve the environment in the surrounding areas. hydrochloric acid, ammonia, chlorine dioxide, hydrazine, and methanol, etc. In 2014, the company used some 10,762 tons of such chemicals (0.211 ton /GWh). In accordance with the Law on Management of Harmful Chemicals, we ensure none of such harmful substances leak into the environment. Test of the sea water quality and the ground water near the ash treatment facility Ecological protection and environmental impact assessment Applications of the harmful chemicals Usage of harmful chemicals EWP analyzes the environmental impacts in the surrounding areas through land and sea ecological survey and regular environmental impact assessment for the construction of new power Name of the Type Unit 2012 2013 2014 substance Application plants beforehand. Based on the findings, the company seeks for methods to minimize the imPower generation pacts on the surrounding area. And, if any protected species are found the company promptly Hydrochloric acid controlling Ph, recycling of resin GWh 57,653 51,682 50,888 volume established a plan to manage such a species. Also, not only during the construction phase, but Caustic soda controlling Ph, recycling of resin Consumption Ton 15,405 15,424 10,762 also after the completion of the plant, the company monitors the surrounding environments To maintain the pH values for the Ammonia water system water and continues its efforts to protect the surrounding environment and ecosystem. Source unit Ton/GWh 0.267 0.298 0.211 Anhydrous Denitration consumption ammonia Inset a post environmental impact assessment table here. Methanol To remove total nitrogen To remove oxygen from the system Sea water test in the surrounding waters of Type Period of assessment Items of assessment Hydrazine water the power plants Dangjin thermal No. 1 ~ 8 1996~2017 Dispersion of heated water Chlorine dioxide To be added to the drinking water Dangjin thermal No. 9 ~ 10 2009~2021 discharge, air pollution, Management of chemicals in the facility Maritime environment of Dangjin Thermal 2010~2015 noise, soil, sea water quality, maritime ecosystem, crops, Donghae Biomass Power Station 2011~2018 land plants, environmentallyEWP has introduced chemicals safety management system in order to prevent chemical leakagfriendly recycling of resources Ulsan No. 4 Compound Thermal 2012~2019 Chemicals Management System es, which are becoming an issue recently, and provide a safer living environment to the community and other interested parties. With this system, the company performs safety diagnostics of the hazardous materials, self-check on the handing equipment, running statistics of the chemicals handled, modeling of atmospheric dispersion in case of an accident, and establishment of emergency response plans, as a part of our systematic management and preventive operations. Preservation of the natural environment In addition, we make further efforts to minimize the use of harmful chemicals by introducing no-hydrazine-injection system, normal chemicals in replacement for harmful substances, and EWP endeavors to preserve the changes in the surrounding ecosystems and the nature. To pracreplacing high density ammonia with low density ammonia (28% → 9%). Ecological assessment of the central sector, tice the love of the environment, the company engages in regular environmental protection acWoemok Port tivities, including one-company-one-beach program, natural purification activities, and feeding the wild animal programs. Response to chemicals or oil leakages Preemptive notification of the responsive procedures to the residents of the Development of cage sea farms using the heated water surrounding area in case of a leakage of EWP endeavors to prevent environmental accidents from happening by establishing responsive procedures for each type of accidents. Also, in order for prompt responses in case of an accident, discharge from the power plant for the first time among the hydrochloric acid the company conducts annual drills for possible leakages of chemicals or oils. Also, the company power plants has commissioned Maritime Environment Management Corporation to establish a control line in preparation for an accident. Up till now, the company has not experienced any leakage inciDangin Thermal succeeded in pilot caged sea farming of abalones using the heated water disdents of oil, waste material, or harmful substances. Cage seam charge from the power plant. As a result, the power plant delivered 4500 abalones it successfully grew through this pilot project to Gyro Fishery Community of Fisher Cooperatives in 2014. Response training for possible leakages of chemicals Starting from 2012, the company worked together with Jeonnam University on this pilot faming project. Unlike the existing method in which the sea water and the heated discharge are mixed and used on in-land farming facilities, the new method installs cage farms in the heated discharge water, which is more economical in terms of the investment amount and increased the value of the heated water discharge. Also, the survival rate of the abalones was 75%, which is significantly higher than 30 to 40% in other farming sites in Korea. In the future, the company plans to expand the abalone release programs, in order to help boost the incomes of the local fishers. EWP SR 2015 71 Social Achievements Ethics company and introduced code of conducts for all managerial activities and work performances, with a view to internalize a rational corporate culture through Management various practical activities on a continuous basis. EWP SR Ethical standards and organization for ethics management Ethics management and implementation schemes Ethics vision and implementation schemes In order to realize the ethics vision of the company, the company set a goal of achieving grade Ethical Ethical Charter of Guidelines 1 in Ethics Assessment and Anti-corruption Policy Assessment. The company also introduced standards standards Ethics and standards codes of conducts that are relevant to the current social expectations and implemented internal provide standards Operates Code standards for and external organizations establishing the ethical culture which all employees can participate for decision those related of Ethics for making and employee to the job and in and appreciate. judgement partners Ethics management and implementation schemes Ethics Committee Decides the direction To become a respected ethical company and strategies for ethics management Vision to realize the goal of becoming the 2030MVP management Target Grade 1 in Ethics Assessment and Anti-corruption Policy Assessment Code of Ethics Manager(17persons) : Practice education, consulting Ethics management leading strengthening the ethical Introduction of a culture Schemes strategy company competency of ethics enjoyed by the Compliance Manager (27person) : employees enforces and monitors • To establish an ethical corporate • All employees to become ethics • Introduction and proliferation of culture practice leaders participator ethics education Practice Tasks • To share the ethical culture of • Introduction of ethical culture in • Vitalization of ethical reward co-existence everyday life programs Practice executive office : planning, piblicity Ethical Practice Leader (172person) : Enforces leading practices Code Consensus Compliance Sustainable Management Systems and rules Proliferation of the consensus Implementation organizations Achievements Code of Conduct Officer Compliance Monitor Declaration of the company's • CEO·declaration of ethical and Anti-corruption monitor Practice commitment to practice the transparent management Charter of Ethics Schemes ResoluSocial • To establish an integrated ethics tion management system To present the code of conducts and ethics guidelines • To strengthen participatory ethics education for the employees ManageAchievements Practice • To build up the whistle-blowing ment Guidelines and standards for conducts programs by guaranteeing anonymity Ethics Ethics Management Team Committee Ethics Management Leader To enhance the capacity for ethics management Ethical standards and implementation organization 71 Ethics Management In 2014, the company revised its codes of conduct to strengthen its ethical practices and anti-corruption competitiveness. As a result, detailed schemes such as avoidance of conflicts of 73 Assessment and Rewards interests, ethical standards for retired employees, financial penalties on corrupt behaviors, and limitations on appointments of individuals with corrupt behavior were introduced in order to 74 Co-Prosperity with Partners reform the HR policies of the company. To establish the strategy for efficient ethics management and its implementation, the company established a dedicated organization for ethical matters. In 2014, the company also strengthened the dedicated external organization for enhancing the 76 Respect of Diversity auditing procedure and proliferation the culture of anti-corruption, which resulted in an ethical audit agreement. In addition, the company formed a cooperative body with private and public 77 Enhanced Disaster Response organizations to continue its activities. 72 EWP SR 2015 73 Social Achievements Social Achievements Ethics management and implementation schemes Practice of ethical culture in everyday life Assessment and EWP established a fair and transparent employee assessment system for individual and organizational performances to ensure the employees and organizaTo establish an everyday-life environment committed to ethical management. Rewards tions in the company serve the company with their full capabilities. EWP established a dedicated website to deliver the CEO's messages on ethics to proliferate the culture of ethical conducts ( Ethical Technician Yoon ) and uses it as a channel for communication. Also, the company introduced everyday-life type ethics system to establish a system of rewards and punishment and everyday-life environment which is dedicated to ethical manageAssessment procedure for organizational performances ment. The system covers 24 hours in each day of our employees from the moment they show up to their offices until after they retire for home, with a view to proliferate the culture of ethics In order to enhance the execution capability for its strategy, EWP operates a performance assessment procedure that is based on the PDCA cycle. Also, in order which is beneficial to observe. to manage the fulfillment of the goals for the employees, the company developed BSC-based organizational assessment programs and individual assessment programs based on MBO and established an integrated performance management system in connection with the management strategy. Proliferate the culture that ethics management is something they can enjoy The execution plans are developed based on the annual business plans. Once the goals are set, the performance management committee follows the perforEWP aimed to strengthen internal communication with its employees and had employees stage mance monitoring process and inspection procedures to regularly check the core performances, quantitative performances, and the goals and execution of role-plays, talk-shows, or ethical song singing events on the foundation day of the company. In key businesses. Especially, for underperforming tasks, the company has established a specialized feedback and supplementation system.. this Ethics Concert, participants are to internalize the principles of ethics management as they practice for the stage, while non-participants learn about the principles of ethics management Competency and Process Performance Management as they enjoy the performances. In addition to this Ethics Concert, the company held an event called 'Open Ethics Court' in which the CEO himself participated in the event to honor the humSTEP 1 Planning STEP 2 Planning STEP 3 Analysis STEP 4 Actions ble underlings as the head judge, with a view to establish a clear standard on vague situations, Execution and Consensus on with a view increase the awareness and attention to the ethics rules. Assessment of Rewards for Goal setting continuous the results of performances achievements monitoring assessments Everyday-life type ethics system that governs the employees around the clock • Mid-term strategic goals / annual business • Performance monitoring • Interim assessment (October), • Preliminary coordination, • Rewards to outperforming Organizational plans / KPI pools in accordance with the through performance Final assessment objections, fixed by the individuals and organizations performance government initiatives management system (June in the following year) performance management • Satisfaction rate evaluation for • Identification of the organizational KPIs and • Monitoring of adequacy in • Internal assessment group, committee the performance management After checking-in During the working hours Before going home After leaving the office management goal setting for the organizations allocation of resources and independent assessment • Briefing on the results of system and improvement of (BSC based) Self test Taking examples from others Ethics Ten Commandments Text messages • Listening to the opinions of all employees man-power group assessment and sharing of the the system and participation of independent experts assessment reports The beginning of each year During the working hours Monthly The end of each year • (Management, Chief of the Business • Monthly monitoring for • MBO achievement assessment • Preliminary interviews and • Supplementary bonus system Pledge for Observance Anti-corruption day Ethics Certification Ethics Award at Management Branches) Management Agreements fulfillment of individual (October, July in the following coaching, self-assessment, which is collaboration oriented of individual • (Individuals) Individual MBO KPI and KPI goals year) primary-secondary assessment • Identification of wanting performances agreement on goals • In/Off line coaching on a • Performance Assessment • Opening of the assessment capabilities and establishment An employee may apply for Rewards for reporting Ethics slogan, Ethics Quiz regular basis, individual Verification outcome, objections of training plans (MBO-based) Reflected to employee a promotion exam based on unethical behaviors, creating Competition competency training assessment to affect the one's participations in ethics profits, or reducing costs Rewards are provided to amount of bonus payment education. Rewards for internal outperforming employees Bonus point Chances for promotion reporting Ethics contents Establishment of the enjoyable ethics culture through proliferation of the rewards Ethics book reading Ethics experience Ethics certification Ethics Award Reward process Rewards to the departments Ethics mileage provided to system The highest in-company with outstanding employees with outstanding Issues certificates, award, 'Proud Dongseo performances in book services, which will send recommendation for rewards, Employee Award' now has a In order to maximize managerial efficiency, the company aims to reward the employees fairly for their endeavors. For this, the company introduced a process reading and debate them external ethics training and mileages sub-section for ethics competitions in connection of goal setting, assessment, and reward. For fair compensation and rewards, the assessment of performances is divided into the Government management with the 'reading assessment, which is an assessment procedure led by the Ministry of Planning and Finance for public corporation, organizational assessment, which evaluates management' of the company the fulfillment of the goals of teams and departments, and individual assessment, which looks at the fulfillment of the individual goals and individual competency. Based on the results of the assessments, the employees are rewarded financially, by promotion, or by fringe benefits. 부패방지 활동 공로 표창장 수상(’14.2) Ethics management monitoring In order to establish a compensation system that is based on merits and competency, the company introduced performance based annual wage system. And, depending on the results of the assessment, the amount of bonus, fringe benefits, and rewards are decided. The company developed its own EMDEX (EMP Ethics Management Index) and uses it to investigate and analyze the level of ethical behaviors. With this, the company identifies the level of needs Reward Process and appreciation in the sub-elements of the ethics management for the employees. The company STEP 1 Goal setting STEP 2 Assessment of performance STEP 3 Rewards established the ethics management implementation system and practices ethics management Differences in bonus amount : Differences in bonus amount through proliferation of consensus on ethical issues. As a result, the company achieved grade 1 in Goal setting for Individual Financial compensation (up to double the minimum amount) organizations assessment (Jun.) Anti-corruption assessment conducted by National Rights Committee three years in a row since Differences in basic wage : Reference wage raise rate (+/-1%) (BSC based) Organizational 2012 and won the Prime Minister's Prize for Ethical management in 2014. The self-diagnosis reassessment Promotion / relocation : Promotion assessment and By promotion (Dec.) sults based on EMDEX also shows that the company is not at its 'Maintaining Reputation' (90 -100 Goal setting for relocation of employees Government points) level, indicating a high level of prevalence of ethics culture in the company. In spite of the individuals management (MBO-based) assessment Fringe benefits (All year) Difference in amount : Additional fringe benefits provided fact that the ethics score is getting better and better, we will still work on to make Grade 1 74 EWP SR 2015 Introduction Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues • Sustainable Management Achievements Appendix 75 Co-Prosperity with Partners Social Achievements Co-Prosperity In order to ensure co-prosperity with our partners, the company established a foundation for cultivating small but powerful companies through sharing of the Communication management with partners with Partners visions, mid-long term support philosophies, and customized support programs for each year. Especially, the company has established support programs for With partner companies, the company runs online VOC hearing channels such as the 'Unfair Practice Report Center,' 'Transparency Implementation Cafe,' 'Tender Information System,' 'Partners' Suggestion Bulletin' and offline channels such as the 'Partner Company Advisory Committee,' 'Improvement of Procurement jointly developed product's validation and protection of technologies to help Difficulties', 'supporting domestic and international customer development system', 'Open Power Plant', and the 'SMB council', etc. strengthen the competitiveness of parties. In addition, EWP helps its partners to expand to new markets by EWP World Class 10 programs and 30 hidden chamTo establish a communication support system designed for SMBs pions program. To establish a system to help SMBs with their difficulties On-Off Line support establishment cases Joint expansion to overseas markets EWP Regular Real-time CEO Core, original STEP 1 EWP technologies Proposal and difficulties System establishment Shared values and co-prosperity system Direct contacts for identifying Real-time monitoring [Pulls] monitoring system difficulties of such companies of the difficulties of SMBs SMB to realize 100% replacement with Sound power generation business supply chain [Pushes] Regular meetings domestic parts for power generation equipment (Cost saving) Direct access to the reports Visit the SMBs directly to listen Implementation of Report on via webpages STEP 2 Co-prosperity Center co-prosperity EWP to the SMBs and find out their the policies the results EWP, SMB Association To operate a Co-existence difficulties communication system Dedicated organizations SMB Association Discussion Group Direct CEO reporting system with the SMBs Seminar and Workshops Realization of co-prosperity and enhancement of the competiveness of the nation Assessment of the effects of the Items to be covered in the surveys support programs through shared values and creation of original values for co-prosperity SMB STEP 3 Dedicated organizations SMB Operation of Reflection to Vitalization the policies discussion bodies Provision of information via web-pages and SNS Establish co-prosperity 2.0 model and implementation of 16 Identification of the needs Feed-Back programs The company announced an upgraded set of policies called 'EWP co-prosperity 2.0' aimed to fulfill the new needs of the partners and overcome the limits of the domestic market. This Joint technology development and proliferation of the shared new model has been expanded and in operation in order to be established as a representative achievement programs co-prosperity model for Korea. This 'EWP co-prosperity 2.0 Model' is the only mode of its kind introduced by a public corporation aimed at co-prosperity with SMBs. The goal of this model is EWP has been trying to proliferate the performance sharing program, in which the fruits of the Awards in the field of co-prosperity to develop SMBs which gained self-sustainability and entered the growth phase as a result of join R&D and other cooperative efforts for the sake of sales boot and development of new marEWP's existing 'co-prosperity leadership model' into small but powerful companies of the world kets, as well as raising the domestic replacement ratio of the imported parts. And, the comclass. To be specific, the program is composed of 16 projects such as development-type R&Ds, pany's continued efforts to discover new joint commercialization R&D projects sponsored by establishment of a system to help build up export capabilities, and cultivating Donghae Hidden Performance sharing proliferation workshop SMBA, EWP has ranked top among all public corporations for the past seven years. Also, the Champions in cooperation with secondary and tertiary partners. As a result of these endeavors, company developed a support system for each phase of growth to invigorate the performance the company has won the Presidential Citation for co-prosperity in July 2014. sharing programs. As a result, the company developed a three--phased customization strategy (Company in vicinity → successful model company → small but powerful company) to share Identification of new co-prosperity model and implementation by the CEO achievements with the secondary, tertiary patterns and female companies. The shared amount Establish Co-prosperity 2.0 Model and selection of the 16 programs of achievements is deposited so that they can later be donated to a social corporation. (51 million won in 2013, 99 million won in 2014) In order to complete the development of the co-prosperity model, the company holds regular workshops with 133 member SMBs of EWP SMB committee and discussion rounds in which all employees are to participate. Cases of customized performance sharing invigoration program • Execution of R&Ds for developing original technology • To establish a system to strengthen export for marginal companies R&D O deve verse capability Establishment of co-prosperity model 2.0 • Establishment of global enterprise competency the loping l enhancement system en deve gies mar opm a • To develop overseas networks using agents Develop a model success r olo ke e Companies in nearby areas Performance sharing model ket int • To be the global top in terms of quality and To s te • Supports with verification of core parts in case company t n capab reng ar m d jo technology and out of Korea • Kepco-academic-research co-op platform i core lity f th s t an sion • Joint market expansion through overseas establishment tec o n pan operations • Female Company x • Technology transfer type • Designing and R&D available h co-prosperity • Companies in vicinity of the power • Co-existence financial type • Accompanying secondary and tertiary ti 2.0 Models o • Development of plant or in Ulsan City • Capacity buildup type • Sales and employment up by 10% liza h u f gl partner companies • Secondary, tertiary partner companies Rea ity S d 30 hidden champions ie t pow obal er an • Social responsibility and volunteer works on • Discovery 100 core companies ons erful • Enhancement of quality of life for the employees prosp ar of co ati b • Establish a system for core technical R&D ed cultiv all n of small and medium sized companies gro wth re sm pa support system Ulsan / Power plant For secondary and tertiary co com Ulsan area • Creation of viable jobs and transparent • Obtainment of high value-added Introduction to support partner companies management technology Female company agreement programs for surrounding areas Technical exchange events (2) 76 EWP SR 2015 EWP SR 2015 77 Social Achievements Social Achievements Respect of EWP recognizes the diversity among employees and upholds human rights and introduced systematic programs to prevent discriminations in the work places Enhanced EWP conduced an overall safety inspection after the incident of Sewol and carried out the follow-up measures immediately based on the findings. The compaDiversity so that anyone may enjoy equal opportunities to realize their potential. Based on the rules of employment and the HR guidelines, all employees are guaranteed to Disaster ny engages in preemptive prevention and systematic energy safety management for the safety of the people. At the same time, EWP has established an intehave fair assessment and opportunities. All male and female employees of the same grade are to enjoy the same amount of wage and fringe benefits regardResponse grated disaster management system, which integrated and simplified the safety management programs. less of their gender. Open employment, social equality employm Disaster safety system Strengthening responsive capabilities for each type of Type 2012 2013 2014 Open employment, social equality employment EDMS disasters Female 31 48 32 Disaster intelligence Disabled persons 9 10 9 In the recruiting process, the company abolished reflection of the specifications of the appliSituation management message receipt / The company revised the field response manual for each type of disasters. And, the response transmission Disaster situation Local talents cants which are irrelevant to the functions they will be performing. And, the company has inmanagement flow for a disaster was summarized into a simple, 1 page flow chart, so that early-phase ac(non Greater Seoul 80 97 78 Operational support Area residents) troduced NCS-based recruiting process, in which the work capacity testing process is used to Comprehensive disaster tions can be taken promptly in case of a disaster. Also, in order to ensure that all personnel can recruit our newcomers. Also, bonus points are endowed to the handicapped or veterans. As a drills take prompt actions in the face of various disasters, the disaster situations were simulated, with High school graduates 39 48 37 result, a total of 111 employees have been employees for this social equality recruitment prowhich the employees were trained in emergency drills and simulated drills. DepartSpecialized high gram since 2001. The ratio of the handicapped recruits exceeds the legal minimum of 3%. And, ment in Other disaster schools 39 44 36 charge depts. officer these handicapped employees are treated equality without discrimination. And, all employees Science and are educated once a year to improve their views on the handicaps. Also, the veterans or other Engineering Major 141 188 113 Analysis of gathered intelligence Disaster response training Automated processing vulnerable employment classes take up 9.7% of the entire employees, as the company passionfollowed by dissemination of the All recruits 159 206 131 ately pursue social quality recruitment program. situational intelligence In order to enhance the capacity to respond to disasters, the company conducts life-like trainFirefighting and ings in all of its power plants. This is to ensure that all personnel and departments are aware of Disaster Control NDMS what to do and how to do it and get accustomed to do it through repeated trainings, so that Open employment, social equality employment they can be prepared for all kinds of disasters before they happen. Especially, in the Disaster Gender equality SMS Server Situation Alert System Korea Drill, a drill conducted in order to establish an all-out disaster response system of a nationwide scale, the company ranked the highest grade for three years in a row in 2013, 2014, and Male Female The ratio of the female workers in the company is 11.6%, totaling to 267 workers. In 2014, 6 2015, which is the first time ever among all 15 disaster management responsibility organizations career severance women were hired, which was 24% of the total new recruits (32). EWP does Disaster response training 2012 1,886 90.7% 194 9.3% not discriminate the women in terms of recruitment, promotion, and wages, and applies a fair under the supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. standard. In order to realize gender equality, the company has set the female recruitment goal 2013 1,991 89.2% 240 10.8% (15%) to expand the opportunities for women to join our company. Also, the company has 2014 2,029 88.4% 267 11.6% established female board of directors, which tries to discover and identify discriminatory factors in the company, as a part of our continued efforts. Established a cooperative structure with related agencies It is not possible to cope with a disaster in a power plant by the capability of the power plant alone. Therefore, the central government, fire stations, military units, and other related agencies, as well as civilian organizations, should cooperate with one another to cope with the situation. As the influence on the national economy is significant, it is the most important to establish a Openly hiring experts from outside of the company system of cooperation among the fire station, the military units, the hospitals, and other relatSelected as the Best Organization in Disaster ed organizations in order to ensure prompt response to the disasters in a power plant, which EWP aims to strengthen the competitiveness of the organization in the face of internal and external changes of environment. For this, the company analyzed Korea Drill has a significant influence on the national economy. Therefore, in order to ensure effective rethe man-power structure of the company and selected four 'open domains' in which the number of in-company experts is not sufficient. These positions were sponse, the company has established and been operating cooperative systems with related filled by hiring external experts. Also, as the company operated this open hiring program, the program was linked with the part-time recruitment of career organizations at all time. Especially, as the power severance women, in support of the government's job creation policy. plants are key national infrastructures, the company has entered into security agreements with the Area Accounting Health management Welfare Reading Management police stations and military units. Also, in case of Insufficient number of Insufficient inside experts Insufficient inside experts dedicated personnel to Insufficient number of inside power plants located in an industrial complex, the Weakness to verify the organization's to strengthen health experts to establish a bookperformance management expand non-monetary loving culture company responds through support agreements benefits with nearby companies in the surrounding area An applicant with at least 5 Applicants with at least two An applicant with experience An applicant with a librarian Employments years of experience as a CPA years of experience as a nurse in corporate welfare was hired license and work experience and conducts regular disaster response trainings was hired (1 person). were hired (3 persons). (1 person). was hired (1 person). to strengthen our cooperative response system. EWP SR 2015 79 Appendix Financial Performance EWP Seperated the financial statement SR Summary As for the financial performance of the company the construction of Shindangjin No. 9 and No. 10 and Ulsan No. 4 facilities from 2013 to 2014 resulted in an acquisition of 1.4832 trillion won and 440.3 billion won in depreciation, cancellation 21.1 Financial billion won. As a result, the total value of asset increased by 921 billion won. Due to the issuance of corporate bonds for the construction of the above mentioned units, the total of the corporate bond issued is 1.3496 trillion won, while the amount Positions Appendix of liability also increased by 790.8 billion won. Unit: 100 million won Trend of the Asset value Type 2012 2013 2014 Current asset 8,981 8,677 8,279 83,707 2014 Noncurrent assets 51,717 65,820 75,428 Total Assets 60,698 74,497 83,707 Current liability 5,926 11,544 6,322 74,497 Noncurrent liability 20,010 28,601 41,731 2013 Total Liabilities 25,936 40,145 48,053 60,698 Paid-in capital 21,381 21,381 21,381 56,865 2012 Earned Surplus 14,266 13,794 15,324 71 Financial Performance 2011 Total Capital 34,762 34,352 35,654 80 Sustainable Management Performance Indexes 83 Third Party Review Summary decreased. Joined by the cancellation of No. 1 Ulsan Power Plant, the amount of power transaction decreased and the settlement unit price also plunged. As a result, the gains from power transaction were down by 887.8 billion won. However, 84 GRI G4 & ISO26000 Index Financial due to the decrease in the unit material cost for flaming coal and high sulfur oil reduced the material cost by 1.0677 trillion won, the operating profit was up by 178.6 billion won (The gains from power transaction down by 16.9%, but the reduction 89 UN Global Compact Positions in material cost was 23.8%). Units: % 89 Additional Index for Power Industry Type 2012 2013 2014 90 Awards in 2014 Sales amount 59,507 53,683 45,070 Sales Cost 56,458 52,067 41,710 91 Membership Gross Margin 3,049 1,616 3,360 Sales /Administrations Cost 632 578 536 91 C ontrolling Structure Summarized income Operation Profit 2,417 1,038 2,824 of the Related Companies statement Other profits 100 125 93 Misc. Cost 21 10 34 1,685 92 Questionnaire 1,645 2012 2014 Other gains (losses) (9) (59) (220) Financial gains 785 218 565 Financial Cost 1,122 706 987 992 Net profit (loss) before corporate tax 2,151 314 2,104 2011 Corporate tax cost 506 44 419 270 Net Profit 1,645 270 1,685 2013 80 EWP SR 2015 Introduction Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements • Appendix 81 Appendix Sustainable Management Performance Indexes 2. Environmental Data Category Unit Item 2012 2013 2014 Greenhouse gas emissions 1. Economic Data Greenhouse gas emissions 1,000 ton CO2-eq by year 44,134 43,206 38,383 Greenhouse gas emissions CO2-eq/kWh 0.780 0.763 0.765 relative to power intensity Category Unit Item 2012 2013 2014 TJ Energy consumption 601,527 550,933 489,309 Facility capacity MW 8819 9343 9138 Energy consumption Energy consumption GJ/MWh 10.957 9.853 9.757 relative to power intensity Coal 40,244 39,661 38,781 10,000 ton Coal 1,641 1,603 1,542 Gas 10,970 10,114 9,225 Thermal Power Fuel consumption 1,000 kilo-liter Oil 1,517 1,616 628 Oil 6,368 6,836 2,693 Power generation output GWh 10,000 ton LNG 168 161 131 Total 57,582 56,611 50,699 ton Sox 16,813 16,629 13,755 Renewable Energy 전체 70 153 305 Air pollutant emissions ton Nox 32,040 31,994 24,799 Total 전체 57,652 56,764 51,004 ton Dust 687 723 687 Power transmit output GWh 54,857 54,069 48,549 Sox 0.292 0.294 0.271 Unit cost of sales 원/kWh 106.38 98.04 93.44 Air pollutant emissions g/GWh Nox 0.556 0.565 0.489 Forced outage rate % 0.619 0.88 0.098 relative to basic unit Dust 0.012 0.013 0.014 Non-plan loss rate % 1.155 1.083 0.384 Water pollutant emissions 톤 31 33 30 Power generation % 93.34 91.36 99.88 kg COD 7 11 22 capacity utilization rate plant availability factor % 74.45 71.4 65.06 Wataer pollutant emissions kg SS 42 62 52 Thermal efficiency % 39.27 38.96 39.65 relative to basic unit kg T-N 0.4 1 1 Service power rate % 5.03 5.13 5.19 kg T-P 0.54 0.58 0.62 Products and services purchased COD 0.18 0.26 0.38 Partner companies KRW 100 mil 54,286 50,105 40,231 during business activities Water consumption by supply SS 0.99 1.49 1.03 Wages, retirement pay, welfare g/GWh Employees KRW 100 mil 2,172 1,962 1,479 source (power plant) T-N 0.01 0.02 0.02 benets, etc. T-P 14,044 13,761 12,055 Shareholders KRW 100 mil Dividends 822 81 253 Wastewater discharge amount 1,000 ton 3,087 3,598 3,161 Investors KRW 100 mil interests 604 316 371 Distribution of Wastewater reuse amount 1,000 ton 1,222 1,288 1,285 Government KRW 100 mil Corporate tax, etc. economic value 263 53 543 Wastewater reuse rate % 40 36 41 Social contribution cost and Local communities KRW 100 mil 36 38 42 donations, etc. Waste generation amount ton 2,144 1,839 1,906 Retained earnings excluded from Waste recycling amount ton 1,637 1,857 1,851 paying dividends for the purpose Re-investment KRW 100 mil 840 259 1,502 Plaster generation amount 1,000 ton 520 571 467 of securing nancial resources for re-investment Plaster recycling rate 1,000 ton 504 557 459 Coal ash generation amount 1,000 ton 2,112 1,807 1,871 Coal ash recycling amount 1,000 ton 1,696 1,829 1,844 Forced outage rate Power generation Non-plan loss rate Distribution of economic value (2014) Facility capacity of RPS achievement Greenhouse gas emissions By-product recycling rate capacity utilization rate renewable energy relative topower intensity 7% 40,231 1,479 1,502 2.5% 100% level increase 584% 100% decrease of recycling 0.771%p increase increase 0.52% decrease 543 decrease 371 253 42 0.619 0.88 0.098 93.34 91.36 99.88 1.155 1.083 0.384 32 87 219 87.6 89.9 100 0.78 0.77 0.76 80.4 101.2 98.5 Partner Local ReEmployees Shareholders Investors Government communities 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 companies investment 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 82 EWP SR 2015 83 Appendix 3. Social Data Third party Review Category Unit Item 2012 2013 2014 total 2070 2200 2240 It is my great pleasure to submit my expert review on this report. And, I aspects to be covered in the report, which Employee Number of person Permanent employees male 1876 1991 2029 would like to take the privilege to congratulate the publication of the 9th also provided the evaluation and plans for status femail 194 240 267 volume of the Sustainable Management Report of Korea East and West them. However, future improvements are % Disabled person ratio 3.4 3.4 3.4 Power. warranted, as these contents contain areas minority group % Female ratio 8.9 10.5 11.5 I highly appreciate the fact that EWP, based on its mission of 'Making Hapand issues for which there is no method of performance measurement or membership Number of person Female managers 16 18 22 piness Energy', discloses its achievements in sustainable management in any core performance indexes. I hope that the company will prepare the % Female managers ratio 2.8 3.2 3.7 terms of economic, social, and environmental performances to the interreports in a way that the interested parties can actually trust what the comYear Average years of service 15.8 15.1 16.0 ested parties and that they have been doing this for quite some time. It pany says about its sustainable management, according to its sustainable Employment stability % Turnover rate 0.67 0.74 0.93 was possible for me to witness the efforts for sustainable management and strategy. It is also necessary that more substantial contents should be proNumber of person Number of new recruits 159 206 131 its achievements, as the company thrives to realize co-prosperity with the vided on the tasks, goals and expectations, and future plans to fulfill those Number of person Talent from non-metropolitan areas 80 97 78 interested parties as the country's energy public corporation. Based on the goals, as well as what the company actually did to meet those goals. Number of person Person of national merit 10 10 11 information provided in the 2015 edition of the Sustainable Management Third, the company needs to find a way to improve the quality of the data Employment stability Number of person High-school graduate 39 48 37 Report, I hereby submit my review with regard to future publication of suband information and prevent any omissions or errors in important inforNumber of person Disabled person 9 10 9 sequent reports and improvement of the level of sustainable management. mation. Number of person Female 32 48 32 First, it would be desirable if the feedbacks and the implementation plan on If the company wishes to do so, it would have to re-establish the data Status of employment Number of person User of childcare leave 10 9 12 the demands from the interested parties delivered through various chancalculation and reporting criteria through improving the process, while it with social equity % Reinstatement rate after childcare leave 80 100 100 nels, while the company expands its channels of communication with such regularly collect and review such data and information. Also, I recommend Satisfaction degree of GWP index 3.77 4.41 interested parties, in more details and a more systematic manner. I believe that company to enhance the impartiality of the contents of the report to employee Hour Average education time per employee 96 109 124 it is necessary for the company to provide the information the interested prevent omission of the information that is not advantageous to the comHuman Resources parties would like to now, instead of the information the company wishpany and the way the company handles such information that makes it KRW 1,000 won Annual education cost per employee 3,369 3,512 2,680 Development KRW 100 mil Annual education cost 70.4 77.3 58.2 es the interested parties to know. For this, the company should pay more look bad. I also expect that the company would establish a well-organized KRW 100 mil donations 7 8 6 attention to developing a communication channel that goes both ways. monitoring system for the social and environment data to strengthen the Social Contribution Activities Hour Volunteer service hours 39,335 47,644 55,588 It is remarkable, however, that the company classified its interested parties management on the non-0financial risks. Hour Volunteer service hours per employee 20 22 24 into internal and external clients, who are again classified into participatoFourth, I recommend that the company make their report more readable Evaluation of integrity Evaluation Result by Anti-Corruption & Civil ry, cooperative, co-existent, and co-prosperity types based on the factors and accessible to various interested parties, so that they can better under2nd grade 2nd grade 2nd grade level Rights Commission of threats and cooperation, as the company specified and defined the restand the sustainable activities of the company more easily and clearly. Evaluation of antiEvaluation Result by Anti-Corruption & Civil 1st grade 1st grade 1st grade lationships, responsibilities, expectations, and value creation and created The company would have to spend more time to include plots, info-graphcorruption policy Rights Commission Employee safety % Occupational accident rate 0.16 0.12 0.09 a channel with these interested parties. With this, it was evident that the ics, and images in order to deliver the information included in this report KRW 100 mil Supporting amount for SMEs' R&D 118 93 164 company understands the importance of the participation by these intermore effectively and make the contents more readable by employing efWin-win groth KRW 100 mil Purchase amount of SMEs' products 150 194 158 ested parties and endeavors to communicate with them as the company fective and various designs. It would also be a good idea if the company proceeds with its sustainable management. However, in the future, the would disclose where to find more detailed information on the contents company would be better off if it could report the requirements of these of this report. interested parties in more details and how they are reflected in the manaA company is a member of its society. It simply cannot expect to grow gerial activities, so that the level of interest and understanding of the interon without the cooperation and trust from various interested parties that sected parties can be upgraded. surrounds it. Therefore, it is very important to actively disclose the achieveEvaluation of antiVolunteer service hours Satisfaction of social Second, the company should disclose the process of its ongoing susments of the company in terms of economy, society, and environment in corruption policy per employee contribution activities tainable management practices in order for the authenticity of all these the course of the company's management, through sustainable manage4.5 6.6%p achievements and activities for sustainable activities can be recognizable. ment reports, such as this one, or other means. Therefore, I hope the com1st grad 1st grad 1st grad hours/employee increase This means, for each of the key domains of sustainable management, the pany will carry on with its communication with the interested parties, as it increase goals and the practices are to be emphasized and disclosed more pro-acattempts to do with this report, and, as a result, grow into a public corporatively. tion that is even loved by the interested parties. This sustainable management report is prepared the new Guideline (GRI G4), which is actually required to be applied starting from the next year. September 15, 2015 19.7 22 24.2 81.2 82.8 87.8 However, the company still decided to apply it ahead of schedule. In accorInstitute of Sustainable Management 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 dance with the G4 guideline, it appeared, the company decided on the key Jaesung Roh, Researcher / Chief 84 EWP SR 2015 Introduction Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements • Appendix 85 Appendix GRI G4 GRI G4 Guidelines(Comprehensive) G4-32 GRI Content Index a. The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen (core or comprehensive) b. The GRI Content Index for the chosen option 83~88 & ISO26000 Index c. The reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured a. The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report b. The scope and basis of any external assurance provided G4-33 c.. The relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report 1General Standard Disclosures ISO26000 Page Remarks The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body; Any Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the G4-34 53, 54 committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. a. Strategy and G4-1 4.7, 6.2, 2, 3, 15 organiza¬tion and its strategy. 7.4.2 The process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest Analysis G4-35 53 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 18, 19 governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-3 Name of the organization 8 Explanation of whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with G4-36 responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the 53 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 8 highest governance body G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters. 8 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, G4-37 53 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or environmental and social topics G4-6 8~13 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report G4-38 The composition of the highest governance body and its committees 53, 54 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 9 G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive office 53 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 10~13 G4-40 The nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees 53 Scale of the reporting organization, including: Number of employees; Net sales or net revenues; Total Processes for the highest governance body to ensure con%icts of interest are avoided and G4-9 9 capitalization; and Quantity of products or services provided managed. G4-41 53, 54 Cross-board membership Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders a. Te total number of employees by employment contract and gender. Existence of controlling shareholder Related party disclosures b. Te total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. b. O rganizational c. The total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. 6.3.10, The highest governance body’s and senior executives’roles in the development, approval, and updating of d. The total workforce by region and gender. 6.4.1-6.4.5, 8, 50, G4-42 the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, 53, 54 Profile G4-10 6.8.5, 7.8 e. Whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized 76, 82 environmental and social impacts as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. The measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of G4-43 53, 54 f. Any signi cant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment) economic, environmental and social topics. G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements a. The processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of G4-44 economic, environmental and social topic 53, 54 G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 8 b. actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or 11~13, a.The highest governance body’s role in the identi cation and management of economic, environmental and G4-13 f. Governance 6.2, 7.4.3 its supply chain 80 social impacts, risks, and opportunities. (The highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due G4-45 diligence processes included) 53, 54 G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 55 b.Explanation of whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the identi cation and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-15 84~89 organization subscribes or which it endorses The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management G4-46 53, 54 G4-16 Memberships of associations 91 processes for economic, environmental and social topics a. All entities included in the organization’s consolidated nancial statements or equivalent documents The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, G4-47 54 G4-17 b. Explanation of whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated nancial statements or 79, 91 and opportunities equivalent documents is not covered by the report. The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report G4-48 14, 15 a. Process for de ning the report content and the Aspect Boundaries b. How the organization has implemented and ensures that all material Aspects are covered G4-18 16~19 c. Identified the Reporting Principles for De ning Report Content G4-49 The process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 54 Material G4-19 All the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 5.2, 19 The nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and G4-50 54 Aspects and 7.3.2-7.3.4 the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them G4-20 The Aspect Boundary within the organization for each material Aspect 16~19 Boundaries a. The remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives G4-21 The Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each material Aspect 16~19 G4-51 b. Explanation of how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives G4-22 restatements. The process for determining remuneration (whether remuneration consultants are involved and whether they G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 62 G4-52 are independent of management; any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization) G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 16, 17 Explanation of how stakeholders’views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 16~18 G4-53 the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals) d. S takeholder The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by The ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of G4-26 5.3 16~19 G4-54 Engagement stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization The ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highestpaid individual in G4-27 has responded to those key topics and concerns including through its reporting. (Key topics and concerns by 17~19 G4-55 each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all stakeholder) employees in the same country G4-28 Reporting period 1 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of G4-56 71 ethics G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) g. Ethics and The internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to 7.7.5, 4.4, e. Report Profile G4-30 Reporting cycle 7.5.3, 7.6.2 1 G4-57 71 Integrity organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines 6.6.3 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents the contact point for questions regarding The internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters G4-31 1 G4-58 71 the report or its contents related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, 86 Introduction Overview of EWP Sustainable Management Key Issues Sustainable Management Achievements • Appendix 87 2. Speci!c Standard Disclosures ISO26000 Page Remarks Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under G4-EN25 the terms of the Basel Convention 2 Annex I, II, III, and VII and percentage of transported 6.5.3 a. Explanation of why the Aspect is material and the impacts that make this Aspect 16~19, 22, waste shipped internationally a. Disclosures on material 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 23, 28, 29, Management G4-DMA Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related b. Explanation of how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts 7.7.3, 7.7.5 34, 35, 40, G4-EN26 6.5.3 Approach (DMA) habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharge of water and runoff c. The evaluation of the management approach 41, 46, 47 6.5.3, 6.5.4, b. 이슈별 지표 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 62~68 6.5.5, 6.7.5 Products and Services Economic Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by G4-EN28 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 category 6.8.1-6.8.3, G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 80 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Compliance G4-EN29 4.6 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Economic Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities G4-EC2 6.5.5 42, 62 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Performance due to climate change Transport G4-EN30 6.5.4, 6.6.6 68 materials for the organizations’operations and transporting members of the workplace G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 6.8.7 Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5.1-6.5.2 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 6.3.5, 6.6.6, 7.3.1 6.3.7, 6.3.10, Environmental Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain G4-EC5 6.4.3-6.4.4, 6.8.1Assessment G4-EN33 6.3.5, 6.6.6, 7.3.1 significant locations of operation and actions taken Market Presence 6.8.2 Environmental 6.4.3, 6.8.1-6.8.2, Number of grievances about environmental impacts field, addressed and resolved G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Grievance G4-EN34 6.3.6 through formal grievance mechanisms 6.8.5, 6.8.7 Mechanisms 6.3.9, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 48, 49, 50, Social G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services supported 6.8.7, 6.8.9 74, 75 Indirect Economic Labor Practices and Decent Work Impact 6.3.9, 6.6.6-6.6.7, G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 6.4.3 49, 50, 81 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts 6.7.8, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 49, 50, 75 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Employment G4-LA2 Benefits provided only to full-time employees 6.4.4, 6.8.7 Proportion of spending on local supplier G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender 6.4.4 82 Procurement (To be reported to include neglected businesses including small businesses, minority 6.4.3, 6.6.6, LaborManagement G4-EC9 48, 49 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 6.4.3, 6.4.5 Practices and 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.7 Relations women-owned businesses to facilitate their participation in economic activities) G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal 6.4.6 Environmental joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.4 64 G4-LA6 6.4.6 82 Occupational Health on occupational health and safety Materials G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5.4 65, 66 and Safety Type of injury and rates of injury occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and G4-LA7 6.4.6, 6.8.8 total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 62 G4-LA8 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 6.4.6, 6.8.8 30 G4-EN4 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 G4-LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4.6 82 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 6.5.4 62 Energy Training and G4-LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4.7 38, 39 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 6.5.4-5 62 Education Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support continued G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 6.5.4-5 62 G4-LA11 6.4.7, 6.8.5 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 65 Diversity and Equal Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development G4-LA12 6.4.7 76 Water G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5.4 65 Opportunity reviews by gender and by employee category G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5.4 65 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by employee Equal Remuneration 6.2.3, 6.3.7, G4-LA13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas for Women and Men indicators of diversity 6.3.10, 6.4.3 G4-EN11 6.5.6 69 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 6.3.7, 6.3.10, Description of significant impacts of activities products and services on biodiversity in G4-LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category G4-EN12 6.5.6 69 Supplier Assessment 6.4.3, 6.4.4 Biodiversity protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas for Labor Practices 6.3.5, 6.4.3, G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 69 G4-LA15 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria 6.6.6, 7.3.1 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with 6.5.6 G4-EN14 LaborPractices habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain 6.3.5, 6.4.3, Grievance G4-LA16 50 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 62 actions taken 6.6.6, 7.3.1 Mechanisms G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 62 Human Rights G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 62 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that G4-HR1 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 include human rights clauses or underwent human rights screening Emissions G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 6.5.5 62 Investment Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 62 G4-HR2 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 6.3.5 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 6.5.3, 6.5.5 64 employees trained G4-EN21 NOX,SOX and other significant air emissions 6.5.3 65 6.3.6, 6.3.7, Nondiscrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.10, 6.4.3 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3-4 65 Freedom of Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 66 6.3.3, 6.3.4, Association and G4-HR4 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk and 6.3.5, 6.3.8, G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5.3 68 Collective Bargaining measures taken to support these rights 88 EWP SR 2015 89 Appendix Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 6.3.10, 6.4.5, 6.6.6 UN Global Compact Forced or Compulsory 6.3.3, 6.3.4, G4-HR6 compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of all forms of Labor forced or compulsory labor 6.3.5, 6.3.7, EWP became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in August 2006 as part of its mission to ensure transparent management and to fulfill its social responsiPercentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or bilities. The company discloses its compliance with the Global Compact through the following ten principles in four major areas. Security Practices G4-HR7 6.3.10, 6.6.6, 6.8.4 procedures that are relevant to operations Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, Classification Principles Reference actions taken Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights Collective Agreement Charter of Ethics Code of Conduct, Article 27 Assessment G4-HR9 6.3.10, 6.6.6 Human Rights human rights; and reviews or impact assessments Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Collective Agreement Charter of Ethics Code of Conduct, Article 27 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 Supplier Human Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Collective Agreement Rights Assessment Significant actual or potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and 6.3.4, 6.3.6, right to collective bargaining; G4-HR11 actions taken 6.3.7, 6.3.8, Labor Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Collective Agreement Human Rights Businesses should eliminate child labor; and Collective Agreement Number of grievances about human rights filed, addresses, and resolved through Grievance G4-HR12 6.6.7, 6.8.3 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Collective Agreement Charter of Ethics Code of Conduct, Article 7 formal grievance mechanisms Mechanisms Environmental Vision Environmental Policies ISO 14000 Certification Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Society Charter of Ethics Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 6.3.9, 6.5.1-6.5.3, Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environmental Policie G4-SO1 48, 49 Local Communities assessments, and development programs 6.8 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Environmental Vision Environmental Policies Charter of Ethics technology. G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 6.8 48, 49 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Code of Conduct, Chapter 3 G4-SO3 6.6.1-6.6.3 the significant risks identified Anticorruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.3, 6.6.6 71 Public Policy G4-SO5 G4-SO6 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ beneficiary 6.6.1-6.6.3 6.6.1-6.6.2, 6.6.4 Electric Utilities Sector Supplements (EUSS) Anticompetitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly 6.6.1-6.6.2, G4-SO7 50, 51 Behavior practices and their outcomes 6.6.5, 6.6.7 Index Number Disclosure Page Remarks Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 10 Compliance 제재 4.6 noncomliance with laws and regulations EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime 64, 80 6.3.5, 6.6.1-6.6.2, EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts N/A G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime N/A Supplier Assessment 7.3.1 EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework N/A on Impacts on Society 6.3.5, 6.6.1-6.6.2, EU6 Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availability and reliability 24~27, 36 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and G4-SO10 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, EU7 Demand-side management programs including residential, commercial, institutional and industrial programs 26 actions taken 7.3.1 EU8 Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting sustainable development 37~39, 80 Grievance EU9 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites N/A Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addresses, and resolved through 6.3.6, 6.6.1-6.6.2, Mechanisms G4-SO11 50 EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, broken down by energy source and regulatory regime 36, 37 formal grievance mechanisms 6.8.1-6.8.2 forImpactson Society EU11 Average generation e!ciency of thermal plants by energy source and by regulatory regime 82 Product Responsibility EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy N/A Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety 6.7.1-6.7.2, EU13 Biodiversity of o set habitats compared to the biodiversity of the a ected areas 69 G4-PR1 impacts are assessed for improvement 6.7.4-6.7.5, 6.8.8 EU14 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce 38, 39 Customer Health and 4.6, EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years broken down by job category and by region Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes EU16 Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees and employees of contractors and subcontractors 30, 77 6.7.1-6.7.2-6.7.4G4-PR2 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life 82 cycle by type of outcomes 6.7.5, EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in construction, operation & maintenance activities 6.8.8 EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant health and safety training Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for EU19 Stakeholder participation in the decision making process related to energy planning and infrastructure development 16~18 G4-PR3 product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product 6.7.1-6.7.5, 6.7.9 EU20 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement N/A and service categories subject to such information requirements Product and Service EU21 Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and training programs, and recovery/restoration plans 77 Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.5, G4-PR4 EU22 Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken down by type of project N/A concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes 6.7.9 EU23 Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or maintain access to electricity and customer support services 24~26 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 3.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.6 50, 51, 82 Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers to accessing and safely using electricity and customer EU24 48, 49 G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products support services Marketing Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal judgments, settlements and pending legal cases of Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes EU25 N/A Communication diseases G4-PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.3 sponsorship, by type of outcomes EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas N/A Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer EU27 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by duration of disconnection and by regulatory regime N/A Customer Privacy G4-PR8 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.7 privacy and losses of customer data EU28 Power outage frequency 25, 80 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, EU29 Average power outage duration 25, 80 Compliance G4-PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services 6.7.6 EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime 80 90 EWP SR 2015 EWP SR 2015 91 Appendix Appendix Awards in 2014 Membership Organization Purpose Date Korean Association of Small Business Studies. To support policy making process and exchange academic knowledge 2011.07 Korea Electric Association To promote development of electric industry standards and of new codes 2002.09 EWP has made a lot of achievements inside and outside of the company through a variety of activities for its sustainable Korea Energy Foundation To coordinate energy welfare programs and scholarship programs 2002.05 growth. These achievements include BestHRD organization in the public sector, Excellent Book Reading Work Place CertificaWorld Energy Congress To establish a network to exchange human and technology 2007.01 tion in 2014, and the Best Organization in Anti-corruption policies for three years in a row. Through environmentally-friendly, Korean Association of Enterprise Architecture To collect latest information on enterprise architecture 2013.03 green management, the company stayed in the top position in the power generation sector of the Climate Change ComStudies petitiveness Index for four years in a row and won the Special Prize for Carbon Management. Also, with its efforts in disaster Korea Accounting Information Association To share information and ideas regarding K-IFRS, and to nurture accounting managers’competencies 2001.05 safety management, the company was named as the best performing organization in Disaster Korea Drill. The company Korea International Trade Association To access trade-related information 2002.05 operated in-company colleges for the employees to enhance their capacities and established happiness-based Great Work Korea Electric Association (KEPIC) To catch up with KEPIC development trends and to secure finance 2003.01 Place, which increases the happiness index of the employees. To introduce advanced quality control techniques and spread quality management mind throughout the Korean Standards Association 2007.05 company Korea Suggestion System Association To acquire information for the promotion of suggestions and small group activities in the company 2006.01 The Electric Utility Cost Group (EUCG) To acquire overseas information on electricity. 2008.11 Business Institute for Sustainable Development To promote sustainable development of the company. 2010.09 Koreas CCS Association To exchange information on CO2 capture/storage technology and business 2012.07 Grand Prize for Korea Smart Grid Association To exchange information on smart grind, and stay informed of market status quo 2006.06 Presidential Citation Economic Leader of UN Global Compact (UNGC) To enhance the status as a global company. 2012.03 for SMB Development Korea, Co-Prosperity Korea Green Business Association To support GHG mentoring projects 2002.08 (2014. 7) (2014. 10) To grasp the domestic and overseas trend of machinery industry by participating in academic meetings and Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers 2002.06 lectures. The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers To exchange the latest academic and technological information in related industries. 2010.07 Korean Association of Power Generation Studies To encourage power industry and discover themes for joint research tasks 2008.03 Certification Plaque Korea Project Management Association To enhance the capabilities for project execution. 2012.07 for Ranking NO. 1 in Minister's Prize, Ministry the Power Generation of Planning and Finance Korea Engineering & Consulting Association To get certificates on engineering projects, and thus to promote new businesses (design and technical support, etc.) 2003.01 Sector in Climate (2014. 10) Korea New & Renewable Energy Association To exchange information in the area of new & renewable energy. 2004.03 Change The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) To acquire information on the electricity industry of the U.S. and establish cooperative relationship. 2011.02 Association of the Electricity Supply Industry of To acquire information for opening and extending overseas business 2008.03 East Asia and the Western Pacific (AESIEAP) Korea Electric Engineers Association To promote research and development of electric technology and electric engineer's training 2013.05 Minister's Prize, Ministry Best Organization Prize, Korea Maritime Rescue & Salvage Association To prevent marine disaster and accident and to strengthen publicprivate partnership 2013.05 of Health and Welfare Disaster Korea Drill (2014. 10) (2014. 10) Controlling structure of the related companies 2014 Special Prize for BestHRD Award for CDP Public Sector, 2014 (2014. 10) (2014. 11) Item Category Related companies Share(%) Gyeongju Wind Power 70% GS Donghae Power 34% Dangjin Eco Power 40% Citation, Organization Citation, Idea Green Biomass Energy 34% of High Quality Management Award Competitiveness Award Seongmin Energy 34% (two years in a row) Domestics (for five consecutive Honam Wind Power 29% (2014. 12) years)(2014. 11) Related companies Busan Shinho Solar Power 25% Korea Offshore Wind Power 13% Chunchen Energy 30% Grand Prize, Information Citation, Safety Award Protection Award for Yeonggwang Backsu Wind Power 15% (2014.11) Infrastructure, 2014 EWP America, Inc. 100% (2014. 12) Overseas EWP (Barbados) 1 SRL 100% PT. EWP Indonesia 100% 92 Questionnaire EWP intends to disclose it managerial information as much as possible on sustainable management through this report. We would like to listen to your opinions on future improvement of our sustainability reports. Please fill out this form and send the questionnaire back to us, either via e-mail, fax, or post. Your opinion is important to us. 1. Which of the following groups do you belong to? Customer Employees Government employee Local resident Business Partner NGO and Civil Organization Member Member of academic community or specialized organizations Others ( ) 2. Where did you find out about this report? Website Brochure Internet search From the company's staffs Others ( ) 3. For what purpose do you use this report? (select as many answers as relevant) To get information on the public corporations To learn about the sustainable management of public corporations To compare and analyze the characteristics of the business in which the public corporation is engaged. For research or educational purpose. Others ( ) 4. Please select the topic in this report that interested you most. (Select as many as relevant) Company Introduction and Sustainable Strategy Sustainable Management Key Issues Economic performance Environmental performance Social achievements 5. Which of the following elements of this report do you find in need of improvement? (select as many as relevant) Company Introduction and Sustainable Strategy Sustainable Management Key Issues Economic performance Environmental performance Social achievements 6. How would you rate this report? Very Good Good Normal Poor Very Poor Level of comprehension Accuracy Information volume Thank you very much Design and layout Send to Creative Environment Team, 7. Please fill in with any comment or opinion on the operation of EWP or the overall composition and contents Power Generation Department, Korea East and West Power, 395, of this report as you would like. Jongga-ro, Joong-gu, Ulsan, Korea (Postal Code: 44543) Tel 070-5000-1544 Fax 070-5000-1599 Mail leehk@ewp.co.kr
