GRI Report 2014 Lorum Ipsum Ur aces mos eos nos iducitiore re nonserf eritatem voluptatur, ium issinim porionseque volupti nctotat. Mendi duciant quat occus dolores volorum fugia. engage your senses Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Contents Profile disclosures Labour practices Appendix 02 Strategy and analysis 52 Employment 76 Performance indicators environmental 10 Organisational profile 54 Labour/management relations 77 Performance indicators restatement table 19 Identified material aspects and boundaries 55 Occupational health and safety Assurance 25 Stakeholder engagement 57 Training and education 79 G4 content Index 29 Report profile 58 Diversity and equal opportunity 82 The principles of the UN Global Compact 30 Governance 59 Equal remuneration for women and men 83 Assurance statement 32 Ethics and integrity 60 Supplier assessment on labour practices and decent work Economic Human rights 34 Economic performance 62 Child labour 36 Procurement practices 64 Supplier human rights assessment Environment Society 40 Energy 66 Local communities 42 Water 69 Anti-corruption 44 Emissions 70 Public policy 46 Effluents and waste Product responsibility 48 Products and services 72 Customer health and safety 49 Transport 74 Product and service labeling 50 Supplier environmental assessment Profile disclosures This section is intended to provide a high-level view of Givaudan’s strategy and governance related to sustainability. It also provides context for other sections of this report. In this section: 02 Strategy and analysis 10 Organisational profile 19 Identified material aspects and boundaries 25 Stakeholder engagement 29 Report profile 30 Governance 32 Ethics and integrity 2 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis G4-1:Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the broader benefit of our planet and society. A particular SMETA (SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit), so that suppliers the organisation emphasis is now placed on responsible sourcing and sustainable may comply with these guidelines. In 2014, we achieved a total innovation; responsible sourcing illustrates our efforts to be registration of 293 suppliers to SEDEX, exceeding our original Leadership Q&A 2014 good guardians of the natural world, which we draw upon for target set for 2015. 144 suppliers also undertook SMETA audits. many of our ingredients. Sustainable innovation enables us to These activities in 2014 show that sourcing was truly the key Operating responsibly at all levels of our organisation is an do more with less, to create better products that impact the agenda item for all stakeholders, and our position within integral part of who we are. This is because our focus is not environment less, and perform more efficiently, which is what AIM-PROGRESS means we are now well positioned to be at the simply on success and profit, but rather on the sustainable our customers ask of us. Via these two pillars we can foster forefront of this dialogue. business objectives of our customers and the shared global far-reaching benefits that stretch beyond the boundaries of environment in which we operate. We place an emphasis on How else did Givaudan deliver a positive difference in 2014? our own business. making a positive difference at every stage of our value chain by innovating, partnering and embedding the principles of Joe: Operationally, we are well on track with meeting our Joe Fabbri mentioned the focus on responsible sourcing and responsibility in the way we work. Givaudan CEO Gilles Andrier, eco-efficiency targets. We are considerably ahead of our waste sustainable innovation. What were the most notable areas together with Head of Global Human Resources, EHS and Chair target, and our energy, water and CO2 targets also show good of development for Givaudan during the year? of Sustainability Joe Fabbri, discuss how placing sustainability at progress against the 2009 baseline. the heart of our business is key to being a responsible, forward Gilles Andrier: We are proud of several key achievements, looking organisation. notably in the domain of science and technology. 2009 Baseline1 Energy Water CO2 Waste Our pioneering bioassay, Keratinosens™, was officially endorsed 2020 Target -20% -15% -25% -15% In 2014, Givaudan launched a new way of presenting itself by the EU Reference Laboratory for Alternatives to Animal 2014 Actual -17.2% -11.7% -24.6% -36.7% to the world with a new brand identity that expresses an Testing (EURL ECVAM) as a standard for skin sensitisation 1 per tonne of product by 2020 increased focus on customers and consumers. What impact testing. Our acquisition of Soliance, a leader in molecular has this had on the Company’s approach to sustainability? bioscience for active cosmetic ingredients is an exciting addition Our efforts were further strengthened by the commendable to our in-house expertise. work of our 80 global Green Teams. These groups of employees Joe Fabbri: Our new way of communicating, both visually and thematically, is all about conveying the impacts and benefits of We also showed our commitment to partnering for sustainable have been instrumental in creating local sustainability what we do, across our entire business. These benefits primarily progress. For example, in March 2014, Givaudan co-sponsored initiatives that impact our own performance, and that of our extend to our customers, and their consumers, as we aim to a major AIM-PROGRESS event on responsible sourcing in customers. In 2014, Green Team activities ranged from social demonstrate the emotional importance of taste and smell in conjunction with two of the world’s leading FMCGs, Nestlé and environmental projects locally, to eco-efficiency initiatives people’s lives. We also believe we have strongly differentiated and Bacardi. In working so closely with AIM-PROGRESS we internally. The Leadership Board Green Team Awards recognise ourselves within the flavour and fragrance industry, with a contribute in setting the agenda on responsible sourcing the collaborative and diligent nature of these projects, and in dynamic, people-focused ‘look and feel’ and tone of voice. based on our customers’ needs and desires. We emphasise to December 2014, three awards were presented to employee With regards to sustainability, this means communicating the our suppliers the importance of the principles set down by Green Teams that recognise initiatives from our Commercial positive differences we seek to make to people and places, AIM-PROGRESS’ partner organisation, SEDEX (the Supplier and Manufacturing sites and for eco-efficiency projects. while recognising the potential we have to make changes for Ethical Data Exchange), whose auditing policy is denoted in 3 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Continued What progress has been made in terms of How did Givaudan’s partnership approach develop in 2014, to Givaudan, in a way that is easy for people to assess and social impacts? and how does this support our sustainability strategy, compare. This information is shared in our materiality matrix in terms of making a positive difference? and verified in an external audit carried out by auditors Ernst Gilles: In summer 2014, we launched the independent, non& Young LLP, which as an independent third party, assess and profit Givaudan Foundation, reinforcing our Company’s Gilles: Partnerships are the foundation of our sustainability validate our findings and attest to our activities on both a global commitment to charitable causes, most notably within the strategy: by working in true partnership with our stakeholders and local level. communities where we are present. It enables us to take and understanding their issues, we have adapted our priorities, an integrated, global approach to charitable giving and recognising that what is critically important to our customers We also upgraded our sustainability communications philanthropic initiatives in areas with a strong connection to is also critically important to ourselves in order to provide and we are now moving away from a single annual our business. The Foundation focuses on three main areas in solutions to our customers’ challenges. Partner relationships are report, downloadable as a PDF, to a more direct mode of which Givaudan is already engaged and where the Company’s interwoven with our customers’ commercial success as well as communicating via our corporate website. This enables expertise and experience can be leveraged to make a difference: our own advances. us to refresh and update our sustainability story in a more Communities at Source (support of local communities from dynamic way, over the course of each year. We also believe Our partnerships within engagement platforms, such as the which Givaudan sources natural ingredients), Blindness and that easier access to our reports and activities will help drive Natural Resources Stewardship Circle (NRSC), and the Roundtable Family Nutrition. engagement around our sustainable activities among a on Sustainable Palm Oil, and Alliance Francaise for Sustainable non-specialist audience. Joe: We want to create a working environment where people Palm Oil enable us to make progress within a global context. can thrive and develop their careers, over the longterm. To do Sustainable palm oil both enables environmental protection Looking ahead to the coming year, what’s changing in this we engage our employees in open dialogue, and to this and respects the needs of local people, and our partnerships are Givaudan’s world? What do you envisage as the end, we have built on our Employee Engagement Survey helping to catalyse our goals for achieving a certified supply chain. big challenges in the flavour and fragrance sector? (EES), undertaken end of 2013. In July 2014, we shared with In 2014, we made progress in this area: in Europe, for example, we our employees the three Global Priorities, which were formed achieved 95% of the palm oils, fats and derivatives we source for Gilles: It is a given that there is an undercurrent of pressing out of a comprehensive analysis of the EES, namely: Career, our Flavour Division to be certified as Mass Balance. We are also sustainability issues that our industry, our clients and the world Collaboration, and Inclusiveness. For Career, we are focusing on now signatories to the Alliance Commitment Charter for 100% at large, need to address. These include managing resource performance and development and encouraging recognition sustainable palm oil by 2020, showing our dedication to supporting scarcity across the globe and increasing demands on raw and and reward for performance that goes above and beyond. sustainable initiatives and shaping the debate on greater sourcing natural materials. Resource scarcity of materials, fossil fuels For Collaboration, we are making it easier for employees to responsibility industry-wide. and water is also informing the way in which we source and share knowledge and connect with others around the business. seek innovation. As a company we are developing new and For Inclusiveness, we will focus on the diversity of our business In this year’s 2014 Sustainability Reporting Suite we ambitious targets for compaction, transportation, supply chain in senior positions, and promote Givaudan’s common values progress from GRI 3.1 to G4: what does this change management and eco-efficiency. Undoubtedly, audiences in and ways of working. We will be tracking the progress of represent for our stakeholders? both developed and emerging nations are acutely aware of the our commitments throughout this year and will update our need to create, purchase and produce products that are more Joe: Sustainability and transparency are essential to our employees on developments in 2015. sustainable. We have a part to play in meeting these widespread various stakeholders and this new G4 report is coherent with consumer aspirations. our transparency standards. The G4 framework allows us to disclose information around issues that are of most importance 4 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Continued Joe: Within this context, and recognising the impact of the our Sustainability programme, and our key commitments are upcoming revisions to the Millennium Goals agenda, customers to bring about positive change environmentally, and promote Our commitment to UNGC principles wish to understand the ‘trade offs’ of their choices at every gender diversity. Our Sustainability Report also acts as our UNGC annual stage of the supply chain. For instance, they are attempting Joe: Maintaining our industry leadership position with regards Communication on Progress (COP). This is the fourth year to navigate the various responsible choices open to them and to our pioneering Origination programme represents a running and this report has been prepared in accordance assess how they can positively impact their overall carbon significant opportunity for us; here we are securing our with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 ‘Core’ Sustainability footprint. As yet, there is no common industry standard for long-term supply for important raw materials and deepening Reporting Guidelines. Our report has been independently measuring the aggregate positive outcome of ‘swapping out’ our relationships socially and economically with local growers assured by Ernst & Young LLP. the possible choices, and, as such these changes, however deep and community farming networks. This work has been or beneficial, are currently hard to quantify for customers. We would like to express our continued strong support for recognised by our customers and we are increasingly being These are the kinds of discussions we will be having with our the UNGC. We will continue working to make the UNGC asked to present our model to the broader supplier community. partners, and the broader industrial community, over the and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to** United Nations Global Compact, a framework of ten principles for corporations coming years. What we do know is that everyone is voicing an to assess and improve their sustainability performance. day operations of our Company and do the same in the immense desire to ‘do something tangible’. areas covered by our sphere of influence. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit How will these trends and challenges shape Givaudan’s to reporting on progress annually according to the UNGC approach to sustainability in 2015? What opportunities do COP policy. you envisage at a local, global level, or with benefits to our customers and their consumers? Gilles: 2015 will see us reach the end of our five-year strategy plan, from 2010-2015, which is well on course for a successful completion. Over the course of the year we will also be establishing a new strategic roadmap for the future, and our commitment to putting sustainability at the heart of the business will be formalised in those plans. In particular, the creation of the Givaudan Foundation this past year offers a formal structure with which we can provide greater support to environmental and social projects; we recognise that, in the areas where we operate and source, particularly in remote or rural regions, there is a real need for social and environmental support. I would also like to highlight our commitment to UNGC principles**; Givaudan aligns with these ten principles through 5 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Continued G4-2: Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities This contains two sections: –Organisational – key impacts –Sustainability – trends risks and opportunities As a global company, we face many evolving sustainability challenges as well as numerous opportunities that may affect our business. These challenges and opportunities are formally captured in our materiality matrix (see page 19). Consequently, our Sustainability programme is based on a five-pillar strategy, which extends across the full life cycle of our business including Procurement, Employees, Innovation and development, Operations and Customers and markets. These pillars provide us with an overarching framework to drive sustainability principles right across and beyond our organisation. Each pillar represents one of the five crucial areas of our business. For each area, our combined teams have developed a challenging set of ultimate aspirations, which clearly show our desired end goal. The journey to get there will take a considerable amount of time but our commitment is a long-term one. 6 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Continued Procurement Employees Our vision We source materials in ways that preserve our environment, stimulate the development and We attract, develop and retain talented, creative professionals who feel passionate and proud of well-being of communities and safeguard the efficient use of precious resources. the work done in our Company and who are empowered to contribute to a sustainable society. Our impact ––CHF 2,400 million annual procurement spend ––9,704 full-time employees ––More than 10,000 raw materials purchased annually ––88 local communities ––More than 2,000 raw material suppliers ––More than 14,000 indirect materials and service suppliers Trends, ––Global population is predicted to be 9.6 billion in 2050 in a medium-growth scenario. (1) This ––Every 15 seconds, a worker dies from a work-related accident or disease and 160 workers have a risks and growth will place intense pressures on ecosystems and the supply of natural resources work-related accident(3) opportunities ––As developing countries industrialise rapidly, global demand for material resources is increasing. ––Women account for half of the global labor supply and about 70% of the world’s consumption It includes increased trade restrictions, price volatility and intense global competition for a range of demand. Yet women occupy only about 13% of top management positions (4) material resources ––At Givaudan, we have clear strategies on safety and security at work and on how to develop, ––Building trust with customers and consumers attract and retain the best talents, both male and female ––Globally, more people live in urban areas than in rural areas, with 54% of the world’s population residing in urban areas in 2014. In 1950, 30% of the world’s population was urban, and by 2050, 66% of the world’s population is projected to be urban(2) Our ––Expanding our responsible sourcing initiatives ensures security of supply ––Work together with our local communities on projects and causes that benefit the communities commitments ––Working with our suppliers on sustainability throughout our value chains contributes to our where we work customers’ increasing supply chain requirements ––Engage employees in making a positive difference ––Conducting regular reviews of our portfolio and implementing improvements through our ethical ––Embrace diversity throughout our organisation and create an engaged and inclusive workforce sourcing initiatives ––Reduce incidents by strengthening workplace environment, safety behaviour and awareness ––Gather information on the origin of our ingredients to contribute to regulatory requirements, food ––Extend the reach of annual performance and development discussions, enabling our people to get safety and issue management feedback and discuss their career goals ––Develop visionary, inspiring and challenging leaders who will achieve our ambitious targets, and ensure our future success 7 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Continued Procurement Employees Our KPIs and Communicate with all suppliers about procurement requirements relating to social responsibility Development of the Givaudan leadership framework with the implementation of the first two progress ––Vendor Expectation document revised to reflect supply chain risks such as anti-corruption, money programmes by end of 2014 in 2014 laundering and human trafficking. This revised document has been communicated to all suppliers ––2014 kicked off the launch of Leadership Senses, our leadership programme aimed at developing in 2014 our employees, from first-time managers to members of our executive community Conduct audits with 200 of our top 400 suppliers by 2015; 200 of our top 400 suppliers to have joined Investing in Green Team network and collaboration the Sedex programme by 2015 ––Regional Green Team Forums held in EAME and NOAM regions attended by Site Green Team ––144 suppliers have been audited, and 293 suppliers are now on Sedex (including Indirect Material & leaders and senior business leaders that will help develop an efficient exchange platform Services suppliers) Senior leadership positions will represent the wider Givaudan workforce Identify and develop additional ethical sourcing initiatives ––The current percentage of female employees in Givaudan’s senior leadership positions has ––Dedicated Origination team based in countries of origin to set up collection networks to source increased to 20.4% in 2014, an improvement on last year’s performance natural ingredients directly from producers Lost time injury (LTI) rate below 0.1 by 2020 Develop third-party certification projects for raw materials ––Our LTI rate reduced by 65% against our 2009 baseline ––Continued support to a cooperative of three villages and a local distiller to grow and distil certified All populations in scope of annual performance and development discussions by end 2016 ESR vetiver (according to Ecocert standards) ––At end of 2014 more than half of the employees had their annual performance and development Build 14 schools in Madagascar by 2014 plans in our Engage platform ––To date, we have been involved in the construction or repair and maintenance of 16 schools Build partnerships with non-profit organisations and work on charitable themes: blindness, family in Madagascar nutrition, supporting local communities Other key achievements: ––Continued support for charitable commitments ––Evolution of partnership with AIM-PROGRESS from member in 2012 to workstream leader in 2013 Other key achievements: to Leadership Team member as of January 2014 ––Employees all over the world were introduced to our new brand with celebratory balloons, ––Continued to source certified sustainable palm (kernel) oil and derivatives posters and presentations on each site ––Creation of a dedicated Origination team ––Our newly defined Employer Value Proposition (EVP) is currently being rolled out to current and potential employees 1 UN – Department of Economic and Social Affairs – World Population Prospects: The 2012 Revision 2 WWF Living planet report 2014 3 ILO: Safety and health at work 4 World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2014 Credit Suisse study : The CS Gender 3000: Women in Senior Management 8 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Continued Innovation and development Operations Customers and markets Our vision Givaudan leads in creating consumer-preferred flavours and fragrances We continuously drive operational excellence without We actively engage with our customers to ensure that are designed and developed in line with sustainability principles in compromising the environment or the health and well-being that all of our products promote the health and wellorder to satisfy current and future needs. of our employees and the communities in which we operate. being of people and preserve our planet. We do this by encouraging our business partners to support our goals throughout the complete life cycle of their products. Our impact ––CHF 405 million invested in R&D in 2014, 9.2% of revenue ––34 production sites*, **,*** ––We have more than 6,000 customers ––More than 383,000 tonnes of product made in 2014 ––We receive in excess of 35,000 briefs each year ––105,000 inbound deliveries from customers ––334,000 outbound deliveries Trends, risks and ––The market for Health and Wellness products is increasing due to ––Climate change remains a global megaforce that directly ––Many organisations are working together in opportunities growing consumer and government awareness of the obesity epidemic impacts others. Released in November 2014, conclusions groups and forums to make a positive impact on and other nutrition-related diseases such as diabetes of the fifth IPCC assessment report confirmed increased sustainability aspects like AIM-PROGRESS, NRSC ––Climate change and resource depletion demand a proactive likelihood of severe, pervasive and irreversible impacts for and The Sustainability Consortium. For example, business response people and ecosystems (1) AIM-PROGRESS is a forum of consumer goods ––Introduction of bans for the use of animal testing (e.g.2013 ban on animal ––Fossil fuel markets are likely to become more volatile and manufacturers and suppliers assembled to enable and testing under the seventh amendment of the EU Cosmetics Directives unpredictable because of higher global energy demand as promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable well as changes in consumption patterns production systems ––Development of products which are more efficient to make, have fewer negative by-products, and minimise impact on the environment ––It is predicted that by 2030, global demand on water will ––Organisations are increasingly searching to understand exceed supply by 40%. Business will be subject to water their full supply chains and are requesting suppliers to ––Increasing regulations for the fragrances and flavour industry shortage, water quality decline and water price volatility (2) provide data on environmental and social aspects Our Continue to supply products which are safe for people and the environment: ––Improve eco-efficiency of factory manufacturing sites Foster stakeholders partnerships to make progress commitments ––Ensure Givaudan products are safe for people and the environment when with a focus on greenhouse gas emissions, waste and together: used as intended water and reduce our overall footprint against a 2009 ––Collaborate to create responsible supply chains ––Full regulatory compliance of all products baseline focusing on eco-efficiency for energy, carbon ––Drive value for customer through superior products ––Ensure our products are not persistent in the environment after their use emissions, incinerated and land-filled waste and municipal and services and groundwater ––Engage with customers to develop new technologies for ––Reduce animal testing and develop alternative test methods ––Sustainable logistics offers opportunities to improve the healthier and sustainable products Create superior products in a sustainable way: efficiency through reduced fuel usage and therefore lower ––Dialogue with stakeholders on priorities ––Promote Health and Wellness through our products transport costs ––Do more with less, promoting innovative design based on concentrated quality and compacted fragrances ––Apply Green Chemistry principles 9 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Continued Innovation and development Operations Customers and markets Our KPIs Fragrance Division compliance with European REACH registrations as they Per tonne of product against 2009 baseline: Establish joint initiatives to further progress towards and progress become applicable in 2018 Givaudan sustainability targets and those of our partners in 2014 ––Givaudan have prioritised their REACH phase-in registrations due in Energy consumption: 20% reduction, per tonne of product ––Active member on Leadership team of AIM-PROGRESS 2018. Work is on-going on over 100 key chemical substances which we by 2020 and leading supplier capability workstream (six supplier either manufacture or import into the EU. As the programme progresses ––17.2% reduction in energy consumption events held in 2014) additional substances will be included Water use: 15% reduction, per tonne of product, by 2020 ––Partnership with the Natural Resource Stewardship KeratinoSens® to become a globally recognised standard in-vitro test for (for municipal and groundwater) Circle (NRSC) on initiatives including vetiver, ylang ylang assessing skin sensitisation, with pending validation from the Organisation ––11.7% reduction in municipal and groundwater use and styrax for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) by 2016 Direct and indirect CO2 emissions: 25% reduction, per tonne of ––As a member of French Alliance on Sustainable Palm ––KeratinoSens® received European Centre for the Validation of Alternative product, by 2020 (indirect relates to purchased energy and not Oil Givaudan signs sustainable palm oil commitment at Methods (ECVAM) to animal testing approval in February 2014 and is energy used by others i.e. our raw materials suppliers) Paris International Agricultural Show now proposed for global OECD guideline ––24.6% reduction in direct and indirect CO2 emissions ––Awarded responsible sourcing prize from key customer ––Dr Andreas Natsch was recognised for his outstanding contribution in Total weight of incinerated and land-filled waste by type and All Givaudan manufacturing sites to be SMETA compliant industrial R&D and was awarded the KGF-SCS Industrial Investigator disposal: 15% reduction, per tonne of product, by 2020 ––18 out of 20 Flavour Division sites compliant with Awards 2014 from the Swiss Chemical Society (SCS) and the Contact ––Our total weight of incinerated and land-filled waste SMETA. Decision to undertake SMETA for Fragrance Group for Research Matters (KGF) decreased by 36.7% Division sites Enable our customers to develop healthier, great tasting products Other key achievements: ––Introduced TasteSolutions® Richness, our new taste technology which ––Givaudan Flavour Divison brings industry together to is revolutionising how we design flavours in Savoury and is also an debate new Health and Wellness trends approach that meets today’s demands for health and wellness ––Introduced CSPO MB certification for palm derived Other key achievements: ingredients in European Flavour sites ––Acquisition of Soliance with expertise in bioscience ––External advocacy efforts, including World Perfumery ––Launch of Akigalawood®, a novel fragrance ingredient created Congress and speaking at Sustainable Cosmetics using biotechnology Summit in Brazil ––Developed and launched MAHONIAL™, a safe replacer to cyclohexal 1 IPCC Synthesis of Fifth Assessment Report 2 Source: World Economic Forum water initiative * Givaudan completed the Soliance acquisition in June 2014 ** Soliance manufacturing data is not included in this report. It will be included for the full year in 2015 report ***T he new savoury facility in Nantong will be fully operational in 2015 and is not included in the reported manufacturing data 10 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile G4-3: Report the name of the organisation G4-6: Report the number of countries where the G4-7: Report the nature of ownership and legal form organisation operates, and names of countries where Givaudan SA Givaudan SA, the parent company of the Givaudan Group, either the organisation has significant operations or that with its registered corporate headquarters at 5 Chemin de la G4-4: Report the primary brands, products and services are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered Parfumerie, 1214 Vernier, Switzerland, is a ‘société anonyme’, in the report We create fragrances for personal and home care brands that pursuant to art. 620 et seq. of the Swiss code of obligations. range from prestige perfumes to laundry care, and in flavours We have principal companies of the Group that are fully owned It is listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange under security number our expertise spans beverages, savoury, snacks, sweet goods unless otherwise indicated (percentage of voting rights). A list 1064593. The Group has companies, none of which are publicly and dairy products. of these principal Group companies is to be found in the Annual listed. Information on Givaudan SA’s significant shareholders Report 2014, on page 59 of the Financial Report. as per art. 20 Swiss Stock Exchange Act can be found at: For more information on our brands and products please see: www.six-swiss-exchange.com We have 34 manufacturing sites in 19 countries. Details about www.givaudan.com/Flavours our sustainability activities in Australia, China, Comores Islands, The Swiss Stock Exchange Act can be found at: www.givaudan.com/Fragrances France, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Italy, Laos, Madagascar, www.six-swiss-exchange.com Mexico, the Comoros, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, G4-5: Report the location of the organisation’s More detailed financial information about the scale of our Switzerland, Venezuela, the UK and the US are included in headquarters organisation and our operational structure is available in our this report. 2014 Annual Report. Vernier, Switzerland. For more information on the ‘2014 Annual Report’ 11 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued G4-8: Report the markets served (including geographic G4-9: Report the scale of the organisation breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers As of 31 December 2014 we had: and beneficiaries) –88 – locations worldwide Mature markets represent 54% of the annual sales and include North America, Western Europe and Japan. Developing markets –25% – global industry market share (approximately) account for 46% of our annual sales in Asia Pacific, Latin –34 – production sites America, Eastern Europe and the Middle East. This is expected –9,704 – full-time equivalent staff; to continue increasing year-on-year. We are active in over 100 countries and have sites and branches in more than –CHF – 4,459 million revenue 40 countries. –Over – 6,000 customers Our Fragrance Division specialises in Fine Fragrances, Consumer Products and Fragrance and Cosmetics Ingredients – through which we create scents for leading brands worldwide. The Soliance acquisition strengthened our process development and research capabilities in cosmetic active ingredients. In-depth consumer understanding, a high-performing research and development organisation and an efficient global operations network support our business. Our perfumery team is the largest in the industry. Our Flavour Division works with food and beverage manufacturers to develop flavours and tastes for marketleading products across all continents. We are a trusted partner to the world’s leading food and beverage companies, combining our global expertise in sensory understanding, analysis and consumer-led innovation in support of unique product applications and new market opportunities. 12 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued G4-10: Employees G4-10 Employees By employment type Region Full-time – female Full-time – male Part-time – female Part-time – male Total – female Total – male Asia Pacific 1,007 1,276 5 0 1,012 1,276 Europe, Middle East, Africa 1,477 2,965 121 40 1,598 3,005 Latin America 412 784 2 1 414 785 North America 704 1,186 4 0 708 1,186 Total 3,600 6,211 132 41 3,732 6,252 By employment contract Region Permanent – female Permanent – male Temporary – female Temporary – male Total – female Total – male Asia Pacific 995 1,256 17 20 1,012 1,276 Europe, Middle East, Africa 1,549 2,898 49 107 1,598 3,005 Latin America 413 781 1 4 414 785 North America 708 1,186 0 0 708 1,186 Total 3,665 6,121 67 131 3,732 6,252 G4-11: Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Collective agreement in % Yes 29% No 71% 13 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued G4-12: Describe the organisation’s supply chain In the fragrance and flavour industry Givaudan is one of the largest buyers, and the procurement of raw materials and Indirect Materials & Services (IM&S) is a strategic pillar to support our profitable growth. A significant percentage of our sales is spent on raw materials and each ingredient we buy has a direct impact on the cost and quality of end products. More than 10,000 different synthetic and natural ingredients are used in our flavours and fragrances formulas and these are sourced from 100 countries in some of the remotest parts of the world. Each ingredient must fulfil the highest quality standards and have a unique profile to contribute to the creations of our perfumers and flavourists. Procurement aims to ensure the continuous security of supply of these raw materials at optimised and predictable costs, and to provide Suppliers Customers Consumers Cooperatives and farms, first-tier suppliers the best and most innovative palette to our creation teams. Increasing transparency is being achieved through more 2,000 10,000 88 34 6,000 25% accurate monitoring and measurement in raw materials pricing. Raw material suppliers Different ingredients Location worldwide Manufacturing sites Customers Approximate market share Our supply chain vision is to deliver superior value to customers through agile, reliable service and continuity of supply at optimised cost and minimal environmental impact. Fully aligned with the Givaudan business strategy, supply chain’s Excellence programme focuses on improving customer service levels while optimising inventory and other supply chain costs. Introduced in 2011, this programme is now fully embedded in the organisation and remains on course to achieve its targets for 2015. 14 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued G4-13: Report any significant changes during the reporting Ensuring the safety and regulatory compliance of our property of the creations that perfumers provide and which period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, products is a priority which at Givaudan relies on a team build brand equity for their customers. ownership, or its supply chain of in-house scientific experts and an external network of Allergen labelling in Europe continues to be a major topic. international experts. Givaudan has acquired the French company Soliance, an active The fragrance industry has taken significant strides in the past cosmetic ingredients business. There have been no further Our regulatory compliance teams work at local and global levels 12-18 months in demonstrating to the European Commission significant acquisitions or disposals during this reporting period. to meet the increasing demands of customers and consumers its willingness to engage in a programme that reflects safety alike. We pride ourselves in leading efforts to help shape the in the use of fragrance materials that are dermal sensitisers G4-14: Report whether and how the precautionary industry through the commitment of our resources and sharing in a range of consumer products. A solid programme – the approach or principle is addressed by the organisation of our expertise, and we are advocates for our industry through International Dialogue for the Evaluation of Allergens project the support of regulatory developments which are science(IDEA) – has been designed to provide a broadly agreed and Our approach based and in the best interests of consumers of fragranced and transparent framework for assessing fragrance sensitisers Givaudan, as an industry leader, is committed to adhere to the flavoured products. on a global basis. The IDEA project is an opportunity to build highest ethical standards in business conduct and compliance partnerships between the international fragrance industry with laws and regulations, as well as with Company policies, Fragrances and its stakeholders to improve the risk assessment of those practices and procedures. Givaudan continues to take a lead in supporting the work of fragrance ingredients identified as allergens and to enhance Givaudan recognises its obligation to carry out all of its the International Fragrance Association (IFRA), which is playing consumer protection. This project is developing that further activities in a manner that preserves and promotes a safe and an increasingly critical role in representing the industry and its evaluation of materials as well as establishing risk management healthy environment. While conducting its activities, Givaudan strategic positioning with customers. We encourage greater approaches that all stakeholders can agree to and on how we takes into consideration the efficient use of energy and participation and commitment from others in the global manage the use of these materials in the future. We continue materials; the minimisation of adverse environmental impact fragrance industry to enable IFRA to better anticipate and to believe the IFRA ingredients standard programme is the and waste generation; and the safe and responsible disposal strongly manage macro-scale changes that are rapidly affecting gold standard and that the IDEA project will strengthen this of residual wastes. Givaudan’s Directive on Environmental the industry as a whole. Two examples of these macro issues programme significantly. The IDEA project has developed a Protection underlines the Company’s commitment in this area. are formula transparency in the US and fragrance allergen framework for the IFRA standards which has been submitted labelling of cosmetics in Europe. to the European Commission for assessment, and feedback is Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) regularly carries out expected by mid-2015. comprehensive risk assessments for all of Givaudan’s production We have been actively engaged with IFRA in the US and sister sites. Any actions identified through such assessments are organisations in that country such as the Consumer Specialty Givaudan is committed to meeting the final phase of the managed internally using a proprietary EHS Management Products Association and the Personal Care Products Council registration obligations of Europe’s REACH regulations System with formally documented solutions and closure on a possible common platform for transparency of fragrance governing chemical control by registering the final records. Additionally, Givaudan Operations carries out ingredient information. It is critical that we strive for a common 754 materials by 2018. The consequences of the initial continuous risk assessments and management of all chemical approach to enable clear and aligned information so consumers submissions as part of the REACH regulations are already processes in accordance with leading industry standards. are not confused, and that there is protection for the intellectual starting to have an impact. There has been a disproportionate 15 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued interest, for example, by the European Chemical Agency (ECHA) developed markets and natural flavour labelling in developing programme has significantly improved the understanding and EU Member States in raw materials since their registration, markets. In particular, there was increased attention paid of the use and safety of flavourings and has led to the along with demands for the re-evaluation and additional to GMO-derived food ingredients in the US, where there is adoption of more harmonised regulations around the world. testing of some registered materials. This has significant a push at the state and national level to develop a guideline Continuing advocacy activities focus on allowing the use of cost implications that will continue to burden the industry, for GMO food labelling. To respond to these developments, new technologies in the development and production of new particularly affecting some of the smaller fragrance houses. Givaudan maintains leadership positions within national, flavouring ingredients. Givaudan is working closely with its suppliers to ensure the regional and international trade associations that have been With the significant increase in demand for regulatory materials are defended effectively and that we are managing effective in working with government authorities to ensure information for our products by customers and consumers the expectations of ECHA by contributing appropriately to the that new regulations and flavour requirements are harmonised alike, Givaudan continues to build regulatory capabilities. development of further data to support the materials. around the world, ensuring a consistent approach to the We are currently finalising the implementation of a new commercialisation of new technology and the free flow of The integration of Soliance in 2014 was a particular challenge platform to allow for the rapid evaluation of the regulatory flavours on a global basis. for Givaudan from a regulatory point of view because the status of our flavour products produced and used anywhere cosmetics ingredients industry manages raw materials very In Europe, Givaudan maintains a leadership position on an in the world. This will improve our ability to respond to our differently to the fragrance industry. A structure for appropriate industry task force supporting the European Food Safety customers’ rapid product development cycle times. We are support was completed during the year without re-applying Authority (EFSA) and the European Commission on the also exploring opportunities to improve the transfer of the fragrance model, and processes to enhance the capabilities re-evaluation of flavouring ingredients and the finalisation of regulatory product information needed by our customers. of the Soliance business were established, particularly in the the recently adopted flavour positive list. This has led to the This improved capability will increase the reliability of our development of pipeline innovation materials. We have assessed acceptance of thousands of existing flavouring ingredients customer support and reduce our response time to customer various compliance obligations for the new business such included in the initial positive list and the development of requests for critical data that support demands by consumers as REACH and have integrated these into our 2015 budget additional registrational information in support of other for regulatory and safety information. projections to ensure its continuity. We see an opportunity ingredients currently under safety review by the EFSA that will to bring value to the Soliance business from a customer be amended to the European positive list. G4-15: List externally developed economic, perspective through the strength of the Givaudan regulatory environmental and social charters, principles, or other Another important aspect of our advocacy activities includes initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which and toxicology organisation. the sharing of knowledge and expertise regarding the use of it endorses Flavours flavourings in foods with members of the broader food industry and regulatory authorities. Givaudan has supported several We participate in and endorse a number of global initiatives 2014 saw the development and implementation of several new associations including the International Organization of the which promote sustainable business practices: regional and country specific food and flavouring regulations Flavour Industry (IOFI), the European Flavour and Fragrance –global – sustainability challenges require global effort. That is covering areas related to ingredient purity, flavour labelling Association (EFFA) and the Flavor and Extract Manufacturers why we measure our progress towards sustainability and ingredient registration. In addition, there was a significant Association (FEMA) in meetings with regulatory authorities and against the principles of the United Nations Global Compact increase in the activities of NGOs in the area of organic food international scientific organisations. The result of our advocacy certification, genetically modified organism (GMO) labelling in 16 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued (UNGC). We file our Sustainability Report as our annual The Carbon Disclosure Project is, for us, the way to demonstrate The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is the leading global Communication on Progress Givaudan is committed to action related to carbon emissions standard and the standard most widely adopted for reduction, not only in theory but also in practice. sustainability reporting. GRI guidelines have been designed –we – aim to communicate to external stakeholders in a to align with other prominent standards, including OECD transparent way our strategic direction, motivation, goals, Givaudan started participating in the CDP in 2007 and has guidelines for multinational organisations, ISO 26000, development and progress in the arena of sustainability. disclosed greenhouse gas emissions annually and reduction the United Nations ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Givaudan reports annually information on greenhouse gas strategy and performance for both investor and supply Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations “Protect, emissions, energy use and the risks and opportunities from chain surveys. Respect and Remedy” Framework’, and the UNGC’s ‘Ten climate change to the Carbon Disclosure Project In 2014, Givaudan disclosed for the CDP investor and supply Principles’. Givaudan started to use GRI guidelines in our 2010 –we – also disclose our sustainability achievements through chain surveys. Company transparency is assessed via a Sustainability Report. a Sustainability Report which follows the international disclosure score for which Givaudan received 89/100 in 2014 In 2014, Givaudan continued to participate in the reporting framework from the Global Reporting Initiative and versus 79 in 2013. Givaudan performance band was B in 2014 Organizational Stakeholder Program, a network of more which is independently assured. versus A in 2013. than 600 organisations from over 60 countries committed to External commitment or initiative For more information visit: advancing sustainability reporting. The UNGC is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/HomePage.aspx Givaudan’s current report adheres to GRI G4 in accordance committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten ‘Core’. We decided to already apply the Global Reporting universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, Initiative’s latest G4 guidelines, which were only released a few labour, environment and anti-corruption. Givaudan committed months ago, in our 2014 reporting. to the principles of the UNGC in February 2010. We publish For more information visit: updates in the Communication on Progress (COP) integrated in our Sustainability Report. https://www.globalreporting.org/Pages/default.aspx As a signatory to the UNGC we are using this report to submit our annual Communication on Progress. Please visit www.unglobalcompact.org The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an international, notfor-profit organisation providing the only global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. 17 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued G4-16: List memberships of associations (such as industry Since 2012 we have been an active member of AIM-PROGRESS. We fully support our suppliers’ engagement with Sedex and associations) and national or international advocacy Through this membership we are enhancing our supplier today 293 suppliers are on Sedex, with 256 SAQs completed. organisations in which the organisation views membership and customer partnerships to help create a more responsible We also participate in the Sedex working group on SAQ review as strategic supply chain. In 2014 Givaudan led the supplier capability to ensure it reflects current legislation, codes and standards. building workstream to promote responsible sourcing practices Sustainability issues are simply too big to deal with alone. So we For more information visit: www.sedexglobal.com throughout the supply chain, with a particular focus on engage in a series of strategic collaborations with relevant delivering joint supplier capability events, resources and tools. For more information on our approach to supplier engagement organisations and partners to support and inform our work on We have further plans to deepen our engagement with and capacity building, see pages 50, 60 and 64. the most material sustainability issues. Collaboration across AIM-PROGRESS in 2015. NRSC, the Natural Resources Stewardship Circle, is a group our supply chain, as well as other businesses and non-profit organisations is key: the more we do, the quicker we drive For more information visit: www.aim-progress.com of industry leaders in beauty, flavours and fragrances taking sustainable solutions. Last year particular organisations where collective action to reduce their impact on biodiversity, Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, is a not-for-profit we have engaged are: taking into account the social and economic development of membership organisation dedicated to driving improvements local communities. AIM-PROGRESS is an association of consumer goods companies in responsible and ethical business practices in global seeking to enable and promote responsible sourcing practices supply chains. Relevance to material issues: and sustainable production systems. –Community – support Relevance to material issues: Relevance to material issues: –Transparency – –Responsible – sourcing –Responsible – sourcing –Responsible – sourcing –Traceability – –Workplace – safety In 2014, Givaudan engaged in several working groups about –Transparency – –Transparency – supply chain actions, international activities and workshops. –Workplace – safety –Diversity – For more information visit: www.nrsc.fr Since 2008 Givaudan has been an active user of the Sedex –Stakeholder – dialogue platform. To date 32 Givaudan manufacturing sites are registered on Sedex and completed the Sedex Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) to share information with customers. Givaudan annually reviews and updates the SAQ. To date, 20 Givaudan sites have been audited in accordance with SMETA standards. 18 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 GRI index Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued RSPO, the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, is an In 2014 Givaudan sourced first palm derived ingredients with Relevance to material issues: international multi-stakeholder organisation and certification Mass Balance and Segregated certifications. We used also –Responsible – sourcing model to advance the production, procurement, finance and use GreenPalm certificates to ‘Book and claim’ 100% of our palm of sustainable palm oil products. See more at www.rspo.org usage and we undertook a GreenPalm audit. –Sustainable – innovation Relevance to material issues: This option is helping to drive up the scale of physical –Eco-efficiency – sustainable palm. Until global volumes of segregated –Corporate – governance –Responsible – sourcing sustainable palm oil grow to a much higher level, and until –Transparency – entire supply chains from refiners through to end users can In 2008 we filled out the EcoVadis CSR assessment for the first switch to only using segregated sustainable palm oil, there will time. In 2014 Givaudan reviewed and updated the Ecovadis –Traceability – remain a need to offer Book and Claim – especially for products CSR assessment and we reconfirmed and maintained the Gold Givaudan joined RSPO in 2011 to promote the production that use complex derivatives of palm oil. recognition level. and use of sustainable palm oil. As members, we continue to ACI, the American Cleaning Institute, is an association which For more information visit: www.ecovadis.com support the aim of sustainable production of palm oil, and palm oil derivatives. Our ultimate objective is to obtain all of our palm aims to support the sustainability of the cleaning product and Alliance Française for Sustainable Palm Oil, the French Alliance oil derived ingredients from certified traceable sources once oleo chemical industries. is an association of companies with the objective of developing they become technically and commercially available. Relevance to material issues: the use of sustainable palm oil which prevents deforestation and respects the needs of local populations. For more information visit: www.rspo.org –Eco-efficiency – In 2014, Givaudan and other members have held a stand GreenPalm is a certificate trading programme which is designed Since 2012 we have been members of ACI. In 2013 Givaudan during the Paris International Agricultural Show to meet with to tackle the environmental and social problems created by the participated in the ACI’s Sustainability Metrics Project to track thousands of visitors and explain what is at stake regarding production of palm oil. GreenPalm is an efficient solution for environmental sustainability metrics and to provide a baseline palm oil and the various economic, social and environmental supporting RSPO-certified palm because it bypasses the supply for ACI member operations in the US. aspects related to its production and supply chain. chain. In this way, GreenPalm opens up the opportunity to For more information visit: www.cleaninginstitute.org For more information visit: www.huiledepalmedurable.org support sustainability to a much wider audience. EcoVadis, aims at improving environmental and social practices Relevance to material issues: Relevance to material issues: of companies by leveraging the influence of global supply chains. –Responsible – sourcing EcoVadis’ reliable ratings and easy to use monitoring tools allow –Responsible – sourcing –Transparency – companies to manage risks and drive eco-innovations in their –Transparency – global supply chains. We see GreenPalm as part of the mix of options which support –Traceability – the supply of sustainable palm oil and derivatives. Givaudan has adopted GreenPalm certificates in 2011. 19 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17: Entities in financial statement covered by the report Our last review in 2013 led to identify and prioritise 14 material aspects as follow: Our Company comprises two divisions, Flavours and Fragrances. Our Flavour Division has four business units: Beverages, Dairy, Savoury and Confectionary. Our Fragrance Division has three business units: Fine Higher Product safety Fragrances, Consumer Products, and Fragrance and Cosmetics and regulation Ingredients. Responsible sourcing Level of importance to stakeholders G4-18: Process to define boundaries and Workplace Sustainable safety report content innovation The prioritisation of the issues of highest material importance Economic Traceability performance to Givaudan and our stakeholders is a critical component of our Sustainability programme strategy. Eco-efficiency Corporate For several years, we have monitored and evaluated governance emerging sustainability themes on an on-going basis. Stakeholder Diversity dialogue of workforce Describing challenges faced in the five different pillars of our Transparency sustainability programme. (see G4-2, page 6-9) Community We use the Givaudan materiality matrix to map out the support key aspects we understand our customers and other key stakeholders to be most concerned about and to help prioritise Sustainable Employee logistics engagement our Sustainability programme initiatives. The Givaudan materiality matrix is revisited every two years Medium Level of importance for Givaudan sustainability success Higher where key stakeholders are asked to discuss the Company’s critical issues and strategic priorities, identifying opportunities for improving management and relationships and co-creating projects with Givaudan. 20 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Identified material aspects and boundaries Continued Material aspects 2014 Glossary Product safety and regulation The safety of our products and the processes that are used to comply with local laws and regulations. Workplace safety Minimising accidents and injuries in the workplace, including the training and systems to ensure the health and safety of our employees. Economic performance Operating a Sustainable Business Model. This means respecting the planet, including the people living on it, while running a viable, profitable business. Responsible sourcing The process of purchasing goods and services without causing harm to, or exploiting, humans or the natural environment. Sustainable innovation Development of products which are more efficient to make, have fewer negative by-products, or have a positive impact when used by the consumer (Health and Wellness/environmentally-friendly innovation). Traceability The ability to track, trace and predict the location of a batch, its sub-components and raw materials throughout the supply chain. Eco-efficiency Improving the efficiency of operational activities with regard to harmful emissions, water efficiency and waste disposal. Corporate governance Ensuring our practices are in alignment with international standards and safeguard the effective functioning of the governing bodies of the Company. Diversity of workforce Having a diverse workforce which reflects the societies in which we operate. Stakeholder dialogue Engaging with stakeholders to build understanding of their priorities and to find opportunities for collaboration on sustainability initiatives. Community support Building relationships for the benefit of the communities in which we operate. Transparency Being open to sharing data and information; disclosure of data. Sustainable logistics Eco-efficient management of product flow including: packaging, warehousing and transportation. Employee engagement Engaging and inspiring employees to be a motivated workforce. 21 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Identified material aspects and boundaries Continued G4-19: List of material aspects identified in the process for defining report content The content of this report is defined considering GRI aspects list and identifying those equivalents to Givaudan materiality matrix. The list of all material aspects identified in this process is the following: Givaudan material Equivalent G4 material aspects aspects Product safety and regulation Product responsibility: customer health and safety Workplace safety Labour practices and decent work: occupational health and safety Economic performance Economic: economic performance Responsible sourcing Economic: procurement practices Environmental: supplier environmental assessment Labour practices and decent work: supplier assessment for labour practices Human rights: supplier human rights assessments Human rights: child labour Sustainable innovation Environmental: products and services Traceability Product responsibility: product and service labelling Eco-efficiency Environmental: Energy, water, effluents and waste, emissions Corporate governance Society: anti-corruption, public policy Diversity of workforce Laboir practices and decent work: Diversity and equal opportunity, employment, equal remuneration for women and men Community support Society: local communities Sustainable logistics Environmental: transport Employee engagement Labour practices and decent work: Training and education, Employment, Labour/management relations 22 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Identified material aspects and boundaries Continued G4-20: Aspect boundary in the organisation for each material aspect G4-21: Aspect boundary outside the organisation for each material aspect Material aspects 2014 Boundaries Product safety and Within and outside Givaudan regulation Gather information on origin of our ingredients to contribute to regulatory requirements, food safety and issue management. Ensure Givaudan products are safe for people and the environment when used as intended. Promote Health and Wellness through our products. Engage with customers to develop new technologies for healthier and more sustainable products. Workplace safety Within Givaudan Reduce incidents by strengthening workplace environment, safety behaviour and awareness. Economic performance Within and outside Givaudan Provide supliers ability to continuity of supply. Ensure that Givaudan’s business is financially sustainable in the short-, mediumand long-term. Support our customers’ own market expansion plans providing growth opportunities by using our products. Responsible sourcing Outside Givaudan Ensure that standards related to safety, environment, social responsibility and business integrity are consistently applied by our vendors. Sustainable innovation Within Givaudan Develop new technologies for healthier and sustainable products. Do more with less, promoting innovative design based on concentrated quality and compacted fragrances. Ensure our products are not persistent in the environment after their use. Traceability Within and outside Givaudan Be able to trace the vendor provenance of a batch, its sub-components and raw materials, and to identify the destination of deliveries. 23 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Identified material aspects and boundaries Continued Material aspects 2014 Boundaries Eco-efficiency Within Givaudan Improve eco-efficiency of manufacturing sites with a focus on greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water. Corporate governance Within Givaudan Ensure our practices are in alignment with international standards and safeguard the effective functioning of the governing bodies of the Company. Diversity of workforce Within Givaudan Embrace diversity throughout our organisation and create a diverse and inclusive workforce. Stakeholder dialogue Within and outside Givaudan Engage with stakeholders to build understanding of their priorities and to find opportunities for collaboration on sustainability initiatives. We have identified six stakeholder groups which, are of primary importance to our Sustainability programme (Customers, Suppliers, Employees, Owners and Investors, Local communities, Public and Regulatory agencies). Community support Outside Givaudan Work together with our local communities on projects and causes that benefit the communities within which we work. Transparency Within and outside Givaudan Being open to sharing data and information; disclosure of data both internally and externally. Sustainable logistics Within and outside Givaudan Improve logistics efficiency through reduced materials and energy usage including: packaging, warehousing and transportation. Employee engagement Within Givaudan Provide an engaging and inspiring environment for employees to realise their career aspirations. 24 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Identified material aspects and boundaries Continued G4-21: continued Corrections as follows: G4-23: Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries For each material aspect we determined the following –The – energy and the CO2 load correction are less than 0.002%. boundaries and the impact and/or relevance for us: Since the beginning of 2013 the EHS and Social data of –The – municipal (2013) and groundwater (2009) figures have Givaudan’s new manufacturing location in Hungary has been –‘Within – Givaudan’: Aspects relevant inside Givaudan’s undergone minor changes. included in the scope of our reporting. The manufacturing organisational boundary defined as the entities reported in –Water – discharged to the ‘external treatment’ has seen activities of our facility at Bromborough (UK) were transferred G4-17 (environmental workplace safety data is limited to some further significant changes in the two sub-categories. to Hungary. The manufacturing activities in the UK facility manufacturing locations only) This is because one Givaudan site did not report its waste were ceased in August 2013. Consequently, in this report only –‘Outside – Givaudan’: Aspects relevant outside Givaudan’s water stream. historical EHS and Social data up to August 2013 are included. organisational boundary, either upstream (supply chain) or –Some – corrections to 2013 data included a specific CFC Givaudan completed the Soliance acquisition in June 2014. downstream (customers) number from one site which was omitted in the 2013 report. Soliance manufacturing data is not included in this report. –‘Within – and outside Givaudan’: Aspects relevant both inside All corrections made are summarised in the restatement table It will be included for the full year in 2015 report. Givaudan’s organisational boundary and outside Givaudan’s on page 77 of this report. organisational boundary –The – 2013 carbon footprint figure for transportation of finished (see G4-20 and G4-21 on page 22-23). products was corrected from 39,700 to 37,200 tonnes. This is a result of some incorrect inbound transportation data that was G4-22: Report the effect of any restatements of included in the original figure. information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements –The – 2013 footprint for packaging was corrected from 49,875 to 50,385 tonnes because of a small error in extrapolating the Following the checking and validation of quarterly reported data to achieve 100% coverage. figures, and site audits conducted against reporting definition sheets by our auditors EY, we have made a number of –In – the 2013 GreenPalm audit, it was discovered that an corrections to the 2009 baseline data reported in our 2013 insufficient amount of certificates were bought in 2013. It was Sustainability Report. With a few exceptions, the corrections agreed by all parties that Givaudan would buy the missing are minor and less than or equal to 1% of the target parameter. certificates in 2014 in addition to the required number for the year. These corrections do not apply to the waste figures which are categorised as incinerated and recycled waste. In alignment with the Dow Jones Sustainability Index definitions, incinerated waste (which has a positive financial value to Givaudan) has been re-classified as ‘recycled’. 25 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Stakeholder engagement G4-24: Stakeholder groups engaged by Givaudan Employees: Including European Works Council consultations, We split our external engagement in two categories: Givaudan’s Green Teams Internal Employee Engagement Survey, Givaudan’s key principles of sustainability outline our aspiration –engagements – with reporting or certification organisations and annual performance dialogues. to establish open dialogue and to take a collaborative approach –engagement – with multi-stakeholder organisations with stakeholders in order to ensure best understanding of Owners and investors: Including engagement with the Board of mutual expectations and interests. Our key stakeholders are Directors, SRIs, institutional investors and pension funds. We continuously monitor the relevance of our stakeholder the people who affect our business or who are affected by engagement through a two-stage assessment: firstly, through Local communities: Including local site community engagement it. Listening and responding to them is a core element of our stakeholder mapping and secondly through programme. See G4.SO1 (page 68). sustainability management practices. The feedback we receive an in-depth analysis. from these stakeholders helps us understand their expectations, Public and regulatory agencies: Including engagement enables us to prioritise issues effectively and contributes both to with IFRA, IOFI, EFFA and other not-for-profit international our overall sustainability strategy and to helping deliver against organisations such as GRI, UNGC, CDP – see G4.15 & G4.16 Stakeholder mapping our combined sustainability goals. (page 15-18). For each direct engagement with an external organisation we For several years, Givaudan has been developing specific There are other stakeholder groups, but they have less capacity check alignment according to several dimensions: stakeholder groups to discuss the Company’s critical issues to directly impact our business, or Givaudan has less capacity –relevance – with our stakeholder groups and strategic priorities, identifying opportunities for improving to directly impact them. That is why we are limiting our focus management and relationships and co-create projects with on the above six stakeholder groups. They are the ones we can –relevance – with key issues in our materiality matrix Givaudan. Out of the list of our many stakeholder groups develop a close relationship with. –relevance – with the five pillars of our Sustainability programme we have selected six which, at the moment, are of primary G4-25: Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders importance to our Sustainability programme: with whom to engage Customers: Including global key accounts for Flavours and Givaudan has been developing specific tools for several years Fragrances and industry associations (NRSC, ACI, to support stakeholder dialogue and interaction with the AIM-PROGRESS). See G4.15 & G4.16 (page 15-18). various stakeholder panels at both global and local level. Suppliers: Including Tier 1 Naturals and Synthetics suppliers, In 2010, we began a process of reviewing and evaluating the partnerships at origin with growers and farmers, and supplier diverse stakeholder engagement initiatives that exist across events at AIM-PROGRESS. our Company. The starting point was the identification of all of our stakeholder groups. Following an internal survey and subsequent analysis, our primary sustainability stakeholders are listed in section G4-24. 26 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Stakeholder engagement Continued Pillar’s impacted or Stakeholder group impacted or Focuses significantly on issues impacting impacting Product safety Eco-efficiency Procurement Responsible Sustainable Economic Corporate Customers Owners and Local Traceability Employees Innovation Operations Customers Employees Workplace Public and and regulation Others Suppliers regulatory sourcing safety innovation performance governance and markets Investorsi communities agencies Organisation 1. Current engagement with reporting/certification organisations Global Compact X X X X X X X X X X X X Sedex X X X X X X X X X X X X GreenPalm X X X X X X X ECOCERT X X X X X X X X X X CDP X X X X X X X X X GRI X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X EcoVadis X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X EcoDesk X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X DJSI X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 2. Current engagements with multi-stakeholders organisations NRSC X X X X X X X X X X X X AIM-PROGRESS X X X X X X X X X X RSPO X X X X X X X X X X X Alliance Française pour l'huile de Palme X X X X X X X X X X X Durable Conservation International X X X X X ACI Sustainability Committee X X X x X X IFRA Sustainability Committee X X X X X X X X IDEA programme: IFRA and EU X X X X commission EPAA X X X 27 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Stakeholder engagement Continued Engagement in-depth analysis consequence of on-going business as usual interactions. In such Owners and investors cases, information from previous interactions can be used to We then look at every current or potential external engagement –AGM/half-year – meeting identify interests and priorities. The following list formalises along several criteria and we make several decisions about dialogue channels: –Annual – investor road show our engagement. –Briefings – with analysts Our criteria are: Customers –Local – communities –Local – or global engagement –On-going – dialogue –Community – development programme survey –Membership – criteria and membership fees –Customer – sustainability request –Local – site community engagement programme –Participating – customers and suppliers –SMETA – audits –Givaudan – Foundation –Participating – competitors –Customer – innovation days –Local – partners (NGOs or Cooperatives) acting as –Participant – profiles –Conferences – and events Givaudan agents. –Type – of sessions –At – associations and advocacy organisations (see G4.15 and G.16, pages 15-18). Public and regulatory agencies –Size – of groups –Commenting – on emerging legislation/regulation –Impact – on our Sustainability programme pillars Suppliers –Membership – of working groups/forums –Risks – and benefits. –Assessments – via Sedex registration –IFRA/IOFI – consultation Based on the above we recommend to pursue or not a current –Issues – raised at supplier audits engagement, or to engage with new organisations; and we –UNGC – consultation –Collaborations – to improve performance then suggest actions to be taken within the engagement for the –CDP – project workshop –Multi-stakeholder – groups next three years. –Media. – –Supplier – events – capacity building, discussing issues G4-26: Givaudan’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Employees stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of –European – Works Council consultation the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process –Internal – employee survey Givaudan has many channels for stakeholder dialogue, spread –Annual – performance dialogue across different departments and teams. Often, we already –Green – Teams, engagements and on-going dialogue. have information and feedback from stakeholders as a 28 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Stakeholder engagement Continued Dialogue groups G4-27: Report key topics and concerns that have been Givaudan is committed to conducting audits with 200 of our top raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 400 suppliers by 2015. Every two years, stakeholders are asked to discuss the organisation has responded to those key topics and Company’s critical issues and strategic priorities, identifying Sustainable innovation is of growing importance as issues such concerns, including through its reporting. Report the opportunities for improving management and relationships as Health and Wellness, climate change and resource depletion stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and and co-creating projects with Givaudan. Targeted categories, become more pressing for our customers and consumers. concerns such as local communities, suppliers and specialists in annual Transforming these issues into opportunities and researching reports, are asked to co-create an annual plan for the evolution Every two years we identify sustainability topics based on their new technologies are key for Givaudan. As the industry leader of relationships with Givaudan. importance for Givaudan and our stakeholders and we prioritise we invest heavily in research and development. Givaudan is them on the principle of materiality. In our materiality matrix well-placed to respond to these opportunities given our wide Our main objective is to understand how our business affects we highlight key sustainability issues and their significance for spectrum of products, processes and services. our stakeholders and to determine what the most material stakeholders. (See materiality matrix in G-18, page 19) impacts to be managed are. Sustainability aspects listed in the Traceability is increasingly a business requirement connected Givaudan materiality matrix are presented to stakeholders We analyse stakeholder feedback and identify changes that with regulatory requirements, food safety and issue during engagement to let them confirm the topics they would have the greatest effects. The result is a set of environmental management. It reflects the growing need for more information rank as the most important for them, the ones they would and social trends that we believe influence our business over the on the origin of our ingredients. Traceability is about where the like to discuss or would like to know more about. Co-creation mid-term: product is produced and how it is produced. of projects and collaboration with mutual benefits are the Product safety and regulation remains a key topic for our Community support from companies like Givaudan is a ultimate goals of stakeholder dialogue – thereby allowing us stakeholders. There are more regulations and more public requirement. As part of our responsible sourcing approach to focus our sustainability efforts in those areas that are most pressure for greater transparency. Our primary focus is to Givaudan engages with suppliers, including producers at source important to our key stakeholders. continue to develop and produce safe and compliant products. in remote rural communities, to meet environmental and social standards and support community needs. Moreover at How dialogue groups support our materiality Responsible sourcing is a growing concern as developing Givaudan we act responsibly and constructively in relation to process countries industrialise and global demand for material resources the communities in which we operate. We support activities increases. Responsible sourcing is about knowing under which The dialogue groups give stakeholders a genuine and explicit and projects which improve the quality of life of our local and social and environmental conditions Givaudan raw materials role in setting the direction of our Sustainability programme global communities and that support our divisional focus areas: and products are made. It is now becoming one of the most – and contribute every two years to prioritising Givaudan’s Flavour Division; Family Nutrition; Fragrance Division; Blindness. material aspects for key stakeholders who are demanding material issues. Outcomes from dialogue panel sessions more accountability from brands on supplier ethics regarding are also fed back to the Sustainability Steering Team (our workers and the environment. Givaudan’s supply chain is main governance body for sustainability) and management complex and the Company plays a pivotal role with more than committees to shape strategy and improve decision-making. 2,000 raw material suppliers and more than 6,000 customers. This is where Sedex provides value with common requirements. 29 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Report profile G4-28: Reporting period for information provided The data and commentary in this report are assured by Ernst & Young LLP in accordance with the principles of the International All data is for wholly-owned Givaudan companies, and is for the Standards on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. For more full financial year ended December 2014. information please see the Assurance Statement on page 83 of G4-29: Date of most recent previous report this document and a UNGC Principles reference table on pages 79-81. Our previous report was published in March 2014. G4-30: Reporting cycle We have an annual sustainability reporting cycle. G4-31: Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report content We hope you find this report engaging and informative. We welcome your comments and questions, which can be sent to: global.sustainability@givaudan.com G4-32: GRI content index Please refer to pages 79-81. G4-33: Assurance This report has been prepared in accordance ‘Core’ with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI materiality disclosure service verified this G4 based report, GSD G4-17 to G4-27 were correctly located. This document represents a full GRI content index. 30 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Governance G4-34: Report the governance structure of the with the law, the Articles of Incorporation, regulations and Board, management, the internal audit function and external organisation, including committees of the highest instructions given in any areas relevant to the Company, audit. It reviews and approves the compensation of the external governance body. Identify any committees responsible such as working conditions, environmental protection, trade auditors for the annual audit. The Chief Financial Officer attends for decision-making on economic, environmental and practices, competition rules, insider dealing the meetings of the Audit Committee on the invitation of social impacts and ad hoc publicity its Chairman. The Board of Directors is the highest governance body of –the – preparation of the annual business and The Compensation Committee: The primary function of the Givaudan SA. In accordance with Swiss law, the Articles of compensation reports Compensation Committee is to review and recommend the Incorporation and the Board Regulations of Givaudan SA, the compensation policies to the Board of Directors. It approves –the – preparation of the Annual General Meeting of duties of the Board of Directors include the following matters: the remuneration of the CEO and the other members of the shareholders and the implementation of its resolutions. Executive Committee as well as all performance-related –the – ultimate management of the Company and, in particular, Except as otherwise provided by Swiss law, the Articles of remuneration instruments and pension fund policies. the establishment of mediumand long-term strategies and Incorporation and the Board Regulations, all other areas of The Compensation Committee consists of three members of the directives defining Company policies and the giving of the management are fully delegated by the Board of Directors Board which are elected directly by the Annual General Meeting necessary instructions to the CEO, the Executive Committee and its members in of shareholders. The Committee takes advice from external –the – establishment of the organisation accordance with art. 716b of the Swiss Code of Obligations. independent compensation specialists and consults with the –the – approval of the annual Company budget According to the Articles of Incorporation of Givaudan, the Chairman and the CEO on specific matters where appropriate. Board of Directors may consist of between seven and nine The Nomination and Governance Committee: The primary –the – structuring of the accounting system and of the financial members which are elected annually by the Annual General function of the Nomination and Governance Committee is to controlling as well as the financial planning Meeting of shareholders. Re-election of Directors is possible. assist the Board in applying the principles of good corporate –the – assessment of the Company’s risk management as governance. It prepares appointments to the Board of Directors The Board of Directors has established three Committees: reported by the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee and advises on the succession an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a –the – decision on investments in, or divestments of, fixed and Nomination and Governance Committee. planning process of the Company. It consists of three members tangible assets of a global amount exceeding the limit set by of the Board. The Audit Committee: The primary function of the Audit the corporate investment guidelines established by the Board Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight of Directors responsibilities by reviewing the financial information, the –the – appointment and removal of the persons entrusted with systems of internal controls and the audit process. It carries the management and representation of the Company, in out certain preparatory work for the Board of Directors as particular the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the other a whole. The Audit Committee currently consists of three members of the Executive Committee members of the Board. The Audit Committee ensures that –the – ultimate supervision of the persons entrusted with the Company’s risk management systems are efficient and the management, in particular with respect to compliance effective. It promotes effective communication among the 31 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Governance Continued Executive Committee The members of the Executive Committee are individually responsible for the business areas assigned to them. The Executive Committee (the management team), under the leadership of the CEO, is responsible for areas of management Governance of sustainability of the Company that are not specifically reserved for the Board The Board of Directors receives regular updates from the of Directors. Executive Committee and from experts within the Company The CEO, subject to the powers attributed to him, has the regarding the economic, environmental and social performance task of achieving the strategic objectives of the Group and of the Company, including relevant risks and opportunities determining the operational priorities. In addition, he leads, and adherence or compliance with relevant standards. This is supervises and coordinates the other members of the Executive assured by an information and control system the Board has at Committee, including convening, preparing and chairing the its disposal which comprises the following instruments: meetings of the Executive Committee. –The – Chairman of the Board receives invitations and minutes The members of the Executive Committee are appointed by of Executive Committee meetings on a regular basis and the the Board of Directors on recommendation of the CEO after Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer report evaluation by the Nomination Committee. The Executive regularly to the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Committee is responsible for developing the Company’s –The – CEO and the Chief Financial Officer are present and strategic as well as long-term business and financial plans. report at all regular Board meetings and answer all requests Key areas of responsibility also include the management for information by the Board members about any matter and supervision of all areas of business development on an concerning Givaudan that is transacted. Other members of operational basis, and approving investment decisions. the Executive Committee and selected senior managers are The tasks and powers of the Executive Committee include the regularly invited to address specific projects at regular Board approval of investments, leasing agreements and divestments meetings. All members of the Executive Committee have within the corporate investment guidelines. The Executive a duty to provide information at meetings of the Board of Committee approves important business projects and Directors on request. prepares the business plan of the Group and the budgets of –The – Head of Internal Audit and the Corporate Compliance the individual divisions and functions. In addition, it plays a key Officer report to the Board once per year. The Board also role – together with the Human Resources organisation – in receives annual reports on Environment, Health and Safety, the periodic review of the talent management programme, Sustainability and Risk Management. including succession planning for key positions. Alliances and partnerships with outside institutions, such as universities, think tanks and other business partners, are also monitored by the Executive Committee. 32 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Ethics and integrity G4-56: Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Givaudan has introduced ‘Principles of Business Conduct’, a code of conduct for the entire Givaudan Group. The principles include: –Compliance – with the Law –Conflicts – of Interest –Bribes, – Gifts and Entertainment –Fair – Treatment of Employees –Working – Environment and Child Labour –Environmental – Compliance –Competition – Law –Insider – Dealing –Protection – of Confidential Information and Trade Secret –Conduct – in Research, Development –Application – and Creation –Implementation. – The Principles of Business Conduct have been translated into all major Company languages and compliance training on the Principles has been provided in all Company languages too. The Principles can be downloaded here. Economic This section concerns the economic dimension of sustainability and Givaudan’s impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders and on economic systems at local, national, and global levels. In this section: 34 Economic performance 36 Procurement practices 34 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Economic performance It is our fiduciary duty to shareholders to ensure that Givaudan’s business is financially sustainable in the short-, mediumand long-term. Our commitments the disposal of land at its Dübendorf location in Switzerland. R&D – CHF 405 million in 2014 – significantly exceeds that When measured in local currency terms, the EBITDA increased of any other company in the fragrance and flavour industry. –Mid-term, – the overall objective is to grow organically between by 11.6%. The EBITDA margin increased to 23.9% in 2014 from We are committed to investing for the midand long-term to 4.5% and 5.5% per annum 22.2% in 2013. Givaudan delivered an operating cash flow maintain our competitive edge. –Givaudan – expects to outgrow the underlying market and to of CHF 806 million in 2014, compared to CHF 888 million in Health and Wellness: Consumers continue to demand food and continue to achieve its industry-leading EBITDA margin while 2013, driven by a higher EBITDA offset by short-term working beverage products that are not only good for them but also achieving an annual free cash flow of 14% to 16% of sales capital requirements. As a percentage of sales, working taste good. We have made significant investments in recent by 2015 capital increased, as customer accounts receivables were years that enable us to help our customers launch great-tasting, –Givaudan – confirms its intention to continue to return above exceptionally high at the end of the year healthy food and beverage products and meet these consumer 60% of the Company’s free cash flow to shareholders, –At – the Annual General Meeting on 19 March 2015, Givaudan’s expectations. Our investments in new ingredient development, while maintaining a medium-term leverage ratio target of Board of Directors will propose a cash dividend of CHF 50.00 sensory methodologies and consumer understanding allow us below 25%. per share for the financial year 2014, an increase of 6.4% versus to maintain a leading position in the Health and Wellness arena. 2013. This is the fourteenth consecutive dividend increase Progress in 2014 Sustainable sourcing of raw materials: The sustainable sourcing following Givaudan’s listing at the Swiss stock exchange in of raw materials is an integral part of our operations and is one –Givaudan – Group full-year sales were CHF 4,404 million, an 2000. The total amount of this distribution will be made out of of our strategic pillars, as well as being part of our Sustainability increase of 3.7% on a like-for-like basis and 0.8% in Swiss reserves for additional paid-in capital which Givaudan shows Programme. Such sourcing is essential to our business success in francs when compared to 2013. Mid-term, the overall in equity as at the end of 2014. terms of security of supply, cost of goods, quality, environment, objective is to grow organically between 4.5% and 5.5% per and health and safety. annum, assuming a market growth of 2-3%, and to continue How we manage this issue on the path of market share gains. By delivering on the We continue our commitment to outperform the underlying Targeted customers and segments: We seek to help our Company’s five-pillar growth strategy – developing markets, markets and further expand our leadership position in the customers drive growth in their market share, in mature as well Health and Wellness, market share gains with targeted industry. The key pillars of our five-year strategy are: as developing markets, through bringing innovation, consumer customers and segments, research and sustainable sourcing insight, market understanding and commercial expertise to Developing markets: We continue to focus on the opportunities the development of more sustainable fragrance and flavour – Givaudan expects to outgrow the underlying market and to for growth offered by the world’s developing markets, where creations. We want to build on our strategic partnerships with continue to achieve its industry-leading EBITDA margin while consumer demand remains high for packaged food and our main customers and develop our presence with accounts or targeting an annual free cash flow of between 14% and 16% of beverages as well as household and personal care products. product categories where we are under-represented relative to sales in 2015 Our sales in these markets accelerated in 2014 and accounted our overall industry position and where we have an opportunity –The – EBITDA increased by 8.5% to CHF 1,053 million from for 46% of Group sales. to expand. CHF 970 million. An improved gross profit was the main Research and Development: Creative and innovative Research driver behind the increased EBITDA. The Group recognised and Development (R&D) programmes are the bedrock for a one-off gain of CHF 42 million in the Flavour Division on Givaudan’s continued commercial success. Our investment in 35 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Economic performance Continued Performance indicators EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed, EC3: Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit including revenues, operating costs, employee plan obligations compensation, donations and other community The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which providers and governments are generally held in separate trustee-administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from 2009 2013 2014 employees and by the relevant Group companies, taking Revenue 3,973 4,382 4,459 account of the recommendations of independent qualified million million million actuaries. The most significant plans are held in Switzerland, the US, the Netherlands and the UK. Operating costs 2,536 2,678 2,684 million million million Non-pension plans consist primarily of post-retirement Payments to governments 55 139 111 healthcare and life insurance schemes, principally in the US. million million million For full details of our defined benefit and defined Payments to providers of 213 416 496 contribution plans, in line with the requirements on EC3, capital million million million please see our 2014 Financial Report, note 7 (p. 34-39). Employee wages and 964 999 1,003 benefits million million million Economic value retained 205 150 165 million million million All figures in CHF 36 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Procurement practices As a global business with operations in over 40 countries, it is imperative that we develop a strong network of suppliers to meet customer and consumer demand and to expand our market footprint. Our vision is to source materials in ways that preserve our Progress in 2014 Identify and develop additional sustainable sourcing environment, stimulate the development and well-being of initiatives communities from which we source, and safeguard the efficient Communicate with all suppliers about procurement requirements relating to social responsibility We have a dedicated organisation to reinforce a direct presence use of resources for the long term. in countries of origin for the sourcing of these key natural The sustainable sourcing of raw materials is an integral part All suppliers are informed of our requirements through a Global ingredients. Most members of this Origination team, which of our operations and one of our strategic pillars, as well as Vendor Expectations document. We have been continuously is part of our Procurement function, are based in countries of being part of our Sustainability programme. It is a key issue for revising this document to reflect supply chain risks such as antiorigin where we are setting up collection networks to source many of our customers who increasingly want assurances of corruption, money laundering and human trafficking. The latest natural ingredients directly from producers. responsible supply chain practices, traceability and provenance. revision was communicated to all suppliers in 2014. In 2014, Givaudan was again a main sponsor of the Patchouli Our commitments We have established a collection network on the Indonesian AIM-PROGRESS Responsible Sourcing Forum, which aims to –Expanding – our responsible sourcing initiatives ensures security promote the commitment by manufacturers and suppliers to island of Sulawesi for the sustainable supply of patchouli, an of supply improve responsible sourcing standards and sustainability of the iconic natural raw material for fine fragrance and functional supply chain. perfumery. Givaudan sources most of its patchouli oil from –Working – with our suppliers on sustainability throughout our this collection network. Our representatives provide local value chains contributes to our customers increasing supply Conduct audits with 200 of our top 400 suppliers by producers with training support in the techniques of harvesting, chain requirements 2015; 200 of our top 400 suppliers to have joined the preparing and distilling patchouli, for which we aim to have a –Conducting – regular reviews of our portfolio and implementing Sedex programme by 2015 reliable supply in terms of quality and quantity. The field teams improvements through our ethical sourcing initiatives In 2014 we surpassed our 2015 objective to have 200 top use tablet computers with the Givaudan-developed I-Source –Gather – information on origin of our ingredients to suppliers register with Sedex. We now have a total of 268 key programme, on which data such as the volume of essential oil contribute to regulatory requirements, food safety and raw material suppliers registered with Sedex. These suppliers purchased and the location and yield of the crop are entered. issue management. represent 68% of our raw materials spend. This information helps deepen our knowledge of the market. In 2014, we started to include our Indirect Material & Services Suppliers in the Sedex initiative. To date, 25 IM&S suppliers have joined Sedex. We have also made good progress toward our Supplier audits target. The total number of our suppliers audited was 144 at the end of 2014. 37 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Procurement practices Continued For the same ingredient and to complement our Indonesian Other sourcing initiatives Develop third-party certification projects for raw collection network, in the northeast of the island of Borneo –Procurement – is overseeing projects related to sustainable materials in Malaysia we have initiated a local, exclusive partnership sourcing of raw materials that are funded through the Vetiver in Haiti: Since 2012, Givaudan is working with a local agreement on a large patchouli farm with its own distillery Givaudan Foundation, an independent non-profit organisation vetiver essential oil producer and a cooperative of vetiver and one tenant. With one farm and a single distillation site, this established in 2014. Our ethical programme for vanilla beans growers spanning three local villages. Growers are supported open-air laboratory enables Givaudan to develop unique, totally in Madagascar won in 2013 a Creating Shared Value award to improve the environmental and harvesting practices, and traceable qualities of essential oil especially for our perfumers. from Nestlé in the Responsible Sourcing Vanilla category. consequently the quality of the roots. The vetiver sourced is Givaudan has financed plantation machinery, production Nestlé has donated money to collaborate with us in improving certified ESR (Fairness, Solidarity, Responsibility) according equipment, as well as 11 new homes for workers. the education infrastructures. to Ecocert standards, with the added benefit that the crop is –In – 2014, we signed a joint venture agreement with Henri Fraise organic and fair trade. Vanilla Fils that will enable us to establish a footprint for extraction In 2010, we initiated an ethical sourcing programme for vanilla supplied by our own collection networks of strategic naturals beans together with our long-standing partner Henri Fraise in Madagascar. Clove leaf oil will be the first ingredient that Fils in Madagascar. Vanilla supply from Madagascar is complex, will be sourced through our existing collection network and due to a rural structure made up of thousands of small farmers. processed into clove extracts. This raises traceability questions in the supply chain, as well as social and sustainability issues. –A – milestone for Origination took place in late 2014 with the inauguration of a new cassia leaf extraction plant in China. Our Ecocert certified organic vanilla and rural development The facility is in the centre of the cassia growing area of programme aims at improving supply chain transparency and Guangdong province and will produce cassia oil exclusively producers’ living conditions. When the programme began in for Givaudan for use as a flavour ingredient. The new plant is 2010 we initially worked with 14 villages that rely on vanilla a further example of our initiatives aimed at gaining better production for their livelihood. This figure has since increased control of the quality and quantity of raw material supplies to 26 villages, representing some 2,000 organic vanilla farmers and a footprint at the origin of supply, wherever in the world. in total. Support is in the areas of food security and education. It also shows that Givaudan can successfully transform the To date, we have been involved in the construction or repair traditional way of collecting and processing naturals to make and maintenance of 16 schools. Additionally, the programme it more secure and cost optimised while setting new standards promotes alternative revenue streams such as beekeeping, in responsible sourcing and quality. handicrafts, livestock and fishery. It also helps to provide better access to water and to health, and the first healthcare centre was built recently. 38 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Procurement practices Continued How we manage this issue Ethical sourcing initiatives Performance indicators Our pioneering Ethical Sourcing initiatives aim to achieve a Givaudan’s Procurement Division monitors and manages supply mediumand long-term supply of unique raw materials in chain risks arising from raw material purchases. There are three EC9: Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Australia, Laos, Venezuela, the Comoros Islands, Haiti, France main ways we raise standards in our supply chain. significant locations of operation and Madagascar. Givaudan’s Ethical Sourcing programme addresses both social compliance and supply risk, and covers It is common practice to prefer sourcing from locally based Global Vendor Expectations materials with a strategic role in our supply chain. Supply chain suppliers (defined as suppliers who are based in the same As a signatory to the UNGC, we use our Global Vendor solutions for these materials are tailored by region but also country as the Givaudan ‘facility’). This is reflected in the Expectations document to notify raw material suppliers encompass the four key pillars of Labour Standards, Business 82.5% by value of non-raw material purchased locally that they need to comply with its principles. All suppliers Integrity, Environment and Health and Safety. Givaudan’s in 2014. For raw materials, 27.4% by value were sourced are informed of our sustainability requirements through Origination Procurement Team, set up in 2013, takes this locally in 2014. Several of the raw materials we buy cannot this document. commitment to new levels, and is particularly focused on be sourced in countries other than the ones where it alleviating supply risk. naturally grows. Sedex and SMETA We encourage selected suppliers to improve performance. One way we do this is by inviting suppliers to register with Sedex, which is a data-sharing platform to improve supply chain practices. Some then voluntarily go on to complete the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) which requires compliance in four key responsible sourcing pillars including Labour Standards, Business Integrity, Environment and Health and Safety. Non-compliance with these standards is not an option for Givaudan. One of the benefits of SMETA is that ‘an audit for one is an audit for all’. Across AIM-PROGRESS this process is known as Mutual Recognition (MR), and it helps reduce supplier ‘audit fatigue’. Internally, these processes are managed by procurement. Our category managers, located around the world, play a vital role in helping to ensure compliance. Environment This section concerns the environmental dimension of sustainability and Givaudan’s impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including ecosystems, land, air, and water. In this section: 40 Energy 42 Water 44 Emissions 46 Effluents and waste 48 Products and services 49 Transport 50 Supplier environmental assessment 40 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Energy Givaudan’s stated vision is to continuously drive operational excellence without compromising the environment. This is good for the environment, and good for business. Our commitments How we manage this issue Performance indicators Improve eco-efficiency of factory manufacturing sites with In 2014, the Eco-efficiency Leadership Team (EELT) continued a focus on greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water, and to encourage local Green Teams and local site Eco-efficiency EN3: Energy consumption within the organization reduce our overall footprint against a 2009 baseline focusing Management Teams to further develop and update site plans on eco-efficiency for energy, carbon emissions, incinerated and with additional saving initiatives and deliver improvement 2009 2013 land-filled waste, and municipal and groundwater. initiatives. Plans are in place in most sites, many including two (restated) (restated) 2014 to three year agreed improvement targets. In this context the Progress in 2014 introduction of a dedicated Green Team Award for successful Direct energy: from 1,632,589 1,739,478 1,678,076 primary sources (GJ) Energy consumption: 20% reduction, per tonne of product, by eco-efficiency projects and a regular performance reporting on site, regional, divisional and global basis are main contributors Indirect energy: purchased 897,286 1,009,193 922,754 2020 against baseline year 2009 electricity and steam (GJ) to the success. Following a decision of our Leadership Board, -17.2% (against restated 2009 baseline) capital expenditure project proposals need to contain a Green During 2014, the energy per tonne figure improved from -13.2% Chapter, which outlines the eco-efficiency aspects of the (restated 2013 figure) to the stated -17.2% as a result of further proposed investment and includes a cost/benefit analysis, and EN5: Energy intensity efficiency improvements implemented by local Green Teams ‘puts a price on carbon’. 2013 and local engineering activities. Some examples of this are (restated) 2014 The target setting, documentation of improvement initiatives described later in this document. The absolute total energy Energy saved (per tonne of 13.2% 17.2% and regular performance reporting by individual sites are figure in 2014 has increased against the 2009 baseline by just product) against 2009 aligned with the requirements and principles of ISO 14001 under 3%, while the production volume over the same period baseline Environmental Management System. To date, five Givaudan has increased by almost 25%. manufacturing locations have been certified against the ISO 14001 standard. 41 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Energy Continued EN6: Reduction of energy consumption Celoni saved a total of 150MWH of energy while doubling EN7: Reductions in energy of products and services production of florhydral. Sustainable electricity saving Buying in green energy to reduce emissions The Green Team in the Shanghai Flavour factory has Energy saving workshops Givaudan Indirect Material & Service Suppliers (IM&S) has undertaken a number of initiatives to promote electricity In 2014, four energy-saving workshops were held in Europe agreed to buy green energy that will meet our electricity saving. As a result, the site saw a 3% savings in electricity and in Brazil, following the first successful workshop in the needs and reduce our carbon footprint. Electricity accounts over a two-year period while the production output US held at the end of 2013. With participants from different for almost 34% of the total energy used by the almost doubled. In addition to awareness raising activities, locations and with the help of a completed energy manufacturing sites, but equates to 50% of our total scope improvements were related to the systematic check of self-assessment tool (developed in-house), energy (and 1 and scope 2 CO2 emissions. The initiative began in 2011. potential savings on electrical appliances and equipment as water) saving opportunities were identified during a 3-day Highlights of the programme in 2014 were: well as VFD installation. The intelligent control of exhaust fan intensive workshop. Most of the opportunities identified 100% green electricity at our site in Barcelona, Spain frequency and timing also contributed. The success of these relate to lack of attention, unnecessary spillages, unnecessary initiatives was recognised with an award in September 2014 running of equipment or insufficient maintenance. Greener electricity at our sites in Japan and France. by local authorities. An example of achievements comes from the Devon site in The CO2 emission load per purchased kWh of electricity the US. Large equipment was identified as contributing to further reduced by 3.5% compared to 2013 while against Extend florhydral manufacturing high energy consumption on weekends (odour control, dust 2009 baseline this figure is 13.9%. Of all electricity purchased At our Sant Celoni site in Spain, the highest volume control, lights, CIP equipment, etc.). Efforts were made to almost 33% (24% in 2013) is produced from renewable ingredient produced is florhydral. With global demand on understand the shut-down impact, then Standard Operation sources, while 52% is carbon free (46.5% in 2013). the rise, the site was faced with doubling production in Procedures were written and routine shutdowns were 2014. They aimed to achieve this ambitious new goal while organised when viable. As a result, a projected annual saving also lessening environmental impact and increasing ecoof over 700,000 kWh electricity, 70,000 m3 of natural gas as efficiency. Manufacturing florhydral is a multi-step process well as 7,000 m3 of water is forecast. that uses a combination of distillation, blending and other processes. The Green Team analysed data and identified three possible improvements that would make production more sustainable. These included: using bulk raw materials, as opposed to purchasing ‘drums’; changing the gas mixing procedures to save on transport; and optimising steps in the production process. Consequently, by reverting to bulk and reducing gas requirements they managed to save 24000 KM/ per year on truck transportation of drums and 54000 KM/ per year on transportation. Over the course of the year Sant 42 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Water Givaudan’s stated vision is to continuously drive operational excellence without compromising the environment. This is good for the environment and good for business. Our commitments How we manage this issue Performance indicators –Improve – eco-efficiency of factory manufacturing sites with In 2014, the Eco-efficiency Leadership Team (EELT) continued a focus on greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water, and to encourage local Green Teams and local site Eco-efficiency EN8: Total water withdrawal by source reduce our overall footprint against a 2009 baseline focusing Management Teams to further develop and update site plans on eco-efficiency for energy, carbon emissions, incinerated with additional saving initiatives and deliver improvement and land-filled waste, and municipal and groundwater. initiatives. Plans are in place in most sites, many including two Water 2009 2013 to three year agreed improvement targets. In this context the intake (m3) (restated) (restated) 2014 Progress in 2014 introduction of a dedicated Green Team Award for successful Municipal water 2,286,999 2,602,993 2,379,183 Water use: 15% reduction, per tonne of product, by 2020 (for eco-efficiency projects and a regular performance reporting on Groundwater 1,074,035 1,318,604 1,309,789 municipal and groundwater) against baseline year 2009 site, regional, divisional and global basis are main contributors Municipal and 3,361,034 3,921,597 3,688,972 to the success. Following a decision of our Leadership Board, -11.7% (against 2009 baseline) groundwater capital expenditure project proposals need to contain a Green During 2014, the water consumption per tonne figure Chapter, which outlines the eco-efficiency aspects of the Surface water 7,432,649 5,150,236 5,007,034 improved from -6.8% (restated 2013 figure) against baseline proposed investment and includes a cost/benefit analysis, and Total water* 10,793,683 9,071,833 8,696,006 to the stated -11.7%. The main reasons for this improvement ‘puts a price on carbon’. * Includes sanitary, cooling and process water are the successful commissioning of a new factory and the The target setting, documentation of improvement initiatives related production closure of two factories combined with and regular performance reporting by individual sites are the efficiency improvements implemented by local Green aligned with the requirements and principles of ISO 14001 Teams and local engineering activities at other Givaudan sites. Environmental Management System. To date, five Givaudan This includes as well the successful outcoming of the energy manufacturing locations have been certified against the workshops as described in EN6. ISO 14001 standard. 43 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Water Continued EN8: continued Water saving initiatives with effect Optimising water consumption Rain water harvesting at Jigani site At the Jigani site in India, two projects were implemented to At our new factory in Hungary commissioned in 2013, At our Jigani site in India, water requirements have historically reduce water consumption and electricity use, which enabled the production output approximately doubled in 2014. been met by purchasing water, which was delivered by reducing absolute water use by 24% while production output In the commissioning period, the water consumption was road-tankers. In 2012, however, the Jigani Green Team increased on an annual basis by over 9%. The first project relatively high. To eliminate the risk of water supply outage introduced a project for the site to harvest its own rain water concerns the automation of water flow for the washing of and waste water treatment capacity overload, a task force through enriching existing dry bore-wells, which were put mixing tanks and mobile pans thus avoiding overdosing of was put in place to reduce the factory’s water consumption. into operation quickly making the site self-sufficient for its water. The second project concerned uncovering underground Several initiatives were developed and implemented, including water needs. In 2014, the site went one step further, taking water pipes. This rerouting made them more visible which amongst other examples, the flow-through water cooling of advantage of its geographical low lying position and collecting allows for early detection and reparation of leaks. stirring motors that was re-circulated to the cooling system. rain water from neighbouring higher contours. In moving The constant, uncontrolled cooling water of the boiler house from a water-starved site, to a water-rich site, not only does Water reduction at Carthage site was strongly reduced as well as water cooling of stirrers of the Jigani take advantage of a natural resource it also aids the local Savings opportunities were identified through better spray drier. As a result, a significant reduction of water use has community in its water resourcing. Today, the site consumes regulating and shutting off continuous water users such as been achieved (estimated at 60m3/day), which is reflected in 8,000 m3 of ground water per annum and actually gives back dust scrubbers, vacuum pumps as well as distillation system a comparable total water consumption in 2014 compared to 12,000 m3 . Other eco-efficiencies include the reduction in condensers. For example, the installation of new solenoid 2013, while output doubled. purchased water – carried in road-tankers – thus reducing and control valves in the scrubbers and the vacuum pumps transport costs, and CO2 emissions. reduced water consumptions. Consequently the monthly water consumption dropped by 8%. The project regarding the distillation system condenser is expected to bring another 5-10% reduction. 44 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Emissions Givaudan’s stated vision is to continuously drive operational excellence without compromising the environment. This is good for the environment and good for business. Our commitments How we manage this issue Monitoring carbon emissions –Improve – eco-efficiency of factory manufacturing sites with In 2014, the Eco-efficiency Leadership team (EELT) continued We participated in the annual CDP survey for Investors as well a focus on greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water and to encourage local Green Teams and local site Eco-efficiency as in the Supply Chain survey at the request of a number of reduce our overall footprint against a 2009 baseline focusing Management Teams to further develop and update site plans customers. This year’s performance score was B (on a scale of on eco-efficiency for energy, carbon emissions, incinerated with additional saving initiatives and deliver improvement A-E with A being the highest) and the disclosure score was 89 and land-filled waste and municipal and groundwater. initiatives. Plans are in place in most sites, many including two (against a CDP-average of 53). The scores demonstrate that we to three year agreed improvement targets. In this context the regard the mitigation of Climate Change as a critical issue for In particular, we are focused on: introduction of a dedicated Green Team Award for successful our business and that we manage our carbon emissions through –reducing – carbon emissions as far as possible. We are eco-efficiency projects and a regular performance repor-ting on rigorous internal data management and the implementation of determined to achieve year-on-year improvements, with an site, regional, divisional and global basis are main contributors improvement initiatives. ultimate aspiration of zero carbon emissions. to the success. Following a decision of our Leadership Board, capital expenditure project proposals need to contain a Green Progress in 2014 Chapter, which outlines the eco-efficiency aspects of the Direct and indirect CO2 emissions: 25% reduction, per tonne proposed investment and includes a cost/benefit analysis, and of product, by 2020 (indirect relates to purchased secondary ‘puts a price on carbon’. energy and not energy used by others, i.e. our raw materials The target setting, documentation of improvement initiatives suppliers or transport service providers) and regular performamce reporting by individual sites are -24.6% (against restated 2009 baseline) aligned with the requirements and principles of ISO 14001 During 2014, the CO2 per tonne figure improved from -19.5% Environmental Management System. To date, five Givaudan (restated 2013 figure) to the stated -24.6%%, as a result of manufacturing locations have been certified against the further efficiency improvements and investments implemented ISO 14001 standard. by local Green Teams and local engineering activities. Some examples of this are described later in this document. The absolute total direct and indirect CO2 emission has decreased against the 2009 baseline by 13,700 metric tonnes (i.e. 6.3%), while the production volume over the same period has increased by almost 25%. 45 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Emissions Continued Performance indicators EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) (Scope 3) 2009 2013 Ozone-depleting 2013 GHG emissions (tonnes)* (restated) (restated) 2014 GHG emissions (approximate tonnes) 2013 2014 substances 2009 (restated) 2014 Scope 1: from direct 102,453 103,559 98,001 Scope 3: Business travel 14,950 14,020 CFC inventory (kg) 15,714 10,756 11,253 energy sources Scope 3: Outbound product transport** 37,000 34,620 CFC 11 equivalent inventory not 641 654 (restated) (kg) available Scope 3: Commuting 14,700 not CFC loss-replacement (kg) 1,393 1,263 854 EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (as 2012) available CFC 11 equivalent loss/ not 70 52 (Scope 2) Scope 3: Packaging 50,385 52,397 replacement (kg) available (restated) 2013 GHG emissions (tonnes)* 2009 (restated) 2014 * T he majority of this data was collected through our global travel agent and we added an estimate, based on purchased tickets, to cover the three countries in EN21: NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Scope 2: from indirect 113,687 114,259 104,455 Asia which book business travel locally. energy sources **T he figures include outbound transport by air, ship and road Other significant air 2013 * Greenhouse gas data are limited to CO 2 emissions emissions 2009 (restated) 2014 EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Nitrogen oxides – NOx 1045 104.2 79 tonnes* In 2014, a significant intensity based and absolute reduction Sulphur dioxide – SO2 tonnes 359 269.8 1.2 of CO2 emissions has been realised. This is the result of the many initiatives at our manufacturing sites to reduce Volatile organic compounds not 437 438 energy consumption (see examples under EN6) as well as an (tonnes) available increased use of electricity produced from renewable sources *Quantity is calculated by multiplying the annual fuel consumption by the (EN7). The latter is particularly the case for our factory in corresponding emission factor for fuel type Spain and Japan. The strong drop in SO2 emissions is related to the fact that For further initiatives on greenhouse gas emissions and the use of heavy fuel oil in a site was ceased. reductions achieved, please refer to EN6 and EN7. 46 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Effluents and waste Givaudan’s stated vision is to continuously drive operational excellence without compromising the environment. This is good for the environment and good for business. Our commitments the company because it can be used as a fuel in a boiler house on a per tonne produced basis. An example of such initiatives or is ‘sold’ to a waste handling company, is classified as ‘recycled concern our site in Carthage (US) where organic waste streams –Improve – eco-efficiency of factory manufacturing sites with waste’. Increasingly over the years of reporting we have seen generated from an extraction process are now collected in a focus on greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water, and that part of our waste materials has a positive value and meets dedicated water tight dumpsters. The content is sent to a reduce our overall footprint against a 2009 baseline focusing the described criteria. Some waste reducing initiatives are contractor who composts the material. Before this set-up was on eco-efficiency for energy, carbon emissions, incinerated described further in this document. made, the material was land-filled. It is anticipated that about and land-filled waste and municipal and groundwater. 100 tonnes of this organic waste can be diverted from land-fill. In particular, we are focused on: How we manage this issue At the Dübendorf site (Switzerland) a reduction of packaging –encouraging – the redesign of resource life-cycles so that waste In 2014, the Eco-efficiency Leadership Team (EELT) continued used for transporting waste materials and the introduction generation is minimised, with any unavoidable waste products to encourage local Green Teams and local site Eco-efficiency of pallet and IBC recycling by a third-party contractor, has being reused or recycled. Our ultimate aspiration is to achieve Management Teams to further develop and update site plans led to a reduction in the quantity of waste sent to land-fills zero waste with additional saving initiatives and deliver improvement or incineration. The expected reduction is up to 100 tonnes initiatives. Plans are in place in most sites, many including two –designing – our processes to minimise noise and per year. to three year agreed improvement targets. In this context the odour emissions Both described case studies are contributing to our efforts to introduction of a dedicated Green Team Award for successful –reducing – the volume of effluents by reducing the intake of eco-efficiency projects and a regular performance repor-ting on reduce land-filling of waste. water from municipal and/or groundwater sources. site, regional, divisional and global basis are main contributors to the success. Following a decision of our Leadership Board, Biodegradability Progress in 2014 capital expenditure project proposals need to contain a Green Givaudan’s biodegradability programme has been built on the Chapter, which outlines the eco-efficiency aspects of the expertise of our internationally recognised scientists who have Total weight of incinerated and land-filled waste by type and proposed investment and includes a cost/benefit analysis, and developed novel methods to understand the fate of fragrance disposal: 15% reduction, per tonne of product, by 2020 ‘puts a price on carbon’. raw materials in the environment. This has resulted in the -36.7%% (against restated 2009 baseline) development and use of biodegradable fragrance materials that The target setting, documentation of improvement initiatives today represent over 50% of the total number of materials used During 2014, the waste reduction per tonne figure improved and regular performance reporting by individual sites are for creation. This commitment to environmentally responsible from -32.5% (restated 2013 figure) to -36.7%, as a result of aligned with the requirements and principles of ISO 14001 materials has enabled Givaudan to meet ever-increasing further efficiency improvements and investments implemented Environmental Management System. To date, five Givaudan requirements of regulators such as REACH in Europe or the EPA by local Green Teams and local engineering activities. In addition manufacturing locations have been certified against the in the US who are encouraging industry to design in safety. As to the stated local activities, this relatively big improvement ISO 14001 standard. an example the US EPA has recognised Givaudan through their also originates from the fact that we as part of our participation in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index programme, have Sustainable Futures Program to be consistently delivering new Waste reduction initiatives fragrance materials to the market with high environmentally endorsed their waste classification definitions; this implies Following Green Team and engineering initiatives, several of responsible designs. amongst others that waste material that has a positive value for our sites have reported significant waste reduction figures 47 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Effluents and waste Continued Performance indicators EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 2009 2013 2009 2013 Water discharge (m3) (restated) (restated) 2014 Hazardous waste (tonnes) (restated) (restated) 2014 To the environment 7,509,123 4,921,749 4,607,643 Incinerated 14,050 9,844 9,536 without biological Incinerated with energy recovery * not available 4,906 4,673 treatment Land-filled 728 376 533 To the environment after 1,928,725 2,000,449 1,952,078 biological treatment Recycled 3,313 12,233 14,197 To external treatment 355,458 560,372 424,394 Total hazardous waste 18,091 22,453 24,266 facility without pretreatment To external treatment 1,311,436 1,717,098 1,754,174 2009 2013 facility after pre-treatment Hazardous waste (restated) (restated) 2014 Total discharged water 11,104,742 9,199,668 8,738,289 Incinerated 3,058 2,974 2,245 The slightly higher total volume of discharged water compared to water intake Incinerated with energy recovery * not available 1,235 843 is caused by the treatment of waste water of a local community at one of our manufacturing sites. Land-filled 6,695 7,565 6,973 Quality monitoring of waste water Recycled 16,350 28,663 29,866 As part of our Sustainability programme we have started Total hazardous waste 26,103 39,202 39,084 to monitor the quality of waste water which is discharged * Quantity out of total incinerated waste which is incinerated with an energy recovery of at least 75% into the environment after or without biological treatment. The % of the total generated waste which is recycled is growing from 44.5% in baseline year to almost 70% in 2014. The 2014 figure increases to 78% when incineration By the start of quarter 2 of 2014 the sites for which this is with 75% energy recovery is also classified as ‘recycled’. applicable have been analysing the water quality through COD analysis. The resulting total quantity of COD discharged in a nine-months period has been measured and calculated at 255.5 metric tonnes. 48 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Products and Services Most of the products we manufacture and sell are used as an ingredient in consumer products. In order to minimise the environmental impact of these Performance indicators consumer products, it is important to understand the impact of our products and aim to minimise this impact. EN27: Mitigation of environmental impacts of products Extend production while reducing energy Our commitments and service At our Sant Celoni site in Spain, one key ingredient produced faced double production in 2014. The local team identified –Engage – with customers to develop new technologies for Eco efficiency progress improvements and managed to save 150MWH of energy over healthier and sustainable products For many years we have been working on reducing the use of the year. –Do – more with less, promoting innovative design based on utilities and the generation of waste going to land filling or concentrated quality and compacted fragrances incineration. The table below covers the development of the Water saving initiative –Ensure – our products are not persistent in the environment indicators at our manufacturing sites over the period 2013At the Jigani site in India two projects were implemented to after their use. 2014. reduce water consumption (as well electricity usage). During 2014 an absolute water reduction of 24% was realised while Our ultimate aspiration is to create products that are designed Average indicator value per tonne of product produced production output increased on an annual basis by over 9%. and developed in line with sustainability principles, and by by Givaudan consequence are 100% sustainable by design. Waste reduction initiative % reduction An example of such initiatives concern our site in Carthage improvement How we manage this issue (US) where organic waste streams generated from an Indicator 2013-2014 Our innovation and development teams regularly conduct extraction process is now collected in dedicated water tight Used energy (Gjoules/tonne) 4.6% sustainability-related research programmes to design more dumpsters. The content is sent to a contractor who composts emitted CO2 (kg/tonne) 6.3% the material. Before this set-up was made the material was sustainable products using green chemistry principles and through sustainability profiling studies. Water usage (m3/tonne) 5.2% land-filled. It is anticipated that about 100 tonnes of this organic waste can be diverted from land-filling. Givaudan has completed the biodegradability screening of Waste* generated (kg/tonne) 6.4% all our perfumery ingredients, including natural materials. *waste going to land-filling or incineration Rich with more than 20 years’ experience in the biodegradability testing of fragrance ingredients, Givaudan has an extensive database on the biodegradability of fragrance ingredients. For flavours, all our products are consumed at the end of their life cycle, so do not cause disposal issues. 49 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Transport Delivery of finished or intermediate products to our customers or other Givaudan manufacturing sites is an important step in our value chain. The associated carbon footprint with transport is significant in Performance indicators relation to the footprint of our manufacturing activities. Our commitments EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting had possibly inhaled fumes from the product which gave him a products and other goods and materials for the pain in his throat the next day. The provider advised the person –Sustainable – logistics offers opportunities to improve the organisation’s operations, and transporting members to go to the doctor as a precaution. efficiency through reduced fuel usage and therefore lower of the workforce transport costs. Employee air travel: In 2014 employee travel in terms of How we manage this issue Product transportation: With the help of transport companies distance flown – was reduced slightly despite a higher level that operate on a global or regional basis, we have established of business activity. Using more up-to-date CO2 conversion We monitor the environmental impact associated with different the carbon footprint of outbound transport covering air, factors for different type of planes, which reflects the transport modes through CO2 emissions. Contractors who ship and road. In 2014 this figure was approximately 34,620 higher efficiency in fuel consumption of modern planes, the transport our products are increasingly producing carbon metric tonnes of CO2, 6.4% less than the corrected figure for calculated CO2 emissions was 14,020 metric tonnes, which is footprint reports, which allows Givaudan to establish a baseline. 2013 of 37,000 tonnes. The reduction is the result of Givaudan approximately 6% less compared to the 2013 published figure. A programme with targets for improvements will be developed Supply Chain professionals’ dedication to actively manage the from this baseline. In 2014, we continued our programme to Employee commuting: During 2012 an employee survey about transport network in order to reduce environmental impact. reduce reliance on air cargo to transport products. commuting practices was organised through the Green Teams. The biggest saving has been in reducing the transport by Based on collected responses, the footprint was estimated Supply chain project to reduce our carbon footprint air cargo. With a dedicated project approach in the Flavour at 14,700 metric tonnes. A new survey will be organised to In 2012, we set up a Global Transportation Project to reduce Division, a 14% reduction (by weight) of air cargo for establish possible reductions since 2012. freight spend and share best practices across the Company. The intercompany deliveries has been achieved. For the first time, initiative also focused on identifying carbon savings through carbon footprint data was collected for inbound raw materials Packaging of finished product: Our SAP systems allow us transport and distribution efficiency – in particular through for which transport was organised by Givaudan; for about to retrieve global data for the different types of packaging shipment consolidation and by changing the mode of transport 26,000 tonnes of raw materials the transport footprint was used. Combining these data with standard carbon footprint to less carbon intensive forms. Through close cooperation about 4,760 tonnes of CO2. information from our suppliers, enabled us to estimate the with supply chain managers in each of the regions, customer 2014 footprint for packaging at 52,397 metric tonnes, which care managers and local site transportation managers, we Transport related incidents: Four small transport/packaging is about 4% higher compared to 2013. The reason for this have consolidated our approach to transportation – across related incidents were reported via our external emergency increase is related to a 1.6% increase in packaging units used, air, sea and road freight modes of transport. The project has response provider. With the help of this provider all incidents and a slight shift towards packaging with a higher footprint per also improved consolidation of products distributed between were controlled and three of the four minor in nature. In all unit (e.g. steel and plastic drums). production sites and warehouses and production sites three cases it concerned small leakages from the packages that and customers. were damaged during off-loading and in a transit warehouse. One incident involved a person cleaning an accidental spill, who 50 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Supplier environmental assessment Responsible sourcing of raw materials is an important element of Givaudan’s Sustainability programme, and a key issue for many of our customers who increasingly want assurances of responsible supply chain practices, traceability and provenance. As a signatory of the ten principles of the United Nations We encourage selected suppliers to improve performance. Performance indicators Global Compact, Givaudan holds itself to a high ethical and One way we do this is by inviting suppliers to register with social standard of human rights, labour standards, and antiSedex, which is a data-sharing platform to improve supply corruption. Givaudan has its Principles of Business Conduct, chain practices. Some then voluntarily go on to complete the EN32: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened which require it, among others, to comply with all applicable Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) which requires using environmental criteria laws and regulations. compliance in four key responsible sourcing pillars including All new relationships between Givaudan and vendors Labour Standards, Business Integrity, Environment and Health are developed under vendor requirement guidelines as By consequence Givaudan has similar expectations of and Safety. Non-compliance with these standards is not an reference material. its vendors. option for Givaudan. One of the benefits of SMETA is that ‘an As per the United Nations Global Compact principles 7-9, we We encourage selected suppliers to improve their audit for one is an audit for all’. Across AIM-PROGRESS this expect the suppliers to support a precautionary approach to performance. One way we do this is by inviting suppliers process is known as Mutual Recognition (MR), and it helps environmental challenges, to take initiatives which promote to register with Sedex, which is a data-sharing platform to reduce supplier ‘audit fatigue’. Internally, these processes greater environmental responsibility and to encourage improve supply chain practices. are managed by procurement. Our category managers, the development and implementation of environmentally located around the world, play a vital role in helping to –Total – number of significant suppliers identified: 400 friendly technologies. ensure compliance. –Total – number of suppliers assessed to date: 256 How we manage this issue –Total – number of suppliers assessed in 2014: 52 Givaudan initiates the vendor management programme as early –Percentage – of suppliers assessed to date: 64% as possible when developing new relationship with suppliers. –Percentage – of suppliers assessed in 2014: 13% This is communicated using the vendor expectation document. Givaudan initiates the vendor management programme as early as possible when developing new relationships with suppliers. This is communicated using the vendor expectation document. Givaudan suppliers are categorised and assessed for their potential risk – the extent to which they have opportunities to introduce positive changes in their system. These risks include supply, health and safety challenges, Human Rights, political instability or risk related to weather, which could destroy a key crop and cripple a community. Labour practices This section concerns the social dimension of sustainability and Givaudan’s impacts on, and responsibilities to, employees of the Company, including how people issues are managed. In this section: 52 Employment 54 Labour/management relations 55 Occupational health and safety 57 Training and education 58 Diversity and equal opportunity 59 Equal remuneration for women and men 60 Supplier assessment on labour practices and decent work 52 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Employment Rather than viewing organisational processes as ways of extracting more economic value, the best companies have a purpose beyond creating economic value. For Givaudan, this includes providing meaningful and rewarding centralises the majority of people processes related to Results were very strong. For example 95% of our employees jobs, and enhancing employees’ quality of life. recruitment, performance and development. At the end of 2014 said they would still like to be working at Givaudan in we launched our leadership programmes, aimed at developing 12 months’ time. Positive feedback was received especially Our commitments our employees, from first-time managers to members of our regarding our working environment, our culture of continuous –Engage – employees in making a positive difference. executive community. improvement and our alignment to common goals. But we also want to continuously improve and challenge ourselves. We are committed to offering a workplace where people are Compensation and benefits able to achieve their career aspirations, be rewarded for their We identified three key areas of improvement from the findings Compensation is a key component of Givaudan’s people of our first Employee Engagement Survey, conducted in performance, and be given the best development opportunities. management strategy. Our philosophy is to provide marketlate 2013: How we manage this issue competitive and fair compensation, while rewarding employees for individual and business achievements. Givaudan’s wide–Career: – Achieving employees’ goals and providing recognition As long-term success is built with the strength of our people, ranging benefits package is constantly assessed to make sure –Collaboration: – Sharing knowledge across our business Givaudan aims to equip our business leaders with the skills it is competitive and thorough. It includes comprehensive they need to excel while developing and challenging them, –Inclusiveness: – Enabling everyone’s best contribution benefits to help employees meet their retirement, healthcare, and rewarding talents in a performance-driven culture which The Executive Committee and management committees have income-protection and time-off needs. Our Rewards strategy promotes respect, openness and diversity. finalised key commitments under each of these global priorities: is currently being updated in order to meet management and Calculation basis employee expectations, especially in terms of providing more –For – Career, we are focusing on performance and development benchmarking transparency and filling in the gaps in the areas and encouraging recognition and reward for performance that All labour related indicators in this report are related to of rewards education and communication. goes ‘above and beyond’. headcounts, except on page 6 and 11 where numbers of employees is full-time equivalent. Work-life balance –For – Collaboration, we are making it easier for colleagues Givaudan published a work-life balance position statement in to share knowledge and connect with others around Recruitment and development the business. March 2012. We are committed to helping our employees to develop –For – Inclusiveness, we will focus on the diversity of our business their full potential through attractive opportunities. We are Givaudan Engagement Survey in senior positions, and promote Givaudan’s common values also actively managing our talent pipeline to ensure the Givaudan’s first ever all-employee Engagement Survey was and ways of working. sustainability and leadership positions of Givaudan. We give our conducted in October 2013. It aimed to measure employee people the time to learn and the right exposure to ensure their engagement across regions and divisions, to understand the key career growth, adopting a flexible approach to each person’s drivers of engagement in our Company. skills and personal situations, wherever we can. In 2013 we implemented ‘Engage’, our integrated and comprehensive online platform available to managers and employees that 53 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Employment Continued Performance indicators LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Employment contracts initiated Employment contracts terminated Turnover rate (%)* Age Age Age Age Age Age Age Age Age range range range range range range range range range Region <30 30-50 >50 Female Male Region <30 30-50 >50 Female Male Region <30 30-50 >50 Total Female Male Asia Pacific 168 182 5 160 195 Asia Pacific 62 115 21 95 103 Asia 15% 7% 9% 9% 9% 8% Pacific Europe, 267 295 22 192 392 Europe, 108 232 96 157 279 Middle East, Middle East, Europe, 17% 8% 9% 9% 10% 9% Africa Africa Middle East, Latin America 88 89 1 66 112 Latin 39 91 14 55 89 Africa America North 78 91 25 78 116 Latin 16% 11% 11% 12% 13% 11% America North 44 84 74 71 131 America America Total 601 657 53 496 815 North 21% 8% 11% 11% 10% 11% Total 253 522 205 378 602 America Total 17% 8% 10% 10% 10% 10% * Turnover calculation is based on number of terminations divided by total headcount during the reporting period 54 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Labour/management relations Businesses face many uncertainties in the rapidly changing global market. Establishing genuine dialogue with freely chosen workers’ Performance indicators representatives enables both workers and employers to understand each other’s challenges better and find ways to resolve them. LA4: Minimum notice periods regarding operational change Our commitments Legal local notice period prior to the implementation of –Embrace – diversity throughout our organisation and create an significant operational changes that could substantially engaged and inclusive workforce. affect our employees is respected either through direct communication to our employees or through their How we manage this issue elected representatives. Givaudan supports the freedom of employees to join trade Works councils or other employee representatives are unions or other employee representative bodies, provided these present in most of our locations. bodies are properly constituted and in line with local laws and practices. Givaudan does not discriminate based on employee membership of, or association with, these bodies and seeks to enter into constructive discussions at all times. One example is the recent revision to the European Works Council Agreement to take into account the most recent EU directives. We continue to hold regular European Works Council consultations with a group of employees, which represents work council members from all EU member states where we have operations. The purpose is to keep employees informed and consulted about significant structural changes in the organisation, and to report any feedback to the Executive Committee. The Givaudan Sustainability programme updates are regularly discussed with the European Works Council. 55 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Occupational health and safety An essential part of being a responsible company and employer is the health and safety of our employees, and the protection of the environment in which we operate. Our commitments How we manage this issue progressively expanding it to commercial sites. These activities facilitate the implementation of proactive behavioural audits –Reduce – incidents by strengthening workplace environment, Execution of ‘Zero is Possible’, an instrumental called safety contacts as well as periodic workplace inspections. safety behaviour and awareness. programme of our Global EHS Strategy Last but not least, every location receives a yearly pre-defined Our ultimate health and safety aspiration is to eliminate The execution of our Global EHS Strategy is facilitated by local safety target aligned with and contributing to the global accidents. Our primary means to achieving this aspiration is our network of local, regional and global EHS professionals, objective in accident reductions. through a ‘Zero is Possible’ behavioural-based safety awareness recognised as valued partners for our operations and business programme designed to develop a strong culture in which every teams. Guidance, project management support and governance employee takes responsibility for their own safety, the safety of advice is provided by our Corporate EHS Centre of Expertise in the people around them and the safety of the environments in the field of: which we operate. –hazardous – material compliance (industrial safety, dangerous Progress in 2014 goods transport, data compliance management, material stewardship, packaging and labelling) Conduct ‘Zero is Possible’ behavioural safety programme –occupational – health (identification, evaluation and control of potential health hazards in the workplace, medical surveillance We continued to build on our SafeStart™ safety awareness and documentation) training, which is part of our global behavioural safety programme ‘Zero is Possible’. This included the introduction –process – safety management (standardised approaches to in 2014 of ‘Our Safety Ground Rules’. These rules, designed by process risk assessment, odour emissions control, engineering employees, will be a catalyst to take our safety performance support, internal audits, business continuity planning and to the next level by addressing common situations that may global safety laboratory) be encountered every day. The rules leverage the benefits of –occupational – safety (technical safety, behaviouralSafeStart™ training and key learnings from all accidents, nearbased safety). misses and unsafe situations reported throughout Givaudan With actions visible on a daily basis, the ‘Zero is Possible’ since 2009. programme started in 2009 with the ultimate goal to get to LTI rate below 0.1 by 2020 zero occupational incidents. This programme consists of safety leadership training for line managers, a new set of Safety The 2014 LTI rate decreased by 18% compared to 2013 at 0.36 Ground Rules and globally rolled-out employee awareness (close to our 2014 target set at 0.34). training covering the behavioural aspects of occupational health and safety. As part of this programme, we are rolling out SafeStart™ training in all our manufacturing locations and 56 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Occupational health and safety Continued Performance indicators LA6: Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender Health and safety data Total recordable cases by region and gender 2013 Number of total Number of total 2009 (restated) 2014 recordable cases recordable cases Region – female – male Fatalities 0 0 0 Asia Pacific 2 15 Number of LTIs 79 37 31 Europe, Middle East, 2 33 LTI rate 1.03 0.44 0.36 Africa Lost day* rate N/A 9.61 9.64 Latin America 1 5 Number of Restricted Work Cases (RWC) 28 27 32 North America 5 40 Number of Medical Treatment Cases (MTC) 28 41 40 Total 10 93 Number of Total Recordable Cases (TRC) 135 105 103 Total Recordable Case Rate** 1.76 1.26 1.21 Number of lost days N/A 803 823 LTI rate – Lost day rate by region – Absenteeism (includes 323 (includes 320 days Lost days carried carried over from Region LTI rate day rate Absenteeism over from 2012) previous years) Asia Pacific 0.32 11.19 1.54% Number of hours worked 15,341,093 16,712,479 *** 17,080,935*** Europe, 0.36 1.58 3.64% Absenteeism N/A 2.97%**** 2.84%**** Middle East, Africa * N  umber of lost work days resulting from work-related accidents per 200,000 working hours. Calculation based on scheduled work days lost from the day after the accident Latin 0.08 0.47 1.17% ** LTI and TRC are both according to the official OSHA definitions America *** 7.9% of these represent external contractors for whom the Company is liable (Temps) North 0.68 35.79 3.37% **** Compared to the number of normal available working days, includes correction for employees working on a part-time basis America 57 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Training and education An employee who receives the necessary training is better able to perform his/her job. Continuous training also keeps employees on the cutting edge of industry developments. Employees who are competent and on top of changing industry –learning – from others (20%) Performance indicators standards help companies hold a position as a leader and a –structured – learning (10%). strong competitor within the industry. In 2013 we implemented ‘Engage’, our integrated and LA11: Percentage of employees receiving regular Our commitments comprehensive online platform available to managers and performance and career development reviews, by gender employees, which centralises the majority of people processes and by employee category –Develop – visionary, inspiring and challenging leaders who will achieve our ambitious targets, and ensure our future success. related to recruitment, performance and development. As part of Engage, a Learning Management System (LMS) is also now Female 80% How we manage this issue available, which enables Givaudan employees to register with Male 45% courses online. We are fostering a learning culture where more and more employees can take stock of their own skills progress and Both the Fragrance and Flavour Divisions are now conducting Disclosure: the calculation for this indicator has changed education needs. Wherever possible, employees deal with Business Master Classes to train, educate and develop their compared to 2013. Previously, we did not have an integrated challenging and stretching assignments and constructive team Global Sales Force. The Fragrance Division has extended tool that could enable us to automatically retrieve feedback is becoming more widespread. the Business Master Class concept to its Fragrance employees who were receiving regular performance and Development Teams. career development reviews. We were therefore taking the We are keen that Givaudan’s line managers should regard themselves, increasingly, as ‘talent champions’: they should End of 2014 we launched our leadership programmes, aimed assumptions that all our employees participating in our be committed to offering people flexible and wide-ranging at developing our employees, from first-time managers to the Incentive Plan were in scope. development opportunities so they can maintain and increase members of our executive community. We now have rolled-out our integrated and comprehensive their employability and boost their job satisfaction. Givaudan’s compliance training programme was also a focus online platform “Engage” (still on-going) and are now including Givaudan developed its Learning & Development strategy to area in 2014. The e-training programme on Givaudan’s in this indicator employees having filled an online performance strengthen capabilities and to develop a high-performance Principles of Business Conduct is mandatory for all employees, and development in the system. culture. This strategy is articulated around four priorities: except those in the US, who accomplish a similar programme adapted to the specific US requirements. 1. Culture and onboarding 4,830 employees, including all members of the Leadership 2. People management and leadership board have completed the specific anti-bribery training. 3. Core business skills 4. Functional excellence Our learning strategy encourages the 70/20/10 concept: –learning – by doing (70%) 58 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Diversity and equal opportunities Equal opportunity is necessary in order to cultivate a set of leaders with legitimacy in the eyes of employees. It is therefore necessary that the path to leadership is visibly Performance indicators open to talented and qualified individuals of every race and ethnicity. Respecting and celebrating diversity also adds value to the experience of working for and with Givaudan. LA12: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Our commitments Composition governance (Leadership Board and Board of Directors) –Embrace – diversity throughout our organisation and create a diverse and inclusive workforce. Leadership Board/ Board % <30 30–50 >50 Progress in 2014 Female 1 7% 0 0 1 A wider Givaudan workforce is represented in senior Male 13 93% 0 0 13 leadership positions. The current percentage of female employees in Givaudan’s senior leadership positions has increased to 20.4% in 2014, Employees’ categories and composition of governance bodies an improvement on last year’s performance. Male Female Total How we manage this issue <30 30–50 >50 <30 30–50 >50 It is Givaudan’s policy to recruit, employ and promote Senior management 0 60 51 0 16 14 147 employees on the sole basis of the qualifications and abilities Middle management 34 1,062 378 40 1,043 182 2,739 needed for the work to be performed, without regard to race, age, sex, national origin or any other non-relevant category. Associates 831 2,779 1,051 576 1,479 382 7,098 We embrace diversity throughout our organisation and are fully Total 865 3,901 1,480 616 2,538 578 9,984 committed to creating a diverse and inclusive workforce. In particular, we try as much as we can to promote women into managerial positions, and we produce analytics to track progress in this regard (including percentage of women in leadership positions). Our Diversity Position Statement outlines our commitment to ensuring a representative workforce that reflects the diverse communities in which we operate. 59 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 GRI index Profile disclosures > Performance Appendix Equal remuneration for women and men Companies with a reputation for compensating men and women equally may have access to a larger talent pool when recruiting and hiring. Highly qualified candidates may be more likely to consider These elements are reviewed at the senior management level Performance indicators working for a company if they believe opportunities for each year. Furthermore, our Principles of Business Conduct economic growth will be available to them as they demonstrate state that “It is Givaudan’s policy to recruit, employ and promote their value, regardless of their gender. Once hired, productive employees on the sole basis of the qualifications and abilities LA13: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women workers may be more likely to remain with the organisation if needed for the work to be performed without regard to race, to men by employee category, by significant locations they believe they are being compensated fairly. age, sex, national origin or any other non-relevant category”. of operation Our Diversity Position Statement reinforces our commitment to We do not report average salary by gender because we Our commitments consider this information as confidential. equal pay. –Embrace – diversity throughout our organisation and create We are committed to promoting diversity. a diverse and inclusive workforce. For more information on our Diversity Position Statement: In 2011 we launched our Diversity Position Statement, www.givaudan.com/staticweb/StaticFiles/GivaudanCom/ defining what Diversity means to Givaudan and explaining How we manage this issue Publications/Corporate%20Governance/Giv_ where we are successful in managing Diversity. We defined For Givaudan employees a robust process as well as a globalDiversityPosStat.pdf our main areas of focus on Diversity as continuing continuously updated rewards strategy are in place to ensure our current successful practices and increasing the our compensation offering is competitive and enables us to representation of females in senior leadership positions. attract, retain and motivate qualified employees. This process Since the publication of our position on Diversity, a number includes all markets in which we operate, all job functions and of activities have been taking place across the organisation all levels. We achieve this by conducting annual (and in some in active support of Givaudan’s commitment. Of particular cases bi-annual) benchmarking studies. Salaries are reviewed significance, we interviewed more than 50 female employees and benchmarked at least annually and take into account and senior leaders globally for their insights and perspectives. various macro-economic data (including cost of living) and We needed to listen and learn from Givaudan’s community market evolution. In developing markets and high-inflation in relation to diversity, career progression and leadership. environments, we may review compensation more often Their input gave us a better understanding of what we do than annually. We also have a profit sharing scheme which well and also highlighted our areas of development. allows our non-management employees globally to share in Company profits. 60 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Supplier assessment on labour practices and decent work Responsible sourcing of raw materials is an important element How we manage this issue Performance indicators of Givaudan’s Sustainability programme, and a key issue for Givaudan initiates the vendor management programme as early many of our customers who increasingly want assurances of as possible when developing new relationships with suppliers. LA14: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened responsible supply chain practices, traceability and provenance. This is communicated using the vendor expectation document. using labour practices criteria As a signatory of the ten principles of the United Nations Givaudan suppliers are categorised and assessed for their All new relationships between Givaudan and vendors Global Compact, Givaudan holds itself to a high ethical and potential risk – the extent to which they have opportunities to are developed under vendor requirement guidelines as social standard of human rights, labour standards, and antiintroduce positive changes in their system. These risks include reference material. corruption. Givaudan has its Principles of Business Conduct, supply, health and safety challenges, Human Rights, political which require it, among others, to comply with all applicable We encourage selected suppliers to improve their instability or risk related to weather, which could destroy a key laws and regulations. performance. One way we do this is by inviting suppliers crop and cripple a community. By consequence Givaudan has similar expectations of to register with Sedex, which is a data-sharing platform to We encourage selected suppliers to improve performance. improve supply chain practices. its vendors. One way we do this is by inviting suppliers to register with As per the United Nations Global Compact principles 1-6, –Total – number of significant suppliers identified: 400 Sedex, which is a data-sharing platform to improve supply Givaudan expect its suppliers to respect Human Rights chain practices. Some then voluntarily go on to complete the –Total – number of suppliers assessed to date: 256 Standards. In particular, we ask our vendors to abide by all laws Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) which requires –Total – number of suppliers assessed in 2014: 52 regarding the abolition of child labour and human trafficking. compliance in four key responsible sourcing pillars including Labour Standards, Business Integrity, Environment and Health –Percentage – of suppliers assessed to date: 64% and Safety. Non-compliance with these standards is not an –Percentage – of suppliers assessed in 2014: 13% option for Givaudan. One of the benefits of SMETA is that ‘an audit for one is an audit for all’. Across AIM-PROGRESS this process is known as Mutual Recognition (MR), and it helps reduce supplier ‘audit fatigue’. Internally, these processes are managed by procurement. Our category managers, located around the world, play a vital role in helping to ensure compliance. Human rights This section concerns the social dimension of sustainability and the extent to which processes have been implemented by Givaudan to mitigate incidents of human rights violations, including how incidents are managed and remediated. In this section: 62 Child labour 64 Supplier human rights assessment 62 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Child labour All forms of child labour are against our Company principles and values and therefore we have a corporate policy, risk assessment processes and prevention measures in place to monitor this. Eliminating the risk of child labour in our supply chain is of How we manage this issue We respect the Ethical Trade Initiative base code and audit paramount importance to Givaudan. At Givaudan, we deeply supplier practices regarding child labour using the same code Givaudan is a signatory to the UNGC, which is a strategic policy value the transparent and trusting relationships we have with that states ”Child Labour shall not be used”: initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations all our stakeholders, including our suppliers, our customers and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in –there – shall be no new recruitment of child labour and ultimately our employees, who expect us to operate at the the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti–companies – shall develop or participate in and contribute to highest level of corporate social responsibility. Corruption. Principle 4 seeks the “elimination of all forms of policies and programmes which provide for the transition of As a signatory of the ten principles of the United Nations forced and compulsory labour”. Principal 5 seeks the “effective any child found to be performing child labour to enable her or Global Compact, Givaudan holds itself to a high ethical and abolition of child labour”. him to attend and remain in quality education until no longer social standard of human rights, labour standards, and antiGivaudan’s Principles of Business Conduct represent a governing a child corruption. Givaudan has its Principles of Business Conduct, charter for ethical behaviour including, amongst others, the fair –children – and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at which require it, among others, to comply with all applicable treatment of employees with mutual respect and without any night or in hazardous conditions laws and regulations. form of discrimination. These Principles also outlaw all forms By consequence Givaudan has similar expectations of of exploitation of children, including by suppliers, and stipulate –these – policies and procedures shall conform to the provisions its vendors. that Givaudan will not provide employment to children before of the relevant ILO standards. As per the United Nations Global Compact principles 1-6, they have completed their compulsory education. We will also Givaudan complies with California Senate Bill 657, the California Givaudan expect its suppliers to respect Human Rights not knowingly do business with suppliers that use child labour. Transparency in Supply Chains Act, which requires retail and Standards. In particular, we ask our vendors to abide by all laws We select and audit strategic suppliers on their sustainability manufacturing companies to disclose the precautions they have regarding the abolition of child labour and human trafficking. performance to ensure they are in compliance with Givaudan’s taken or will take to eliminate slavery and human trafficking high ethical standards and their own local laws, and that from their supply chains. they are not using child labour, slaves or those subjected to For more information on Givaudan’s efforts to eradicate human trafficking. One way we do this is by participating in child labour, human trafficking and slavery from its the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex). A core principle direct supply chain see: www.givaudan.com/staticweb/ of the Sedex model is the avoidance of unfair or unsafe labour StaticFiles/GivaudanCom/Sustainability/Documents/Giv_ practices, which includes slavery and human trafficking. childLabourHumanTraffickingSlavery.pdf 63 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Child labour Continued Performance indicators HR5: Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Child labour or young workers exposed to hazardous work can be an issue across the entire supply chain covering our own operations and our suppliers. 100% of operations assessed for risk Since 2008 Givaudan has been an active user of the Sedex platform which incorporates human rights risks in its assessments. Since 2010, all Givaudan manufacturing sites have been registered on Sedex and completed Sedex selfassessment questionnaires (SAQ) to share information with customers. Givaudan annually reviews and updates the SAQ. To date, 20 Givaudan sites have been audited according to SMETA standards. Significant suppliers assessed for risk In 2014 we surpassed our 2015 objective to have 200 priority suppliers registered with Sedex. These suppliers represent 68% of our spend. We now have a total of 293 key suppliers registered with Sedex. 64 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Supplier human rights assessment Responsible sourcing of raw materials is an important element of Givaudan’s Sustainability programme, and a key issue for many of our customers who increasingly want assurances of responsible supply chain practices, traceability and provenance. As a signatory of the ten principles of the United Nations How we manage this issue Performance indicators Global Compact, Givaudan holds itself to a high ethical and Givaudan initiates the vendor management programme as early social standard of human rights, labour standards, and antias possible when developing new relationship with suppliers. HR10: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened corruption. Givaudan has its Principles of Business Conduct, This is communicated using the vendor expectation document. using human rights criteria which require it, among others, to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Givaudan suppliers are categorised and assessed for their All new relationships between Givaudan and vendors potential risk – the extent to which they have opportunities to are developed under vendor requirement guidelines as By consequence Givaudan has similar expectations of introduce positive changes in their system. These risks include reference material. its vendors. supply, health and safety challenges, Human Rights, political As per the United Nations Global Compact principles 1-6, We encourage selected suppliers to improve their instability or risk related to weather, which could destroy a key Givaudan expect its suppliers to respect Human Rights performance. One way we do this is by inviting suppliers crop and cripple a community. Standards. In particular, we ask our vendors to abide by all laws to register with Sedex, which is a data-sharing platform to We encourage selected suppliers to improve performance. improve supply chain practices. regarding the abolition of child labour and human trafficking. One way we do this is by inviting suppliers to register with –Total – number of significant suppliers identified: 400 Sedex, which is a data-sharing platform to improve supply chain practices. Some then voluntarily go on to complete the –Total – number of suppliers assessed to date: 256 Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) which requires –Total – number of suppliers assessed in 2014: 52 compliance in four key responsible sourcing pillars including Labour Standards, Business Integrity, Environment and Health –Percentage – of suppliers assessed to date: 64% and Safety. Non-compliance with these standards is not an –Percentage – of suppliers assessed in 2014: 13% option for Givaudan. One of the benefits of SMETA is that ‘an audit for one is an audit for all’. Across AIM-PROGRESS this process is known as Mutual Recognition (MR), and it helps reduce supplier ‘audit fatigue’. Internally, these processes are managed by procurement. Our category managers, located around the world, play a vital role in helping to ensure compliance. Society This section concerns the social dimension of sustainability and the impacts Givaudan has on the local communities it operates in, including how interactions are managed and remediated. In this section: 66 Local communities 69 Anti-corruption 70 Public policy 66 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Local communities Local communities where we operate have the ability to impact our business and they can be impacted by our activities. They have therefore been designated as one of the six key stakeholders with whom we conduct on-going stakeholder dialogue. Our commitments Visual Healthcare Programme ‘Yo Veo Mejor’ (I see better) Fragrances China continues to support KidStrong Eye Care Pedro Escobedo, Mexico programme –Work – together with our local communities on projects and The Mexican Green Team has implemented a visual healthcare Givaudan’s cooperation with Shanghai Roots & Shoots on the causes that benefit the communities within which we work programme called ‘Yo Veo Mejor’ to examine the vision of children KidStrong Eye Care programme is now in its third year. In 2014, –Build – partnerships with non-profit organisations and work on in kindergarten and elementary school. the Fragrance Division in China has provided monetary support charitable themes: Blindness, Family Nutrition and supporting to four migrant schools in Shanghai for: The programme includes: Local Communities. –a– thorough eyesight check-up for 548 migrant children aged –vision – examination of all children in kindergarten and elementary Progress in 2014 between 9 and 11 years old schools in two communities in Pedro Escobedo: Quintanares and Givaudan developed a number of partnerships in 2014 around its Los Alvarez. Included is the CAM School (school for children with –the – production of 102 pairs of eyeglasses three charitable themes and other charitable initiatives, including: disabilities in the Pedro Escobedo Community) –the – purchase of qualified desk lamps for those students who –donation – of glasses for all children needing them. received their new glasses Blindness The main results and benefits obtained: –eye – care education activities involving almost 100 teachers Retinopathy of Prematures, Jigani, India and parents. The Jigani Green Team has continued sponsoring infants, born –92 – children from 3 to 12 years old received their glasses and prematurely, for the correction of their eyesight through surgery were able to say ‘Yo Veo Mejor’ and were able to continue At the most recent event, volunteers divided into pairs used using laser technology. If unattended, this condition would lead their schooling presentation, group discussion and games to engage the to permanent blindness. The team collaborated with the charity students in the class. –the – detection of three cases needing special medical treatment eye hospital, Vittala International Institute of Ophthalmology and a specialised medical institution was contacted to define the (VIIO) in Bangalore, to conduct these surgeries. The Jigani Green best treatment for these children. Team financially support the organisation, and local volunteers raised additional funds and visited schools to help check children’s eyesight. 67 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Local communities Continued Nutrition Givaudan China Flavours has been a committed and trusted Other outreach such as health education and culture partner of KidStrong Nutrition Programme since 2012. Riverfront team delivers nutrition to school children in Shanghai Community Outreach Programme with Asian Civilizations They have been providing monetary support to Limin Migrant This is the third year running Givaudan has supported this Museum, Singapore School for the purchase of nutritious food such as boiled eggs, charitable scheme that helps children from the Li Min Migrant Fragrance Commercial collaborated with Singapore’s National soybean curd and soy milk. In addition, more than 20 Givaudan School learn about good nutrition. This supports the Family Heritage Board (a statutory board under the Ministry of Culture, employees have been regularly volunteering their time, teaching Nutrition theme, one of two strands that underpin our global Community and Youth) to present a series of six community the nutrition classes and developing the curriculum. approach to charitable giving. outreach sessions called ‘If the Tree had a nose’ part of an Supporting local communities at source interactive learning exhibition called ‘Once Upon a Time in Asia: During the spring semester, the Givaudan team taught five The Story Tree’ was hosted at the Asian Civilizations Museum. nutrition lessons. These showed over 80 students between the Helping refugees, Naarden, The Netherlands ages of eight and nine how to differentiate healthy food from In Naarden, a temporary building – also known as the SAP Sustainable Christmas delights, Rome, Italy junk food, how to have a well-balanced diet and how to plant building – needed to be removed. The Dutch Green Team and Each Christmas, Givaudan Italia turns the traditions of holiday vegetables at home. site management decided to donate this building to a centre for parties and gift giving into opportunities to support local charities. asylum seekers in the Province of Groningen. This prefabricated When looking for suppliers for the internal Christmas party and Flavours China employee receives external recognition for building was collected and reconstructed in a small village called for seasonal gifts, they source from reliable charities that are volunteering Onnen, where it is now part of group of buildings that house supporting locally relevant activities. For example, in 2014, they July Liu, Senior Quality Control Analyst of Flavours China, approximately 450 refugees (men, women and children) from selected a socially responsible supplier for the seasonal gift to received an Outstanding Volunteer Award at Shanghai Roots & Eritrea and Syria. raise awareness of this local charity and, in the spirit of Christmas, Shoots Partner Appreciation Reception on 11 November 2014 encourage employees to adopt a positive toward charitable giving. in Shanghai, China. Dr Jane Goodall, Founder of Roots & Shoots In addition to the donation of the building, the Site (International) and Jane Goodall Institute, presented the award Management Team decided to donate an interactive school to July in person. board for educational purposes, and the Green Team started a fundraising activity among the employees, to donate clothing, As a passionate and committed volunteer of KidStrong Nutrition shoes (especially suitable for winter time), and also toys and program, July has been demonstrating her consistent and books for the kids. sustainable engagement with the community for the last three years. July not only dedicated her time in teaching nutrition lessons at a migrant school but also contributed her knowledge and wisdom in improving the KidStrong teaching materials. Over the years, she has developed into an inspirational leader in voluntary work and has been a motivational factor for first timers to join this journey. 68 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Local communities Continued Flavours China Open Day at Riverfront site In 2011 we undertook an internal global audit to understand the Performance indicators Givaudan China opened its door to employees and their families extent of our interaction with stakeholder groups such as affected in October 2014 at its Riverfront site in Shanghai for the first communities, local government authorities, non-governmental time. More than 60 families attended the Flavours China Open and other civil society organisations, local institutions and other SO1: Percentage of operations with implemented local Day, the primary aim of which was to provide families the interested or affected parties. The internal audits included community engagement, impact assessments, and opportunity to discover how Givaudan’s distinctive flavours assessments of impacts, and the topics covered environmental development programmes delight us everyday. and social programmes and local community complaints 31 of our 32 operations (97%) have implemented effective procedures. Every year we monitor this programme, in 2013 the Local Community Development Programmes.* Build 14 schools in Madagascar by 2014 results established: * For the site that does not have a formal Local Communities Engagement At the end of 2014, 14 schools had been built in Madagascar. Programme, employees participate in social activities with the other sites in the –all – our sites have on-going interactions with local authorities same country. How we manage this issue regarding regulatory affairs Actively developing and sustaining relationships with affected –31 – of our 32 manufacturing sites (97%) have implemented communities and other stakeholders throughout the life of our effective Local Community Development Programmes. operations, and understanding how we interact with markets and social institutions, are key components of our Sustainability Charitable giving programme. In particular, we listen to community representatives We also monitor charitable spend on every site. Since 2012 to make sure we take their point of view into account, and we have implemented an annual budget allocation process integrate this feedback into our sustainability activities. for charitable giving, for all our sites. Spend is controlled and On most sites, formal relationships have been established consolidated by a sustainability controller. Every site manager is both with local authorities and with significant organisations responsible for the way the site budget is spent. He or she has representing neighbours, or working on specific environmental some freedom to allocate funding to local organisations providing and social issues. they comply with Givaudan guidelines and local laws on non-profit organisations. In 2014 the total spend on charitable giving for local communities was CHF 1,323,000. 69 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Anti-corruption Ethical behaviour by Givaudan’s employees, agents and business partners is of utmost priority to Givaudan. We can be held responsible not just for our own actions, but also for the actions of our agents, consultants and certain other business partners. Penalties for violating bribery and corruption laws are severe, –Givaudan – has included corruption and gifts/entertainment Performance indicators including prison sentences and significant fines. In addition, in its basic compliance training for all permanent Givaudan mere allegations of bribery or corruption violations can damage employees. Moreover, Givaudan has introduced specific Givaudan’s reputation. anti-bribery training for employees with material outside SO4: Communication and training on anti-corruption stakeholder relations. Both trainings are available in all major policies and procedures How we manage this issue Company languages Basic anti-bribery training, as part of our code of conduct Most countries where we operate have anti-bribery laws, –as – part of the monitoring activities, Givaudan has introduced a training, has been completed by 97% of all our employees including the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices compliance helpline to allow employees to report compliance (except those in the US). Act and anti-bribery laws and regulations of other countries in issues in confidence. As at the end of 2013, the compliance 98,7% of all our managers and above, including 100% of our which Givaudan does business or intends to do so. Our actions helpline has been opened in all countries worldwide except Leadership Board, have completed the training. will be especially scrutinised whenever public officials for France, where Givaudan requires an approval by the are involved. Additionally, 4,830 employees including 2,770 managers competent local authority (CNIL) before it can open its (96,9% of those invited to take the training) and 100% of Corruption is managed as part of the Givaudan compliance helpline to French employees. The helpline is also available in the Leadership Board received additional specific antimanagement system through the following instruments: all major Company languages bribery training. –corruption – is one of the risk areas regularly reviewed by –Givaudan – has enacted a procedure for the selection and the corporate compliance officer as part of a compliance engagement of agents and distributors, which includes a risk assessment formal due diligence review and minimum requirements for agent contracts and payments. –corruption – and inappropriate gifts and entertainments are prohibited in Givaudan’s Principles of Business Conduct. In addition, in 2011 Givaudan introduced a Global AntiBribery, Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality Policy addressing the issue in more detail, including reporting of gifts and entertainment. Both documents are available to employees in all major Company languages. The policy has been reconfirmed in 2013 70 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Assurance Public policy As the largest fragrance and flavour company, Givaudan takes responsibility to support, and in many cases lead, in the development of public policy that impacts the fragrance and flavour industry. How we manage this issue Performance indicators Givaudan supports, and in many cases leads, industry-wide programmes with international industry associations (IFRA and SO6: Total value of political contributions by country IOFI), and many national associations for assuring the safe use and recipient/beneficiary of flavours and fragrances in consumer products. No funds are No funds are used to benefit organisations of a used to benefit organisations of a political nature. political nature. Givaudan continues to drive the regulatory advocacy activities within the International Organization of the Flavor Industry (IOFI). For example, this committee, chaired by Givaudan, is working closely with the European Union (EU) Food Safety Authority, the EU Commission and the European Flavour Association (EFA) to ensure a smooth implementation of the most important reforms to flavour regulations in the EU for the past 30 years. Givaudan also actively participates in national trade associations in the US (FEMA), Japan (JEFMA) and Europe to respond to questions and issues raised by local and regional health authorities. In each case, Givaudan educates regulators in the development of sound regulations promoting the safe use of flavourings. The Fragrance Division provides leadership to the global industry in regulatory advocacy activities within the International Fragrance Association (IFRA) – both at the global and regional level. Givaudan is leading industry efforts to enhance the regulation of allergens in Europe, as well as to protect the intellectual property of fragrances in both Europe and the US. Product responsibility This section concerns the social and environmental dimensions of sustainability and the impacts of Givaudan’s products that directly affect customers, namely, health and safety, information and labelling, marketing, and privacy. In this section: 72 Customer health and safety 74 Product and service labeling 72 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Customer health and safety Ensuring consumer safety for use of Givaudan’s fragrance and flavour products is a core responsibility of the business for ethical and legal reasons. Our commitments How we manage this issue REACH regulation update –Gather – information on origin of our ingredients to Givaudan has a long history of investment in supporting safety We continue to achieve our REACH compliance goals. From the contribute to regulatory requirements, food safety and evaluation of its raw materials for use. Critical data to support inception of REACH, through pre-registration and two phase-in issue management use is developed by Givaudan or its suppliers to enable us to registration deadlines, we have met our objectives. The latest comply with safety regulations around the world. With our deadline was 31 May 2013 and was the most challenging yet. –Ensure – Givaudan products are safe for people and the regulatory expertise we not only provide an essential service of We succeeded with our registrations. environment when used as intended advice to our customers, but also ensure that our products meet The joint registrations provided perhaps the greatest –Promote – Health and Wellness through our products or exceed all requirements around the world. challenge, due to the complexities of working within substance –Engage – with customers to develop new technologies for exchange forums and consortia. The process has provided us Regulatory assessments healthier and more sustainable products. with greater insights into our industry and how others are The ingredients we use are subject to regulatory assessment coping with the challenge and increasing demands made by Progress in 2014 by government agencies and international organisations such regulation. The road ahead will be a greater test with a worldwide that approve their use based on a review of their predicted yearly registration rate for the final phase-in deadline Fragrance Division compliance with European REACH safety profile. For flavours these include the US Food and Drug (2018) of more than double that previously undertaken. It is registration requirements, as they become applicable, Administration (FDA); the Flavor and Extract Manufacturers a challenge we intend to meet to ensure REACH compliance in 2010, 2013 and 2018 Association of the US (FEMA); the European Food Safety for not only Givaudan but also our customers in the EU as our We continue to achieve our REACH compliance goals. From the Authority (EFSA); the International Organization of the downstream users. inception of REACH, through pre-registration and two phase-in Flavor Industry (IOFI); and the Joint Expert Committee on registration deadlines we have met our objectives. The latest Food Additives of the World Health Organization (JECFA). See also our Principles of Business Conduct – sections 1, 5 deadline was 31 May 2013 and was the most challenging yet. Fragrance materials meet mandatory IFRA requirements for and 9: We succeeded with our registrations. safety in addition to specific country or regional regulatory http://www.givaudan.com/our-company/corporaterequirements such as those of the European Chemicals Agency governance/rules-and-policies Flavours Division with New Flavour Regulations around and US Environmental Protection Agency. the world We maintain stringent methodologies to assure the safety Givaudan continues to improve the quality of its flavours as and quality of our products. To enhance these, and to ensure the regulatory requirements around the globe are enhanced to we meet ever-changing regulatory requirements, we have ensure a safe food supply for the worlds’ growing population. developed a SAP-based global Regulatory Compliance Engine (RCE). 73 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Customer health and safety Continued Performance indicators PR1: Percentage of significant product and service We maintain stringent methodologies to assure the safety Disposal, reuse or recycling categories for which health and safety impacts are and quality of our products. To enhance these, and to ensure Finished products are created to comply with all appropriate assessed for improvement we meet ever-changing regulatory requirements, we have end consumer product safety and regulations in the markets developed a SAP based global Regulatory Compliance Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of in which they will be sold. Engine (RCE). The compliance calculation is performed by products and services are assessed for improvement, and the Compliance Engine (proprietary technology exclusive to Our programme to establish a biodegradable palette of percentage of significant products and services categories Givaudan), using calculation technology from SAP across all fragrance ingredients began in 2007. We have completed the subject to such procedures. sites and regions; the Compliance Engine is connected with biodegradability screening of all our perfumery ingredients, all commercial systems used for fragrance creation, including natural materials. Rich with more than 20 years’ Product registration/certification development and sales. experience in the biodegradability testing of fragrance The ingredients we use are subject to regulatory assessment ingredients, Givaudan has an extensive database on the by government agencies and international organisations Marketing and promotion biodegradability of fragrance ingredients. worldwide that approve their use based on a review of their Health and safety is not applicable at this stage of the product For flavours, all our products are consumed at the end of safety profile. life cycle. their life cycle, so should not cause disposal issues. Manufacturing and production Use and service Our product safety assessment programme is designed to All products sold to customers are subject to product ensure that 100% of products are safe for consumer use. information requirements. Environment and health and safety At the core of the programme is a systematic safety evaluation information about our products is made available to the of the ingredients used in our fragrance and flavour products, users through product labels and Safety Data Sheets. In the and control of their use. All new ingredients are evaluated Flavour Division additional information is also provided in for human and environmental safety, as required, prior to the format of an Ingredient Declaration and instructions for their use. the application. 74 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Product and service labeling Givaudan recognises that health and safety is key for all of our stakeholders. Through product labels and Safety Data Sheets we can maintain trusted relationships with our customers. How we manage this issue Performance indicators The ingredients used in our formulae are evaluated for safety, health and environmental impact. This information is disclosed PR3: Type of product and service information required and filed with the relevant regulatory bodies. 100% of our by the organisation’s procedures for product and sold products delivered to customers are subject to product service information and labeling, and percentage of information requirements and regulations. Quality and significant products and service categories subject to environmental data about our products, including safety such information requirements information, is made available to the users through product Report whether the following product and service labels and Safety Data Sheets (SDS). The SDS are available in information is required by the organisation’s more than 45 different languages. procedures for product and service information For flavour products, information related to allergen, GMO, and labeling organic, nutritional and religious criteria can be provided. Givaudan operates regional hazardous materials competence Yes No centres and in 2012 appointed a global packaging engineer to Sourcing X globally coordinate and reinforce expertise on packaging and Content X labeling activities. Safe use X Disposal X Other Report the percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures 100% of sold products delivered to our customers are subject to product information requirements and regulations. Quality and environmental data about our products, including safety information, is made available to the users through product labels and Safety Data Sheets (SDS). The SDS are available in more than 45 different languages. Appendix In this section: 76 Performance indicators environmental 77 Performance indicators restatement table 76 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Performance indicators – environmental Key performance Indicators 2009 2013 2014 Key performance Indicators 2009 2013 2014 Energy Water intake Energy (GJ) Direct energy (from primary sources a) 1,632,589.20 1,739,478.10 1,678,076.00 Water intake Municipal water 2,286,998.90 2,602,992.80 2,379,183.10 Indirect energy: purchased electricity 897,286.10 1,009,193.30 922,754.40 (m3) Ground water 1,074,034.90 1,318,603.70 1,309,788.90 & steam Total municipal and groundwater 3,361,033.80 3,921,596.50 3,688,972.00 Total energy 2,529,875.30 2,748,671.40 2,600,830.40 Surface water 7,432,649.00 5,150,236.00 5,007,034.40 Energy efficiency Direct energy efficiency 5.29 4.50 4.3789 Total water b 10,793,682.80 9,071,832.50 8,696,006.40 (GJ/tonne Indirect energy efficiency 2.91 2.61 2.41 Water efficiencyg 10.90 10.15 9.63 production) Total energy 8.20 7.12 6.79 (m3/tonne of production) CO2 emissions Water discharge CO2 emissions Scope 1: from direct energy sources 102,452.60 103,559.40 98,001.20 Water discharge To the environment w/o biological 7,509,122.80 4,921,748.60 4,607,642.80 (tonnes)b Scope 2: from indirect energy sources 113,687.00 114,258.90 104,455.30 (m3) treatment Total CO2 emissions 216,139.60 217,818.30 202,456.50 To the environment after biological 1,928,725.00 2,000,448.60 1,952,077.80 treatment CO2 emissions Scope 1: from direct energy sources 0.332 0.268 0.256 efficiency (tonnes To external treatment facility w/o 355,458.40 560,371.50 424,394.40 Scope 2: from indirect energy sources 0.369 0.296 0.273 CO2/tonne of pre-treatment Total CO2 emissions 0.701 0.564 0.528 production) To external treatment facility with 1,311,436.40 1,717,098.30 1,754,173.90 Waste pre-treatment Hazardous waste Incinerated 14,050.30 9,844.10 9,536.00 Total discharged water 11,104,742.60 9,199,667.00 8,738,288.90 (tonnes) Incinerated with energy recoveryh – 4,906.40 4,673.30 COD (tonnes) of waste water discharged to the 255.5f environment Land-filled 728.40 376.20 533.10 Other data Recycled 3,312.90 12,233.10 14,197.30 Nitrogen oxides – NOx tonnesd 104.50 102.30 79.00 Total hazardous waste 18,091.60 22,453.40 24,266.40 Sulphur dioxide – SO2 tonnes 359.30 270.20 1.20 Non-hazardous Incinerated 3,058.00 2,974.30 2,244.90 waste (tonnes) VOC (tonnes) – 436.90 437.80 Incinerated with energy recovery h – 1,234.80 843.40 CFC inventory (kg) 15,714.05 10,756.20 11,252.80 Land-filled 6,695.30 7,564.70 6,973.30 CFC 11 equivalent inventory (kg) – 641.20 654.30 Recycled 16,349.60 28,663.20 29,865.60 CFC loss-replacement (kg) 1,393.14 1,262.70 853.70 Total non-hazardous waste 26,102.90 39,202.20 39,083.80 CFC 11 equivalent loss/replacement (kg) – 70.40 51.80 Total incinerated and land-filled waste 24,532.00 20,759.30 19,287.30 (HZ and NHZ) Production One-off waste – 31,062.60 24,487.50 Production quantities (tonnes) 308,466.70 386,319.80 383,217.20 (tonnes) c Greenhouse gas data are limited to CO 2 emissions Waste efficiencye 0.08 0.05 0.05 d Quantity is calculated by multiplying the annual fuel consumption by the corresponding emission factor for fuel type (tonnes of waste/ e Includes incinerated and land-filled waste (HZ and NHZ) tonne of production) f Covers the period from April to December 2014 a I ncludes natural gas (0.0345 GJ/m3), light fuel (36.12 GJ/m3), heavy fuel (39.77 GJ/m3), liquid petroleum gas (22.65 GJ/m3), town gas g Includes municipal and groundwater (0.0186 GJ/m3) b Includes sanitary, cooling and process water 77 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Performance indicators – restatement table Key performance indicators 2009 (as 2009 % 2013 (as 2013 % Key performance indicators 2009 (as 2009 % 2013 (as 2013 % published in (corrected change published (corrected change published in (corrected change published (corrected change 2013 SR) in 2014) 2009 in 2013 SR) in 2014) 2013 2013 SR) in 2014) 2009 in 2013 SR) in 2014) 2013 Energy (GJ) Water discharge (m3) Total energy 2,529,830.90 2,529,875.00 0.00 2,742,884.70 2,748,671.40 0.20 To the environment w/o 7,513,426.80 7,509,123.00 -0.06 4,935,622.60 4,921,748.60 -0.28 biological treatment CO2 emmisions (tonnes) c To the environment after 1,926,523.00 1,928,725.00 0.10 1,997,693.60 2,000,448.60 0.14 Total CO2 emissions 216,151.70 216,140.00 0.00 216, 950.10 217,818.30 0.40 biological treatment Waste To external treatment facility 319,117.00 355,458.00 11.40 519,418.60 560,371.50 7.90 Hazardous waste (tonnes) w/o pre-treatment Incinerated 14,728.60 14,050.30 -4.60 15, 827.30 9,844.10 -37.80 To external treatment facility 1,317,696.40 1,311,436.00 -0.50 1,730,944.00 1,717,098.30 -0.80 with pre-treatment Incinerated with energy – – – 11,038.71 4,906.40 -55.6 recovery Total discharged water 11,076,763.20 11,104,742.00 0.25 9,183,678.80 9,199,667.00 0.17 Recycled 2,655.91 3,313.90 24.70 5,462.16 12,233.10 124.00 Other data Total hazardous waste 18,112.90 18,092.60 -0.10 21,665.60 22,453.40 3.60 Nitrogen oxide NOx tonnes 104.70 104.50 -0.20 104.20 102.30 -1.80 Non-hazardous waste (tonnes) Sulphur dioxide – SO2 tonnes 358.90 359.30 0.10 269.80 270.20 0.15 Incinerated 3,029.70 3,058.00 0.90 – – – CFC inventory (kg) – – – 10,358.77 10,756.20 3.80 Incinerated with energy – – – 1,412.40 1,234.80 -12.6 CFC 11 equivalent inventory – – – 591.19 641.20 8.50 recovery (kg) Land-filled 6,622.60 6,695.30 1.10 7,764.10 7,564.70 -2.60 CFC loss-replacement (kg) – – – 1,253.64 1,262.70 0.70 Recycled 16,370.10 16,349.60 -0.10 – – – CFC 11 equivalent loss/ – – – 69.90 70.40 0.70 replacement (kg)w Total non-hazardous waste 26,022.40 26,102.90 0.30 39,401.60 39,202.20 -0.50 Total incinerated and land25,109.30 24,532.00 -2.30 26,941.84 20,759.30 -22.90 filled waste (HZ and NHZ) One-off-waste (tonnes) – – – 30,944.00 31,062.60 0.38 Water (m3) – – – Municipal water – – – 2,615,966.80 2,602,992.80 -0.50 Ground water 1,070,612.90 1,074,034.90 0.30 – – – Total water 10,790,260.80 10,793,682.80 10,793,68 9,084,806.50 9,071,832.50 -0.14 Assurance In this section: 79 G4 Content index 82 The principles of the UN Global Compact 83 Assurance statement 79 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix G4 Content index General standard disclosures External External General standard disclosures Page assurance UNGC Principles General standard disclosures Page assurance UNGC Principles Strategy and analysis yes Stakeholder engagement G4-1 2 yes, page 83 G4-24 25 yes, page 83 G4-2 5 yes, page 83 G4-25 25 yes, page 83 Organizational profile G4-26 27 yes, page 83 G4-3 10 yes, page 83 G4-27 28 yes, page 83 G4-4 10 yes, page 83 Report profile G4-5 10 yes, page 83 G4-28 29 yes, page 83 G4-6 10 yes, page 83 G4-29 29 yes, page 83 G4-7 10 yes, page 83 G4-30 29 yes, page 83 G4-8 11 yes, page 83 G4-31 29 yes, page 83 G4-9 11 yes, page 83 G4-32 29 yes, page 83 G4-10 12 yes, page 83 Principle 6 G4-33 29 yes, page 83 G4-11 12 yes, page 83 Principle 3 Governance G4-12 13 yes, page 83 G4-34 30 yes, page 83 G4-13 14 yes, page 83 Ethics and integrity G4-14 14 yes, page 83 G4-56 32 yes, page 83 Principle 10 G4-15 15 yes, page 83 Principle 1 G4-16 17 yes, page 83 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 19 yes, page 83 G4-18 19 yes, page 83 G4-19 21 yes, page 83 G4-20 22 yes, page 83 G4-21 22 yes, page 83 G4-22 24 yes, page 83 G4-23 24 yes, page 83 80 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix G4 Content index Specific standard disclosures Identified Identified omissions omissions Specific standard disclosures Page and reasons External assurance UNGC Principles Specific standard disclosures Page and reasons External assurance UNGC Principles Economic Emissions Economic performance G4-DMA 44 yes, page 83 G4-EN15 45 yes, page 83 Principles 7,8 G4-DMA 34 yes, assured as part G4-EN16 45 yes, page 83 Principles 7,8 of audit of Financial report 2014, page 69 G4-EN17 45 yes, page 83 Principles 7,8 G4-EC1 35 yes, assured as part G4-EN19 45 yes, page 83 Principles 7,8 of audit of Financial G4-EN20 45 yes, page 83 Principles 7,8 report 2014, page 69 G4-EN21 45 Principles 7,8 G4-EC3 35 yes, assured as part of audit of Financial Effluents and waste report 2014, page 69 G4-DMA 46 yes, page 83 Procurement practices G4-EN22 47 yes, page 83 Principle 8 G4-DMA 36 yes, page 83 G4-EN23 47 yes, page 83 Principle 8 G4-EC9 38 yes, page 83 Products and services Environmental G4-DMA 48 yes, page 83 Energy G4-EN27 48 yes, page 83 Principles 8,9 G4-DMA 40 yes, page 83 Transport G4-EN3 40 yes, page 83 Principles 7,8 G4-DMA 49 yes, page 83 G4-EN5 40 yes, page 83 Principle 8 G4-EN30 49 yes, page 83 Principle 8 G4-EN6 41 yes, page 83 Principles 8,9 Supplier environmental G4-EN7 41 yes, page 83 Principles 8,9 assessment Water G4-DMA 50 yes, page 83 G4-DMA 42 yes, page 83 G4-EN32 50 yes, page 83 Principle 8 G4-EN8 42 yes, page 83 Principles 7,8 Social: Labour practices and decent work Employment G4-DMA 52 yes, page 83 G4-LA1 53 yes, page 83 Principle 6 81 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix G4 Content index Specific standard disclosures Specific standard disclosures Page Identified External assurance UNGC Principles Specific standard disclosures Page Identified External assurance UNGC Principles omissions omissions and reasons and reasons Labour/management relations Supplier human rights assessment G4-DMA 54 yes, page 83 G4-DMA 64 yes, page 83 G4-LA4 54 yes, page 83 Principle 3 G4-HR10 64 yes, page 83 Principles 1,2 Occupational health and safety Society G4-DMA 55 yes, page 83 Local communities G4-LA6 56 yes, page 83 G4-DMA 66 yes, page 83 Training and education G4-SO1 68 yes, page 83 Principle 1 G4-DMA 57 yes, page 83 Anti-corruption G4-LA11 57 yes, page 83 Principle 6 G4-DMA 69 yes, page 83 Diversity and equal opportunity G4-SO4 69 yes, page 83 Principle 10 G4-DMA 58 yes, page 83 Public policy G4-LA12 58 yes, page 83 Principle 6 G4-DMA 70 yes, page 83 Equal remuneration for women and men G4-SO6 70 yes, page 83 Principle 10 G4-DMA 59 yes, page 83 Product responsibility G4-LA13 59 yes, page 83 Principle 6 Customer health and safety Supplier assessment for labour G4-DMA 72 yes, page 83 practices G4-PR1 73 yes, page 83 G4-DMA 60 yes, page 83 Product and service labeling G4-LA14 60 yes, page 83 Principle 4 G4-DMA 74 yes, page 83 Human rights G4-PR3 74 yes, page 83 Child labour G4-DMA 62 yes, page 83 G4-HR5 63 yes, page 83 Principle 5 82 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix The principles of the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 83 Givaudan SA – GRI Report 2014 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix
